All right, if you have your Bibles, please turn to Galatians chapter five. Galatians chapter five. Opportunity to preach. My mic on. Alright, good. Galatians chapter 5. We're going to be looking at verse 16. Verse 16. The Bible says, This I say then, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary to the one, the one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these, adultery, fornicess, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. I was trying to say lasciviousness and fornication at the same time. They didn't come out right. That's a not a word I don't use as frequently, but we heard a message on that this morning. Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies. Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like, of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that every That they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith Meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another, envying one another. The only way to fully understand what's going on here in Galatians chapter 5 is to look back at the previous chapter. You'll notice in verse 24 of Galatians chapter 4, we see an allegory. Which things are an allegory, for these are the two covenants, the one from the Mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar. The Apostle Paul is showing us an illustration here to show the difference between bondage under the law versus freedom under grace. The Apostle Paul was referencing the stories back in Genesis, referencing Hagar and Sarah, giving the illustration, if you're trying to live under the law, you're like a child of Hagar. You are living in bondage. It is impossible to keep the law. Paul says in chapter 5, verse 3, that if we are trying to live under the law, we are debtor to the whole law. We know it's impossible. If you live under the law, you will be in bondage. But if you live by the Spirit, you're like a child of Sarah, as Paul describes in chapter 4. You have freedom in Christ. Second Corinthians 3. 21 says, Now the Lord is that spirit, and where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. We have freedom in Christ when we are living under the Spirit. The allegory in chapter 4 brings us to the application in chapter 5. The contrast of living life under the law Or life under the Spirit. We quickly find out in this chapter that trying to live life under the law is not only pointless, but dangerous. Look at verse 4 of chapter 5. Christ has become of no effect unto you. Whosoever of you are justified by the law, ye are fallen from grace. If we are trying to keep the law, We are debtor to the whole law. It is impossible. Believer, if your life, or if you're trying to live your life under the law, It's impossible. The only other way to sanctify yourselves then is to live under the subjection of the Holy Spirit. The Christian life is not about a list of do's and don'ts. Living life under the law produces a life lived in the power of the flesh. It emphasizes performance and not a relationship. Us trying to re-achieve righteousness by our own efforts of conformity. Rather, we are commanded to live our lives by the Spirit. This is us as Christians depending on God's power to produce in our lives what the law demanded but could never deliver As Christians, we are called to live our lives walking in the Spirit. This I say then: walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. The Spirit gives the believer both the desire and the ability to live righteously. We can have a victorious Christian life, not through our own righteousness, but through the righteousness of God. Pastor Caleb preached on that this week at the other church on Wednesday. So it was a m a very good illustration of how we are given God's righteousness and it's uh definitely a message to go listen to if you get the opportunity. We know that after salvation, at salvation, the Holy Spirit takes residence inside our lives. Are you saved tonight? Amen. You have the Holy Spirit living inside your life. He doesn't come visit us occasionally or just every Sunday. No, he lives inside of us. He moves into our lives permanently. Romans 8. 9 says, if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. So if you are truly saved, the Spirit of God is living inside of you. Not as a guest, but as a resident. He lives inside of you. How do we walk in the spirit? Sounds sophisticated, sounds hard, but it's not. Waking up every day and yielding our will to the Spirit's will. A daily decision. Just because you're saved doesn't mean you're walking in the Spirit. You can be in this room, you can be saved, you can been saved for fifty years, but if you Aren't walking in the Spirit, just because you're saved doesn't mean you're walking in the Spirit. You have to make that decision every day. You have to ask the Lord to help you with this. Walking in the Spirit is a daily decision to give God the preeminence in our lives. The Holy Spirit wasn't just sent for us to comfort us, but he was sent to control us so we can walk in victory. Walking in the Spirit isn't a suggestion, it's a command. Walk in the spirit. That's imperative. Walk in the spirit. You shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You might think being spirit-filled is just for the pastor. You might think being spirit-filled is just for the deacons or for the ushers or for the staff members or something like that. Walking in the spirit is a command to every believer. We need to walk in the spirit. Every last one of us, teenagers Young adults, all adults, old adults, every one of us, we all need to be walking in the spirit. The tragedy today is that not that Christians don't have the Holy Spirit, it's that the Holy Spirit doesn't have the Christian He lives in us, but he's not always leading us. He's present, but maybe not always preeminent. He's resident, but maybe not always ruling. D. L. Moody lived his life yielded to the Spirit of God. At one point in his life, he was scheduled to have a campaign in England. An elderly pastor protested, saying, Why do we need this, Mr. Moody? He's uneducated, inexperienced. But who does he even think he is, anyways? Does he think he has a monopoly on the Holy Spirit? A younger, wiser pastor rose and said, No, but the Holy Spirit has a monopoly on Mr. Moody. Church family, what our world needs? What our church needs? What your family and what Your own heart needs is a return to spirit-filled Christianity. The title of my message is Spirit-Filled Christianity. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we just thank you for this day. Just thank you for the message, your word that we can read. And just I know this message is for me tonight, and I just pray that you would use it to further your kingdom. I just pray that you would empty me of self. Fill me with your spirit. Just pray that this would be honoring and glorifying to you in your name. Amen. If we are going to live spirit-filled lives as Christians, we first must understand the Holy Spirit's presence in our life. We first see the Holy Spirit's presence. We need to recognize that, again, like I mentioned earlier, the Holy Spirit lives inside of us as a Christian. So I think a lot of people have the wrong idea of who or what the Holy Spirit is. Like he's some abstract force or some, you know, I remember think I remember it was a weird thought for me when I was younger because You know, I would drive by the store and it would say wine and spirits. Um that word spirit, that was kind of spooky to me as a kid. Um but it's not some abstract thought or some abstract person. He's not that He is a divine person who has come to dwell inside of us. Jesus promised in John 14, 7, this is Jesus speaking, he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. That's a promise from Jesus. The Holy Spirit has come to dwell inside our lives. That means wherever you go, child of God, he goes with you. Everywhere you go. When you walk into the workplace, he's there. When you're on your phone, he's there. When you face temptation, he's there. When you sin, he's there. When your heart breaks and when words fail, he's still there. You are never alone because the Spirit of God has taken permanent residency inside of your life. The same power that raised Jesus from the dead now lives inside of everyone who has professed Jesus Christ as their Lord. But before the Holy Spirit can fill us, we must become aware of his presence in the first place. Not just as a doctrine to believe, but as a reality to live in. We need the Holy Spirit's presence in our lives for a few reasons, but the first is because for his conviction in our lives, for conviction. John sixteen, seven through eight, nevertheless I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the Comforter, which is the Holy Spirit, Will not come unto you, but if I depart, I will send him unto you, and when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. And it goes on to explain those things in the upcoming verses But he came to reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. That word reprove in the Greek means to expose, to convict, to bring to light He brings in inner awareness of our sinful state to expose, to bring to light. I was thinking about that. I walk my dog a lot at night, almost every night Um it's been less and less since it's been getting colder and colder. Um but I have a flashlight and um I have a head headlamp, but really the headlamp only works about maybe eight feet in front of me. I can't really see so when the dog wants to run twenty feet away, I cannot see her when it's pitch black. So I have a a nice flashlight and I can turn it on and boom, I can see All the way across the property, all the way at the other end with that property. I can bring to light and see where the dog is. It's also really cool. You can turn it on and you can see like the deer, the eyes. in the in the woods there. Um so my dog really loves to chase chase after those deer. So uh protecting the property, right? But too exposed, right? That light that brings to light. That's the same way the Holy Spirit brings to light our sin. We might not even know it's there. I think of the psalmist that says, Search me, O God, know my heart, try me and know my thoughts. You might be here today and you think everything's right between me and the Savior. You should have a continual attitude of asking God to search you. Know my heart. Try me, know my thoughts. See if there be any wicked way in me, lead me in the way everlasting. We need the Holy Spirit's conviction in our life. It might not always be comfortable, might not always be enjoyable, but we need that conviction of the Holy Spirit. Believer, do you ever get convicted? Let me ask you this. When was the last time you got convicted from the Holy Spirit? It amazes me that people can sit through church hearing message after message and uh We have good messages here. So I know it's not the lack of the spirit here, so that that's not an excuse. People message after message and they have the hardest heart There's only two reasons for that. Either one, you're not saved, and I would not want to, you know, put anyone doubt in anyone's mind about their salvation, but the other thing is you're just Not in tune with the Spirit. They're not in line with the Spirit. They're not walking in the Spirit, and so they don't have the Spirit's conviction in their life. We're sinners. We all are. So we should be feeling the Spirit's conviction in our life. He convicts. He also cleanses. I'm glad he doesn't just convict, but he also cleanses. Titus 3:5 says, not by works of righteousness, which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. By the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost. The Holy Spirit just doesn't convict us of our sin. No, he cleanses us by the renewing of the Holy Ghost To renew is exactly what it sounds like. To make new again. To restore what the sin damaged. Christian, we need to be clean. The Holy Spirit has a desire. He desires to cleanse us. He will cleanse us. Someone I look up to that's gone on, uh, Leonard Ravenhill, was a man that was very in tune with the Holy Spirit. I wouldn't agree with him on Maybe all the points of doctrine, but certainly someone that I listened to. He said the Holy Spirit will not live in a dirty temple. That's not our holy God. He won't live in a dirty temple. We need to be clean. D. L. Moody held up a glass and asked, How can I get air out of this glass? One man shouted, you could stuff the air out with the pump. Moody replied, well that would just create a vacuum and it would shatter the glass. After numerous other suggestions, Moody smiled, picked up a pitcher of water, and filled the glass. There, he said, all the air is now removed He then went on to explain that victory in the Christian life is not accomplished by sucking out a sin here and there, but by being filled with the Spirit. It's really not as hard as it seems, is it? We can't have sin in the Spirit. Look at verse 17. For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary the one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. They both They you can't have both of them. It's one or the other. They can't coexist inside of us, but we can have clean lives being filled with the Spirit. He convicts, he cleanses, he also comforts. John 14, 26 says, But the comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance. Whatsoever I have said unto you, in the midst of the hardest trials, Christian, when life around us is shattering to pieces, we can have peace because we know the Comforter. We can have peace. When no one or nothing else can bring comfort in time of loss, the Holy Spirit is there to steady our lives That's a blessing. We have the comforter. I know it, you know, I've been to funerals before, and um look what do you say to someone who's just lost their life, you know, their their other half. What do you say? My condolences? You know, th does that really produce comfort in their life? No, really, there's really no amount of words that can produce comfort in their life. It has to be the Holy Spirit that gives them that comfort because He is the comforter. The comforter might not always remove the storm, but he always reminds us who's in the boat with us. He's the comforter. He also counsels us. He counsels us. John 16, 13 says, How be it when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth. He is the counselor. When you are making a decision, it's always good to go get counsel. I'll call my dad. Dad, what do you think about this? Probably call him too much sometimes when I'm needing advice on something. You know, you can talk to your pastor, you can talk to other godly people in your lives for counsel. But there's no better counselor to go to than the Spirit of God. He will counsel us into a spirit of truth, as it says in God's Word. We're having the biblical counseling this week, right? That's going to be a blessing. But That's not going to do any good if we don't have the Spirit of God in our life. We need God's Spirit in our life. And one of the ways we need that is because He's the the counselor. So the Holy Spirit counsels us into truth. And also He cultivates us. He cultivates us. Galatians 5, look at verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. As we walk after the Spirits, he cultivates Christlike character into our lives, and we begin to grow fruit. That is the fruit of the Spirit. I think about the word peace there. Peace is the fruit of the Spirit. Truth peace will not be found out in the world because it is not of the Spirit. It I you know m I guess we kinda kind of tend to complicate things. If we're looking for true pe peace, it's a fruit of the spirit. We should go to the spirit for true peace and any of those lists of things if you want joy If you want love, if you want long suffering, if you want goodness, faith, long suffering, I need that. If I lack patience. Meekness, temperance. All of those things are not a result. You don't get those things from the world. You get those things from the Spirit The true peace can only be found when we allow the Spirit to cultivate our life. He cultivates, he breaks up that ground, and he allows us To grow fruit, and that is the fruit of the Spirit. So we first see the Holy Spirit's presence. Secondly, we see the Holy Spirit's path. The Holy Spirit's path. Turn, if you would, to Romans chapter 8. And keep your place in Galatians. We'll be back there. Romans chapter 8. Once we recognize the Spirit's presence in our life, we must learn to follow the Spirit's path. It's one thing to know the Holy Spirit lives within us, it's another thing to let Him lead us. It's one thing to have that head knowledge, but what are you going to do with that knowledge? The Holy Spirit is not only a resident in the believer's life But he's meant to be the guide of our life. His presence is it can be it's always permanent because we're saved, but his direction must be pursued. We must be pursuing his direction daily in our lives if we want to be led. On the Holy Spirit's path. Romans 8. 14 says, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. The mark of true Christian maturity is not how long you've been saved, but how willingly you follow the Spirit's leading in your life. How do you follow the Spirit's leading? Too many Christians acknowledge his presence on Sunday, but ignore his guidance on Monday. Very convicting for me. The Spirit doesn't just want to live in you, he wants to lead you That's the point. Too many Christians get saved and then they get baptized, they grow, and they kind of just fall off. They kind of just f get into a rut. I found myself getting into ruts. Where you try to do what's right, you try to you try to keep going for God, but you're not feeling it. We need to pursue the Holy Spirit's path. The first way he directs our daily walk is into a straight path. Psalm 23, verse 3 says, He restoreth my soul, he leadeth me in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. The Holy Spirit of God leads us into that path of righteousness. This was a lot of things came to my mind when I was studying this. I don't know how many times I've heard this young people, just because I'm young and I have a lot of people, friends, who have said this to me. They will leave a good church, a church that preaches the gospel, a church that has strong standards, that has strong doctrine, good morals, and they will go to a watered-down church. A church that doesn't really teach any of those things. They certainly wouldn't preach heresy. They would, you know, I I could listen to a message and I'm sure I would agree with everything the pastor is saying, but watered down Deluded. And they'll always say, Well, I feel like the Spirit of the Lord is leading me there. I feel like God wants me to be there. And I've really struggled with how what do you say to that? Do you just tell them no, no, the the spirit didn't lead you there? And you know you it's you scratch your head, but As I read this, as I studied this, it really became clear to me. How I know that their decision is not based off of the Spirit's leading is because I know The decision went against their biblical and Bible-believing parents. And the decision went against their pastor. And There's it really just goes against the Spirit's leading and how he leads. You know, Christian, God's Spirit never leads into rebellion. God's Spirit never leads leads into division. If a leading goes against clear biblical principles, a leading, I should say, such as separation, sound doctrine, holiness, or obedience to spiritual authority, it is not the Spirit of God. It's some other spirit The Spirit's guidance always aligns with Scripture. It never contradicts it. So know that if you have believe you have a leading in your life, make sure it's the Spirit leading you, not an emotion, not something or another spirit leading you to do that. That good church that you go to might preach the gospel. There might be a loving congregation, but the Spirit's direction always leads us to holiness, not diluted Christianity. The Spirit of God leads us into a straight path, and that's the path of righteousness. Not to conformity, not to carnality, to a path of righteousness, to holiness. Also, it's a straight path. Psalm 23, verse 4, the next verse there. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. The Spirit doesn't always promise to keep us out of the volleys, but he does promise his comfort through the volleys. We can have safety in the middle of our certainty because we know who our shepherd is. It's a safe path. Even though it might look dangerous, even though that path that God led you on might look scary, it's safe because the Holy Spirit is there with us. It's also a sure path. Isaiah 30, verse 21 says, And thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way. Walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left. In a world of uncertainty, in a world of constant change, where we are not sure of our future, we can be sure in the Spirit's leading in our lives. We can have surety. We can have confirmation. We can have clarity in the Spirit's leading. leading in our life. It doesn't have to be a question or maybe I should go this way. No, we can be have confidence in the spirits leading in our life. The devil is the author of confusion, isn't he? If the Spirit is truly leading, we will have confidence in our calling because the Holy Spirit leads us into that sure path. And then, lastly, with this, I see the sanctified path. The sanctified path. Verse 16 there. This I say then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. I think about the the dangers of the contemporary ecumenical movement that's sweeping through society. They put a huge emphasis on the Holy Spirit And while I can't disagree with them, I try to understand where it's going wrong. I don't believe there's anything wrong with an emphasis on the Holy Spirit. I don't believe that I personally know many genuine and sincere believers in those types of churches, so I don't certainly don't want to discredit that. But what I am saying is They believe that the Holy Spirit is moving amongst them when it's telling us something different. How do. You know, I I think it's sometimes I think they mistake the Holy Spirit for an emotional leading. Maybe I said that backwards. But they think it's the Holy Spirit, but it's nothing more than just emotions This verse right here says so. Walk in the spirit. Walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. When you see the lust of the flesh taking place, and it they're saying they're It's the Holy Spirit. It's not the Holy Spirit because they're not walking in the Spirit. So it's something else. When you're walking in the Spirit, the Savior, the Spirit will lead you into a path of holiness. Not into the path of water-down Christianity. He doesn't lead you into compromise. He doesn't lead you into carnality. He leads you away from sin and into sanctification. It's a sanctified path the Holy Spirit leads us on. And then lastly, tonight, the Holy Spirit's power. The Holy Spirit's power. Christian, I believe we need to have the Holy Spirit's power in our life. I know that might sound Pentecostal to you, and I know us Baptists are turned away to the Pentecostals right because of that. But We need the Holy Spirit's power in our life. I wonder how much of the Holy Spirit is held back by our lack of faith. I think of that a lot, and it scares me. I wonder how many Christians don't have the faith that he can actually deliver. Believer, look around you. Look where you are. You're saved. You're set apart. It's a miracle that God brought you to this church. It's a miracle that God has sanctified us and set us apart to do his bidding. I think about Mr. Moti. It's a miracle that he's alive. Think uh you know just visiting with him in the in the doctor's office and he's got a great spirit and he's just telling me you know us what he went through. I'm like this is insane. It's a miracle that he's alive. God saved his life. God is working in our midst. Look around You know, we get to tend to get discouraged a lot. Just look and see what God's doing around us. It's a miracle that Alicia and I are even at this church right now. When Pastor Caleb called and asked if I would pray about coming here, you know, of course I was like, wow, that's awesome. But then I totally say, I don't think we can do that. I don't want to work for my father-in-law. Maybe not I don't want to work for my father-in-law, but like father work for my father-in-law and have him as your pastor, like, you know, that's pretty scary. Um No, I'm kidding. But um I just think when when we went through that trial we went through, I told Alicia, I said, I don't care where we go. I really don't. But I do know that wherever I go I n need to know without a doubt that the Holy Spirit is there. And I didn't, you know, that he called me before Anniversary Sunday. And then I came here anniversary Sunday and I think I told Lisa on the way here. I was like, you know, this will be good, but I d I don't really think we'll be here. I just don't I just haven't felt the Lord's leading there Um and I sat, you know, generally where I sit, and um I I believe that you know there was a lot of activities going on Anniversary Sunday. And um There was the video of the last 20 years, what how God has worked through Hun Valley. And I believe it was 20 years. They showed it on the screens. And I remember God just breaking my heart. And he said, This is where I am. This is where I am. God told me that right there. And I knew right there. I believe I was crying too, because it was just so clear to me that God wanted me here. And I was so thankful for God's leading in my life. Wherever the Spirit of God is, that's where I want to be. And that's where you should want to be. When we learn to walk in the Spirit, Something wonderful begins to happen. We begin to experience the Spirit's power. You see, His presence gives us comfort, His path gives us direction, but His power gives us the victory that we need. The Christian life was never meant to be lived in in our own strength. God didn't save us so that we could struggle on our own through our own human effort. He gave us the Spirit so we could live in divine enablement, living a victorious Christian life As Grandpa says, do you have the victory? Do you have the victory in your life? You will if you're walking in the Spirit. It's impossible not to have the victory when you are walking in the Spirit. Zechariah 4. 6 reminds us, Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. When we stop trying to live for God in our own strength and start trying to live in the Spirit in His strength, that's when real transformation begins to happen in our lives. The same Spirit who led Christ in the wilderness, who raised Jesus from the dead, now lives in us to empower us for holy living, to be a bold witness, to have that victorious Christian life. Do you have the Holy Spirit's power in your life to lead a lost soul to the Lord? If you don't have that desire to share The gospel with utwith a lost person, you're probably not walking in the spirit. When we follow the Spirit's path, it always leads to the Spirit's power. When you're walking in the Spirit, you might be scared to give out a gospel tract, but the Holy Spirit will give us his power and his strength to do that. And let's not forget, being filled with the Spirit is not merely a suggestion. It's a command. Ephesians 5:18 says, Be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be ye filled with the Spirit In other words, God expects every believer, every believer, to live under the influence and control of the Holy Spirit, not under the influence of Alcohol, like that verse says, but under the influence of the Holy Spirit. To be filled is to be yielded, to let the Spirit have full possession and control and direction of our life. How does the Holy Spirit empower us in our daily life? He strengthens us. Ephesians 3:16 says that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. Paul prayed that believers would be strengthened inwardly by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit gives us inward strength for outward obedience. We can have strength inwardly so we can obey. Physically. So he strengthens us, he also supports us. Romans 8. 26 says, Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. In our time of weakness, it is the Holy Spirit supporting us, even when we don't know what to pray. There have been times where I've been so overwhelmed, I didn't even know what to say, but the Spirit was there Praying, having intercession for me on my behalf. That's the power of the Holy Spirit He also supplies for us. 1 Corinthians 12. 7 says, But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to everyone, every man to profit withal. God has supplied all of us with spiritual gifts so that we could use them for the furtherance of the kingdom and for the good of the body of Christ. What are you doing with that spiritual gift God's given you? I urge you to seek that. That's one of the things that we go through in discipleship. I haven't gotten there yet, but I will. I heard Miss Kim going on about spiritual gifts. So I know it's coming up soon for me. But the spe the spiritual gifts. He's gifted all of us with something. What is that for you? You might not be able to speak in front of people. You might not like that. But you could be mechanically inclined. There's always stuff to do Each and every one of us can do something to further the God's kingdom. No one here has been left empty-handed Read that verse again, but the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit, to every man to profit with all. He has given all of us his spirit. He supplies all of us with what we need to further his kingdom. What are you doing with his power? What are you doing with it? And then he sustains us. And verse 25 it says, If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. The same Holy Spirit who gave you new life at time of salvation wants to sustain your daily life. Are you allowing him to sustain you, to keep you going? We desperately need the Holy Spirit's power in your life, in our lives. It is the power of the Holy Spirit that brings men to conviction. I was talking with Pastor this week. I was thinking of Jonathan Edwards. The message he preached, sinners in the hands of an angry God. That was the sermon, the message that God used to spark revival in America, where thousands came to know Jesus as their Savior. To no credit of Jonathan Edwards, though, it is said that the whole time he spoke his message, he read from his notes, he barely looked up at all, he spoke in monotone the whole time, yet thousands flocked to come to get saved that day and days following after hearing that message. You see the message wasn't powerful because Jonathan Edwards was persuasive. The message was powerful because the Holy Spirit was present. He was present there. It was the work of the Holy Spirit. Let us never think that anything good that the Spirit uses from us is because of us. It's because of the Spirit enabling us D. Al-Mudi said it's not always the loudest voice or most famous ministry. Often revival comes through men and women of integrity who let the Spirit work in them first. As we close, remember, the spirit-filled life is not for a select few. It's God's design for every believer. Every believer. The spirit who took up residence inside of you at salvation wants to rule, to guide, and to empower. your daily life every single day. But here's the question. If the Spirit of God lives in you, does your life reflect His presence? How are you living your life? Are you walking the path that he's laid out, or maybe you're charting your own course? Maybe you're saying it's the Spirit leading you, but deep down in your heart you know it's not. Are you daily surrendering to his control? Are you content to live on yesterday's strength? We need the Holy Spirit, not on Sunday, but on Monday, on Tuesday, on Wednesday. All week, we need the Holy Spirit's power. The Spirit-filled life is not about emotional highs or outward displays. It's about an inward surrender that produces an outward difference. When the Holy Spirit fills a believer, pride Is replaced with humility, fear is conquered by faith, and weakness is transformed into strength. That is the power of the Holy Spirit. So the question isn't: do you have the Holy Spirit? If you're saved, you do. The real question is, does the Holy Spirit have you? Is he just resident in your life, or is he the ruler of it? Have you made room for his voice, or have you crowded him out with the noise of the world? Let's get back to living spirit-filled lives. This is a call to spirit-filled Christianity. May our hearts and prayer, may our hearts' prayer and desire be the same as the songwriters. Hover o'er me, Holy Spirit. Bathe my trembling heart and brow, fill me with thy hallowed presence. Come, O come and fill me now. Thou canst fill me, gracious spirit Though I cannot tell thee how, but I need thee, greatly need thee. Come, O come, and fill me now. Fill me now, fill me now. Jesus, come and fill me now. Fill me with thy hallowed presence Come, oh come, and fill me now. May we each and every day ask for God's Spirit in our lives, his spirit filling our lives. Let's not settle for a Christianity that that's powerless or passionless or just merely mechanical. Let's yield ourselves afresh to the one who indwells us, that me we might walk in his path and live our lives in his power. Like D. L. Moody said, the world has yet to see what God can do with a man fully yielded to him. Church family, what our world needs. What our church needs, what your home needs, what our hearts need is a return to spirit-filled Christianity. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the truth from your word. Just thank you for the message you gave me, and I know it was for me tonight. Thank you for sending us your Spirit, enabling us to live victorious Christian lives. May it be our heart's prayer to walk in the Spirit so we don't fulfill the lust of the flesh. And may you find in us men and women, churches and homes that are fully yielded to your spirit Thank you for all that you do and all that you will do through our lives that are fully yielded to you in your name. Amen