Well, amen. It's wonderful to see you here this morning. Praise the Lord for your faithfulness throughout this week. And uh we look forward to what God has in store, what you this church is going to do this coming year in the area of worldwide missions. It's been a pleasure to uh meet many of you and uh to have some fellowship with you. We'll look into the Bible here in a moment, but Before we uh turn to our text, I'd like to just read a verse in Romans chapter 15 this morning. Romans chapter number fifteen and verse number thirty-two. And uh Paul says this He says, that I may come unto you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed. That was a prayer that Paul had. Paul needed to be refreshed. He was out in the battle. He was out in the world. He was out in places where others weren't. And he's writing to these saints and he's just saying, you know, I I'm praying that when I'm with you I'll be refreshed. And Can I say to you, Hunt Valley Baptist Church, that we've been refreshed this week? Thank you. I I I can't always say that in places. But um being here with you this week, I I know without a doubt that we're just not a picture hanging on the wall. And we're just not a statistic in the bulletin And that means something. Um it means something to me, it means something to my wife, and I know it means something to these other missionaries. And uh so thank you for that. Um because sometimes when we're out there, okay, we're alone with our thoughts. Sometimes things aren't easy, and life is never easy for anybody, I understand that. But sometimes it's good to know. Okay. It's good to know you have a church. Just like you as a member of this church when you're going through a difficult time, it's good to know you have a church. It's good to know you have a family that's behind you. And it's good to know when we're out there serving the Lord. that there is a church like Hunt Valley Baptist Church where we're just not a picture on the wall or a statistic in the bulletin. So thank you church for that. And I I I really mean that it's been a refreshing week um in a lot of ways. And uh so thank you very much. Um the last time I was with you was in the year two thousand and twenty, and if you remember the year two thousand and twenty was a strange year. And I praise the Lord I was able to come by here and preach, but I preached to an empty auditorium. All right. And uh I was assured that, you know, uh many of you were watching online. Um but I'm sure as you watched online, some of you were still in your pajamas and uh drinking hot chocolate or coffee. And uh it's just not the same. Alright? So it's good to be here and see you in person. And uh this morning my message um I'm going to preach out of the book of 2 Kings chapter number 6. And when I was with you last time, I preached part of this message to an empty auditorium. So I don't know if you are listening or not. All right. But this morning I can see if you're listening. Amen? Um, and I believe this is something that God has for us this morning in this missions conference. um and as we consider missions. You know, I found in my life as a missionary You know, we certainly know that God u is using the church to take the gospel and send the gospel throughout the world. Uh and we don't find the church in the Old Testament. But we do find a lot of missions in the Old Testament because God has not changed. You read the story from Genesis to Revelation, and God's message has always been the same, that the world knows who He is. And uh so there's a lot of wonderful texts in the Old Testament when it comes to this idea of missions. And I want to take a scripture. It was not a normal scripture for a missions message. At all. But I think as we get into this scripture and we examine a little bit, we see some wonderful parallels to reaching the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. So 2 Kings chapter number 6. This morning we want to begin reading in verse number 24. The Bible says, and it came to pass after this that Ben Hadad, king of Syria, gathered all his hosts and went up and besieged Samaria. And there was a great famine in Samaria, and behold, they besieged it until Anassah's head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a cab of doves dung for five pieces of silver. And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there cried a woman unto him, saying, Help my Lord, O King. And he said, If the Lord do not help thee, whence shall I help thee? Out of the barn floor, or out of the wine press. And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, This woman said unto me, Give thy son that we may eat him today. And we will eat my son tomorrow. So we boiled my son and did eat him. And I said unto her, on the next day, give thy son that we made him. And she hath hid her son. Let us pray. Father, I'd ask that you'd be with us this morning. Lord, we thank you. So thankful for the week that we've had. Lord, a time that this church has set aside to consider what they're going to do to see that the world may know you. And as we examine this scripture this morning, as we pull out some points, Lord, I pray that you'd use this scripture to speak to our hearts. Lord, to speak to everybody individually here that we may do more than we've done in the past to see the world know about you. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen. What a heart-wrenching story. A true story. This is not a make believe, a fable, a parable. A true actual story That took place in the city of Samaria. Samaria, we know, is the capital city of the northern tribes. We read here that the king of Syria had gathered his army together and they marched down to that city, that capital city, with the purpose of conquering that city. It was a walled city and Being a walled city, they did not want just to try to climb over the wall, to go over the wall. A lot of casualties, a lot of wounded, a lot of people would have been killed that way. They had a better way. They decided they would starve that city in the submission. So they besieged the city. They simply just surrounded the city. They Put their tents, the army, all around that city, and they just waited. They waited until the hunger came. You know, there was some food inside the walls of the city, some food in the homes. I'm sure they had some uh some stores and things and but you know, soon that food began to grow scarce. And we read here, as this food began to grow scarce, that the people, because of their hunger They begin to eat some things that they normally would not eat. It's food, but it's not normal food for them. And we all have food that we normally eat. Correct? I mean if I go to your home it may might be a little different than what you see in my home. It might be different according to culture and and background and that type of thing, but it's food that we normally eat and that's what we eat. But you know, if we grow hungry And I'm not talking not talking about the type of hunger that w we we get when we've gone a few hours without eating. I'm talking about when you have gone days and weeks without the proper nourishment. I promise you, you will eat things you normally would not eat. And so we read here that they ate some things like that, like the heads of donkeys. That was not normal food. You could do that. I just not very long ago had some very nice donkey meat. In Kenya, up by the border of South Sudan. Alright, now that might not be normal for you, but it's normal up there. But see, if you were hungry I promise you, you'd eat it. That hunger though continued to grow. Now they're not only eating things they normally would not eat, now they've gone to the place that they began to eat some things that are not natural. to eat. Things you could eat, you could take into your body, but but for human beings it would not be food that would be natural that anybody would ever eat such a thing. But see they are so hungry That's the place they've come to in their life. And the Bible says they took the droppings of the birds. Imagine that. The birds as they flew overhead. And those droppings fell upon that city, and they took the droppings of that bird, those birds, and maybe mixed it with some water or something, and made some kind of soupy substance, but they ate that because they were hungry. But, as the famine continued to grow, and that desire of the body became so great for food. That we read here that some people even began to eat some things that were not right to eat. A woman took her son, her baby boy. And put that boy in water. And they ate the flesh of that little boy. You say, Brother Mickey, how could somebody in their right mind ever do such a thing? Well the truth is she was not in her right mind because of the famine, because of the hunger that was taking place in the city of Samaria And you will always find that takes place anywhere in the world where there is a famine. People will first begin to eat things that are not normal. Then they'll eat things that are not natural. Then some will even eat things that are not right. You know the Bible talks about another type of famine. Not a physical famine, but a spiritual famine. Amos, chapter number eight. Amos, chapter number eight, and verse number eleven. The Bible says, Behold the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread. Nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord. Now the prophet Amos here, I know, is writing to the Northern tribes, Samaria, but the application of this is as great for us today as it was back then. A spiritual famine Notice what it says here in this scripture. It says that this famine is not over the lack of the word of God. It is over the lack of the hearing of the words of God. That's exactly what it says Now, certainly uh uh people need the word of God. They need people to tell them the word of God, but people also need to hear the word of God. I I I I believe that we're living in a world today. That has access to the Word of God like never before. The Word of God is available today. More than has ever been available in the history of the world. I I don't mean that everybody has a copy of the Word of God. I do not mean that we don't Need to do a better job getting the Word of God in people's hands, but I'm saying that if people want the Word of God, it's out there. They can find it. Because of the modern technology that we have and many other means. But this famine that is talked about here is not over the lack of the Word of God, it's over the lack of the hearings of the Word of God. The Bible says you can have ears and hear not. And I'll say to you this morning That just as a physical famine will cause people to do things that are not normal, that are not natural, and that are not right to satisfy the hunger of the body, a spiritual famine does the same thing. You see, we were all created after the image of God. Now listen to me this morning. Every human being in this world was created in God's image And God breathed into us the breath of life, and man became the living soul. We're different than the animals. And when we were created, When we were born into this world, God put inside of us the desire to know our Creator. It's there. That's why you can go and study and go to the different places of the world, uh study anthropology. The discovery of people groups and and and and uh from from time immemorial how how how you'll always find That people always worship some kind of God. Read the stories of David Livingstone and Other missionaries in days gone by as they'd gone into the places of the world where the gospel had never been, and they always found that the people worshiped some kind of God Now it wasn't the true God. Wasn't the God of heaven. It might have been a uh uh uh the sun, it might have been an animal, uh, but it was something they worship because inside of them is the desire to know their God, their creator. And that is why today people will do things that aren't normal. That are not natural, and that are not even right, to satisfy the famine of the soul. Have you ever talked to somebody about the Lord and they tell you what they believe? They tell you their belief system and you walk away scratching your head and you wonder, how could somebody in their right mind ever believe such nonsense? Well, the reason is because they are not in their right mind. They're living in the midst of a spiritual famine and they don't even realize it. Well, I want to tell you this morning, God has a plan. God has a clear and tangible plan on how to end the spiritual famine that exists in this world. world today. And I think we can see that plan very clearly if we look back in 2 Kings and we see how God ended that physical famine in the city of Samaria. And in the ending of that physical famine, we can see some very important principles that if we apply to the spiritual famine, God will allow us to see that famine end. 2 Kings chapter 7, beginning of verse number 1, we read about how that famine in Samaria ended. So we'll turn back there. In 2 Kings chapter 7, I want to begin reading in verse number 1. Let us read how this famine in Samaria ended. Then Elisha said, Hear ye the word of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord, Tomorrow about this time shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel in the gate of Samaria Then a Lord on whose hand the king leaned, answered the man of God and said, Behold, if the Lord would make windows in heaven, might this thing be. And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shalt not eat thereof. And there were four leprous men at the entering in of the gate. And they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die? If we say we will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there. If we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore come and let us fall under the hosts of the Syrians. If they save us alive, we shall live, and if they kill us, we shall but die. And they rose up in the twilight to go into the camp of the Syrians, and behold, and when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of Syria, behold, there was no man there. For the Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great host And they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians to come upon us. Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and their asses, even the campus it was, and fled for their life. And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they went to the one tent and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver and gold and raiment, and went and hid it, and came again and entered into another tent, and carried thence also and went and hid it. Then they said one to another, We do not well. This day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. If we tarry the morning light, some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore come, that we may go and tell The king's household. God ended that famine in the city of Samaria by using some of the most unlikeliest people that you can imagine. Lepers. Unclean lepers. Lepers who were the outcast of society Lepers, the ones that if you if you had the misfortune of having that disease, they would put you out. You could no longer live amongst the people. These lepers living outside the walls of the city. God use them. The end that famine in Samaria And in the ending of that famine in Samaria and how God used those lepers, we can learn some important things Those lepers, and they were about to die. That famine existed where they were too. They were living amongst it. They they could not help themselves, and they knew the people of that city could not help them. So they went down to that camp of the Syrians and they threw they thought, you know, maybe they'll have pity on us. We're lepers. What can we do to hurt them? But if not, they don't give us something to eat and they kill us, it's okay because we're about to die anyways. And then we got down to that camp of the Syrians, they found something they had never imagined to see. The Syrians were gone. They weren't there. Their tents were there. The food was there. All the animals were there. They left it all behind because they had nightmares in the night. I mean, they thought the Egyptians and the Hittites were coming to the rescue of the city of Samaria, and they fled and left everything behind. Now those lepers went into those tents, all right, and they ate and they ate, and the famine ended for them. And then God used them to go back to Samaria and end that famine in Samaria. Well, I think we can find four things out of this story that if we apply today spiritually, God will help us see spiritual famine end. First thing I want to mention is found in verse number 9. Let's read that verse again. It says, Then they said one to another, We do not wail. This day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. If we tarry till the morning light, some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore, come that we may go. Until the king's household. Those lepers, as they ate that food, as the famine ended for them, They understood something. Back yonder where they came from, where their families lived, where their friends were in Samaria Those people inside Samaria did not know the famine was over. They didn't know the Syrians were gone. They thought the Syrians were still in those tents. They're still living inside the walls of that city doing terrible things in order to get some food to live. And those lepers, as they ate that food in the tents of the Syrians, As they they satisfied the hunger of their body, they looked back at that city and they said, Hey, wait a minute. We know the famine's over. So we've got to go tell those who don't know. So the famine for them can end also. Can I say to you this morning, Hunt Valley Baptist Church, for most of us today, that famine has ended We're saved. We're on our way to heaven. If something terrible would happen in our life today and we died today, we'd open our eyes and be with Jesus. We know that. We have partaken of the bread of life. We have drunk that water where Jesus said to the woman at the well, Come drink of me, and you'll never thirst again. But I'm telling you something right outside the doors of this building. There are people walking and going through life, trying to satisfy the hunger of the soul. And they're doing things that are not normal. They're believing things that are not natural. And sometimes that are not even right to satisfy the hunger of the soul. And we know the truth. So you know what God says we're supposed to do? Go and tell What does it say in Romans chapter 10, verse 13? For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. What a wonderful verse. I mean, we probably could all quote that verse. One of the greatest verses in all the Bible, because summarized in that one verse is what we need to know. See, it does not matter who you are. It does not matter where you were born. It does not matter if you're rich or poor. If you're educated or uneducated Doesn't matter what culture you live amongst, doesn't matter the color of your skin. Listen, the only thing that matters is that you call upon God and He will reach down and He will save you and He will satisfy the hunger of your soul And as great as that verse is, as wonderful as that verse is, the verses that follow, verse 13, are equally as sad. For what does it say in Romans 10, 14? How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? How? Shall they believe in him, in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear? Without a preacher. Isn't that what those lepers understood? How are the people in the city of Samaria going to know the famine is over unless we who know go and tell them? So Hunt Valley Baptist Church this morning, we need to understand we live in a world of spiritual famine. But the famine for us has ended because of Jesus Christ. And so we need to go tell those who don't know, so that they can know that the famine is over. Those lepers, when they got back to that city to tell those people, see they had a problem. They weren't inside the wall inside the walls of the city. They were lepers. They were living outside. They were living in those tents outside. How could those four lepers Tell everybody in that city that the famine was over when they couldn't even themselves go into the city to tell. The only way they could do that Is if they got some help. They couldn't do it by themselves. And the Bible tells us how they got that help. Look with me in 2 Kings chapter 7, beginning in verse number 10. So they came and called unto the porter of the city, and they told them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians. And behold there was no man there. Verse eleven. And he called the porters, and they told him to the king's house within Verse 12, and the king arose in the night and said unto his servants, look down in verse 16, and the people went out and spoiled the tents of the Syrians. This is how they got that help. They went to the wall, they went to that main gate, they went there, and the Bible says they cried aloud to somebody the Bible called a porter. It was this man's responsibility to watch that gate, to watch that portion of the wall, to see what the enemy was doing, to make sure the enemy wasn't trying to breach the wall. These lepers went to that porter and they cried aloud to him and they said something like this, Mr. Porter, hey, listen up! We've got some good news for you. Yeah, it's us lepers that stay in these tents over here. Listen, we've got something wonderful to tell you. The famine is over. There's food. It's available. Look, we have some right here. The Syrians are gone. The Bible says though that porter went around the wall and told the other porters. They went and told the king. The king called his servants and told his servants. The servants went amongst the people and told the people, and the people went and ate of the tenths of the Syrians. And the famine ended. Well, Hunt Valley Baptist Church. God didn't tell you just to tell a city. He told you to tell a world. Well, how are you going to do that? I mean you can you can tell people around you as you did as we did yesterday and we went and knocked on doors and and invited people to church and and and tried to tell them about Jesus. You can do that here. But see, God said, you're responsible not just for here, but you're also responsible for Portugal. You're also responsible for Canada. And you're also responsible for Taiwan. And you're also responsible for Africa. So how are you going to do that? How are you going to tell the world that the famine is over? The only way you can do that is if you get some help. And can I tell you what that help is summarized in one word? That help is called missions. That's what it's called. That's why, as a church, you have a missions conference. To share the burden, to have the understanding of the responsibility of reaching the world, and as a church, deciding how you're going to do that. That's what this faith promise missions card is about. It's not just about ticking a box. It's not just about giving a little bit of money. See what you're doing when you when when you pray about what God would have you to give, what you're doing is you're you're you're praying about how God would allow you to enlist the help that you need to see spiritual famine end all over the world. And that's that's why. You know, uh uh people Give the missions for a lot of different reasons, and some of them probably aren't the best reasons, but listen, the reason we give the missions is that we can help get the gospel to places where we're not. Those lepers couldn't do it by themselves. They needed help. We cannot do it by ourselves. You cannot do it by yourself. That's why we get the help that we need. That's why you Help this family get to Taiwan. Help this family get to Canada so that you have the help that you need to see spiritual famine end. Those lefters, as they were contemplating And understanding the need to go back to the city and tell the city. They're understanding they've got to get some help. But in the midst of that, they also understood a very important principle about famine. See, when there is a famine. Delay is a really terrible thing. Listen to what they said in 2 Kings 7, verse 9. Then they said one to another, We do not well. This day is a day of good tidings that we hold our peace. Notice this next phrase. If we tarry to the morning light, some mischief will come upon us. Oh, they understood what they gotta do. And they understood they're not going to do it by themselves. But they said, you know what, we better do it right now. We better not wait. Because in waiting, in delaying, the possibility is there that something might happen Something bad might happen. Maybe the Syrians are going to come back. Maybe some wild animal will come. Maybe somebody else will come and and cause harm and will never be able to go to Samaria and let them know the famine is over. Living in Africa and serving in Africa these past twenty-eight years, uh I've done a lot of study and a lot of reading about famine. Because that's an area of the world where typically you can find famine taking place. And I learned some things that I that that I that I did not realize that surprised me When I first went to Africa, to Kenya, I just assumed that famine was caused because it didn't rain. And certainly, if it never rains, you're going to have a famine. We understand that. But what I found out was, is most often and many times, famine is not caused because it doesn't rain. It's caused because of the delay in rain. Let me explain to you what I mean. In Kenya, we do not have four seasons like we have over here. All right. Winter and summer and spring and fall. We just have simply rainy season and dry season. And during the dry season, that hot equatorial sun will come out and it doesn't take long to where everything dies. I mean the grass gets brown, the flowers die, the dust is everywhere, and there's not nary a drop of rain that you will see during the dry season. During the dry season, what happens, uh farmers though, take that time and they they are getting their fields ready. For when the rains will come. Because we have a rainy season. Now, typically in Kenya, our rainy seasons begin somewhere uh towards the end of the month of March The dry season typically will just be ending about now. I mean the dust will be great. And as soon as you see the clouds in the sky and the winds pick up, I mean you're hoping that it rains. The farmers have their fields ready. They've plowed them. They've got the seed ready to go in the ground for when the rain starts. But sometimes the rains don't begin when they're supposed to begin. I mean April's here now. The end of April's here. Now we're in the May. The rains haven't come yet. Everybody's wondering, where is the rain? I mean we're waiting for the rain so the seed can go in the ground and there can be a harvest. And then Sometime in May, it starts to rain. So everybody's happy and they put the seed in the ground, the sun comes out, and The plants begin to grow and they're healthy and they're big and they begin to flower and everybody's anticipating when those flowers will turn into that fruit. But then the rain stops, when it normally stops. And that hot equatorial sun comes out and beats down upon that ground and beats down upon those plants and there's no more rain, and soon those plants begin to die. The flowers begin to wither. And there's no fruit. And there's no harvest. And if you repeat that over several growing seasons, Do you know what you'll have? You'll have a famine. And it wasn't caused because it never rained. It caused Because the rain's delayed. What can I say to you this morning? Spiritually speaking, delay is also a terrible thing. You see, when we delay Getting the gospel out into the world. When we delay doing that very thing that God has called us to do, that very thing that God wants us to do, when we delay and don't do that, do you know what the end result of that delay is? The end result of that delay is the continuation of spiritual famine somewhere in somebody's life. You know, the Bible's very clear about the principles the Bible says that God sends some people to plant Isn't that what he does? The Bible says some people plant the seed. Other people water the seed. And then God sends others to Pick the harvest. But God also says everybody along the way receives the fruit of the labors. And can I say that even more than that, I think at some times God, you know, because before you can plant a seed, the ground has to be prepared for the seed. You just don't drop a seed in the stony soil. The stones have to be removed The tree stumps have to be taken out. The field has to be plowed. It has to be ready for a seed to go in. That's hard work. You know what happens when we delay doing those things? The end result is the continuation. of spiritual famine. You know, not all the world, not all the world is producing a harvest right now. You go to some Muslim country, you're not going to stand on a street corner and preach and ten people get saved. You're going to stand on a preach corner street corner and preach and get stoned. Read the stories of missionaries in days gone by. Read David Livingstone. Gave his life on the continent of Africa, and you can count his converts on one hand. Read the stories of missionaries that went to Africa in days gone by. A hundred years ago, 150 years ago, there was no harvest that they had. Do you know what they were doing? They were preparing the ground. They were removing the stones, uprooting the tree stumps, getting the ground ready so it could be plowed. Now we're seeing a harvest in Africa today. But it was not always that way. But what if those people that went in days gone by, what if they didn't go? What if they delayed? They heard about the terrible diseases, they heard about the hardships, they heard about the death, and they thought, you know, that's just not for me. Let me do something different. There wouldn't be a harvest ready today because of that delay. I think of the story. Of the man, the family that went to the area of the world we we have lived for all these years, what is now known as the country of Kenya. The first modern-day missionary that we know that went to that area of the world was a man by the name of Johann Grof in 1844. He was a German. He arrived on the coast of Africa. with his bride. She was expecting a child and shortly after arriving in 1844, his wife Rosine gave birth to a baby. And just a few days later, that baby died. They called that baby Uba. It meant tear in the local language. They buried that baby and they ended up in the area that is now known as Mambasa. At that time was under the control of the Zultan of Zanzibar. And at that time she delivered a second child. And this time, both mother And baby died. He buried them there. My wife and I just not long ago visited the place. In Kenya, where this happened. And thankfully, and praise the Lord, the Kenyan government has protected that area and has a monument with the story of this man written. But after his wife and second child died, he wrote a letter. He wrote a letter back home. And in that letter, he said this, on the east coast of Africa lies a lonely missionary grave. This is a sign that you have commenced a struggle. A struggle with this part of the world. And as the victories of the church is gained by stepping over the grave of its members, That you may be convinced that in the hours ahead, when you are some summoned to the conversion of Africa from its eastern shore, Though many missionaries may fall in the fight, yet the survivors will pass over the slain into the trenches and will take this great African fortress for the Lord. You know why there's a harvest today? It is because somebody was willing to remove the stones. Somebody was willing. To get the ground prepared for a seed. And today there are places in the world just like that. You go to Taiwan today, they may not be ready for a harvest. But they need somebody that will prepare the ground for when the seed can be planted in the heart. We heard about Canada. It's not an easy place today. People aren't just willing to listen to the gospel, but somebody's got to go. And do that work. What I'm saying to you, Hunt Valley Baptist Church, is that every part of it is important. And when we delay doing whatever part God has for us, the end result of that delay is the continuation of spiritual famine. Allow me to give you to the last point that we find here in the ending of this famine. And again, it's found in verse number nine of chapter seven. It says here, then they said one to another, We do not well. This is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. Those lepers, they had just eaten that food. They had just Be nourished. The famine had just ended for them. And they were rejoicing. God ended the famine. And in the midst of that rejoicing, they stepped back and they said something astounding. They said, We do not well. They said, there's a problem here. There's something we're doing that's not good. It wasn't that they ate the food, it wasn't that they were rejoicing in the blessings of God. They said we do not well because today is a day of good tidings. And we haven't even told anybody yet. I mean, this is just a moment after they ate. And I believe in my life this has been true, and I believe it's a truth from God's Word. That we all need to come to that realization that we do not well. Listen, we can sit back and rejoice in the blessings of God, and there are many. I can sit back and I can rejoice and say, Look what God has done in Africa. And you can sit back and you can say, Look what God has done through the Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And there's nothing wrong with that. But in the midst of rejoicing at the blessings of God, we need to remember: if we don't continue telling people the good news, we do not well. You know, Pastor Betrell, you know what I found in my life? I found in my life it's really easy for me to see when somebody else isn't doing well. I mean, I I I guess that's just our human nature. I mean i it's easier for me to stand here. Or go somewhere and say, hey, you know what? He's not doing well. She doesn't do well. Hey, he's got a problem. They got a problem. That's easy for me to do. But you know what's hard for me to do? It's hard for me to look inside me and say, I do not will. That's difficult. It's easy for me to look out and say, you know, that person should be doing more. I mean, look how they're look at the job they got. Look at the money they have. Look at the time they have. Man, they ought to be doing more. It's easy to say that. But it's hard for me to look inward and say, I I I ought to be doing more. It's hard for me to say and to recognize I do not well. But I'm saying in the times in my life when I have been able to do that, That's when God's been able to use me. The way He wants to use me. End spiritual famine. I've learned a long time ago I can't control what anybody else does. I can't. I can't force anybody to do anything. There's only one person in this world that I have any control over. And I can make do something. And that's me. That's all. So I think sometimes we get it wrong when we sit there and we're looking and we're looking at what everybody else isn't doing well. When we ought to be looking at what we're not doing well. And when we can do that, be ready. Because God has you where he needs you. So that you can see spiritual feminine. And that's what those said. They simply said, we do not well. Today is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. Physical famine is a terrible thing. I I I've seen some of it and some things I've seen I wish I could unsee. I hope you never have to experience it. I hope you never have to see it. But in the midst of how terrible that is, a physical famine can only kill the body. A spiritual famine will damn a soul to hell. God has a plan on how to end it. And he can use you, and he can use me to help end that famine. We just gotta do it God's way. We bow our heads, close our eyes in prayer. We've heard preaching this week, we've heard testimonies, we've seen presentations, we've talked, we've questioned. Those are all good things. But all of that had a purpose. And the purpose behind all of that was so that the Hunt Valley Baptist Church can do more to see spiritual famine end in this world. God can and God will do that. We just have to step forward and allow God to use us to see that to have an end. Can we stand at our seat, please? As we stand, we're going to have a word of prayer. And after we pray, we're going to have a time of invitation. Where you can come and you can speak to God. There might be somebody here today that the spiritual famine we spoke about exists in your life. There's never been a time in your life that you've turned to Jesus Christ. And had him end the famine of your soul. I want you to know this morning you can be saved today. You can partake of the bread of life and the water of life and have that famine end. For those of us who have been saved. Is God using us to see spiritual famine end? Is he using us where we are? And is also he using us in other places to see this famine end? Father, We come before you in prayer this morning with a thankful heart, thankful for what you've done for us. Lord, in spite of our sinfulness and wickedness, Your love has shown bright and you have sent your Son into this world to provide the sacrifice of our sins so that famine can end in our life. We're thankful for that. Thankful for the bread of life. Well, Father, you desire that this whole world has the opportunity to partake of that bread. And you have deemed that responsibility to belong to everyone, and that that responsibility is manifested and taken care of through your church. And I pray that as we consider the ending of this famine in the world, if you've spoken to our heart in some way this morning that we would come and speak to you about it. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.