The judges era. Um it is uh quite amazing that we covered the judges, the era of the judges last week in one week for If you want to copy those now. Uh as we've been looking at the Old Testament and trying to give kind of a uh overview of God's progression of events, uh how God led through his people and and took them through the history. You know, history is his story, what God is doing. And uh we've tried to kind of give a broad overview However, I felt the last couple of weeks like maybe uh we were getting bogged down. Even though uh last week I covered a lot of ground and went quick. Um I think that you know maybe sometimes a little bit too much uh teaching and uh our minds kind of shift into neutral and it gets a little bit uh maybe too much to Keep absorbing. And so tonight we're going to take a little bit of a break from that, although we are introducing the Kingdom Era. the era of the kingdom and uh this era is huge it's uh covers a lot of the old testament Um by progression of chronological order, if you have your uh paper that has this on it, whether it's color or not color, uh we gave it out both ways. But the kingdom era covers 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, 1 Samuel. Kings and 2 Kings. That's kind of the the progression chronologically of history that it covers. It starts in 1 Samuel chapter number 8. So if you count 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, 1 Kings, and 2 Kings, there's 95 chapters there that it covers in history. However, you notice if you were to include all of the support books. The books that were written during this time period that don't necessarily continue the progression chronologically of events, but they were written during this time. You have 1 and 2 Chronicles, Lamentations. Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, almost all of the major and minor prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, uh Lamentations, uh not Ezekiel because he was written during the captivity, not Daniel. But then you have the minor prophets, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, uh, you know, Zephaniah, Hagi, um, not Zachariah, but uh Not Malachi, but uh Habakkuk, Jonah, Nahim, Obadiah. These were all written during this time period. So there's a lot of history. It actually is four hundred and uh thirteen chapters of the Old Testament. is written during this era, the Kingdom era. So you want to talk about getting bogged down. We we could we could really get bogged down in the Kingdom era and look at what is there, but there is a lot in this Time period that's for us today that teaches us many things that we can gain and look at. During this time period, we're given the genealogies of Christ. That uh Christ was the greater son of David. The Bible talks about the greater son of David. He is the greater son of David that will one day establish David's kingdom. forever, perpetually. And we see that being given to us in this time period in these books of the Bible. These opening events here were in the first part of Samuel. Now we're it the The kingdom era starts actually in chapter 8 because what we're going to talk about this morning tonight is the birth of Samuel And you know, Samuel was the last judge and the first prophet. He was both as the transition into the kingdom era. They come out of the judges, the time When every man did that which was right in his own eyes, a time where the nation was in a bad way, uh where they were seeking their own and wanting to do their own. Nationally, it was a time much like America is today. You know, when a nation chooses to remove God and decides that they're just going to do what's right in their own eyes. They will inevitably descend into a state of extreme moral decay. That's where we are in our country today. Because man left to himself outside of the Spirit of God, we are capable of unbelievable wickedness. Which is seen through the history of mankind and the things that you look at and you think, how in the world could people possibly be capable of something like this? But when we remove God from the picture and every man is able to do what is right in his own eyes, you can get somebody like Hitler. Who would, in his own eyes, believe what he's doing is justifiable? Um in America, in the world today Everybody's trying to remove God. They're trying to take him out of everything. It's all uh we're just a uh Furtherance of evolution. We're just a product of what came out of the ground and it's all whatever is. They like to say or show that a lot of our inhibitions that we might have, which I believe are given to us by God, they they they help us They say they're just something that is constrained upon us because of society. And we need to break free from those chains. One of those areas. Uh years ago, there was a a movement of people, and there's still some around, it's not as popular, but there was a movement of people they call them swingers And people that would do things like uh uh you know, they would to be the kind of people that would go to nude beaches. They would be the kind of people that would party all time. and they would they would experiment with all kinds of drugs and stuff like that. Um they would be the kind of people that would wife swap. They would trade their wives with other men. Um they were swingers Well, there's a movement today. Again, we're looking at a group of people that feel that it's all just El Natural. I mean, it's just the world. And any restraints or restrictions you might feel is just from society. And there's no overriding authority, no governing rule on these things. Everybody should just do what they want. Well, there is a uh group of people uh that are pushing for monogam they're calling it monogamous relationships Sort of one man for one woman. Not full-on polygamy, but they're monogamy. Like you can be married and have a good relationship, but each couple should just decide for themselves how much or how like if they need a little bit of spice in their life. Then it would be okay for them to go and give themselves to somebody else for one night. And as long as it was mutually consensual, you and your wife both decided it was it was acceptable to do that Then it's fine, and that might help your marriage and might make your marriage stronger. This is where you get when people remove God out of the picture. When they start to think, well, we're all just uh products of evolution and we really can do what we want to do And so if you think it might help, then hey, just you know, go sleep with somebody else for a little while, and then you'll feel like being with your wife. I mean it's crazy the philosophy and the mindset of people today. But this is where you get when you remove God out of the picture. When you say there is no authority, we just get to do what we want. Well, in this environment, this extremely dark day, which you might call the dark ages of God's people, the Israelites, when every man did that which was right in his own eyes, we find a lady. Who stands out in stark contrast against the day. And you know that should be a testimony to us That no matter how wicked the world gets, no matter how bad things are, no matter how far down the line the people begin to think and how twisted and messed up their philosophies might be We can still stand for truth and righteousness. So I'm going to give you a thought tonight, and we're really just I'm really going to try and preach some principles from this first chapter of Samuel. looking here at Hannah and what God did in and through her, and hopefully encourage us in the idea that we can stand in the face of stress. We might have stressful times. We might be in a day and age when this world weighs heavy upon us, but we can stand strong in faith. even in stressful times. Israel was supposed to be a theocracy. What is a theocracy again? Anyone remember? Ruled by God. Ruled by God. A theocracy. is ruled by God. A monarchy, which is what Israel and God's people are calling for in chapter number eight. is where they're headed, where they're under one, where they're ruled by one, the king, the monarchy, he's in control. They were supposed to be a theocracy. But they were not, they did not follow God, and all through the judges we see that what happened there without any type of rule or leadership. And so Hannah jumps out at us here in this first book of Samuel as she brings The prophet Samuel into the world. Verse number one says, Now there was a certain man of Rama Thema Zophim of Mount Ephraim, and his name was El Canaine. the son of Jerobim, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Ziph, the Ephraith, and he had two wives. The name of one was Hannah And the name of the other, Pinnah. And Pinnea had children, but Hannah had no children. You see, Hannah here was in a stressful relationship. She was in a relationship that was not enjoyable for her because of the situation that she faced. Now I know here tonight. I at least I hope there's nobody here that is in this type of stressful relationship where you have to share your mate with somebody else where you have to try and balance that. I mean, I just can't imagine the the the mess that that brings into uh a relationship and the stressful things that come into a relationship under that kind of atmosphere. But it was compounded by the fact that Hannah wanted children, but she couldn't have any. She had to share her husband with another woman. Now, let me just say that this was not God's plan. This is not what God wanted. And sometimes in the scripture, you'll see People who even are being blessed by God or even being directed by God who are part of a situation like this But understand that this was not God's plan. This is not what God wanted for them. It's not what they should have done. But you know, we look at it and we say, well, why didn't God just kill them then? Well, because he's merciful. And we don't see what judgments might have been on their life because of this situation that they shouldn't have done, but it's not an endorsement by God for a polygamous relationship Although you might see it several times in the scriptures. It was not really what God wanted for them, but it's a balance that she had to face, Hannah's life, uh sharing her husband with another man. It was a stressful personal situation as well. Not only was she, her husband, married to another woman. But this woman had several children, and she could have none. Look in verse number three. We'll read down verse number three through verse number seven. He says here, And this man went up out into his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto the Lord of the host of Shiloh, and the two sons of Eli, Hophnai and Phineas, the priest of the lord, were there. And when the time was that Elkanah offered, he gave to Pinai, his wife, and to all her sons, and her daughters, portion But unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion, for he loved Hannah, but the Lord had shut up her womb. And her adversary also provoked her sore. For to make her fret because the Lord had shut up her womb. And as he did, so year by year, when she went up into the house of the Lord, she provoked her So she provoked her, therefore she wept and did not eat. Several things in these verses which stand out to me which are quite amazing. You understand that children were the heritage of the Lord, and children were at that time a blessing, a significant picture of God's blessing on a family. God's blessing on a woman. For a lady to be barren was paramount to a lady not being blessed by God And the stigma which was upon her for for being barren was quite adversarial. It's also interesting there, I don't know if it's verse number six, but it it's something where it said that, and her adversary provoked her. Do you understand tonight? We have an adversary. And our devil, the devil, will come into your life and will take whatever situation you're dealing with, whatever stressful relationship you have You might not have a stressful relationship where you have to share your mate with somebody, or you might be single. But you've got stressful relationships. She's got a stressful relationship with her boss. She's got to balance and deal with and figure out how to make work and not go crazy. Well, whatever stressful relationship you have, you know the devil's going to come in and provoke you. And make it that much worse. The devil's gonna come in and point this out. The devil's gonna come in and attack and cause whatever stressful relationship you happen to be dealing with and try and make it worse. Try and create problems for you. I mean I can picture Al Kenai here sitting with his kids all around him, the children of Panana. And then Hannah standing over there saying, none of those kids are mine. And he's there and he's giving presents to each of them and they're having fun and playing and laughing and joking. And the whole time she's over there just being tore up. Now, although today's world uh there's not a stigma like that on people, ladies who can't have children, there is in America at least fifteen percent of the ladies in America that can't have children. And it is something that's very real, and there's many ladies that deal with this burden of desiring and wanting children, but unable to have them. My own sister, for twelve years. Desired children in an unbelievable way. Desired children, wanted children, and God did not open her womb and she couldn't have them for twelve years. And she didn't understand. And they saw every kind of doctor and they did every kind of goofy holistic thing. You know, everybody says, well If you stand upside down, you know, and and drink lemonade from a straw, you'll you'll be able to have ki I mean they'll give you all kinds of goofy stuff. They say if you do this, you'll have kids. And I'll tell you what, they were trying everything But still, God gives life and God takes away life. Life is a gift from God, and God has to be the one that does it. And there was many nights that she cried herself to sleep. This is something real that people deal with, that ladies deal with. Hannah was in this stressful situation. Well, we got to be careful is that whatever stressful situation you're in That you don't blame God or get upset with God for not answering a prayer or solving the problem. You see, Hannah could have got very angry with God here. It says here, year after year, as they went, she would go and pray, and she would weep. And cry and desire a child, just like a lady whose child had been maybe killed in an accident. She could get very angry at God for having taken her son And somebody whose situation doesn't change when they think it should sometimes will get angry with God because Because that situation's not resolved or solved or fixed. And we gotta be careful that we don't do that, that we realize God's in control. And that he knows what's best. And we've got to trust him. And if God never gives a lady children, she's got to trust him. And it should not destroy her life. It should not define her life. She should not live her life feeling unwell because God didn't supply that need for her. It wasn't God's plan. And the same goes for somebody who's single. Whatever that desire is, in the midst of that desire, we need to know that God knows best. God knows. And we've got to trust him and follow his will. Though her husband loved her and gave her gifts, Hannah, I'm sure. was constantly faced with the fact that she didn't have children. And Panaya did. She was ridiculed and taunted. The enemy provoked her. As a result, we see her in verse number seven. She's crying. But she cries out to God, she goes to the right place, right? So we'll see her deliverance in verse number 8. She says, then said Al Cain. Her husband to her, Hannah, why weepest thou, and why eatest thou not? And why is thy heart grieved? Am I not better to thee than ten sons? My brother-in-law said that to my wife to my sister after about ten years of not being able to have kids. And he said that did not go over very well. That didn't fix the problem for some reason. Am I not better to the than ten kids? He was trying to love her. To show compassion, to say, hey, I love you anyway, and hey, but at least I'm here. You know, sometimes Our best intentions, men, don't really help. But ladies, please, be patient. We're trying. Helkanah was not trying to stab his wife here, was not trying to poke her and say, you can't have kids, ha ha, and trying to make her mad. He was trying to love her. Yet it obviously had the opposite effect. Sometimes our best intentions come that way. Verse number nine. So Hannah rose up after then After they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk, now Eli, the priest, sat upon a seat by a post of the temple of the Lord. And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. Here her prayer from verse number 11 through I believe verse number 18 is given to us here. She prays unto God. There's several things about this prayer that are very powerful. I'll give it to you quickly here. First of all, she prays seriously. It says, and she vowed a vow. You know, if you want to have prayers answered, you need to pray seriously. It's the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man. It's not just the, oh Lord, would you please be with me? Lord, would you do something with that? It's praying seriously. She vowed a vow to God. She made a promise to him. She was serious about seeing something happen. She said, Oh Lord of how Lord of hosts. If thou wilt indeed. So not only did she pray seriously, she prayed submissively. She said, God, I really, really, really, really, really, really, really want this. But thy will, Lord. This is what I want, this is what I desire. And listen, there's nothing wrong with praying for our desires as we as a church pray for those that are church that are sick. Those that are dealing with illnesses, those might be in the hospital, and maybe they're sick unto death. There's nothing wrong. I sat here and I prayed uh with with Rich as he was praying for his sister and he was praying in faith, believing that God was going to heal. Heal her. And he said, God, whatever your will. And as I prayed, I said, God, our desire is that she would be healed. We want to see her healed. We would like her to stay here and be with us. But that wasn't God's plan. But there's nothing wrong with praying for the desires of your heart. What you desire, as long as in your prayer you pray submissively too. And say, God, but whatever your will is, if thou wilt, whatever it is, Lord, praying submissively She says, Wilt look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and will remember me and not forget thine handmaid, but wilt give unto thine handmaid what's the next three words? A man-child. Not only did she pray submissively, she prayed specifically. She didn't just say, God, give me a child, although she probably would have been happy with any child, a boy or a girl. But there was something special, especially in this time, about having a son, because a son could carry on the family name. A son was somebody that could receive the blessing, could receive the heritage of the family. A son was very, very precious. And she prayed specifically. Praying specifically for what you would what you desire. God, I pray that you would Specifically, what what do you want to see God do? She prayed specifically, a man, child, that I will give unto the Lord all the days of his life. There's her promise. Said God, I'll give them back to you if you'll give me a man, child. And there shall no razor come unto his head. And it came to pass as she continued praying. Not only that, she prayed steadfastly. She prayed steadfastly. If we're going to see God come on the scene and solve a problem for us, we've got to sometimes pray more than just once or twice. Sometimes we might have to pray for months or sometimes maybe even years, but praying steadfastly for the answer that we want to see God give. And we saw here in these beginning verses, I think it was verse number seven, that she went. And and uh year after year as they went up to the temple that she went and she prayed and she wept. This is the time it's recorded for us, but I think there was probably many times that she knelt and prayed a prayer like this. You want to see God answer, you've got to pray steadfastly. She was praying so earnestly that Eli marked her mouth. Now Hannah, she spoke in her heart, only her lips moved. And but her voice was not heard, therefore Eli thought she had been drunken. She she prayed so fervently that Eli thought she was drunk. You know, Hannah prayed for God to give her a son. The issue here is which way Are you headed? We talk about it. We say God's not as concerned with where you are as He is with the direction you're headed. You see stress in our lives, problems in our life. They're gonna do one of two things. They're either gonna push you away from God, or they're gonna push you toward God. The problem that Hannah faced here, did she didn't get upset with God and run with run from God and say, okay, well if I can't have kids, just forget it. I'm just gonna go do my own thing. No She was pushed into the presence of God, and her relationship with God was made stronger and richer and fuller because of the stressful situation. What about you? In the stressful situation you're facing, in the challenge that you're dealing with, is it driving you to God or driving you away from God? Hopefully it would drive us to God. You know, without a Red Sea to cross, our faith is never strengthened. Without a stressful situation, without Hannah needing a son and having to wait these many years to see God bring that. There was nothing to build her faith. There was nothing to drive her to her knees. There was nothing to build that relationship with God. But the stressful situation did that. And sometimes we find ourselves up against a Red Sea or we find ourselves in a stressful situation and we want to be removed from the situation. That's human nature. We want the situation removed and resolved. But understand it should drive us to God, bring us to the presence of God, and should build our faith. We can stand in faith in the face of stress. When we have God on our side. Hannah was delivered because she prayed. Eli gave her an assurance. Verse number 14. And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? Put away thy wine from thee, and Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit I have drinken neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Count not thine handmaid for a daughter of Belial, for out of the abundance of my complexity You know, it's notable here that there was a group of people, ladies, who were known to be drunkards There was an association there. She said, hey, don't meet, don't count me as one of these ladies, one of the daughters of Elial. You know it matters who you associate with. It matters what you look like. It matters how the world perceives you. Because there is an association. And she said, Oh, I haven't drunken. I'm not drunk. Don't put me in that. I'm of a sorrowful spirit. Don't mistake me for one of them. Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked for. And he said, Let thine handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the woman went her way and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad. Here she had an amazing amount of faith. She left. She hadn't been eating. She had been praying. The man of God said, Okay, I see your prayer. God sees your sorrowful heart. You're going to have a kid. And she got up, and her countenance changed, and she went and ate. That is a testimony of her faith that she believed it was going to happen This is going to happen. God has answered my prayer. And she went and changed her countenance because of the promise here from the man of God. So I want you to see her dedication. Her dedication. Soon it became obvious that she was going to have a child, became very evident So she dedicated her baby to God by faith. She did what she had promised to do. Verse number nineteen, she says, and they rose up in the morning early and worshipped before the Lord and returned and came to their house to Ramah and El Cana, knew Hannah his wife, and the Lord remembered her, wherefore it came to pass When the time was come about after Hannah had conceived that she bare a son and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord Samuel means ask of God. When God finally came through and provided and met the need She remembered God. She remembered what happened. She remembered what she promised. And I can't begin to tell you the number of people That I've sat with in the hospital who've said, Pastor, pray for me. I need God to heal me. I need God to do a miracle. I need God to do something here. Would you pray for me? Pastor, as soon as I get out of the hospital, you'll be seeing me in church. I know I need to be in church. And two weeks later, they get out of the hospital. Sometimes they don't ever even come to church. Sometimes they come one week, maybe two weeks, but they forget about the promise they made to God. About something as simple as just being in church. When they're in the hospital and and they're laying on their back and all they can do is look up and they see God, and then they realize, Lord, I've been running from you and man I need to be in church and Lord, I'm sorry, and I want to recommit my life and follow you, Lord. But when God answers the prayer and they're back on their feet, how soon we forget our promise. Hannah remembered her promise. Even in naming her own son, she says, Samuel, because he was asked of God, and God gave him to me. You know it's easy to give God what you don't have. You know, if I had a million dollars, I'd give God half of it, right? But you got a hundred bucks? Would you give God fifty? Is is easy Easy to give God what we don't have. And Hannah made a promise to God before she ever had the son. And you know you look at that and you say, Oh well, God, if you ever give me a son, I'll give him to you. And then God gave him a son. And she followed through and gave Samuel back to God Look in verse number twenty-one and twenty-two, it's amazing. And the man, Ocana, after all his house, went up to offer unto the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his vow. But Hannah went not up, for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him that he may appear before the Lord and there abide forever. I think it's notable here and and uh and I'm almost done, but I think it's notable that she wanted to spend time with her son. while she had him. She knew she was only going to have him for a little while. Some people believe as early as two years old, because when he was weaned She took him to Eli. So as early as two, scholars believe that certainly By the age of five, she gave him away. So she knew she only had this little bit of time with him. And she wanted to spend time with him and be with them. And didn't want to get distracted with other things. Let me just encourage you. You got kids at home, spend time with them. Don't get too distracted by other things. This there's so many things in this world. Take our time. Their kids grow and they're gone so fast. Maximize the time that you've got them. She said, oh no, I know I normally go do that and I enjoy doing that, but I'm not going to do it right now because I need to be here with Samuel. She spent time with Samuel while she had him. Can you imagine, ladies, this being your only son and giving him away at the age of two? Or three or four. I don't mean just letting somebody watch them for a little while. Keep them for a night. She went and dropped them off Said, he's all yours. Gave him to God. She didn't forget what she had promised God. And what God wanted to do. She gave them back to God. You know She praised God for his bountiful blessings. If you read through the balance of this story goes through verse number 10. We're not going to read it right now, but you can You can kind of read through the rest of that and think look at how she praised God and how good God was to her for giving her a son. Even though she only had this son personally in her life for a couple, three years. She praised God. But think about this story with me. Hear this one broken woman. Prayed that God would provide for her a son. God miraculously came on the scene and gave her Samuel. She obediently followed God and fulfilled her promise, gave Samuel back to God and the children of Israel, the entire nation. Of Israel got a prophet, the last judge and the first prophet since Moses Through this one broken lady who loved God enough to trust his will, to pray for her desire, and then follow through on her commitment. When life's burdens are met with faith, it opens the door for God to do miraculous things. God can do miraculous things in your life and in my life if we, through faith, follow Him even in a stressful way. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I am gonna ask the pianist to come and we'll have a a moment of invitation. This introductory to the time period of the kingdom era, but seeing what God did in Hannah's life, how she handled a stressful situation. How are you handling it? Is God is this stress pushing you towards God or pulling you away?