In the New Testament. Have to see y'all might prefer me not feeling well. I don't think I'll move as quickly this morning. Going through the uh going through our lesson today, we are continuing our study on uh rightly dividing the word. looking at different distinctions that we need to make in the scriptures. And had a really good time preparing this lesson for today. It's a very encouraging thought to uh to me as well as very challenging, so I hope that comes through. The Word of God speaks to your heart this morning. Book of Ephesians, chapter five. You have your notes there that are available on the back table if you didn't get them. Uh you'd have noticed that the title for today's lesson is Standing and state. Standing and state. Now these are not words that you're going to find grouped together in a verse somewhere. They're words used to describe an idea that we find in the scripture. There are terms that are used to describe the temporal and eternal nature of believers that coexist with each other Uh we have an eternal nature as believers. That that is where we are um saved and we um have a relationship with God and we are going to live forever. Well, at the same time, we have flesh. We looked at this distinction a little bit when we talked about a man's flesh and his spirit, and there's things that are of our nature that are temporal. at the same time they are things about us that are eternal. And when it the Bible tries to describe this union of these two two natures that we have, um sometimes it can kind of seem to contradict itself. Like what what do you mean It's saying one thing and something else, what's going on here, and that's why we need to understand the difference between the two. For example, I am going to die. But I am going to live forever. That doesn't make sense if you don't understand that we have these two natures, an eternal nature and a temporal nature. And there's a lot of things we can look at in the Word of God, and we'll look at some examples today. But between these two things, this our standing um and our state. This idea is closely related to the idea that we're going to be dealing with next week. We're going to be considering the Christians relationship and fellowship, and these two are two overlap quite a bit, so we'll look at that a little bit more. uh next week. Today we're going to look at begin with this verse in Ephesians, and it's going to give us one of these examples of a difference between our standing and our state. So if you look there in Ephesians chapter 5 Verse number eight, there the Bible says, For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children. of light. Let's open the word of prayer. Lord, we love you and we thank you for today. Uh thank you for this time we have to gather on your word. Pray Lord as uh when we teach this morning that these thoughts would come across clearly, that you give me the uh strength to deliver this because today as we go into the other services, Lord, that we'd just be challenged. as believers to be what you'd have us to be on a daily basis. Lord, we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So as you look at this verse in Ephesians chapter 5, verse number 8, there's three parts to the verse. You have this idea that ye were sometimes darkness. This first part of the verse it discusses what we were before our salvations. It says ye were sometimes Darkness. Now this word sometimes it kind of can be a little confusing, but this word means uh at one time you were in darkness, because he's speaking to a group of people. And he's saying to the to the churches he's writing to, there was a time when you were in darkness. That's what this idea, not not occasionally like you're in darkness, not out of darkness. There was a time where you were in darkness referring to your past, referring to the time before You were saved. I'm glad today that we do have a past, a past that Jesus saved me from. That I was able to realize one day that I was lost, that I was on my way to hell, that there was a punishment coming for my sin And realizing that set me up to accept the gift of a Savior. And that's when I moved from darkness into light. 1 John chapter 1 talks about that quite a bit So this verse refers to what we were before our salvation. Then it talks to our talks about that change that took place. But now are you light. You were darkness. And now you're light. There's a change that happens at our salvation that we go from our old nature into our new nature, that we go from death unto life, and we we have this transition that takes place at our salvation. And then you have the last part of the verse there, it says, walk as children of light. This is where we're getting to this two-part nature, our standing versus our state a little bit, and can be where the confusion comes in. If you are light, what does it mean to say you should walk as light? If I pointed up at this light bulb and said, that's a light bulb, now you need to shine like a light bulb. Hey well it's it's what it is, isn't that what isn't that what what it what it does? This is where that division comes in and we're gonna define it a little bit um more as we go into the lesson here, but just because we are light doesn't mean we always act like it. Even though you are a Christian, uh you do not always act like it. I like to illustrate it this way. You'll fill in your name, but has anybody ever had a dad that said something like, that's not the way that Renshaws act Now, I have s I have children and my sons and if I look at them and they are Renshaws because they're my sons and they're acting a certain way. So if they are Renshaws and that's the way they're acting, isn't that how Renshaws act? No, I would disagree. Um, that I need to shape them into the way that that Renshaw is supposed to act as the as they grow. And that's this idea that you are something, but we're not always living up to what we are. Their standing as a Renshaw doesn't change, but their state of behavior needs to change in order to match their standing in this family. So Looking into this idea, we're going to start with some definitions. What does it mean? What do we mean by these terms standing versus state? So first of all, we have our standing Our standing refers to our position we have in Christ. This is your eternal nature. We'll talk about that more in the notes, but this is where you are in Christ, what Christ made you when you were saved, that Christ made you justified, that Christ gave you that new nature, that Christ has you seated in heavenly places. That's what that's what Christ made you at your salvation With your new nature, you're given Christ righteousness, you're sealed until the day of redemption. All these things that we have in the Bible, that's who we are in Christ. That refers to our standing Our standing refers to how God sees us through the finished work of Christ. When God looks at me, he doesn't see my failures and my shortcomings. He sees the blood of Christ. Uh that Christ's righteousness was imputed to me. He became sin uh for us so I might have the righteousness of God. In him I was given that righteousness. So when God looks at me, he doesn't see me with my shortcomings, my failures, and the things that I I I don't live up to, he looks at me and he sees Christ. That's my standing. That's the position that I have in God, that I'm that I'm washed and that I'm clean and that I'm a child of God. That's my position, that's my standing. He sees the blood that cleansed me from my sin. This goes back to the to the illustration we have in the Old Testament. in the tabernacle of the mercy seat. When God had the mercy seat built, you understand the construction was inside the mercy seat is where they kept the Ten Commandments. uh the the box there and they had the seat on top of it and the angels would look down the angels that would bring judgment would look down in the box and they'd see the law that man had broken, but the priest would come in once a year and put that blood on there, and that blood would obscure the vision from the law that was broken. All they'd see the blood was a sacrifice. And that's what God sees when he looks at me. He sees the blood that Christ sacrificed for me. That's my standing in God. Your standing, this is the exciting part, is based on the finished work of Christ. Where I am in God's eyes is based on Christ. It's not based on me. Where I am in Christ does not change because his work is finished. He sat on the cross. It is finished. Nothing else needed to be done. I've uh my my stay in God. When God looks at me, what he sees is based on what Christ did not based on what I do. It is settled and it is unchanging. And we see also that your standing is related to your eternal nature, those things we discuss in the Bible about us. Living forever and having eternal life, and that's our eternal nature. That's our standing. That's what God sees when he looks at us. Then we have this term state State is the way you live on a day-to-day basis. It's the state or the condition that you are in based on your flesh. See, in my flesh, there are times that I fail the Lord. And in my flesh, there are times when I'm weak in my faith. In my flesh, there's times I must come to God for forgiveness. So my state is where I'm at in my Christian walk on a day-to-day basis. My standing with God never changes, but where I'm at as a Christian on a daily basis does change. It does fluctuate based on my behavior. Your state is also tied to your testimony before men. Remember, your standing is how God sees you. Your um your state has to do with how how man sees you. When I define the word testimony, I say that your testimony is what people know about God based on what they know about you. When somebody looks at you, your testimony is what's revealed to them about God. from your behavior, from your state, from how you live on a day-to-day basis. Is your God a God that's worthy of worship? If somebody looks at you, can they tell that? Can they tell that would be your testimony? Can they tell while their God is a God that they worship Their God is a God that they serve. Their God is a God that they love. Their God is a God that expects holiness. Their God is a God that demands obedience. That's your testimony. When people look at you, what do they understand about God? And that's your state before men. When people look at you, what do they understand about your Lord? So it's your testimony before men as opposed to your standing is how God views you. And number three, your state is based on your conduct. It's tied to your behavior and your obedience. It's ever changing. As we change, our state changes. There are days when you are a better Christian than you are on other days It's in it's in fluctuation because it's reliant on you, and this makes me so excited about my standing before God is that my standing is not reliant upon me My fact that I have a home in heaven, the fact that I have eternal life, the fact that I'm forgiven and I'm justified, that's based on Christ. If it was based on me, I'd mess it up every day. But that's based on Christ, and that and that's that's eternal. And then there's days when I live up to that and then there's days that I don't and that's what we're defining as our state Your state is tied to your temporal nature, the nature that we have here on earth as opposed to our eternal nature, tied to our relationship with God in heaven. So that's your standing, that's your state. With that in mind, let's look back at Ephesians 5, verse number 8. It says, Ye are in the second half half of the verse there, but now are ye light in the Lord. walk as children of light. When God sees you, he sees a light because that's your standing. That's what you have in Christ. That Christ made you light. When Christ was talking to the disciples, he said I am the light of the world. Then a couple chapters later he said, Ye are the light of the world. The light that was in Christ was put in us at salvation. God made you light. Now we just have to act like it. That's our state. That's where we live on a day-to-day basis. Am I being the light that God sees me to be in Christ? And am I living up to that standard that God has for me While I am light, I do not always act like it. There's some days when that light shines bright, and there's some days that the light are is dim. One condition is unchanging because it depends on Christ. The fact that I am light. That depends on Christ. Now, walk as a child of light, that depends on me. How am I doing with that? Well, these are these two terms, standing and state. Standing is what we are in Christ. State is what we are in our daily day-to-day Christian walk. Standing is our the way that God sees us because of the finished work of Christ. And our state is the way that man sees us based on our obedience to the Lord. So we're going to look now at some pictures of this in the Bible, of how it differed in one person, their standing versus their state. I believe this is going to be an encouragement. And I challenge to you, when my state is not what it ought to be, there is peace in knowing that my standing with Christ never changeth. Because there's times when when I'm falling short and and I I have sinned against God and I'm not living the life of faith that I that I should be living and I'm not the kind of dad I ought to be. I'm not the kind of husband I ought to be. And I'm coming short in my life. I can take solace. In fact, knowing that in Christ, there's a finished work done. Then Christ that I I'm I'm eternally saved and I'm not affecting that with my behavior, so that's an encouragement to me that when when I'm not doing everything I ought to be God still sees that Christ has finished and he's redeemed me and he sees the blood of Christ. So there's the encouragement But there's also a challenge there, a challenge to live up to the name that I bear. That I am a Christian and I need to live like it, because I want to live up to God's expectation. God sees me and that's what God expects of me and I want to live up to and meet. So looking at a couple Old Testament characters, first of all, we have Abraham and Abimelech in Genesis chapter 20. If you remember this story, Abraham went to the southern part of Canaan because there was a famine that was going on. Now while he was there, he lied about his wife Sarah. He said she was his sister because he was afraid that they would think she was very beautiful, would want to take her for themselves, so they would kill him in order to take his wife. So he he lied about that. He lied about his wife in order to protect himself. And that was what was going on then the king of that area of Bimelech saw Sarah and did think she was a beautiful woman and said, I want her for myself and took her to himself because she was according to his knowledge, this man's sister, and and brought her to himself, and that night God confronted Abimelech. And God said, Well you've taken this other man's wife And he said, Well, I didn't know it was his wife. He told me it was his sister. And then God taught God discusses that with Abimelech. And then Abimelech brings Abraham in, and Abimelech confronts Abraham about it and reprimands him, this heathen king reprimanding. Abraham, the father of the Jews, the one whom God had made a covenant with, uh, reprimands him about his uh about his behavior. So when we look at this man Abimelech, as far as we know W he doesn't have an eternal standing before God because he was a heathen king. He he practiced idolatry um i in his land He had no pro promises or covenants with God. There's no reference anywhere else in the Bible to him being a man of faith. Now through Abraham's testimony, he might have gotten saved at some point, not through this testimony. This wasn't a very good testimony to this heathen king. But we don't know that as far as his standing. But when you look at his state, his reputation among men, uh he had a very good reputation there. In verse six, even God calls Abimelech a man of integrity. As soon as Abimelech realized he'd made a mistake, he corrected what he had done. He listened to the instructions from the Lord, and the Bible says because of his integrity, God actually kept him from sinning. Um and so Bimelech we see his character. He had good moral character, but he had no standing with God. And no matter how good you are in this life, unless your standing with God is right, you don't have that eternal nature. You don't have that home in heaven, the standing with God has to be right. And let's look at Abraham. What about Abraham's standing? Well Abraham was the the man with whom God had made covenants. He had a clear standing with God. He had eternal covenants with the Lord. He worshipped God. He built all altars to the Lord. He believed God and the it was counted unto him for righteousness. Abraham was a saved man. In the New Testament he's called the father of all the faithful. When God looked at Abraham, that's what he saw, the one who believed God and and it was righteousness imparted to him. And he was the father of all the faithful. But then what about the people that looked at Abraham in this story? His fate before men. His state before men was atrocious. He had a terrible testimony before man and before his wife. He was a liar. He almost caused another man and his wife to go into sin, and he's living in fear instead of faith So Abraham in this story was not living up to the expectation God had for him because God had redeemed him, because he was a sa he was a saved man. He had righteousness from God, but he wasn't living that way. So that was Abraham's standing estate. This one here is amazing to me, the second one I want to look at today, and that's the character of Lot. Lot in Genesis chapter 19 and 2 Peter chapter 2, verses 6 through 8. Now, just thinking of Lot from our story in the Bible, the stories we heard in in junior church growing up, the messages that we've heard uh at teen camp, we had a speaker at teen camp this year say, What kind of messages do you usually hear at camp? And people are throwing out different things they hear, these typical messages of camp. Lots one of them. Lots of one that you often hear reference there. But we know overall lot good guy, bad guy. Bad guy. We look at lot and we say he's not that great of a guy. He's got a lot of lot of problems I think Pastor Evan mentioned him recently in a message. You look at the character of Lot. If you were going to summarize, describe Lot for me. Tell me, tell me about him Uh we'd use words like he was worldly, uh he was lustful, he was foolish, he was wicked, he was a drunkard, and lots more that we can point out about this man, Lot. That all points to Lot's what, standing or estate? His state, the way he lived before men. You look at his state, the testimony that he had, you wouldn't think that Lot knew God at all based on his reputation's testimony. But Lot is described by God in the New Testament and three verses in the book of 2 Peter, chapter 2. In these three verses, God gives us a description of Lot What words did God use when he looked back at Lot and Lot and his nature? Well, he calls him just Lot. He calls him righteous twice. And he calls him godly. When these three verses, when God described Lot, he said he was a just man, he was righteous, and his righteous soul was vexed. And so God is able to save the godly from among the wicked. That's a summary of those verses. Three verses, four descriptions. Righteous, righteous, just, and godly. What's that? His standing or his state? His standing, how God viewed him, how God saw him, God saw that he was a just man, that he was a righteous man. You know, you couldn't tell that by looking at the way Lot lived his life. But But because his his standing with God is not based on him, God could see him as just, even when he was living unjustly. God could see him as righteous when he was participating in unrighteousness. God could see him as uh as godly when he was living a life that was ungodly. What a picture of the way God sees us from eternal perspective, even when we're not what we ought to be from a temporal perspective. So we see his standing with God. He was just he was righteous. He was godly What about his state? His state before men, well he associated with evil, he lusted after the world, he offered his daughters to the perverted men of the city to be abused. His sons-in-law mock his discussion of God and judgment. There's his testimony before men. He went and said, God's going to bring you judgment on this nation. Ha, what God? Your God? You don't have a God that can bring judgment. I've seen the way that you act That's his testimony before his sons-in-law, before his family. The last we hear of Lot is him getting drunk and fathering his own grandchildren. What a terrible state he had before men, not living up to the standing he had before God. So we're looking out a couple passages in the New Testament. To discuss the standing and state that we have. We'll read through these verses. Let's go to Romans chapter 6 Romans chapter six and we see 'cause we're we're talking about rightly dividing these things. How do we look at a passage and when things seem to contradict one another? Um How do we interpret that? How do we understand that? And understanding that part of these verses are describing our eternal nature and God that's settled in Christ, and part of it's discussing how we live on a day-to-day basis. So Romans chapter 6, verses 4 through 14. There the Bible says, Therefore, we are buried with him by baptism into death. That like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. So there in that verse we have the first part. We are baptized uh or sorry, we are buried with him by baptism unto death. That's what we are in the eyes of God. That we've been buried with Christ by baptism unto death. That's our that's our standing, but then Even so, even though that's true in God's eyes, what do we need to do? Walk as uh walk in newness of life. Walk in that new life. That's our state. We need to live up to where we are in God's eyes. We'll keep reading the next verse. It says, For if we've been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed. So knowing this, this is true about you as a Christian, what that your old man has been crucified. That the body of flesh might be destroyed. That's true in our standing in the eyes of God. So what do we need to do on a day-to-day basis in our Christian life, in our state? And the verse says we shouldn't not that henceforth we should not serve sin. You are, when God looks at you, he sees your flesh has been put to death on the cross. with Christ. So you need to live like that. You need to live daily on a day-to-day basis not serving sin because sin has been that master has been put to death in your life. We'll keep reading now. It says, For he that is dead is freed from sin. You're free. You are free from when God looks at you, sin has no control over your life. If you are a Christian, sin has no control and you're standing with God Yet when we, we'll see in these verses, yield ourselves to obey sin, we're going to put ourselves back into that bondage. That our old man is um sorry, that we are uh He is dead, is freed from sin, that's our standing. For if we be dead with Christ, we believe we also shall live with him. Verse number nine, knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Likewise Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So that's what we need to consider ourselves. That's what God considered us. God sees you dead to sin and alive to Christ. We need to live that way. We need to live that way. And how do we do that? Verse number 12. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in the lust thereof. Neither yield ye your members as servants as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. For sin shall not have dominion over you, for ye are not under the law. But under grace. So that last phrase, you're not under the law, you're under grace. That's God's perspective. We need to live like that. That's our state every day. Don't yield yourselves to serve sin because when God looks at you, sin is dead in your life And you can live that way. When God sees you, He sees you as a free person, free from the bonds of sin. We can live that way. And if we live up to the standing of the way God sees us, because that's done, that's finished We just need to live that way. That's our state on a day-to-day basis. So we see this verse as it's jumping back and forth between our eternal nature, here's what you are in Christ. to our temporal nature. Here's how you need to live today. Here's what you are in Christ. You're free. Here's what you need to do today. Don't submit to sin. Here's what you are in Christ. That you're not under law, you're under grace. Here's where we live today. That's the standing versus our state as we read these passages. Let's turn over to the next chapter two chapters to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8 verses 35 to 39. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword, as it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long, we are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. So we have a lot of things described in those verses that are temporal. We look at them. That's our that's our state. It is the focus of this passage. What's our state described there? Tribulation. Distresses, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, sword, being killed, death, life, angels, principalities, powers things present, things to come, height, depth, and any other creature. These are things that we deal with in our flesh, things that bring us up and things that bring us down. We go through a time where things are good and we go through a time of tribulation. We have have plenty and we have times of famine. That's our state living on a day-to-day basis, but where does God see us? Where does God look at us? And there's two references there. More than conquerors. More than conquerors. No matter no matter what happens, and go to those extreme examples in there We're killed all the day long, neither death. So death, you look at the person who was put to death and God says, I see a winner. You look at somebody who who who goes through life and they're struggling and they're dealing with tribulation and persecution and distress and God says I see a winner. I see a conqueror. I see somebody who's actually more than a conqueror. Because that's our eternal nature and God in God. No matter what happens in this life, we still have the victory. I don't know if anybody's ever heard uh the song I'm a winner either way. Have you ever heard this before? It's uh there's a song uh lady used to sing it at my church. But the song goes um A loved one had reached the end of life's journey, and uh he traveled many miles here below, and as I knelt beside his bed, my heart was thrilled at what he said. If I go or if I stay, victory is mine. So I'm a winner either way if I go or if I stay, because I still have my Jesus each passing day I have my healing here below or a life forever if I go, praise the Lord I'm a winner. Either way. That's the idea here is that Yes, our state, what we deal with day to day, we have good days, we have bad days, we have joy and we have sadness, we have heartache and we have rejoicing, but no matter what, God looks at us and says, This doesn't change the fact that you're a conqueror. You're a conqueror because the victory has been won in who? Christ. It's the finished work of Christ. No matter when I'm over here and I'm struggling and I fall and I have to get back up and I have to come to God and I have to say Give me strength to go on and I I can't do this and I need strength and I need your help. God looks at me and says, Well in Christ you're more than a conqueror You have that victory. No matter what's going on here, no matter how many times you hit your knees because the burdens are too heavy, Christ looks at you and says, more than a conqueror. That's our eternal state. And not only that, in this verse. We also have the idea that nothing is separated from the love of God. That's our eternal state in Christ because we've been given Christ righteousness And the love that God had for his son is imparted to us because we're made joint heirs with Christ. And no matter what happens to us over here, this never changes. The fact that God loves you no matter what. And that God views you as a conqueror no matter what. That's our standing in God. As much as our state changes, as much as we we go through trials, as much as we fall, as much as we we fail the Lord, God says no matter what. You're still going to be a conqueror because that's based on the finished work of Christ. That's our standing. First Corinthians chapter 6 is another description where we see this happening. And there's a whole bunch more passages we could look at. This will be the last. Oh we'll have two more actually looking at this morning of these contrasts between our standing and our state. First Corinthians chapter six verses nine verses nine through eleven. Hold on a minute. First Corinthians six. Okay, I'm in nine. That's what the problem was. There we are. First Corinthians six verses nine through eleven says Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be ye not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers abusers themselves of mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous Nor drunkers, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. We'll stop there. Such were some of you. You you think of the Corinthian church. Have you been around church very long? Corinthian church, good church Kind of not doing so good church. Not doing so good. They're a carnal church. There were schisms. There was division. There was there was arguments. They were taking each other to court They were um dealing with adultery within the within the church congregation. So bad that it hadn't even happened among the Gentiles. That's where this church was at. And why was that church there? We see it right here. Here's what the church membership was saved out of extortioners and thieves and obfeminate and abusers of themselves of mankind and uh just the list goes on and on. That's what they were saved out of. And I'm sure a a church made up of members that had that kind of a background got discouraged. They said, we just keep messing up. We just can't be a good why can't we be more like the Church of Jerusalem? Why aren't we growing like them? Why aren't we we seeing the victory like they do? Why why do we keep having these same problems. How come we don't get a nice letter talking about joy? We get a letter talking about all the stuff we did wrong. And and you just deal with as sure as a church coming out of that background, we got to save them from they they had those that love that baggage they carried along with them. That was their state where they were struggling to do what was right, but how did God see them? Look at the end of verse number Verse number uh six eleven it says there, but ye are washed, ye are sanctified. Ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of God. So, yes, you you deal with these struggles. You're not everything you ought to be every day, but when God sees you, He sees that you've been washed. When God sees you, he sees that you've been justified. What a precious word to this group of people. Because you read this list of what they were before they were saved, and you take that word justified, and it means just as if I'd never sinned. That past and that baggage, God says, I don't even see that. That doesn't even exist anymore. Because when I see you, your your sins have been not just just not just covered. Just but completely taken away. That Christ took your sin on himself and he gave you his righteousness. So when God looks at this Corinthian church, as much as they struggled and the problems that they had, he says, you're washed. You're justified. I see the righteousness of Christ in you. Sanctified. This is how God looked at them that were that refers to there. eternal state in their in their s are sorry, their standing. In their standing, God did not see them as a carnal church. He saw them as washed, as sanctified, and as justified. Last one this morning, we have Galatians 5, 24, and 25. I'll go ahead and read it to you. And they that are Christs have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. We see the standing described three times, they that are Christs. When God sees you, he sees that you belong to Christ. We see the standing that they have crucified the flesh, a reference back to Romans. We see that God sees you living in the Spirit, and in our state, so walk in the Spirit. Walk in it. You are this. When God sees you, this is what He sees, that you are, that you're washed, that you're justified, that you're sanctified, that the flesh has been crucified. That's what God looks at you. You are Christ. You are in the Spirit. So what do we need to do We need to walk. We need to walk in the Spirit. We need to live every day the way that God sees us. And have that testimony begin to match the testimony that we have before God in our standing. This brings us to our last point this morning. We have our standing and our state desired. What should we want? As we see this passage of scriptures, we see these things that we're commanded and that we're admonished to do, we see what the way that God views us versus the way that we live What should that motivate in us? What a joy it is that our standing before God is unchanging. God does not ignore my sin. God there's other passage we understand. God chastens us when we do wrong, but when Christ lo when God looks at me, he has an eternal perspective on the work that he's going to perform in me. He sees the finished work of Christ. There's an amazing verse in Ephesians that says that we are seated together in heavenly places. I use this verse to teach people about the fact that you can't lose your salvation. That the moment you got saved, God is so sure of your salvation that he already sees you seated around the table in heaven with him. That's how confidence is that your salvation is never going to be lost because it's based on Christ that the moment you're saved, God says you're seated in heaven. It's as if you're already here because I know that you're coming. That's the eternal perspective God has that yes, we're struggling now and we don't live up, but he knows what we're going to be because of the finished work of Christ. One day, when I die or when Christ comes back for me, my standing and my state will be unified forever. One day it's going to match. My testimony of how I live day today is going to match the way that God sees me when that's what happens when I go to heaven And I I am glorified. I've given my new body. This flesh is gone forever. And I'll have that standing and that state unified living before God. But my goal today should get as close to that as I can. To live every day just like God sees me. What a day that will be when that happens, that unification of these two two natures we have. That day is so sure because it relies on Christ that God can see it done already. And that should motivate us to change our state. Your walk with God relies on you. Your standing with God relies on Christ. Your walk with God relies on you. You have to walk in the Spirit if you're not going to fulfill the lust of the flesh. You can live a life submitted to the will of the Father. You can live an obedient and holy life You just have to line up your standing in your state. Galatians 2, verse number 20, this is something that Paul said about himself. He said, I am crucified with Christ. That's his standing. But what does he do? Nevertheless, I live. That's his state. I'm still living here on earth, even though I've been crucified with Christ. His standing, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. I'm letting Christ live through me. That's that's my standing when God sees me He sees Christ. And it goes to our state, the life that I now live in the flesh. I'm still here on earth. I'm still in my flesh. I'm still living day-to-day, but I'm letting Christ live through me. And it goes back to his standing, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. That I live every day in w walking in the Spirit, letting Christ live through me that even though I'm here in my flesh, I can make it match what God sees of me. What God sees that I'm justified, that I'm forgiven, that I'm holy, that I'm righteous I can come over here and I can live a holy and a righteous life. Yes, God sees us as justified even when we're living like Lot. But that's not what God wants us to live. That's not the way that we ought to be living as a Christian. We should be living with our testimony before men, matching our testimony before God. Right now, as a believer, it should be your goal and your desire to live every day the way that God sees you. Have you ever seen somebody do um embroidery where they're where they're sewing the pictures on the fabric? Um what they're doing, they're following a pattern. And as long as they follow that pattern, this stitch goes here, this color goes here, and they stay in that pattern, eventually that beautiful picture is going to come out. You know when they vary off that pattern, stick the needle somewhere else, then the picture is messed up. But God's given us a pattern, and every day we can add a couple more stitches to be a little bit more like what God wants us to be at the end of our life when we're in heaven. I want to keep moving towards that one stitch at a time, one day at a time We have that pattern in God's Word. We have a pattern in God's Son. He's given us a name to live up to. Ye are light. Walk as children of light. If every day we get the next piece done in that pattern a little bit more every day we'll start to look like the finished product. We keep working every day and you say, well mine's only mine's just getting started. Mine's all messed up and I don't have well put a couple stitches in today and get a little bit more like Christ, then you keep doing that day after day after day, and you're gonna get to that point where the similarity is there. That we can see, okay, this picture is almost done. We're getting close to the point where he that hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Ephesians 5. 20, where we started, or 5 verse 8, where we started, it says, For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are you light in the Lord. walk as children of light. Going back to the illustration of having that family name and you have a child who is a Renshaw but doesn't act like one, you know, that was me as a child. But every day, a little bit of correction, a little bit of instruction, a little bit of grace, a little bit of love, a little bit of discipline. More instruction every day. You know, where I'm at right now is basically what a Renshaw is. Because that process was worked every day as I matured to be what my dad expected me to be one day. And I'm pro I'm starting that process with with my boys. There's a lot of work to do before they look like a finished picture with being wrenched on my daughters. But uh a little bit of stitch here, a little stitch there, and we we save for the more Christ. You know what? God saved me, he got a son, and he got a son that did not look like a child of God. But every day, another stitch, another correction, another time in the Word of God, another verse to memorize, another time to sit in church and be instructed. And over time, that's looking more and more and more and more like Jesus Christ. I'm following that pattern. You are a child of God, and we need to act like it. If you act like it a little bit more every day, by the end of your life you're going to end up pretty close to what a child of God ought to be. I hope this morning that that is your desire. A desire to have your state, how you live before men, match your standing, how you live before God, how God sees you. One's finished cause it depends on Christ, one we're working on a little bit more every day.