This evening, I just thought I wanted to try that, see how that would be, but reading this this passage in its entirety uh to give us uh The scripture behind what the story that we're looking at this evening. This is a familiar story. Anyone that's been in church for any length of time who has had opportunity to read through the story or heard the story taught in Sunday school. I mean if you're like me at all, I have uh always uh image in my mind. I can picture what's taking place here and I see this uh the the large plain of dura there. and people almost as far as the eye can see gathered in this plane and somehow this great magnificent statue which is uh approximately ninety feet tall uh there and about nine feet wide, this statue built. Now the statue may have been a statue, uh an image of himself. But it also may have been an image of the dream that he had in chapter number two of the image that he saw there. But whatever it was a false God. It was an o an idol having been set up. And he was commanding that the people were to bow down to it. They're gathered around there and I can picture like the unveiling of something that the people all gathered around and they probably had some kind of huge cloth draped over this thing. Maybe had the cloth hooked onto some horses or something. And then when the instruments began to play, the horses were drawn and the cloth was pulled off of this, and there was the image revealed to all the people. And your mind's eye standing there looking across the plain of Dura, you would see everybody Almost like the opposite of a wave. Instead of seeing it go like this, everybody would have bowed. You would have seen that wave pass across, and every single person in that whole plane bowing to this false idol. Except for three. Three guys didn't get it. Now you gotta do it over, right? They didn't get it. Three guys, you look over the plane and there's still three men. Standing. One of the ideas for this month that we're going to try and tackle is some dealing with big problems and giving you some Bible principles. And for the month of January, the idea was to stand in a wicked day. To stand. When everybody else is bowing. Let's ask God to speak to our hearts and to give us, feed us from His word as we look at the principle of standing against sin. Lord, we pray that you'll speak to us tonight. I ask you, God, to have your will and your way in the service. Would you lead us through the message? Would you stir hearts, motivate us to renew afresh our commitment to standing again? against sin in this wicked day. And Lord, we pray that you'll bless and that we would honor you. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. The entire kingdom gathered together here, all the rulers, all the leaders, all the princes, all the people with any authority, and uh at one point it tells us that all the people were gathered. And all the people were going to bow. And verse number seven, therefore at that time when all the people had heard the sound. All the people were there, all the people were going to bow, except you move down to verse number 12, and he says, There are certain Jews who from you know a Jew is a believer of God, somebody that believed in God. We could replace that with Christian today. Somebody who, by their testimony, believes in God. He says There are certain Jews whom thou hast set over the affairs of the province of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These men, O king, have not regarded thee. They serve not thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. King, there's something wrong. Everybody else is bowed, but there's these three, these three that have stood. Christian? Would you be one that was standing? Would you be one found standing in the face of these odds? Then Nebuchadnezzar, his rage, his furry, he says, Hey, tell them to come here. He commanded them to be brought to him. And he gave them another chance. He says, Hey, I know you guys probably just didn't understand. You see how everybody bowed like you saw you saw how they that's what you were supposed to do. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna cue the instruments again. We're not going to be able to put a new drape over it. We're not going to be able to do that. But we're going to start over. We're going to give you another chance. So everybody got ready. And he says, and if you bow now, well, uh I guess everything will be okay And you know the story that they would not bow. They did not bow. They stood. Three Christians Three young men determined to stand against the sin of the day. They weren't going to rationalize it They weren't going to think in their mind or try and justify it. You know that's what we do. We rationalize our sin. We find a way to justify it and we say, oh, it's not that bad. And here you can imagine the king giving them a second chance. And he says, listen, I know you had some some, you know, you need to uphold appearances and so on. Well, here you are just amongst us. We're no longer amongst the whole crowd, not everybody's going to see it. Just us here, just these few people. And Chadrach, Meshach, and Abednego could have justified their minds, says, yeah, God knows that I'm not bowing in my heart. I'm just I mean, after all, if I'm killed, what good can what good is that? I can't be a witness anymore. I can't uh tell people about the true and living God anymore. I'll be dead. What good is that? I'm gonna uh if I just do this I'll still be able to be used of God. They were gonna They were asked to bow, but they wouldn't bow. They didn't justify in their mind. So I want to give you three points about standing. First of all, is we need to stand in spite of the crowd. Well, you just stand in spite of the crowd. You can imagine here these great multitude of people. You know how uncomfortable it is when you're the only one wearing a suit and everybody else is, you know, you're the only one that's different. You're the only one that You know, showed up dressed up and everybody else is dressed casual, and you're like, Oh man, I'm I'm a little overdressed. We all like to be part of the crowd. We all like to be included. We don't want to be the strange one, the weird one, the one that's laughed at or mocked. We don't want that. We want uh everybody to like us. It's a common thing in the heart of every man and woman But as a Christian, we've got to be willing to stand in spite of the crowd. Regardless of what the crowd is doing, in verse number 7, he says that all the people heard the sound. Of the instruments, and then all the people, the nations, and the languages fell down and worshipped the golden image. You know, just because all the people are doing it doesn't make it right. Just because society has reached a place where they've got to the place where they want to say that something is acceptable, something is okay, does not make it acceptable or okay We still have a standard and the standard is given to us by the Word of God and that's where the line is drawn. In our surveys that we did yesterday as we went out and knocked on doors, one of the questions that we ask people is is there something that churches could do to better help, to impact, or you know, reach into their communities a little more? And uh both myself and Brother Glover had as a response to that question I think the churches should be more welcoming to the LGBT community. I want you to understand as a church, We don't have anything against a person that is of that persuasion. We want to try and help them. We want to give them the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ and have them confess that sin before Jesus Christ and get it right. Yeah, right. We we them as a person, we love them just the same as anybody else. I mean Pastor Garrick has problems. We still love him. You know, I mean we we we we got problems. Everybody in here has problems. None of us are perfect before God. We have things we're working on and we still love you. We have sins that we need to commit that we need to commit. Better not do that. Lord help me. Lord, come on. We have sins that we need to forsake, that we need to confess before God and get right. We're not treating them any different than we do anybody else. We're recognizing what the Bible calls sin and saying you need to confess it and get it right. Just because the community says that it's acceptable, just because they say it's natural and they get to determine what they are, and that that we listen, the media, the news, and the television is even convincing Christians that maybe there's some level of credence to the foolishness that they're promoting. You know what they say? If you say a falsehood often enough and consistently enough, people will begin to believe it. This world is being uh force fed the philosophy and the idea that homosexuality is natural That uh to decide that I want to be a girl or I want to be a boy or I can choose what my gender is, that that's normal We go back to the Word of God. Just because the world wants to say it's okay doesn't make it okay. If that is our standard, I could get up and I could say, hey, I believe. I have an innate desire in my heart to be a murderer. And you have no right to judge me for doing that. You have no right to put me in prison for killing somebody because that's who I am. What makes that any different? There is no difference. It's me determining what I want. But we have a scripture, we have a standard that says what's right and wrong. Society doesn't get to just determine that What if an individual said that they were a pedophile? That they like little boys and little girls, and that that's what they are. And society has no right to stop them from mistreating and abusing a child. That's where we're headed, friend. Unless Christians and people stand up against the flow and against this world that wants to take us down the pathway that says everybody gets to do what's right in their own eyes. We've got to be a group of people that are willing to stand in spite of the crowd. It's not popular. Now tell you what, you're going to be branded. They're going to say that you're a hater. They're going to say that you're bigoted. They're going to say that you don't love people. That you're Click Christ Jesus Christ loved the sinner, but he never condoned the sin. You can be like Christ and you can love them, you can weep over their soul, you can try and give them the truth of the gospel, you can reach into their life and help them any way you can. But we cannot, we cannot accept the sin. The sin is wrong. And just because society promotes it is acceptable doesn't make it right. Because society promotes and says that illicit sex is okay. It's alright to go ahead and be with whoever you want to be with before you're married After all, you gotta find out what it's like and you gotta be involved in that to know who you want to spend your life with. Just because society says that doesn't make it right. The Bible still says it's not good for a man to touch a woman. Boys, keep your hands off the girls. Listen, I'm a grown man. I'm gonna tell you something. It doesn't get any easier. What's gonna make the difference is you determine in your heart that you want to do what God wants you to do. Because it is in the innate desire of a man to be with a woman. It's the desire. It's in here. But the Bible says, can a man take fire in his bosom and not be consumed? You see what happens, young men, is you begin to touch her, and you say, Oh, it's not that bad. Yeah, amen. You're just you're just in the the hallway, you're just playing around and you're just Touching. You know that stirs that inside you. I mean it's just your gut just starts to turn. Man But pretty soon this is not enough. Pretty soon you're starting to hold hands. Any chance you get where somebody's not around or where you can't get seen because you know that they're not supposed to do that. But that's not enough. You've taken fire into your bosom now. You've got to let your heart hands wander. And we're going to stop right here, amen. The only thing that's going to make that different is you purposing in your heart that you're going to stand in spite of what the other boys are talking about. Peter, you guys in in in school, I know these boys talk about this kind of stuff. You can be seated. Talk about what's going on in the world. You you Marley? These boys here that are homeschooled don't know how good they have it. Being sheltered from that filth, from that constant onslaught of sin. But the devil's still after you, too. The devil's still after you, and he's gonna put things in front of you, he's gonna put things in your path. You know, when I was a young man, you know how many times driving on the road I came across pornography? A Playboy magazine caught my eye. Right on the side of the road. Perfect condition. How do you know it's in perfect condition? Because I stopped and looked at it. I'm just confessing to you, I'm telling you that the devil will put it in front of you. It's not your plan. You weren't planning to do that, but the devil will put it in front of you. And unless you have something inside that says, I'm not going to go the way of the world, I'm not going to follow that, I've got to turn away from it I can't stop and look at that. The devil's gonna put it in front of you and he'll have you. You gotta be able to stand Stand against the crowd, in spite of the crowd, in spite of what everybody else is doing. Wherefore a certain Chaldean came near and accused the Jews, you know when you stand, there's going to be people that accuse you. They're gonna get make lots of accusations. They're gonna call you a lot of different things. We need to realize who you're standing with. And don't worry about the accusations. It's not natural to stand against the crowd. A professor, Gary Hemel, and C. K. Pilata. Wrote about an experiment that they conducted with monkeys. They took five monkeys and they took them, put them into a cage, and they put a pole in the center of this cage, and at the top of the pole they put some fresh, delicious-looking. Bananas. Obviously, after a couple of minutes of being in there, a monkey began to climb this pole to go get a banana. But when he reached the top of the pole, they squirted him with cold water. And that monkey, of course, you know, shocked by that cold water, ran down the pole and he's like, man, I didn't like that. And so a few minutes later, one of the other monkeys tried it. And when he almost reached the bananas, they sweatered him with cold water. Well, after four or five tries at different times, they noticed no longer these monkeys wouldn't climb the pole anymore. So what they did is they took one of the monkeys out and replaced it with a monkey that hadn't been in there. That monkey, of course, saw the bananas. Not having realized what was going to happen, not being trained yet, he started up the pole. But do you know what happened? The other four monkeys pulled him down. He said you don't want to go up there. So after a couple of times of trying to get up to the bananas and the other monkeys pulling them down, he stopped trying to go up the pole. Over the next few days, they switched out all five of those monkeys. Now the room is full of monkeys that have never been up the pole. And won't climb the pole. And don't have any idea why. That's the way we are today with a lot of young people, even a lot of Christians, where the influence of the crowd. Has brought us to the place where we're doing things and many times we don't even know why. Young people, you start to dress a certain way, you start to to uh Talk, say certain things. You don't even know where it came from. You don't even know who started it. You you you just you you're just doing it. Why? Because that's what the crowd's doing. As Christians, we need to stand in spite of the crowd. It ought to be the desire of Christian young men and young ladies and adults as well to not be like the world. We're not supposed to be conformed to the world, and there's many things that that aren't necessarily spelled out in Scripture that don't say, well, thou shalt not. Oh, it's flossing Right? Something like this, you go like this, what is it like this? I don't know. I don't know how to do it. See, you guys are laughing. For some reason that's popular today. Christians shouldn't be flossing. Where's that in the scripture, Pastor? Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. We're not supposed to be corn form of the world. You go ahead and laugh, girls. It's all right with me. We're not supposed to be doing the things that the world's doing. That that shouldn't be what we desire. I mean I'll tell you what, a telltale sign, if the crowd's doing it It ought to be just like, hey, I don't want to do that. That's not what I want to do. I just don't want to be like the world. We want to stand in spite of the crowd I'll tell you what, a lot of times young people say, well I want to do this because I want to be different and what they're doing is doing exact thing everything everybody else is doing. They're not being different. Well I I want to be my own person Be your own person. Take ten of their friends, stand them together, and nine of them look exactly the same. Nine of them are dressed the same, they have the same hairdo, they're all Justin Bieber look-alikes. That foolish little pff off the top of their head. You want to be original, comb your hair like a man. You want to stand, do just do right. You want to be your own person, just do right. I'll tell you what, you'll you'll be different. People will look at you funny. You say, hey, at least I'm my own man. At least I'm my own lady. I don't have to follow the crowd. I can be what God wants me to be, and I don't have to be what you want me to be We need people that will stand in spite of the crowd. Throughout the scriptures there's lots of people who stood in spite of the crowd. I think of Noah 120 years preaching against everybody, all by himself, but he still preached right. Amen. He still kept on doing what God wanted him to do. Moses, by faith, Moses, when he came to years, refused to be called the sons of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer the affliction with the people of God than enjoy the pleasure of sin for a season. Standing in spite of the crowd. Jesus stood in the face of temptation. When he went up And the devil again taking him into an exceeding high mountain and showed him all the kingdom of the world and the glory of them, and he said, Unto all these will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Jesus said. said no. We need to stand in spite of the crowd. We need to stand in support of the Creator Stand in support of the Creator. You see, these men said, We're not gonna bow down to that idol. Because that's not God. We serve the one true God. We serve the living God, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. That's who we serve. And Nebuchadnezzar, of course, says, hey, uh, if I throw you in the fiery furnace, what God will save you then? And he said, our God can save us. They stood with God. We need to stand with God regardless of what's going on in the world. This whole book is still right. The truths are still right. We need to stand with God regardless of what's going on in the world. God is able. They knew that. In Genesis 18, 14, the question is put, is anything too hard for the Lord? No, it's not. And they said, hey, you can throw us in a fiery furnace, but our God is able to save us. They actually said God will save them. If you read the text, they said, God will save us. Then they say, but if not. He said, God will save us from thy hand. And I think it's amazing because, you know, either way, they were saved from the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. Regardless of what happened, they're either going to be in in heaven with God or or they're going to be saved from the fire, but either way they're putting their hands their their lives in the hand of God. Either way, God's going to save us They didn't know if God would, but they were going to trust him. They were going to trust him regardless It's right to stand with God regardless of whether we know the outcome or not. We might not know what's going to happen, but we can trust God. Hey, it might have been God's will that they suffer. It might have been God's will that they die They still would have done right withstanding with God. Sometimes we may have to go through something. We may think, well, why didn't God deliver me like he did Shadrach, Meshach, and Abdigo? Why didn't I have to go through this fire? When listen, when you stand with God, the fires of Satan are going to be laughing at your heels. Just as we I prayed as we were in a men's prayer meeting a few minutes ago that As a church, we're embarking on some pretty uh big things this year, and we're gonna knock on fifteen thousand doors. You know who's not happy about that Satan. And you know Satan's gonna come and try and attack this church? Satan's gonna come and try and get in. He's gonna try and bring sin in, he's gonna try and bring discord in, he's gonna try and bring the attack from the outside, whatever he can do. Satan's going to come when you're standing with God. Satan's, the fires of Satan are going to be laughing at your heels. And you might have to go through some fire. But you still stand with God. You still stand with your Creator. Romans 14. 8 says, For whether we live, we live unto the Lord. And whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abinnego went into the fire with that in their mind. Whether we live or we die, we're doing it as unto the Lord. For we are the Lord's. Like Job of old, though he slay me. Yet will I trust him. When you stand with God, don't be surprised that Satan attacks. You know, America, we don't know a whole lot of persecution, real true persecution. But there are places in other countries, even today, where real persecution takes place where people are truly put under the thumb of a communist regime or A government that stands against Christianity or people, a group of people that don't like Christians, and they truly are putting their life at risk when they go get baptized. When they say they're forsaking everything else to follow Jesus Christ, that is a true test of faith right there. But in America we don't know persecution. You know, if we're going to stand with God, that means we're standing with the powers that God ordained as well. Kids, you need to stand with and for your parents. Listen, as a pastor, I'm always going to promote parental authority as long as your parents are not going against God. I'm gonna you come to me for advice and you say, Pastor, what should I do? My parents want me to do this, but I want to do this. If your parents aren't telling you to go against God, I'm gonna tell you to do what your mom and dad say. Because God will bless that. Where's Brad? He's all the way upstairs. Brad? How many times have we had that conversation? He said, Pastor, what do you think I should do? I said, what do your parents say? Because I believe in the authorities that God has put in your life. Kids God put them there to protect you. Don't ever stand against the authorities God's put in your life. Don't ever stand at odds with the authorities God's put in your life One young man just last week I heard he came to his pastor and he said, listen, I like contemporary Christian music. It puts me into a spirit of worship. It speeds my spirit. It does so much good for me. I feel godly when I'm listening to that. And the pastor said, What does your parents say? And he said, Well that's why I'm here. My parents said I have to stop listening to it, and I want you to tell them it's okay And he says, Well let me ask you this, son. What does the Bible say about obeying your mother and father? He says it says you're supposed to obey. And he says, so let me ask you this. If the Bible commands you to obey your mom and dad, your mom and dad said you have to stop listening to this music, then what are you doing? disobeying. So my question is, the pastor asked him, my question is, is do you really think that you're in a spirit of worship? When you're living in disobedience to God and to your parents? Do you think that it's a spirit of worship that you're feeling when you're listening to that music? When you are in the act defying your parents and defying the Almighty God, you're standing in disobedience. Do you think that you think you're actually worshiping God? He's like, um Probably Listen parent k kids, God will honor you for honoring your parents. If your parents aren't listen, I know they're not perfect. I is one. I know we make mistakes. But God will honor you for honoring your parents. God will bless you for honoring your parents. Even when they maybe make a mistake. Even when they don't do it exactly right, and you can look at it and say, I know in all your infinite wisdom and your knowledge, you understand that they messed up. And you're probably right. But just say God I'm gonna trust him anyway because God will bless you for that. You stand with your parents I ain't gonna spend long here, but you need to stand with your pastor too. He's a gift to the church. Moses couldn't have done it without Aaron and her. He couldn't have done it without a couple of men that said, I see the struggle, I'll be there, I'll hold up your arms. We don't need to stand against the pastor. The pastor has a hard enough job standing up against sin, against wrong, against the attacks of the devil. He certainly doesn't want to stand up against a church member. How do you let me just say it, I I need your support to keep going. Need some air in hers that would stand with the pastor. As long as I'm not preaching heresy, as long as I'm not off into sin or leading the church the wrong direction I know I ain't perfect. I'd be the first one to say it. I make enough mistakes I may I get myself disgusted But I tell you what, it means a lot when I have a church member stand and say, We're with you. We're for you. I know you're not perfect, but you're going the right direction, and we appreciate it. Need to stand with the with the powers that God ordained. Not only do we need to stand in spite of the crowd and stand in support of the Creator, but when you can stand, you'll see the change. When you stand, you'll see the change. Look at a couple of verses here in our text. It's kind of amazing to me to see several times in verse number 19, when Nebuchadnezzar found that these men would not bow. Then Nebuchadnezzar, full of furry, and the form of his visage was changed. He was furious. He was so mad his countenance changed Have you ever seen anybody that mad? I mean they just losing it. And he his his vicious was changed. He was so upset And you know, we've read the story. He brings them and they don't bow and they throw them into the fire. But look down in verse number 27. And the princes and the governors and the captains and the king's counselors being gathered together saw these men upon whose bodies the fire had no power. Nor was a hair of their head singed, neither were their coats changed, nor the smell of the fire had passed on them. You know, this is, I believe, uh a picture of the believer. Who is free from the penalty of the fires of hell? Listen The decree had gone out. The law had been established. These men broke the law. Therefore, the penalty had to be paid. The king wasn't even happy about it, but he said, You've got to be punished. And they were thrown into the fire. But the fire didn't touch them. And they came out the other side. You know, you and I, the penalty has to be paid for our sin. But the penalty was paid by Jesus Christ. So the fire is not going to touch us. Praise God for that. Look in verse number 28. He says, Then Nebuchadnezzar spake and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, who has sent his angel and delivered his servants that trusted in him. And have changed the king's word, and yielded their bodies that they might not serve nor worship any God except Therefore I make a decree that every people, nation, and language which speaketh anything amiss against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill because there is no other God that can deliver after this sort. Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon. What a change. What a change. To see them go from the place where they were uh being tormented by the king, going to be thrown into the fire, be going to be killed where they came out, and there was the fire didn't touch them And the decree of the king was changed to serve the one and true living God. Maya, what a testimony for the Lord. You know, compromise does not bring people to Christ. Compromise has never brought people to Christ What compromise does is it makes people feel okay where they are. As Christians, that's not what we need. It gives people an excuse to remain in their sin. And people say, well, if you if you love others, if you love people, you'll you'll be willing to give on this, you'll be willing to let that go. You'll this is not that important. But listen, dropping the standards and lowering the convictions and Changing the rules and compromising for the sake of others does not bring people to Christ. What was it that changed Nebuchadnezzar's mind? It's that these men would not bow. They were willing to die, not to bow. And when God brought them through, he said, Wow, no other God is able to save after this sort. What a change. And we see the heart of the king has changed, and the position of these believers has changed. They're promoted. They're promoted. Think about the change in the heart of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abinago. Can you imagine the stories they told their grandchildren? Yeah. They threw us They threw us in the fire. No, no, no. Not by the fire. They threw us in the fire. The guys that threw us in the fire died because it was so hot. And we're in there. And we got to walk with God Himself, His presence in the fire with us. We got to see Him, and other people saw Him. And when we walked out of the fire, our clothes weren't burned. And you and I, we like to hear the testimonies of the missionaries that have gone to the field and seen miraculous things take place And we like to hear about the prayers that were answered, and we like to hear about the souls that are saved, and we like to hear the stories of those that have gone through the fire But all and every one of us can have stories of going through the fire when we stand in spite of the crowd and we stand with our Creator You too can experience God bringing you through the fire. But you've got to be willing to stand I think that they would say, they would echo what the psalmist said in Psalm 66, verse 10, 11, and 12. He says, For thou, O God, hast proved us. Thou hast tried us as silver is tried. Thou brought us into the net. Thou ladest affliction upon our loins. Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads. We went through fire. And through water, but thou brought us unto a wealthy place. They went through the fire, but they came out on the other side and they were promoted. When we are willing to stand. Will be promoted by God. Isaiah 24:15 says, Wherefore glorify ye the Lord in the fires, even the name of the Lord God of Israel. Glorify God if we stand and are willing to go through the fire. Let's stand with every head bowed and every eye closed tonight. As Christians, we need to be willing to stand today in the face of a wicked, perverse generation. Theodore Roosevelt said, Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs. even though checkered by failure, than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoyed much nor suffered much because they lived in the great twilight that knows neither victory nor defeat. We need some Christians that are willing to stand to know and experience the victory brought by Jesus Christ, the power of God. Lord, I pray you'd be with us as a church, and I pray that we would stand with you, stand on your word, in face of this ever-changing world. Even in Christendom, even in places where they call themselves houses of worship. And they've gone so far from what worship really is. Help us, dear God, to stand with you, to continue to do right, regardless of what the crowd's doing. Lord, I pray you'd be the young people people today and give them courage to purpose in their heart to stand. To make some commitments even right now before the devil draws them in.