You should be in your Bibles in Psalms 27. This it says right there at the beginning there, a psalm of David. David, that amazing Bible character. um almost with a fairy tale uh stories that go along with his life and I'm not by any means saying that they're they're fake or that they're false or that I don't believe them. I I do believe them uh wholeheartedly and completely. Uh but I mean you think about his life and and what what kind of a thing here here is David. uh you know really almost scorned by his brothers and you know when Samuel comes to anoint the king and he comes to the house of Jesse and he he sees all of his boys and And his dad, his own dad, is like, well I guess there's David. I mean yeah I I have another son, but you know he's out caring for the sheep. And and so in a home where maybe he wasn't even really appreciated or or loved uh on the backside of of some wilderness taking care of sheep, all the way to the king's palace. I mean, what kind of boy doesn't dream about stuff like that? You know, I mean, here I am, a nobody living in nowhere, and then all of a sudden he's in the king's palace. He's gonna be the king. And then you know the story, he carries some some some bread and some cheese to his brothers and he was there at the battle and then all of a sudden he he he just got a fire inside and he says, Man, is there not a cause Somebody's got to take care of this guy. And God used him to defeat the greatest enemy that ever faced the children of Israel. I mean everybody else was afraid, and David went out and fought on it. So he went from being a nobody to being a household name. Everybody knew who David was. They sang songs about him, and this is before uh TV and radio and internet. I mean everybody knew about David. I can imagine boys in the neighborhood with their sling out playing with their sling. Really Not because they wanted to use a swing sling, but because they wanted to be like David. I mean everybody knew who David and everybody was singing songs about David I mean it's amazing. You know he defeated the lion and the bear. I mean, man, what kind of stories? These are awesome. But do you know what? Can I tell you something? All of David's life was not sunshine. Not every story in David's life was sugar and spice and everything nice. You know the story how he went to play his instruments for the king and the king got upset at him and began to throw javelins at him. The king tried to kill him and then here he is supposed to be the next king and he's out running running around hiding in the caves. You know the story How long after he had been a king, there was a time when he was supposed to go to battle. David was a good man, but he wasn't a perfect man. Only Jesus is perfect. And David was on the on his rooftop and he looked down and he saw Bathsheba there. And you remember David fell into sin. He he caused a major rift in his family. I mean he he committed murder and then all of a sudden I mean well for years after he Was paying for this sin. His own son Absalom many years later rose up in rebellion against him. And his son Absalom got a following from the people of the land. Here's David, he's the king, and David has to run from his own palace for his life because his son wants to take the throne from him The Bible scholars don't really know for sure, but they believe that this psalm was pinned possibly during this time, when David was running from his own son. When things were really hard and they got worse. I know I'm not telling you anything new this morning if I told you that Life is hard. If I told you that there's good days and bad, that sometimes it does rain. I know that you're like me that you probably at some times you feel like the bad days are outweighing the good days, and that's just not right. I mean how come there's so many bad days? How is this such a struggle? Why is it so hard? So What I want to say to you this morning as we look at this psalm is, what do you do in the storm? How do you keep going even though it's raining? Even though you don't see light at the end of the tunnel? How do you remain strong? How do you keep going for God? How do you Keep pushing even though you're pushing uphill. How do you keep going when you can't see? How do you keep going when you get that phone call and it's cancer? How do you keep going when you get the call and they say there's nothing we can do? How do you keep going in the face of such hardship? Well we learned some things in this psalm this morning. About David in one of the hardest times of his life. He purposed in his heart not to give in to discouragement, not to give up and not to quit. He determined that he was going to do some things and We see these in this psalm this morning, and I think that they could help you to keep going, even when you're going in the dark. Even when it's hard. First of all, I want you to see that if you're going to keep going, you've got to do what David did, and that is be faithful to the house of God. Be faithful to the house of God. Look in verse number four of our text here, he says one thing. Have I desired of the Lord? Of all that I could talk about, of all that I could do, there's one thing that is of utmost importance, there's one thing that means the most to me, there's one thing that I'm gonna do. And he says, that will I seek after. That one thing I'm going to do, I'm going to do it. I'm going to seek after it. And what is it? He says, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. To behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. Beloved, I've said it before, and I'll say it again that no matter what happens in your life, you've got to have it settled. put it down, mark it down. It's just something that you do, you know, that you're gonna be in the house of God. You're gonna be in church. And listen, I know sometimes a pastor does stupid things. Sometimes he says dumb stuff and some hey listen I'm not perfect. I'm just a man. Only Jesus is perfect, and Jesus ain't preaching this morning. Okay? Amen, Brother Greg. Hey. Jesus is the only one who is perfect, and sometimes the pastor does dumb things. And you know what? I know you're not going to believe this. Sometimes Brother Gamble does dumb things too. I mean sometimes there's going to be a brother or sister in Christ. There's going to be somebody in the house of God that just does something that gets under your saddle. And it's a burr and it is just driving you nuts. Well listen, pick the saddle up and get it out. Get back in the house of God. You need to determine in your heart and mind you're going to stay in God's house. Why? He said, listen, in God's house is where you see The beauty of the Lord. He said, I want to get to God's house. I want to see the beauty of the Lord. It's in God's house where you see the magnificent moving of the hand of God, where you hear God speak to your heart, and maybe you're cold and dried up and God hasn't stirred your soul in a long time, but listen, what are the chances of that happening out there? The only chance that God has to break through that hard soil and to break up that foul ground and to stir your heart once again is when you're here in God's house. Hey, that's where we need to be. We get to see the glory of the Lord. Listen, in the house of God is where the mercy seat was. That's where the mercy seat was, and David says in this psalm, he says, I need the mercy of the Lord. I don't know about you, but I need the mercy of God. I need God's mercy on my life. So we come to the house of God so we can see God. We come to the house of God to sacrifice unto God. Look at verse number six. He says in verse number six, and my next two points come from verse number six. He says, And now shall my head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me. Therefore will I offer in his tabernacles sacrifices of joy. I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the Lord. Hey, he went to the house of God to make sacrifices. You know, the altar of sacrifice there in the temple, that was a picture of the ultimate sacrifice that one day would be made of Jesus Christ. When Jesus Christ gave his life a ransom for many, when he died for all the sins of the world. He gave his life that the world through him might be saved. The sacrifices he made there were a picture of that sacrifice. Listen, when you come into God's house, you get to see afresh the cross of Jesus Christ. And what he did. And if you've already had the privilege of trusting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, then you're reminded of that magnificent truth. And those that who have not trusted Jesus Christ yet are presented with the opportunity to realize that they are a sinner and Jesus died for them and Jesus wants to forgive them of their sin. It's in the house of God that we experience mercy. We're reminded of the sacrifice that was made for us. And because of that, he says, I will sing unto the Lord. I'll sing unto God. Could I encourage you to, when you come to God's house, lift up your voice. Sing. Sing out. I know sometimes you don't feel like singing. Sometimes you're not that excited about life or about what's going on, or maybe you just fought with your wife all the way to church. And the last thing you want to do is start singing. Listen, if you lift up your voice and open your mouth and start singing the wonderful praises of God, it does something for you. It does something for you. I mean you start singing, Would you be free from the burden of sin? There's power in the blood, power in the blood Amen. There's power in the blood. Oh, if you if you begin singing counts your many blessings, name them one by one And see what great things he hath done. Hey, we sang today, He is able to deliver thee. Tis the grandest thing that's ever been sung. He is able to deliver thee. Maybe you're going through something But when you sang that song, your heart cry ought to be, God, I know you're able. Amen. Lift up your voice in song. You come to God's house. Because you want to see God and His glory. Because you want to make sacrifices unto God and for God. Be reminded of the sacrifice he gave you. And because you want to lift your voice in song in praise unto him. That's why we come to God's house. Look in verse number seven and eight. It's because we want to seek the Lord. We want to seek the Lord. God has told us to do so. And David said this, Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, I have mercy also upon me and answer me. When thou saidest, Seek ye my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. We go to God's house to seek God. God has told us over and over again, seek ye first. The verse that was quoted by Brother Taylor, seek ye first the kingdom of God. That's why we go to God's house. And listen, what I'm saying is when you're pushing uphill and when the sky is dark and when the storm is looming and the phone call came and you wonder what how can you keep going? Don't let the devil keep you from God's house. You purpose in your heart that you're gonna be there, you're gonna do it, and it'll help you. Listen If you're going to keep on going, you also need to have faith in the goodness of God. Look down in verse number thirteen. He said, I had fainted unless He said, I would have fainted. I would have just collapsed. I would have just quit unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord You see, he had a heart that was settled on the fact that God is good all the time, and all the time God is good His heart was settled on that. He knew that beyond a shadow of a doubt, no matter what trial came, no matter what heartache he faced, no matter what burden he was going through He knew that God was good. He had it settled, an unaltering, unfaltering faith, above all else, his God was a good God. and loved him. Psalms 145, verse 9 through 12 says, The Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works. All thy works shall praise thee, O Lord, and thy saints shall bless thee. They shall speak of thy glory in thy kingdom and talk of thy power to make known to the sons of men his mighty acts and the glorious majesty of his kingdom. The Lord is good to all. You know, this whole world we endure a lot of suffering. You know the suffering and sadness that all be came because of Satan and sin. God created a perfect world and he put man in it, a world in complete harmony. Where we could dwell and and we didn't have what we face today, but sin came. Suffering came. And it's part of the journey that we're in now. And the storm should draw you closer to God, not further away. We whether your trial makes you bitter or makes you better is up to you. The pressures of life could turn you into a diamond. Or you could let them crush you. The Bible says in James 1, verses 2 through 4, My brethren countered all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this, that the trine of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that she may be perfect and entire wanting nothing Beloved, God will use the refining fire of trial and test and storms in your life that you might come forth as gold It is God's desire as we go through the storm. He is there. He is with us. He'll never leave you, never forsake you. He'll help carry you through the storm. God wants you to draw you closer to His presence, not push you further away. The only way this happens is when God's people have settled in their mind. No questions. It's got to be settled that you know God is good all the time. I'm saying when you get the phone call and it's not what you wanted to hear, that you don't understand what what happened or why you're getting this news or why it's happening to you You have to have already had it settled in your heart. God is good, and I know he's good, and I don't understand this, and it doesn't make sense, and I don't know why But I know God is good, and therefore I'm gonna go to Him. I'm gonna be drawn into His presence. I'm gonna bow at His knee. I'm gonna look for Him to lead me through this and get me to the other side because God is good. It's gotta be settled in your heart. One time with actually with all my kids except one, I have shaved their head and butterfly a a wound uh that they incurred due to their siblings. Not always their siblings, but you know, different situations have arisen. One time uh the kids were playing Ring Around the Rosie and they're all holding on and And they're going around, you know, faster and faster and faster. And uh somebody let go of Alicia. And Alicia went, pfft, she flew backwards. and her head hit right on the corner of a wooden chair and of course split it open. And of course, Alicia, she's not a crier. From the time she was very young, Alicia didn't cry. But she was crying, so we knew she was hurting. Well I came in and uh I had to shave around the cut enough. And of course every time I touched it it hurt even worse And but you know Alicia let me do that? Why? Because she knew that I loved her with all my heart and what I was doing was for her good. No, no, Dad, it hurts, it hurts, don't do that! No, she didn't do that. She knew what I was doing was for good So she sat there and let me shave around that and take a butterfly and pull her skin together. It's under her hair. She's okay. She's nineteen today. She's still living. So what I'm saying is she let me do that because she knew in her heart. A dad would never do anything to hurt me on purpose. He loves me. And what he's doing is for my good. Christian, when we have that settled in our heart, no matter what trial or storm or heartache comes into our life. We can look into the eyes of our Savior and say, God, I know that you're in control, and I know that anything I'm enduring, you've either allowed, or that you are having to use for my good. And I don't understand it, but I trust you, Lord. I trust you, God. David knew. He said, I would have fainted. I would have just quit. I would have given up. Except I knew God is good. I knew that God is good. Listen, let me just remind you that nothing can separate you From the love of God. The Bible says in Romans chapter 8, he says, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distresses or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword as it is written, he says He says, Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor death, nor any other creature. shall be able to separate us from the love of God. That's a pretty extensive list. Could have just said nothing will separate you, but he just waxed eloquent there for about four verses. Nothing's going to separate you from the love of God. Listen, your God does what he does for your good. Get it settled in your heart. You want to keep going in the storm? You need to Purpose in your heart that you're going to be in the house of God. You need to purpose in your heart, have it settled that God is good. And then lastly, you need to Have fortitude in the strength of God. Verse number 14, he says, wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say wait on the Lord. How do you have fortitude? How do you have strength with God? Well, I'll give you a couple of things. First of all, you need to remember what God has done in the past. You remember what God has done in the past. Do you remember when David went up to fight Goliath? And then the king said, You can't fight Goliath. You're just a boy. And he has been a man of war since he was a child. You can't go and do this. And what did David tell him? He says, God has delivered me out of the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear. He said, listen, I'm looking back. God gave me victory over lion. God gave me victory over bear. I think he can give me victory over Goliath. He looked back at what God had done for him in the past. And it gave him strength, it gave him fortitude to be able to press through that situation. Remember what God has done for you in the past, and it'll strengthen you. It'll give you fortitude to rest in the strength of God. Also Remember that God is on your side. God is on your side. Goliath came with his sword and he was laughing. He's like, ha ha ha, am I a dog that you send a child out here to me? He was mocking and laughing. And David cried out to him, he says, You come to me with the sword and spear, but I come to you in the name of the of the Lord God. God was with him. Whatever you're going through, you can be fortified and have strength if you Remember that God is with you. God is on your side. He wants to see you through. The challenge here is to wait on the Lord. To wait on the Lord is to get strength. From outside yourself. It's amazing how succinctly the missionary update and this morning's message fit. You see, Brother Boots could have gone out and borrowed the money. He could have gone out and just said, hey, we need a furnace and we need to get this in. Let's do it. And he could have just made it happen. But they saw the Lord come through, and that's what he was talking about, is how God provided because they waited. They waited on God and over a period of time somehow the you know this director of the whole area said oh we'll we'll pay the cost to get to install the pipe How often does that happen? Why don't you try it next time when somebody comes to your house, you know? Hey, I heard of somebody that why don't you guys pay the cost, you know? I like that a lot better. Yeah. We could find a way. Many times the reason we don't see God do great and miraculous things for us is because we're not waiting on God. We're just doing it ourselves. We're just pushing on. We're just doing it how we want to do it. Instead of waiting and resting on God. Waiting on God is looking outside of yourself. Don't give up. Don't give up while you're waiting. Keep going. Stay in God's house. Be faithful to God's house. Have faith that God is good no matter what the storm is. And be fortified. Have strength given to you by God to wait. Familiar verses in Isaiah chapter number 40, and I'll close. He says, Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not? Neither is weary, neither searcheth of under for understanding. He giveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might, he increaseth strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. How can you keep going? When you're pushing uphill, how can you keep going when the storm is heavy, when the bad news comes? You be faithful to the house of God You have faith that your God is good no matter what, and you're fortified in strength by waiting on God.