I'm going to speak to you this morning on Standing Stones. Title of the Message is Standing Stones. In Joshua chapter number four, follow along as I read the first seven verses of this passage of scripture, the Bible says And it came to pass, when all the people were clean, passed over Jordan, that the Lord spake unto Joshua, saying, Take ye twelve men out of the people, out of every tribe of man, and command ye them, saying, Take ye hence out of the midst of the Jordan, out of the place where the priest's feet stood firm, twelve stones. And ye shall carry them over with you and leave them in a lodging place where ye shall lodge this night. Then Joshua called the twelve men whom he had prepared of the children of Israel out of every tribe of man. And Joshua said unto them, Pass over before the ark of the Lord your God unto the midst of Jordan, and take ye up every man of you a stone upon his shoulder. According to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel, that this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask their fathers in times to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones? Then ye shall answer them that the waters of Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, when it passed over Jordan. The waters of Jordan were cut off. And these stones shall be for a memorial unto the children forever. This is Memorial Day weekend. And I always feel compelled to remind the church of our duty to remember What's been given to us in this country. To remember and to be thankful not just for a single event or for the lone soldier. But yea, for the unnumbered multitude of heroic men and women who have sacrificed it all. Those men and women who would not settle for defeat, but instead paid the ultimate price that we might enjoy the freedoms. That are America. Their lives are gone, but their sacrifice is not forgotten Their sacrifice lives on in the heart of everyone that is still breathing. We're grateful today Grateful for their heroic deeds, like the deeds of Captain John Wimsley Jr. while flying his B-52 aircraft on a night mission. He sighted a supply train of the enemy. Knowing that this supply train was of critical importance, he wasn't armed. Nor was it his mission to take out this train, but he knew that it was of critical importance to stop the train. Further, he was by himself. He decided to do what he could. He took his limited amount of ammunition he happened to have on board and was able to disable the train. But it wasn't destroyed, and he called for any other friendly aircraft who might come to his aid and help to completely destroy this train, this train, the supply train of the enemy. Another aircraft came on the scene and had the means and wherewithal to destroy this train and Captain Wimsley, not having any ammo, but knowing exactly where the train was, turned on his searchlight. To act as a decoy and to guide the other aircraft right in to where he needed to be to take out the train. He refused to take evasive maneuvers, his light on his aircraft Telling the enemy exactly where he was, but knowing how critical this was, he dove directly at the train while enemy fire shot directly at him. Him taking all of the fire of the enemy allowed the other plane to get in close and to wreak havoc on the train. Captain Winsley, his flight his plane taking many hits, but was still not disabled, flew around for a second run. guided the aircraft in a second time to completely destroy the supply train. On this second run His plane was struck critically. He lost all control of his plane and flew into the side of a mountain to his death. He posthumously was awarded the Medal of Honor for his selfless sacrifice and heroic deeds. This is one of thousands and thousands of stories of men and women who gave their life to maintain and hold the freedoms that we enjoy today in America. And we cannot afford to let these stories be lost. We cannot afford to forget. We've got to remember and repeat with reverence the heroic deeds of those that sacrificed all so we could have what we have today. It's a sad thing today in America that children are being taught to disrespect America and disrespect America's flag. They're being taught to disregard all of the sacrifice that was given for them, the freedom that they have to even talk that way And yet it's being neglected. We, as God's people, need to be sure we're reminding our young people that the freedom they have is because of the sacrifice of men and women who gave themselves. And it shouldn't be taken for granted and it shouldn't be forgotten. If we fail to remind them, if we fail to be vocal patriots. And our children, at the very least, are going to be ignorant and take for granted what they have. And at worst, they would completely neglect the what we have. Now, I'm just old-fashioned enough to say, listen, if you don't like it, There's a lot of the places in the world you can live. You're you're you're you're welcome to move to Venezuela. If i if that's the kind of uh of government and situation you want, you're free to move there. But don't knock America Now America has a lot of problems, and America hasn't always done things right. And I don't think we should sweep anything under the rug or hide it. We need to say, hey, this was wrong. You pointed out. Say this was wrong. We should have never had slavery in America. They're not going to say it didn't happen. It did happen. It shouldn't have ever happened. And they used to tell kids it shouldn't have happened. This was wrong. God wasn't for it. But the officers say, Praise God, there was a country that stood up and abolished slavery, that got rid of it. Not just here, but America fights for the freedom of all mankind around the entire world. We ought to praise God and thank God. Tomorrow is Memorial Day, and we want to remember and thank God for the sacrifices of the men and women that gave us what we have today. That's why, beloved, there are monuments, there are stone ephetuses that stood up all over our nation that we might remember and point the next generation. to the freedoms that we have and enjoy today. And beloved, this morning I want to ask of you Maybe just like those young Israelites would come by the Jordan River and they would ask their dad, What mean ye by these stones? And dad would pause and get a long lost look in his eye. Say, son, you you weren't part of it. But I I remember the day. I remember the day when God said it was time to cross the Jordan. He told Joshua, he says it's time to go. And he says, son, we lined up in the Ark of the Covenant just just Those men carrying that ark, they stepped into the river and God held back the water. He said, Son, you're not going to believe it. Those stones were taken from the dust. In the middle of the Jordan River. We pick those up and set them out here as a reminder of what God can do. As a reminder of what God can do for us. Do you have any reminders in your life? Do you have any standing stones as a perpetual and permanent reminder? Every believer should have some of these set up in his life. And I don't mean that you have to go out in your front yard and stack up some stones. But I'm talking about there ought to be something in your heart. There ought to be something in your life, some reminders some some situations, some places, some times in your life where God did something so miraculous for you that you've marked that date, you've marked that time, you've marked that situation, you've marked that place, and you said, this is where God delivered me. I'm saying you you you you reiterate it, you re you repeat it, you remember it often enough so that when you're old and gray and you st in Alzheimer's starts to set in, you forget your name, but you don't forget what God did for you. That's how important these things are. We see in verse number one, and it came to pass, and it came to pass, I don't know when it is, but the time's going to come when God has something for you to do. It came to pass when God told Joshua, here's what you got to do. It came to pass in that day, and they had to be obedient to God and set forward and do what God wanted them to do. Move forward in God's timing, in God's direction, and God will part the Jordan for you. God will do miraculous things in your life. Things beyond what you think even possible. Just this morning, as we heard about the testimony of what happened, On the mission field this in one week. A couple of guys went and said, well, I can't do much, but I got a drill and I know how to use it. And I'll go and I'll just do what I can. But they went and they just served and worked and God worked in the hearts of people. Lives were changed. People that have been being prayed for for ten years trusted Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior. They didn't go and say we're going to go this week and we're going to leave Francis to the Lord because I'm really good at that. No, they just said, I'm just it's God wants me to go serve, God wants me to put up a building, I'm just gonna do what I'm supposed to do. And God does something amazing beyond what you could even think. And it comes to pass that God has something for you to do. Could I implore you to do it? This is when all the people were clean passed over Jordan, they all had to go. They got over the Jordan that the Lord spake unto Joshua. You know what? They had to pass over Jordan into a land. What was that land? Well what what do we call it? It's the promised land. Can I tell you something, Christian? Just remind you of a truth that that God God's plan is for every Christian to be in the place of blessing. God want we in the in the New Testament we call it the abundant Christian life. God wants you to pass over into the promised land. God never intended or planned for them to stay in Egypt, did he? He wanted them to be freed from Egypt and He worked and He Performed many miracles and ultimately paid so that they could get free from Egypt. But then they wandered in the wilderness for a while, didn't they? But it's not God's plan for you to stay in the wilderness. Have you ever been in a wilderness? A wilderness, a place of trial, a place of test, an ongoing burden Maybe one burden after another, just one challenge after another. Everybody in their life comes sometimes to a wilderness journey. A time where it's just hard, arduous, the burdens are many, and seems like it goes on forever, but it's not God's plan for you to stay in the wilderness. He wants you to pass over that Jordan, that obstacle, that burden, into the promised land. It's God's plan that we all be in that place of blessing. There's going to be obstacles. There's going to be a Jordan River in the way. But you know what, beloved, the amazing thing about that Jordan River? The amazing thing is that that obstacle became the very thing Through which God performed a miracle that they wanted to set up a stone to remember. That miracle was formed many times the greatest obstacle that you're facing can be the greatest miracle that God does in your life. Don't know what it might be. I don't know what struggle you're facing right now. Some of you might be at a place in your life where it's a it's a financial situation, or you might be at a place in your life where it's a relational ship thing and and and you look at it and you say there's no hope, there's there's no way. I don't see how this is possible. But you get on your knees and you pray and you seek God and God can come through for you. He can part that Jordan River. He can bring to pass what it is he wants in your life. I can imagine this man standing there looking at his son, and his son says, what mean you by these stones? Dad looking, he says, I'm not sure who it was exactly that picked that stone up right there. He said, but you know, son, what I what I what I think of when I see that stone? I think of the fact, son, that to me it means that God was with us. Like he was with Moses. You know, son, when I was young, I heard stories I heard God tell about how uh your granddad and your great granddad were backed up against the Red Sea and the Egyptian army was coming and I heard them talk about they saw the dust In the distance of all these chariots coming, and they thought, oh no, we're going to be killed. And oh, grandpa would tell me all about these stories. And they said they thought they were going to die. There was nowhere to go, but then God. God was with Moses, and Moses held out his staff above that great body of water, and the water stood back, and God delivered his people through on dry ground. And he says, You know what it means to me when I see those stones? It reminds me that God is with me, like he was with Moses He's still with us. He's still blessing. He's still leading. He's still giving the victory. And God is with you and I today. It's the same God that we serve the part of the Red Sea and part of the Jordan River. And He can do it for you today. It's a reminder. It's a memorial of what God did. Wow. It was set up for them to look back and see the great things that God did. I'm going to give you a couple of thoughts this morning and we'll be done. We're going to go downstairs and have have a meal. I want you to see the provision. For these standing stones, the provision for the memorial. He says in verse number three, and it ca And commanded ye them saying, Take ye henceforth out of the midst of the Jordan, out of the place where the priest foot stood firm, twelve stones. God commanded them that they should move into the promised land by the way of the Jordan. That was what they were supposed to do. You know, if you're going to have provision for a memorial, you've got to do what God says. When God commands, he provides. Where God leads, he enables. If God has directed and told you that you should do something, God will enable you to do it. God will empower you to do it. He provides what's needed. It's amazing to me just that statement as I ponder and think about him saying, take, you know, go down in the midst of the river where the priest's foot Stood firm. Can I ask you this morning? Has God ever put your feet on a firm foundation? I know you might be here this morning, you might say, I'm not sure what you're talking about, but there's some people been around long enough to understand when I'm talking about God lifting us up out of the mire and the clay and getting us out of this old wicked world and setting our feet upon a solid rock The rock of Jesus Christ. He set our feet there, and that should be a memorial for all of us. A time and a place in our life where we remember the day where we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. That needs to be something that's memorialized in your mind. You need to have it written on the table of your heart and remember it and repeat it. And see, God commanded that they should move into the promised land by the way of Jordan, but I want you to know that God commanded that all should be saved by the way of Jesus. Jesus. See, he still saves through the blood. He still saves through the blood. They set up those memorial stones and are reminded of being back there in Egypt. When that death angel was going to come through. But they had to take a lamb. They had to take a lamb, and the lamb had to be slain, and the lamb's blood had to be put on the doorpost. Jesus Christ. Said, I am the door. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Can I tell you this morning? If you're going to go to heaven, if you're going to be forgiven of your sins, it's by the way of Jesus Christ. And his shed blood. And that's it. That's the only way. If you've experienced that, it ought to be something that's precious to you. It ought to be something you're thankful for. It ought to be something that you remember. You know, you ought to repeat it. People around you, your family, your friends, your kids, they ought to know when you got saved and how you got saved. One of the hardest things for me is when I get down to this altar and in a casket lays a loved one. And a child says to me, I don't know if my mom was saved. They they went to church, but I don't know. Well your children should have no question. They should know beyond a shadow of a doubt because you've told them over and over they should be able to give your testimony as good as you give your testimony. You ought to repeat it. You ought to remind them, just say, hey, this is what happened. Oh, you know, kids, I grew up in church You know that I I I heard a lot of preaching. You know that I was around you know kids you don't go to heaven because you're ca or or your sins aren't forgiven just because you're in church. Just because mom and dad go to church. You know that's not how you get it. Kids, I was in church my whole life, but then uh one day in my first year of Bible college, there was a preacher, a man's man by the name of Chuck Cofty, who got up and he began to preach and he preached his trade and he preached it hard. And I liked it I mean he was a man's man. He would get up and talk about his time in the military and he was a Marine and what he did and he was rough and tough and I mean he was straight, but you know what? He was approachable And after the service, in a room filled with about a thousand people, I walked down to the front right here. The pulpit was a lot higher. The floor was like about this high. And I looked up and he's standing right there. I said, Dr. Coffee, can I talk to you for a minute? Dr. Coffey. He he came and he sat down right here. All those people in the auditorium, he ignored all them and he looked at me and he said, Son, what can I do for you? I said, man, I just don't know what's going on in my life. I've been in church my whole life and I'm dealing with all these problems, I'm dealing with all this struggle, and I I don't understand why I'm not having the victory. And I've been through this and I've done this and I've done that. He talked to me for about 15 or 20 minutes. They looked at me and he said, Caleb, maybe what you need is just to get saved. I looked into his eyes and I said, You know what? I think you're right. I think you're right. Oh, I knew all about it. I could quote the verses myself. I had taken people through the Romans road and led them to Jesus Christ and pointed them to the baptismal waters to get baptized. I had taught junior church and worked on the bus routes and been out soul winning week after week after week and I told people that you gotta put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and him alone and if you don't do that you're gonna die and go to hell but If you trust Jesus, he'll forgive you of your sins and you can go to heaven. I knew it all, but I personally have never put my faith and trust in Christ So kids that day right there Auditorium was just about empty, a couple people walking around straightening the songbooks and picking up trash. Jeff Coffee and I bowed our head. And I trusted Jesus as my Lord and Savior. And I ask you this morning, do you know for sure? I'm not saying have you been in church. I'm not saying do you know the verses? I'm not saying have you heard about it? Do you know about it? I'm saying has there been a day or an hour that you can point to? You know what? I don't remember the exact day. I know it was sometime in the fall because it was the fall revival that Chuck Ofte was there to preach for. That's how I know that. But I don't remember the exact day. I don't even remember the exact day of the week, because it was a week long revival, so I don't know what day was it? I don't know. I'm glad this morning that my salvation is not dependent upon my memory. My salvation is dependent upon God's. And He's written it down in the Lamb's Book of Life. It's never going to be blotted out. But this morning, could I ask you, do you know that it happened? You might not remember the exact day, you might not know the exact hour, but do you in your heart know for sure that it happened? And if you did, could I encourage you to just set up some stones and memorialize it, make it precious to you, repeat it often, let people know what Jesus did for you. Set those stones up and say, Man, this is what God did. This is what God did for me. He saved my soul. God did it all. See, they crossed the Jordan River all by the strength of God. God held back those waters And Jesus did it all for you and I, for salvation. Listen. Praise God. And you see the purpose? The purpose is given to us in verse number six. He said that this may be a sign among you. That when your children ask their fathers in times to come, saying, What mean you by these stones? Then you shall answer them. It was to be a sign for them. Those standing stones, a continual reminder of what God had done for them, a memorial of something great that God had done for them in the past. You know, there's a story in the Bible about a woman who broke a valuable, well, an alabaster bottle with valuable ointment in it. Some people complained and some people criticized, but God said it was to be a memorial for her. She had taken what she had, she did what she could for God, and God for all these generations has memorialized that. Are you willing to just do what you can for God? Can I ask you this morning, have you personally ever experienced the multiplying nature of the work of God? When you do something for God, God takes it and multiplies it. Like the little boy who had five loaves and two fish. And he said, You know what, it's not much, but here it is, God, you can use it. And God takes it and multiplies it and does abundantly above, I mean, amazing. Has God done that for you? God can and will and wants to. And when he does, we should set up some stones to remember that great thing that God did. Hudson Taylor was called home from the mission field of China because he was sick. His doctors told him he could never go back to China and he thought. He was so burdened for the people of China. He says, what can I do? I mean everybody China needs missionaries. They're lost and and they're they're on their way to hell. They need Jesus Christ And he thought, well, I'll pray, and God seemed to tell him, would you pray that I'll send five? And he began to pray for laborers to go into the harvest. He said, God, would you send five? And God sent five missionaries to China. Multiplied his work. But he thought, what's five among so many? Five is not enough. We need to see more people go. And he wanted to see more people go, and God talked to Hudson Taylor about starting a mission To go to send people and Hudson Taylor said, No, I can't do that. I mean if I if I'm running a mission, I'm responsible How are we going to pay to send people to China? I mean uh how are we gonna take care of them? What if they get sick while they're in China? What are we gonna do? How how is that gonna work? What if they get beaten and killed and then I'm responsible He said, I can't do that. And he fought God and he fought God. But one day and he was in a small little church in a country town and he watched these kids being taught the scriptures. Taught the Bible stories about Jesus, and he thought about the children in China who have nobody to teach them about Jesus. And he said, okay, God, I'll do it. He started the China Inland Mission and he began to pray and he said, God, would you send 24 missionaries to China because That would be two for every province and two to go over into Mongolia. Lord, would you send twenty-four? And God sent twenty-four through the China Inland Mission. He says, Oh, praise God. Amen. We've got twenty-four. And he thought, but that's not enough. He said, Lord, would you send 70? They began to pray and seek God to send 70, and God sent 76. And he thought, Oh, I don't know if that's enough. I mean, Lord, uh we need some more missionaries in China. And he began to pray and he asked God to send more missionaries to China. He said, and God seemed to say, Would you pray for a hundred? And he thought, a hundred He began to pray for a hundred, and God sent a hundred and six. And God said, Would you have enough faith to pray for a thousand? Hudson Taylor got on his knees and began to pray that God would send a thousand missionaries to China and God send one thousand one hundred and twenty-three missionaries to China. The multiplying nature, not because Hudson Taylor said, I'm going to be responsible to send a lot of people to China. No, he just said, God, I'll do what you want. I'll just obey you. I'll just go where you want me to go. I'll do what you want me to do. And God takes what we give him and multiplies it. And today Still today there is a large stone tower erected as the Hudson Taylor Memorial Center in China. Because of the work that he did. Some great stones set up. Man. What has God done through you? I want you to see lastly this morning the place. The place. In verses number eight and nine he says, And the children of Israel did so as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan. And the Lord spake unto Joshua according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel, and carried them over with them into the place where they lodged, and laid them down there. And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan in the place where the feet of the priest, which bare the Ark of the Covenant, stood. And they are there unto this day. He carried twelve stord twelve stones out of the river, and he took twelve stones from the ground and put them in the river. This is a picture of God's deliverance. It's a picture of God's sacrifice. He who knew no sin became sin for us. Those stones that were buried in the river were lifted out and set in a dry place. Those stones that were in a dry place were taken and buried in the river. That's what Christ did for us. He who knew no sin was made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He set our feet on a solid ground. Do you remember the place? That special place Do you have some special places in your life that you should memorialize? That you could think about as being precious? I had somebody ask me this week, this last week, about the place Where I would go and pray in Indiana. I had a place. It was my place that I went and I would get alone. The person that asked me is from Indiana, he said I went there and I found it. He said I I went to the place that was precious to you. And he said, and I prayed. I talked to God. See, he listened to a message I preached some years ago and talked about this place in Indiana where I would go when I needed to get alone with God. It was a precious place. It's a place where I'd just go and spend hours praying and talking to God. Many decisions for Christ were made there. It's a precious place. I can still picture it in my mind, and more than once. In the I left there in 1999. Three times since then. As I'm back in town, I got away. And I went back to that place. It's just like it's like coming home. It's like it's like just, Lord, we had so many good conversations here I'm so thankful for you meeting with me. It's a precious place to me. You know, sometimes in a church, this area right down here that we call the altar. Can be a precious place to you. You spend enough time in a church, there's going to be some decisions that you've made down here that you'll remember. Just like I remember being in that church and looking up a chuck coffee and remembering putting my faith and trusting Christ as he sat right there and I sat right here You're gonna walk in here after some years and you'll say, I remember when I was when I was kneeling down right in front of the piano right there and I was talking to God and God taught me or showed me a truth that changed my life. I remember when I was kneeling down right there in front of the pulpit and I was just talking to God and God told me I needed to change this and start doing this. And you make those decisions, and this becomes a precious place. Do you have some places that are precious? Do you? That you need to set up some stones and just remember what God did for you. Listen folks, I love America. I'm thankful for this country that we get to live in. But this world is not my home. I'm just passing through. In the time that I'm here in this world, I'm I'm privileged and blessed beyond measure to live in this great country. But I'm looking for a heavenly country. Now I want to remember the sacrifice that was made so that I could go there.