Uh but this morning, uh in this world uh of uncertainty, we've all heard the saying. Uh Nothing is sure except death and taxes. Taxes. Yeah. That's the only thing we can count on, right? In this world of uncertainty. uh where everybody says there's nothing you can count on. Well, I want you to know in this world of uncertainty there is some things you can count on. There there there is some things that are very clear that are certain that are sure And uh we know that they're sure, and uh that's because the Bible tells us that. And that this idea kind of uh came to me with regards to the the things that are sure that we can count on that the Bible tells us are sure. And so I did a little study on this word, and there there are numerous uh things that the Bible says are sure. And uh I wanted to look at a few of those this morning, uh. Those that we have time to cover. And so if you would, uh turn to your Bible to 2 Peter chapter number 1. 2 Peter chapter number 1. This is where we're going to begin because this is the foundation. This is the beginning. If this isn't settled, then none of the others are going to make any difference. None of the others are going to matter. And so this one has to be settled in your heart and mind. And so we see here in 2 Peter chapter number 1, in verse number 19, it says, we have also a, what's the next three words? More sure word. We have a sure word. Now I think it's Brother Royalty that uh just during Anniversary Sunday mentioned this idea, this aspect, the fact that we have a word the word of God is more sure. It's more sure than eyewitnesses. I mean, I enjoyed my trip to Israel and it was a blessing to be able to walk the streets and stand in the uh you know in the valley of Elah where uh David fought Goliath and to see Simon the Tanner's house and to walk in uh the caves where Dave was running Uh to stand at the brook where they believed that Gideon had his men and that the his men knelt down and lapped up the water and and God was thinning the ranks to send the 300 men of Gideon and win the great victory. I mean it was an amazing thing to stand at the edge of Jordan, there, the Jordan River, where the children of Israel crossed over and to see all of those things. To be on the Sea of Galilee. I mean, p phenomenal. You just the lessons of the Bible and the things that you're learned, taught to actually be there is quite amazing. uh to to think and to consider. And it was phenomenal. I got to preach on the Sea of Galilee, right, right up on the bank out outside overlooking the Sea of Galilee to a group of people And uh I preached on a more sure word because being there in Israel was really neat to see all those things, but can I tell you that that's not the reason I believe it? I don't believe what the Word of God says because I happen to walk in those places. I believed it before I got there and I believed it after. Actually our guide who uh you know is used to people falling all over themselves when they get to those places and being so emotional and you know we were at the Jordan River and he's like, Don't you want to get baptized in the Jordan River? I'm like, no, I was baptized. I've been baptized. I only get baptized once, not gonna do any good for me. He's like, Oh he was really shocked that we weren't in tears and that we didn't want to get down into the water. And listen, I mean it was exciting to see it and I'm thrilled and I'd encourage you if you ever get the opportunity to go. Bob said he would pay for it, okay? If you get the opportunity, go to Israel. I mean that's a blessing. But listen, we have a more sure word. It doesn't matter if you ever get to see it in person, beloved, we have the word of God on it. And what I'm saying is you've got to have this settled in your mind. The rest of the things that the Word of God says are sure aren't going to make any difference to you unless you have it settled in your heart. That the Word of God is sure. This indeed is the Word of God. And we have to have that established. In this world of uncertainty, we can count on the word of God. Psalms 1 Psalms 19, verse number 7, you guys know the verse. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul, the testimony of the Lord is Sure. Sure, it's sure. The testimony of the Lord. Listen, we have a sure word. The Bible is something that we can count on In this world of uncertainty, you can count when you read in this book. I mean, how many of you, it just seems so frustrating today in today's world. First of all, Uh you can't trust the news. It doesn't matter who it is. The news is all slanted based on whatever their pr their point of view is, right? And it doesn't matter if you're talking about the left or you're talking about the right or you're talking about the military or you're talking about uh economics or you're t it doesn't matter whoever is presenting the news it's gonna be f it's not just reporting on what happened anymore, it's it's commentary on what they think. And you can't it's so frustrating because you're like, okay, I don't even know if that's real. You know, you and then add into it AI. Now you don't even know if the Person talking's real. Like it could be computer generated, you know. Uh it's amazing. Somebody sent me something a few weeks ago, well, it's been a couple months ago now, uh, about a preacher preaching. And they said, Boy, it's amazing. I can't believe this preacher said this And then I commented back that, well, that was AI. It is clearly AI generated. Now they took the image and the the the visage of this man, uh, but it generated it with AI and and said this was AI generated. So uh not saying that preacher believes this or doesn't believe it, I'm just telling you this was AI generated. And so it's almost like you can't trust anything, but listen, we can trust this. Amen. This is the Word of God. We know that the testimony of the Lord is sure. And beloved, this is foundational to everything else. This book has authority. It has power. And that needs to be settled in your heart. Is it settled? Do you do you believe it as the Word of God? Is it something that you know you can count on? You read it with the authority that it has. Beloved, it has authority because it's inspired. I didn't say it's inspirational. It is inspirational. It ought to inspire you to do great things for God. But it's inspired. It's inspired by God. That means God breathed. That means the words that are given to us here are from God That ought to mean something to us. It's not man's thoughts or man's opinions, but they are indeed the Word of God. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. Amen? For doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. All scripture is profitable. This is the word of God because it was given to us by God You've got to believe that. You've got to have it settled. 2 Peter 1. 21 says, For the prophecies came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Inspired means God breathed. God moved on the heart of man and said, Would you write this down? Uh on occasion, I will have Alicia type up something for me. I'll say, Hey, I want you to type this up send this letter off to the this person and I won't give her any direction at all. I'll just say and then she'll bring it to me and she'll say she'll say, do you like how this reads? Is there anything you want to change? And I'm like, it's great. You did a great job. Thank you. But then other times I will send her the text. I say, here's what I want, you know this is what I want it to say. And uh she'll get it all typed up and bring it back and I'll say, okay, that's that's what I need it to say, here you go. And listen, this is what God did. He he moved on the heart of man what he wanted communicated to his people. This is inspired. It's something that is sure in this world of uncertainty. What God says is sure. The Old Testament repeats 3,808 times different expressions that fall along the lines of God has said. Jehovah saith. The Word of God came unto him saying. If you take the different variations of that that are presented in the pages of the Old Testament over and over and over and over again, over 3,000 times. It says, God said. God said. This is the Word of God. Is that settled in your heart? Do you believe it to be the Word of God? Listen, this is important. This book, The Word of God, written over 1500 years with 40 different authors. It's miraculous. The sheer magnitude of that taking place, where over fifteen hundred years with forty different altar authors, the cohesiveness The unity and the present the presentation of truth that takes place in the pages of Scripture over that much time by that many different people There's no way that could happen. It's not just improbable, it's impossible. That there would not be problems, contradictions, various uh thoughts, you know, it's amazing. Uh Even in our in our own thinking, Stephen and I were talking the other day. We've got to start calling him something. There's a lot of Stevens. Uh I was talking to Brother Glover about Stephen Gunzenhauser. He thought I was talking about his son. He's like, What? He did what? I said, No, not the other one. And then I said Stephen G I'm like, oh that doesn't work 'cause your son, Stephen G too, right? We gotta figure out another name. Uh but anyways, Brother Gunzenhauser and I were talking and we we were talking about how sometimes even in your conversation without realizing it, uh you can say something in a couple different ways and then not realize that you contradicted something you said earlier. You really got to think about it. And the fact that that's not found in the page of scripture is a miraculous thing. Only God could do that. What an amazing thing that we think about this. Out of all, you know, through all the years that the scripture has been available science. uh modern technology, ancient and modern archaeology, all the advancements we've had, every new advancement, all it has done is continue to prove The accuracy and the validity of the Word of God. There are right now over 25,000 biblical dates, locations, events, and uh statements That have been proven correct by modern science. The greatest number of those are in archaeological discoveries. Where the Bible described and stated certain things and then ultimately they thought, well that probably didn't happen, or that's not that that couldn't have been or that you know they doubted the validity of that and then they end up finding it through archaeological studies. And this happened over and over and over again. They've uncovered artifacts from cities as far back as 3300 BC. And yet the truths and what's been shared in the Word of God has been proven over and over again to be accurate. Norman Gessler and William Nix in their book, A General Introduction of the Bible, state No area of modern science has confirmed the historic authenticity authenticity of the scripture So much as archaeology. That area in itself has just continued to prove the historical accuracy of the scriptures. So what does this mean for us? If this is indeed the Word of God and it is indeed sure and we can count on it, what does it mean for us? A beloved it means we need to practice it. Right? We need to do what it says. If indeed this is the word of God, not the opinions of man or the thoughts of an individual, then this needs to be part of our life. This needs to be something that we follow. We are to be beloved. Doers of the word, not hearers only, right? We're to be doers of the word. We're to practice what the Bible says Listen, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is. When the Bible shares with us truth and the Bible tells us what we ought to be doing, then beloved, if we he believe that it is the word of God. Listen, if it's not the word of God, then let's just close up and go home. Because church is is useless If the truth of the Word of God is not true, if that's not really God's word and what's been said there can't be counted on, then all of this is for nothing. But if it is true, then what we need to do is stop playing. And say, this is the word of God, this is what God says, this is what we need to do. Listen, our life is a vapor. It appears for a little time, then vanisheth away. How quickly we're going to pass off into eternity, how quickly we're going to meet our Creator. We need to be prepared by following this book. Listen, we also we need to protect it. What I'm saying is we need to value the Word of God. We need to realize how important it is. Listen, and we know that God is the one that preserves, God is the one that protects. But I'm saying we just we we can't be careless or casual about it. This is the word of God. You know, we're going to be talking in the morning service about the Virgin Mary as a mother that God honored. You know, Isaiah 7. 14 says that uh a behold a virgin. But you know, many many modern versions of the Bible change that to behold a young woman. Why? Why would they attack the virgin birth? Why would they remove something so foundational to our faith? Listen, if she wasn't a virgin, then then we don't have truth. The only thing I can think is that it is an attack of Satan. Whether men did it on purpose or whether men unawares were used of Satan to remove the virgin birth, what I'm saying is we can't be casual or just you know careless about this. We need to realize the methods and what Satan's trying to do and and uh that's why we use the King James. That's why we we we do that. And that's why I know uh w we don't harp on it a whole lot. I've mentioned it a couple times recently because it's been under attack. And this world likes to criticize churches like us and and attack us because we use the King James. But beloved, I don't know how much clearer it can get. If a Bible is going to remove the virgin birth, that's not something that's just, it's not just, they didn't just take thee out. They didn't just take the these and thus, which is you know the the description like oh it's very these and thou's it's very hard to read because the these and thou's we're going to remove those. That's not what they did It literally took out a word virgin, which is not that hard to understand, and replaced it with young woman, which completely changes the truth. Now am I talking out my ear, is that true? That's true. Okay. So we need to we need to Practice what this book says, this is what it means for us, if it is indeed the sure word of God, and we need to protect it. It needs to be something that's important to us That we follow this book. Now let's move on. I want you to turn to Isaiah 28, verse number 16. Isaiah 28, verse number 16. We're going to see secondly what is sure. You look in it in Isaiah 28, 16, and you tell me what does the Bible say is sure. The second thing we're going to look at Once you found anybody that All right, Melissa and Sajani got it. Anybody else got it? You some of you are like me, but I turn really slow. I I'm always Mary's there like a whole minute before me usually. What does the Bible say is there? A sure foundation. We have a sure foundation. Beloved, I want you to know that in this world of uncertainty, the Bible declares unto us that we have a sure foundation. Listen, Christ. is a sure foundation. It is certain. It's not up for debate. This is where we begin to build our lives. 1 Corinthians 3, 10 and 11, according to the grace of God which is given unto me a wise master builder. I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon, for other foundation can no man lay that is laid, which is Jesus Christ The is the foundation. He is the foundation of our life. It's a sure, unchanging foundation. Listen, the counterfeits that are out there are gonna falter. The counterfeits in Matthew chapter seven we have the story of the of the wise and foolish builder. You guys remember that? The wise man built his house on A rock. And the foolish man built his house on? The sand. Listen, the counterfeits, all of the other foundations that are provided out there, whether that's religion, whether that's works Whether that's self-righteousness, whatever those other the counterfeits that are provided for us by Satan, listen, they're all sand When the storm comes, when judgment comes, they're all going to wash away. It's not something to stand, but the wise man build his house upon a Rock. The rock is Jesus Christ. Not Peter, by the way. That's very clear if you know your Bible and you've studied that. The rock is Jesus Christ, and He is the sure foundation, a certain foundation. What a blessing it is to have a certain foundation. That sure foundation. 2 Timothy 2. 19. Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth Sure. The foundation of God stand is sure. It's a sure foundation. Listen, every conceivable world and economic system has come and gone. And yet Christ remains. I mean, we've had entire empires rise and fall And Christ remains. Every economic system imaginable has come and gone, and Christ remains. This is the sure foundation. You need to build your life on Jesus Christ. This foundation is certified by the Spirit. In 2 Timothy 2. 19, he says, Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure. Having why don't you turn there in your Bibles? I want you to see this because we're going to show you one more thing from this in just a second. Nevertheless, the foundation of God stands assured. Having this seal, the Lord knoweth them that are his. Listen, we talked about this on Thursday night in our study on the book of Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 1 and verse number 13. Ephesians chapter 4 and verse number 30 states that the Holy Spirit sealed. We are sealed. Ephesians 4. 30. What did we learn on Thursday night? We are sealed when? Until we did the day of redemption. Thank you. Because my mind went blank and I just forgot. Like in the middle of it, I'm like, help me out. My mind just went I knew it started with an R, but I couldn't remember what the word was. Until the day of redemption. We're sealed until the day of redemption. And the Holy Spirit is that seal. Written on the heart of the believer, and I'm not going to reteach that. You can listen to it on Sermon Audio, but we talked about that in great length, about the ministry of the Holy Spirit and how we are sealed until the day of redemption. That is Our salvation, our foundation, Jesus Christ, it is sealed on the heart of the believer through the Holy Spirit. So what does this mean for us? We back up and say, okay, if the Word of God is sure, what does it mean? It well means we need to practice and preserve the Word. What does this mean? Well, listen, it shows us right here in 2 Timothy 2. 19. Nevertheless, the foundation of God stand is sure, having this seal, the Lord knoweth them that are his, and let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. What this means, beloved, is that we need to be consecrated, set apart. We need to depart from iniquity. Because the foundation is sure, because we know Jesus as our Savior, listen, beloved. Salvation naturally produces separation. It naturally produces separation. from this world, from n wickedness, from iniquity, which is sin. That's what he says, listen. If you know that your foundation is sure, that your life is built on Jesus Christ. Then man, we ought to separate from iniquity. That's what we ought to do. It it should produce separation in our lives Salvation naturally produces stability. It's amazing how people who will build their life on Jesus Christ I've been in the ministry long enough. I grew up in a pastor's home, you guys knew this. I went into the ministry in 1999, and I have seen it over and over and over again. The world does not produce stability. You'll see people toss to and fro You'll see their lives going up and down and backwards and moving all over and changing jobs and starting again and broken homes and broken families and Second, third, and fourth marriages and and and all of no stability. But you see people who build their life on Jesus Christ and you see that stability. Even when they come to Christ later in life, and a lot of times their life at that point when they come to Christ is such a mess, and then you start to see God work. And it's a miraculous thing how before when they couldn't hold a job down, now they're holding a job. They've got stability Now there's stability in the family and the family is being restored and strengthened. That's the miracle of building your life on Jesus Christ. It naturally produces stability. That's rich. That's good. That's an exciting truth for us that we can count on if we build our life on this sure foundation. The stable life. I've seen it over and over again. There is something that the Word of God tells us, sure, that's less comforting than these first two. Some of you might know it, or you certainly probably have it underlined, but turn your Bibles to Numbers chapter 32. Numbers 32, verse number 23. Numbers 32 23. And then you tell me what's the third thing there. Now these are not alliterated. So I didn't alliterate this morning's lesson. We're just we're taking it right from the Bible. So according to is it 3223, right? What does it say there? What what is the thing that's sure? Your sin will find you out. That's not very pleasant. Be sure your sin will find you out. What a truth. Something that can be counted on. You know, it is human nature. I mean I saw uh James standing for your today. You know, it doesn't matter you take James. And any kid that has the ability to function on his own. Mary might be a little bit young yet, but I think even even her. But you'll you'll see these y little kids, if they like let's say they snuck a cookie and mom comes around the corner, where does the cookie go? They try and hide it immediately. Like they it's human nature to try and hide sin. We think we can hide it, we can cover it up. I mean you remember Aiken? Yeah, he he thought nobody knew he was gonna get this gold and and just try and uh you know hide it under his tent and and nobody saw it and uh God saw it. You think about David, a man after God's own heart, who sinned with Bathsheba, his first response was not to realize that his sin was going to find him out. His first response was to try and cover it up To try and hide it. Make sure nobody knows. We're going to deceive everybody. The Bible's clear. Be sure your sin will find you out. I uh read a story about a uh businessman who was being less than honest in his business dealings. And uh he started feeling some pressure and thought, well, people are inquiring about this. So he took home all the documents that proved his dishonesty. And he thought, well, I'll just burn him. He burned him in his fireplace and thought, well, I took care of that. What he didn't realize is that heat rises, and that as these tapers were burning. A page, partially burning, was floating up, went out the chimney and landed in a yard. Later that week, one of his employees found And wouldn't you know the page, the piece that floated into the yard proved his dishonesty? Of all the pages that or portions that could have got floated out, not burned up, that page did. Why? Because the Bible is sure. Be sure your sin will find you out. That is a fact. That it's gonna it's gonna happen. One way or another. The day is gonna come when that which is hidden is gonna be revealed. For many of us, it's this side of heaven. For some, it may be a glory, but it's going to be revealed. There's a boy who lived out in uh you know the hills of West Virginia and he grew up with the old time of kind of plumbing, an outhouse. And he hated the outhouse. It's like man happen to go out of the house in the middle of the night when it's freezing outside and and boy I hate that outhouse going all the way out there. And then it's hot And boy does it smell in the summertime and the flies and he just despised the outhouse. Well the outhouse was positioned on the property right next to a little creek. And he thought one day, man, one you know, kids' minds, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. And this this boy thought one day I am going to just push that thing into the river. I'm getting rid of the outhouse. And uh then it it just so happened that they had a storm come through and the river was overflowing its banks and actually came all the way up, right up to the edge of the outhouse. It was right there and the boy thought, This is the day And uh he ran with all of his might and wham he hit the outhouse and flipped it over into the river and watched you go. He's like, ha ha ha ha! He was so excited, he was laughing, that was so much fun. Well that night His dad came in, was looking at his son, and he said, Sons, time to go to the woodshed. Knowing what that meant at that time, he's like, What Why? Why do I got to go to the woodshed? He said, well son, the outhouse is missing. Somebody pushed the outhouse in the river. Was that you? Being raised right and a good boy, he looked at his dad and said, Yeah, I did it. He's like, Okay then, we gotta go to the woodshed. And uh they're on their way down there. Little boy was thinking about anything he could do to get out of this. And he said, uh dad. I learned in school that George Washington, he cut down the cherry tree, and because he was honest, he told his dad the truth, he didn't get in trouble. He said, Yeah, son, but George Washington wasn't in the tree. Be sure your sin will find you out. Listen, it something's gonna happen, somehow you can count on it, and we think we can hide it and Satan sells us the lie that Nobody's ever gonna find out. But the Bible is sure. The Bible can be counted on. The word of God says, Be sure your sin will find you out. When I was a teenager, uh many of you know I had, you know, some years of of trying to go my own way and do my own thing. And my kids you can include well it's just Melissa, she'll be okay. Uh I was sneaking out of the house As a teenager. And in the middle of the night, when everybody was supposed supposed to be going to bed, when everybody's supposed to be asleep, I would sneak out of the house. And I would be gone for many hours. Now we lived out in the middle of the desert, in the middle of nowhere, and it's only by God's grace that I didn't get killed or who knows what else, because we would go to the city, spend the day in the city doing all kinds of th the night doing stuff we shouldn't be doing And I thought nobody knew. Well one night in the middle of the night, the water heater quit producing water, hot water. And dad thought, well, in the morning when I get up, I want to have a hot shower, so he thought he's gonna go light the water heater. Well the water heater was in my closet. So he gets up in the middle of the night, goes into my room to light the water heater, and uh sees that I'm not in bed. Well several several hours later when I came home dad was sitting at the edge of the driveway and I came in through the uh driveway. And of course it's the middle of the night. Out there in the desert it's very bright with the with the stars and the moon and I'm just coming in the driveway, you know, in the middle of the night there. It's about four A. M. And uh He scared the living daylights out of me because I wasn't expecting to see anybody. And then he he stood up and uh Well, you guys see I'm still here, but uh but I could tell you it didn't go well. This is not something I was supposed to be doing. What I'm saying is what are the chances of that? That the water heater would go out and that dad would happen to get up in the middle of the night to wash his hands or whatever and and find out that the water heater wasn't lit and then go into my room to light it at that time. Why? Because God said that's enough. You need to get called on the carpet on this. You need to get fixed with this. This needs to be settled. And what I'm saying is, be sure your sin will find you out Now we need to hurry up. We're going to bring this last one to a conclusion here. Look look in the Word of God uh at n we did this one already. Uh There's more teaching there that I could give you as well, but we're gonna w what does this mean for us? Let me give you the last thought here. What does this mean for us? Uh 1 John 1 9. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us all unrighteousness. What it means is that sin must be confronted. That's what it means. We know the Bible says, be sure your sin will find you out. Listen, if you will confess and forsake your sin, God will forgive you, and you will not have to have that dealt with by God, whether at judgment or before men, because you've confessed and forsaken that sin. Amen? That's what it means for us. Alright, let's get the last one and we're going to be done. I got about six minutes. So I want you to see the last one. Look in Proverbs chapter 23, verses 17 and 18. Mm. Now this one's a little bit harder because the word is different. I was joking with Mary last night about my use of words. I'm like, I'm using it 'cause It'll preach, amen. But Proverbs 23, verse 17 and 18. He says, Let not thine heart in be sinners, but be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long, for surely there is an end. And thine expectations shall not be cut off. Beloved, in this world of uncertainty, something that you can count on without hesitation without any reservation is that an end is coming. An end is coming. Now in context here, this is talking about our certain future. Well what I would like to do is I would like to apply this to your current fight. We we can we'll get to the certain future in just a second, but I want you to know that uh as the old preacher said This didn't come to stay, this came to pass. Right? This came to pass. What I'm saying is that there's an end. Whatever struggle you're in, whatever battle you're in, those of you that have been on this earth long enough You could look through the uh pages of time of your life, and there were situations that at certain times in your life were so overwhelming and you thought, boy, this is it, I'm not sure what I'm going to do And now that's long been in the history. I was hoping this morning that the bridge would be open, so I could use that as a as an example. Because uh, you know, that was such an inconvenience. And we looked at that when it was first, oh, we're going to be nine months without the bridge and oh it's so inconvenient and all that. And listen, in a week or two this thing is going to be opened up. I don't know what they're waiting on. It's all cleaned up. There's nothing, there's no equipment there. I think they just forgot to move the barriers. You know. It's it's a different crew and that crew's on vacation or something. I I don't know what the ri road's ready to go Uh I was hoping I could squeeze through there. Timothy went down there, was hoping you could squeeze through on the motorcycle and it as they got out they got it tight. So unless you're gonna drive in somebody's yard, you're not getting through. But they need to pick those up. But i what I'm saying is that listen, it i it'll pass There's gonna be an end to your current storm. There's gonna be an end to the current battle. It's gonna happen We can have confidence in that. Surely there's an end. It's an expected end. We can confidently look for that end is coming. The end of your struggles, the end of your battle. Why? Because the battle is the Lord's. Because He is the one that's going to bring you through. But we also have a certain future. Whether this is the end comes because, listen, the day is going to come if the Lord tarries that this whole body gives out and we go on to glory. That end in our certain future that we're going to be with him. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Amen. Or Certainly it can't be long till the Lord breaks the eastern skies and we are caught up together in the air, and uh the rapture comes and there will be an end. That end is certain. It's coming. We're going to be reunited, and we know that there's a lot of teaching we could do on this, but beloved, we can count on it. It's a certain future. It's an end that's going to come to pass. The Lord will bring you through your certain fight, your current fight, but he also has a certain future that we can look towards and count an expected end. And we know listen in the end No matter what's happening here, praise the Lord, I'm gonna be there. All the struggles and burdens and heartaches and battles and all these things, are gonna be over and we are gonna so shall we ever be with the Lord. Some things that we can count on Uh Lord willing in a couple weeks we're going to talk about daily Christianity. And uh we're going to dig into that thought, just look into the scriptures and see. what it says. Next week I will be out of town, so remember that. Let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we love you. Thank you for today and the time to be in your house. We pray, Lord, that We would indeed have confidence in our hearts about these things that the Bible tells us are sure, that we can count on. And uh Lord, I pray that uh it strengthened your people this morning to hear these truths and to remember them. And uh Lord will thank you for what you do in our hearts, we ask this all in Jesus' name, Amen. Thank you so much, you're dismissed