We'll go ahead and go straight into preaching tonight. And uh open with me to in your Bibles to the book of 2 Kings, chapter 2. One of my favorite chapters in the Bible. If you're able to, if you wouldn't mind standing with me as we read the Word of God tonight. 2 Kings chapter 2, we'll start in verse 2. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord hath sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth. And as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel, and the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha. And said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? And he said, Yea, I know it. Hold ye your peace. Back in this is the Bible way of saying, Shut your pie hole. And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord hath sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho. And let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, I pray that you'll please bless the service tonight and please uh use me as a conduit of blessing to bless these fine folks here tonight. I pray that if there's anyone here who is not saved, that's never received you as personal savior, please work on their hearts and Please get them saved tonight. I pray that if there's a Christian here who isn't right with you that's gotten a little backslid of work on their heart as well, and please get them right with you tonight. Lord God, thank you for your wonderful blessings. Please bless the service tonight. Please fill me with your spirit and with your power. In your blessed name, Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. You may be seated Pardon me real quick. I'm making sure I'm getting a clock up here so I don't mess up everybody's time. And I I cannot find my clock. You ever you realize that these smartphones are more s are smarter than us That's weird. But it's uh like I keep saying, it's a blessing to be here. Um We open up the book of 2 Kings right here with a very interesting chapter. It's the this Elijah, the prophet of Israel, is going off the scene very quickly, and Elisha is coming onto the scene, and he is trying to take over Elijah's message. ministry to gain the double portion and really become the new Elijah. And Elisha is one of my favorite characters in the Bible, right behind Elijah himself. Elisha is a very stubborn individual. Uh you read through this and and you I mean you talk to my wife. You she'll let you know I like stubbornness. She's the most stubborn person I know. But here in this scripture, like I said, I'll hear back about all this later tonight. But here in the scripture, Elisha is told three times by Elijah. Buddy, I need you to stay back here. I'm gonna go off and go do this. Three times he tells Elisha to leave him alone. And what does Elisha do? He keeps following him around like a little lost puppy dog. It's great. And he keeps telling him, No, I'm I'm coming with you. In the chapter, two times, his his peers, the other preacher boys, the sons of the prophets, would come to him and tell him, Hey, don't you know that your master is gonna he's gonna die today? The Lord's gonna take him up. There's no point in following him. But Elisha told him, no, I'm going to keep following. I'm going to claim what I believe God's will is in my life And that was uh that's such an amazing lesson right here. Elisha knew that it was God's will in his life to take over for Elijah and to get that s that double portion. To take up the mantle of Elijah. He knew that was God's will in his life, and he was not afraid to chase the will of God in his life. He was willing to do whatever it took to accomplish that, to accomplish what God would have him to do. This took what I call biblical determination. This biblical determination of willing to do the will of God no matter what The doing the will of God, no matter what trials and circumstances come along in our life. And I'm not belittling trials and circumstances. We go through a lot of hard stuff. But we ought not let that try and discourage us from chasing the will of God in our life. Elisha was willing to do whatever it took to accomplish that will. It's a shame that we as Christians today we are more determined to earn money. We are more determined to work a secular job. We are more determined to watch a football game than we are to taste the will of God in our life. We are more determined to look at politics. I'm telling you, most of some Christians I talk to, they could tell you the name of every politician in the country, but couldn't tell you 20 names from the Bible. That's a crying shame. Whatever happened to the Christian that was so bi uh that was so biblically determined and chasing the will of God in their life that they decided, you know what, regardless of what craziness this world comes along, regardless of what the devil may try to try to do to do to distract me, I'm going to keep chasing the will of God in my life no matter what. Elisha is a good example of this He was not willing he was not willing to let a little discouragement you realize what that discouragement came from. Elijah was his mentor. Elijah was his hero. This was the guy that Elisha looked up to. You ever have your hero disappoint you in a way that your hero didn't want anything to do with you? That's what happened in Elisha. Three times. Then his own peers, the people that were taught the same thing as Elisha, the people that Elisha had known his entire life, were all a discouragement to him. But he was not willing to let that stop him. He was willing to keep chasing the will of God in his life. It can truly be said that my generation, we have absolutely no determination We can say that. Um I'm sorry, but my generation, we've become one of the sorriest generations that's ever been. But I will ask this, what about us Christians here? Can we call this generation a sorry generation when it comes to determination when we can't even get up in the morning and have a solid walk with God. Sounds a little hypocritical. We've this whole generation of Christians, we have a whole generation now that don't know what a walk with God is. And heaven help us. That's awful. That's horrible. Jesus did not just save us for us to just go along our merry way and continue in sin. God wants a relationship with every single one of us tonight. Everybody in this room, everybody who's ever gotten saved, God wants a relationship with us tonight. And most of us lack the determination, the biblical determination, to chase the will of God in our life to do it. And that is the will of God in our life. I cannot tell you what God's will is in your life twenty years down the road, but I can tell you what God's will is in your life tonight, and that is whatever this book says. Whatever is in this book, that is the will of God. The will of God in your life is to be in church whenever those doors are open, whenever you possibly can. The will of God in your life is to be in that book whenever you possibly can and develop a prayer life. Pray for others Get close to God. The will of God in your life is to start witnessing to other people and start seeing other people saved. Get them in church, baptized, and discipled, and repeat the process. That's the will of God in each and every one of our lives tonight. That's why we have missions conferences in the first place to go out into the world and start seeing people saved. That's what God has called us to do. But I'm sorry to say a lot of us like that biblical determination. to chase the will of God in our life tonight. It's it's sad that we have some of the richest men that have ever lived on the face of this earth in this generation. You look at a fellow like Jeff Bezos or Elon Musk, E. Bezos having made that Amazon company one of the richest companies in the world. You think he just did that on a whim? That took a lot of determination. And yet we have Christians who aren't even determined enough to read their Bible at night. I'm sorry, but that that's convicting to me personally. We need Christians that will be determined to do the will of God in our lives. No matter what may come, no matter what the devil may do, we need Tonight I want to look at three things, three things about chasing the will of God in our lives. Look with me in 2 Kings chapter 2. uh verse nine, second Kings two nine. And it came to pass when they were gone over that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee, before I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. Number one, do it for God. Chase the will of God in your life for God. Elisha did not do this for his own vain self, for his own vainglory. And I I can show you why. The Bible doesn't come out and say it, but I can show you how. It's what we just talked about. He was discouraged by his own mentor three times to leave him alone, and yet he kept at it. He was discouraged by his peers twice. But he kept at it because he knew it was the will of God in his life. And at the end of the chapter, we end up seeing that he ends up claiming the double fortune. God blesses. He answers it. I guarantee you, had Elisha been doing that for his own self-glory, for his own vainglory, he'd have washed out the first time Elijah rebuked him. That's what happens to a lot of us when we start chasing the will of God in our life for our own self, when we start thinking we're going to become some big shot preacher or some big shot Christian. No, do it for God. Do it for God in your life. Witness the your witness the love people in your life for God. I can uh I'm not gonna ask for a show of hands tonight, but everybody in here I can guarantee you you know somebody in your life who's not saved. Why don't we witness to them for the Lord? Jesus Christ came to die on the cross for you and me. He died on the cross, he was nailed to the cross, had a crown of thorns nailed into his head. Whips slashed, his skin torn to pieces, spirit in the side? Why would he go through all that? Because he loved you and me. He did that just for you and me. If you're here tonight and you're not and you've never received Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm going to take a small break and just say something. I've said the will of God in the life of the Christian. Now the will of God in your life, I can tell you right now what it is, it's to get saved. If you're here tonight and you've never received Christ as Savior, that is the will of God in your life. Don't you worry about the next step, just worry about getting that one step done. If you're here tonight and you've never received Christ as Savior, I beg you, by the time of the altar call, come forward and get saved. Talk to me, talk to Pastor, talk to somebody. Get it settled. But we need to start doing this for the Lord. We need to start chasing the will of God in our life for the Lord. You know, I've seen several uh several clips online. this week alone, of preachers. I could say their name. We would all know their names, but of so-called preachers that claim that they're doing the will of God in their life. They're doing the work of God in their life for the Lord. And yet it's all for themselves. And you know how they can tell Because they often disagree with the word of God in the first place. There was one preacher that got up and said that he didn't believe, he believed that we had a strange fetish about the blood of Christ. He believed that Christ never even had to sacr uh shed his blood for us to be saved. He could have broken his neck and called it a day. Yeah, that's not Bible. That's completely opposite Bible. That's how you know you're doing it for yourself. You're doing it doing it for your own vainglory is when you drop that word. We need Christians that will chase the will of God in their life, not not just for not just for us, our own vain ambition. You know, Saul got to a point in his life where he kept doing what God wanted him to do. He was king. But he decided to tweak what God said. He decided to start doing stuff that God never told him to do in the first place He started breaking the law flat out. He started making sacrifices. You go read the the Old Testament, the sacrifices, that was for the priest to do, not the king. That was the under the wall, that was for the priest. He thought he knew better. I'm a shame a lot of us Christians think we know better than God tonight. When the Holy Spirit convicts us and tells us to witness to that gas station jockey or somebody across the pumps from us. Do we tell the Holy Spirit, no, I'll he don't need it. No, do we deny the Holy Spirit or do we do what the Holy Spirit says? If we deny the Holy Spirit, that convicting in our heart, we're no better than Saul. We're not doing it for God. We've got to have a generation of Christians that'll chase the will of God in their life for God, not just for themselves, not just for some vain ambition. That's what the world does. That's what men of the world do. That's what Jeff Bezos and Warren Buffett do. They do it just for themselves and just for money and glory. Let me tell you what, stuff like that, all that is gonna happen. They're not gonna take any of that out of this world with them They're not gonna be a be able to be buried with it. It's just gonna stay behind and just corrupt and just turn into dust and go away. And all of that, that's out of vain ambition. I wonder what a man with that kind of money, a man of God with that kind of money could do for the Lord. I wonder what a man with seven trillion dollars could do for the Lord. We won't find out through Jeff Bezos. But that kind of determination he had to get that kind of money. God gives them Christians that would have that same kind of determination to do something for the Lord. God help us tonight. We need some Christians. We need a solid generation of Christians today. These young kids. Preacher, you don't know how encouraging this was to see this youth group this youth group coming here. Is this your whole youth group right here? Just about Most of them. Most of them. That's encouraging to me. That's encouraging. You know what the uh you know what these guys are doing? They're in church tonight. They're chasing after the will of God in their life. Wow. That's encouraging. That's a blessing to see another generation doing what I w what my generation did before. That's a blessing to see. But we need to keep a biblical determination to do it for the Lord, to chase after God's will in our life, not for ourselves, but for God. Number two, look with me in 2 Kings 2, verse 2. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord hath sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel. Number two, keep your zeal to do God's will. Keep your zeal. And do we remember when we first got saved what it was like? How happy we were, how excited we were that we had just received Christ the Savior, that we were no longer bound to a devil's hell, but we were bound for an eternity in heaven. You remember how excited you were? Can I ask what happened to it? When did the devil come along and take that zeal out of our lives? One of the devil's biggest tactics is that he'll take all the negative stuff in our life. He'll take all the tri uh the trials and the struggles, and he'll make it look like those outweigh the blessings of God. And it'll make it look like those outweigh the blessings of what God will give you if you follow the will of God in your life. Folks, that's a flat out lie. The if you follow and you chase after the will of God in your life, those blessings are gonna far outweigh the negatives. I could stand up here and tell you every single struggle that we've had in a year and a half on being on a deputation. I could do that, but I cannot in good conscience. Because with every struggle we've had to go through, there's been two to three times the blessings that God has given us because we decided to chase the will of God in our life. I remember Getting out of Bible college and I remember working a secular job. I was working security at a warehouse there in Lexington, Kentucky. It was a candle warehouse. It was one of one of the best-smelling jobs I ever had. It was great. And the job itself, you literally just sat down in front of two computer screens. One was with the CCTVs, so you could watch all the workers do whatever they were doing. And then the next you just sat there and watched YouTube for nine hours straight. It was a great job. I got I got paid m loads of money just for sitting there doing nothing. But I remember One day, one night, God was really working on my heart. And I got down and I prayed that at that desk. I asked God, okay, what's this about? And he told me, you know, you went to Bible college for five years. You got your bachelor's degree, you got your master's degree. You met your wife. You were chasing after the will of God in your life to go to the U. S. territory of Gaul and plant churches. But somewhere along the line you got out. Somewhere along the line you decided it wasn't for you and you decided to just stop. Why'd you stop chasing it? I didn't have an excuse. And then God smote my heart really bad. Told me if you keep down this path, that's five years of your life completely wasted. Five years of my life just gone down the drain. I mean, I I've been taught the right stuff, preacher I'd gone to Bible college, I was doing all the right stuff and what was I doing with it? I was sitting behind a desk gaining weight watching YouTube. That night, I cannot tell you how hard I cried. It got real awkward when the supervisors walked through the office. I was sitting there crying, they didn't know what to do. Told them to leave me alone for a couple minutes. I called my wife. Told her, Listen, I'm quitting my job. And we're gonna go to some random church this Sunday. And we're just gonna tell them we're starting missions. We're starting deputation. I was tired of not chasing the will of God in my life. And I cannot tell you the way God blessed It was the sorriest, dumbest way we could have started deputation. It was dumb. We did not think through it at all. But you know what? God blessed it. Many of those pastors that I just waltzed in and said, Yeah, I'm a missionary. I don't have a prayer card or anything or proof, but I'm a missionary. Still friends with them today. I cannot tell you the blessings that God gave us and God showed us because we started chasing the will of God in our life. One of the first things I kept praying to God was, Lord, I uh we can't afford to go on full-time deputation just yet. So We're gonna need to go part time, so I'm gonna need you to help me get a nine to five job Monday through Friday, no weekends at all, no weekends ever. You know what he had for me in a week after quitting my job? An eight to five job. And didn't answer the prayer fully, but still. Eight to five job Monday through Friday. No weekends. And I told and you know what was even better? The lady, her name was Janet. I have the utmost respect for her. Because she asked me why I was looking for that job. And I told her, I didn't beat her on the bush. I told her, listen, I'm a preacher. And this is what I need to fit around the schedule of what I believe God's called me to do. And she was a Christian herself. She's a bit of a liberal Christian, but she was a Christian herself. Gave a clear testimony of her salvation. Told me, you know what she told me? You need anything, you let me know. Neither Wednesday, Thursday off, you let me know. Recover. That's how we started deputation. But none of that would have happened. We would never have seen any of the blessings of God, we would never have seen any of that had we not been willing to chase after the will of God in the first place. We would never have seen any of it. And that, my friends, is why I cannot tell you any of the negatives we've gone through. Because I've seen God bless too much. And Elisha saw that too. You realize you read later in the chapter, you read later in the chapter that Elijah goes to Elisha. You know what? Let's read it real quick. It's one verse. Verse 10. A little context. Elijah has gone over with Elisha across the Jordan. And that's a whole different lesson in a second I'll get to, but he goes across the Jordan with Elijah. And Elijah asked him what he wants. And Elijah tells him what he wants. I want the double fortune. I want the double blessings of what you had. I want the double works of what you did. I want the double everything. And all Elijah says is, Thou hast asked a hard thing. He didn't say that because the blessings of God were too hard. Were too hard to accomplish. That's not why he said it. You've got to understand what Elijah went through in his life. Elijah, there were times Elijah just asked God to kill him. Let me die. There were times people went after his head. This guy faced whole armies multiple times he could have been killed. And then you've got some punk Bible kid, Bible college kid coming along asking for double the trouble. Because that's what he's asking for. He's not just asking for double the blessings. He's going to get double the trouble too, and Elijah knows it. But that's the thing, Elisha knows it too. When you start studying your heroes, when you start looking into your heroes, you don't just look at all the good stuff they did. You don't just look at all the victories they had. You look at the hardships too. You look at the struggle the struggles and the trials that they went through. Elisha knows all this. Elisha knows what Elisha went through. But he's still willing to do it. He knows what's coming his way. And Elisha does go through a lot of stuff. But if you read later in the scripture and you do a Bible study, he gets exactly what God promised him. He does double the works that Elijah accomplished, double the blessings, double everything. Because he was willing to chase the will of God in his life. The negatives in our life. There's no reason why we ought to let the devil take our zeal from doing the will of God in our life. There's no reason why. You know what? We may go out sewing and we may have some one or two people slam the door in our face. We may have somebody pull a gun on us. That's happened to me before too. And a lot of other stuff. We may have that happen to us, but that's no reason for the the us to let the devil take the zeal to do the will of God in our life, to witness to people, to keep knocking on doors, to see if there's somebody that would be receptive. I don't want to give the devil that. I don't want to give the devil my zeal to see people saved. I refuse to let him have it. I'm going to fight tooth and nail to keep it from him. We need Christians that'll be biblically determined to keep that zeal in our lives. We need we need it now more than ever. You realize how bananas this world has gotten? Russia's invading Ukraine, China's about to take Taiwan, yada yada. The world's on fire right now. Let's just that ought to be the main news headline for the next year and a half. The world's on fire. But I'll tell you what right now, that's still no excuse for any of us to let the devil have our zeal to do the will of God in our life. It's no excuse. We've got the greatest gift that God's ever given. That's salvation. We need to be sharing it. And we ought to have our joy in sharing that. You remember when you first got saved, wouldn't it be a blessing to share that same type of joy with somebody else when they get saved? That's the whole point of missions. We need to keep our zeal to do the will of God in our life. Number three, look with me real quick. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood to view afar off And they too stood by Jordan. At this point in time, Elisha has walked over the Jordan with Elijah. And the fifty sons of the, it's very interesting, the fifty sons of the prophets stand on one side of the Jordan while Elisha walks off with Elijah on the other. Elisha was the only one willing to stand out from the crowd. We gotta be willing to stand out from a crowd. We uh we as Christians we we've gotten too comfortable with thinking we in the world can cooperate. We and the world can be together. No, no, no, no. That's no, no. There's too many so-called preachers preaching that. You and I were not saved to still be in the world. We're saved to come out from the world. You know what the word church means? Church comes from the Greek word ekklesia, which means called out, assembly. What we're doing here tonight, that is God's will in our life The world thinks we're weird for being here tonight. You guys, you you men and ladies in here, you've had a hard day's work. You know what the world thinks you ought to be doing? You ought to be home getting ready, eating dinner, going to bed. Not in the will of God at a missions conference. What's a missions conference? Missions conference is weird. That's what the world thinks of us. We're weird. Well, praise the Lord. We're weird for Christ. We were not saved to just be a part of the world. We were saved to come out from the world and join Christ. That was the whole that was the whole point of it. And Elisha here he knew that if he stayed with the fifty sons of the prophets, that he was not going to get that blessing of God in his life. If he did not chase after the will of God in his life and staying out from the crowd, He was not going to accomplish that will. He was not going to accomplish God's will in his life. You realize, I can imagine right now that when that was going on, the fifty sons of the prophets were mocking him the entire time. Elisha, what you doing? Why are you running around following him like a little lost puppy dog? Mocking him left and right. You know what? Elisha didn't care Elisha knew this was how he was going to get the blessing of the Lord. And you know what he does? He gets the mantle, he gets the double portion, comes back across. Fifty-seven of the prophets don't know what to say. Now had would Elisha have gotten that blessing had he stayed with the fifty sons of the prophets? They weren't chasing the will of God. They were standing there doing nothing. They were standing there looking like light bulbs in a box. Useless. But Elisha knew that if he didn't follow the will of God in his life, he wasn't going to get that blessing. And he was willing to stand out from the crowd. We need Christians today that'll be willing to stand out from the crowd and start being and start willing to go soul winning and start willing to witness. We need Christians that will stand out And when the crowd says, Why would you why do you read the Bible every day? Why do you get in this word? Why do you pray? Why do you pray for other people? We need Christians that will be willing to stand out from the crowd and be willing to do that. To accomplish something, to accomplish God's will in their life, not just not for themselves, but for the Lord. Standing out from the crowd is one of the hardest things we as a Christian can do. But it's one of the best blessings that we will ever have. And I wonder how many blessings in the Christian life we have missed out on because we were not willing to step out in the first place. How many people could we have witnessed to? How many people could we have gotten saved? Could we have led to Christ? How many times of precious moments alone with the Lord would we have had? How many times of Him speaking to us would we have had? If we would have just stepped out. If we would have just stopped being part of the crowd. Stopped doing what everybody else was doing. Christian, let's chase after the will of God in our life. Jesus Christ went through all kinds of stuff. Horrible stuff to see us saved. Why can't we spend five minutes alone every day trying to do something for him? Just five minutes. You know? Jeff Bezos going back to him. I use him a lot because I think the fact of a a trillionaire is really weird. I can't fathom that amount of money. And I'm a missionary, so of course that's where I first go. Kidding. Kidding. But when he first started his company, he started it in a garage. It was an online bookstore. This is back when the internet was first a thing. He actually had trouble getting investors to invest in the company. Because they all thought the internet was a fad. It wasn't gonna last. Yeah, it lasted and you're not getting rid of it now. But do you think that do you think he let that discourage him to the point that he stopped? He could have been part of the crowd and just said, you know what, yeah, they're right. This isn't gonna go anywhere. I'm just gonna back off and not do anything. He was willing to stand out. He got the worldly blessings for it. He got the money for it. Elisha was willing to stand out and he got the blessings of God in his life. I'm sorry, but that's more important than what Beasles ever had. And let's be willing to stand out from others and to stand out for the cause of Christ. Be willing to do something for Him in our lives today. Be willing to do something for Him in our lives this week. This is a great week to do it. Missions conference. I love these. You know why? Because you get to hear from missionaries and all the blessings that God's doing in their life. Uh there I've been to I believe in the past two, three weeks, we've been to about six missions conferences. My heart's been extremely blessed. I've heard of people getting saved in the middle of the jungles of Africa. Countless numbers. I heard of one preacher, he was going to a Middle Eastern country. Where uh he's whiter than I am too. They can tell he's American. He'll most likely get his head chopped off. And when he was asked, it was so funny, it was a blessing to me. He was asked, are you afraid? Are you afraid to go over there? My first reaction would have been, yeah, you would be too, brother. Like, he looked at that fella and asked him. No, what do I have to fear? God is in it. I'm doing the will of God in my life. I know this is God's will. If it happens, it happens. I've got nothing to fear. We've gotten to see numerous people that were willing to chase the will of God in their life to do something for him, and God's working through them. And they're going to see a mighty blessing for it. That's what we all ought to do. We all ought to be in Elisha. And to chase the will of God in our life no matter what it takes. If you're here tonight and you're not saved That's the will of God in your life, to get that right with Him and to get saved. You know, the world will tell you that that's weird. You don't need to get saved. The world will tell you it's a cult. No. It's Bible. It's truth. Ignore what the world's telling you. If you're here and you're not saved, get saved tonight. If you're a Christian here and you've gotten a little too comfortable with where you're at and you're not willing to stand out anymore. You're not willing to do things for the Lord. Why don't we get that settled tonight? Why don't we be willing to stand out and do something for God tonight? I pray that decisions would be made, and I pray that Christ works through every single one of us. It's been a blessing to see what God's been able to do and what He's been doing in our lives through just this year and a half. And I could regale you a story after story of how God has met our needs above and beyond what we've asked him to do. None of it would have happened. Had I not made that decision at that little security office to stand out and start chasing the will of God. In my life. Let's start chasing the will of God in our lives today. Let's start going after those blessings. Preacher