All right, turn your Bibles to First Chronicles chapter 20. First Chronicles chapter 20. We want to look tonight. I'm going to preach to a message to you this evening in the time that we have that uh I I don't expect to be here long, uh, but the title of the message is Staying in the Battle. Staying in the Battle. I want to encourage you in this fight that we're in, in the struggle that we face as Christians, we at times get weary in well-doing. We're exhorted and encouraged not to do so But I think we all, if we're honest, would admit there's days that we're tired, there's days that we're weary, there's times when the battle has waxed long and we feel like throwing in the towel But I want to exhort you and encourage you tonight to stay in the battle. Look with you if we would at 1 Chronicles chapter 20. Follow along as I read these first. Uh well, we're going to begin in verse number four, reading down through verse number eight, chapter twenty, verse four through eight. And it came to pass after this that there arose war at Geezer with the Philistines. At which time Sibekai, the Heshipites, flew Scipii, that was the children of the giants, and they were subdued And there was war again when the Philistines, Elihan, the son of Jar, slew Limi, the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spear staff was like a weaver's beam And yet again there was war at Gath, where was a man of great stature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty-six in each hand, and six on each foot, and he also was the son of the giant. But when he defied Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shemiah David's brother, slew him These were born unto the giant in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants. There's an old song. I don't know how old it is, but I was probably Lucas' age when I heard it the first time. We had an old evangelist that would come to the church. He was given the title of the singing sheriff. He was kind of a western guy and he He wore a big cowboy hat and cowboy boots and he slung a g slung a gun. I'm sure he's home with the Lord now because he was up in years at that when I was that age. But uh I remember him singing in church one day, the old song Run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to stay. Now when I fell down, I'm gonna get up again because I didn't start out to play. It's a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room. It's a fight and not a game. Run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to say. The Christian life is a battlefield. And in the verses in which we just read, we see that there was some extended family To that giant that David slew. You remember David killed the giant. He won the victory. The battle was the Lord's. They they took it. It should have been done, right? How many of you understand that just because you want a battle, the war's not over? That first verse of that song says, Now the champion he marched for forty days, crying, Send me a man to fight. But the Israelites said, I've got great heart, but my feet are full of fright. The boy with the sling and a pocket full of rocks. He had to trust and pray. Said, if you're gonna run Goliath, then you better go now, because I came here to stay. David went into the battle ready to fight, and God gave him the victory over Goliath. But we see in our text here, if you paid attention, that the repetition of the there was Not one or two or three, but there was a whole bunch of them old giants that needed to be defeated. I mean David thought when he won the battle that, hey, the giant's dead, we've got this now. The battle's won We are victors, we're on the winning side, and we're all done. And then came some other giants Like how many of you are there? You guys are coming out of the woodwork now. Here's another one. You'll see that it says there in verse 4, verse 5, and verse 6 that there was war again. And then again there was war. War came. And then again there was war. You understand that when we go through a battle and we might fight long and hard and we see a victory That that's not the end. That there is another battle down the road to fight. There is another struggle that we're going to face. We see that the Philistines came again in verse 4, verse 5, and verse 6. Beloved, the enemy just keeps on coming. The enemy doesn't give up. The enemy doesn't let back. The enemy doesn't stop pushing. So we have got to stay in the battle. The giants just keep fighting. Listen, if you read through the Old Testament, you're going to find that much of the Old Testament is quite literally a recital Of the battles that were fought. Of the wars that were faced. And some of those were wars which God inflicted upon his people in judgment because they didn't respond to him. Some of those are wars that they had to face because they had land that they were supposed to conquer for God and uh they were supposed to go and win and fight this battle to get this ground for God. And we as Christians faced both those kinds of battles Sometimes we face battles because we're hard-headed and we're not doing what God wants us to do. And God has to send that chastising hand by To give us a little bit of discipline, to face a little bit of struggle, so we'll look back up and say, okay, Lord, mercy. Amen. Mercy. I'm ready to respond to you But sometimes there's battles that we gotta fight just to gain some ground for God. Because this old world's got too much of it. Amen. Let's start getting some ground back for our Lord and Savior. You read the Old Testament, you'll find, you'll begin to see a God who's called the captain of the host. He is the Lord of the mighty army, and he leads as the army goes forth into battle. Beloved, you and I have signed up. We've enlisted in the Army of the Lord. As soldiers in the Army of the Lord, that we are in a battle. We know that ultimately the battle is the Lord's and ultimately we're on the winning side. But between now and then, we've got to continue to fight. We've got to continue to push forward. We can't be willing to throw in the towel or sit back or relax because there's a battle that has to be fought and the victor needs to be our Lord and Savior. We can't let Satan and the devil's crowd and the old backslidden Christians have any more ground because we've got to stand up for God and what is right. We've got to be willing to fight for the Lord. We've signed up, we've enlisted, and we are soldiers of the cross today. The struggle for truth and righteousness is real, and it's never going to end. Hey, the army of the Lord is one from which there is no discharge, there is no retirement, and there is no layoffs. You're in the army of the Lord, you've signed up, you were part of this army, and you are in it until he calls you home or till he comes again. Staying in the battle. There's a couple things in staying in the battle that you need to do. First of all, you need to continue to read the orders. We've got to keep finding the ground that God wants us to gain for him. We've got to know what it is that he requires. We've got to know what the captain of the host is leading us to do and his orders are given to us. We've got to stay in the book and read the Bible and be faithful in our committing these things to memory and following after and pursuing and studying to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. If we're staying in the paddle in the battle, we've got to report for duty. That means we've got to be in God's house when the doors are open and be a part of God's family and serving and being part of the uh reporting for duty. I'm here to do what's needed. I'm here to serve. I'm here to work. I'm here to do something for Christ in the cause of our Lord and Savior. I want to make a difference in this world before my time is done. I'm reporting for duty. We've got to be reporting for duty, ready to do something for our Lord. Reading orders, reporting for duty, we also got to be out recruiting. Because we need some more laborers in the harvest, amen. We gotta be recruiting. There's a lost and dying world out there. They're sinners and they don't know the difference between the direction they're headed and the direction that God wants to take them. They don't know how to get from an eternity in hell to an eternity in heaven They might know about Jesus, but how do they accept him as their Lord and Savior? How do they have forgiveness of that sin and give their heart and life to Jesus Christ? We've got to be recruiting. Enlisting to more people into this battle. Well that hey, the night cometh when no man can work. The harvest is plentious, but the labors are few. Are you actively recruiting for our bat for our battle? And we've got to be rescuing. Some who've fallen by the wayside. Sometimes there's a brother or sister in Christ who Has gotten weary, who has found it hard, who's decided to sit out. They've been wounded in the battle, but we've got to rescue them We can't let Satan have him back. We can't let the world take him out of out of. We've got to rescue them and get them back into it There are far too many people today in our churches warming up the pews, but they're have long since checked out of the battle. They've decided they're gonna let somebody else fight this one. They're gonna give it to the next guy. They might feel as though they don't have it in them anymore, or for whatever reason, they've determined to step out of the battle. They've set down their sword, they've hung up their shield, they've discarded their army. But we need to Realize we're in a battle. And we've got to keep on fighting. Some might feel life is too busy and my days are too long, I don't have time to Get in this fight for God. Some might feel like their time is too short and their finances are too short. They don't have the means or the capacity to get in the battle for God. Some might feel that they've already served their tour of duty. and somebody else needs to pick up. I agree, other people need to pick up, but we've got to keep on going too. We've got to keep on going too Whatever the reason for getting out of the battle tonight, I want to exhort you, I want to encourage you, I want to remind you that it's not a harmless action It's not a little thing that you can just decide to do without any uh ramifications. You can't just say, oh well, I'm gonna sit this one out. Oftentimes uh when you You may be playing a pickup game of basketball or something and you're playing a game and you know, especially when you get my age, you you after Two or three times down the court, you're ready to tag team somebody else. Okay, you run a couple times. I'm gonna sit this one out. You you get the next couple points. You know, you can do that and it doesn't really matter But in this thing of the battle for the Lord, you can't just check out. You can't just say, I'm going to sit on the sidelines for a little while because I've done my part or uh it's too hard for me. There's ramifications that come. First of all, I want you to understand that you give place to the devil when you check out. You give place to the devil, and very likely you're going to fall into sin You remember this defeater of giants? Look at verse number one of this chapter. Verse number one, you see here it says, And it came to pass that after the year was expired, at the time that kings go out to battle. Do you recognize that phrase? Do you me recognize that story? It's quoting Samuel. Now the chronicle here has determined, for whatever reason, to leave out some of the less glamorous things about this man at this stage. But this is David. The defeater of giants, the one who was in the battle. But let's read that passage in 2 Samuel and see what it says. 2 Samuel chapter number 11. And it came to pass, after the year was expired, at a time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, and they destroyed the children of Ammon. And besieged Rabbah, but David tarried still at Jerusalem. You see, David checked out of the battle. David said, I'm gonna sit this one out. I'm just gonna stay back for right now. You guys go ahead. After all, I'm the king and I've earned the right for this. But in verse number two it says, And it came to pass in an evening tide that David arose from off his bed. He walked upon the roof of his king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself And the woman was very beautiful to look upon. Satan checked Satan checked out David. But David checked out of the battle and Satan got him. You see, we can't just decide to put down our sword or to hang up our shield for right now and think everything is going to be okay because When we check out of the battle, we give place to the devil, we open ourselves up for Satan to come in and attack. David may have felt he had earned the right to sit back after winning such a major victory for God and his people But when you and I are not where we're supposed to be, we give place to the devil. Beloved, if you're not in a fight with Satan, it's because you're following Satan. If you're not in a fight with Satan, it's because you're following Satan. I mean you tell me you think Satan gave up? You think you think Satan just decided, well Uh Pastor Derek seems tired. I'm not going to bother him this week. You think Satan decided that for any one of us here? For any no, Satan didn't. He's going to keep on coming. The enemy's going to keep on fighting. So if you're not in a fight, better check who it is you're following. If you're not in a conflict, it's because you've become a casualty. Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. Demas left the battle because he loved this world. Because he loved this world too much. You know, beloved, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may approve that which is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. You will not be conformed to and you will not fall in love with something that you're fighting against. I've never had the burden to be called into uh military service and and and go fight in in a battle in a foreign country and and and take that kind of Uh war I mean I remember when nine eleven hit. I went to Pastor Hanks and I said, I wanna go. We were teaching in school. Were you on staff at that time, right? Nine eleven. We were all in the classrooms and that hit. Oh my goodness. Servant as assistant pastor. Said somebody needs to fight for our country. I've never been called into that kind of service, but here's what I know from talking to people that do, that have fought. There is no love loss between them and the enemy. Matter of fact, the longer they're fighting the enemy, the more they despise the enemy The more fed up they are, the more they are just ready to be done with the enemy. And beloved, if you haven't reached that point with Satan and the the your your sinful self and and this old flesh that keeps pulling you back to where you don't want to be. And and this whole world that has a pull on you. If you haven't reached a point where you're just flat out fed up with it, then you haven't been fighting hard enough. Because the longer you're fighting against that, the more you will despise those things. The more you won't want to have anything to do with it, the more you want to take it even further and separate it from it farther. You won't be fighting to try and Have it as part of your life and justify it. You'd be saying, Man, I gotta get that junk out of my life. I'm trying to be done with that. I don't want that close to me. I want it out of here Beloved part of staying faithful to the end is just staying in the battle. I mean sometimes you're weary. Some days you fight with a little more vigor than others. Some days you feel like you just couldn't take another swing if you wanted to, but you showed up for duty. That's what you gotta do. Part of just being faithful to the end is even when you're weary, you just stay in the battle. Just go, because man, you don't want to give place to the devil. You don't want to be taken out. You don't want to fall into sin. When you get out of the battle, you lose the ground that you had once held and gained for God. You start to lose that. Every soldier needs a station, a place to fight. Our station is in Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Where we serve God in and through the ministries of the church here. Every soldier needs a cause. David David said, Is there not a cause? We need a cause. The cause is we serve an Almighty God who's worthy of our labor, of our love, of our service. Boy, I remember once growing up actually more than one time growing up, we were playing some game. We were involved in some sport and the opposing team was crushing us. We were being defeated, demolished. Humiliated. And I wanted to quit. And my mean father wouldn't let me quit. I remember when one time I come into the sidelines and I'm like, This is so stupid, this is a dumb game anyway. I don't know why we're And he's like, you get back in there and play. And I'm like, why? Why? Why do I need to do that? We're losing. We're gonna win anyway. He said, it's not about you It's about your teammates that are relying on you. You need to get back out there. You play as hard as you can play until the game's over. Beloved, we have got to stay in the battle, not just because we are going to end up falling in sin if we get out, but we've got to stay in the battle because it's not just about us, it's because there's fellow saints Who have been laboring and serving and working alongside us and they're looking to us and they draw strength from us. And when we fall and falter, when we get out of the battle, we may cause them to get out of the battle It's important that we stay on because of the fellow saints. You remember those ten spies? The ones who didn't want to go into the promised land. Oh Caleb and Joshua, they were ready. I'm glad I'm named after one of them and not the other ten. Amen. Hey, did those ten rascals you know God was upset at them. God said to them, And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which the Lord hath given them? Caleb and Joshua were ready to go, but there was a few that weren't, and they discouraged everybody else. We do not live unto ourselves. I can't check out of the battle. And you say we say, well, yeah, you're the pastor, obviously you can't None of us can check out of the battle without impacting others. Others are gonna be discouraged from going on. If we step out, if we say I've had enough, we've got to keep on fighting for them. One of the saddest verses in all the Bible is in Judges chapter two and verse number ten. He says, And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers, and there arose another generation after After them which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he hath done for Israel. Isn't it amazing? A generation of young people that didn't know God. Beloved, we've got to keep we've got to stay in the battle. We've got to fight because there's another generation coming along that needs to know God. They need to see us winning victories for the Lord. They need to see us gaining ground for God, gaining ground spiritually in our life, winning some victories, some battles over Some besetting sins that we've been needing to let go for a while. Our kids need to see us get victory over those things. They need to see God give the church victory over the battles that we face in this world. So that they might know God. We get tired and decide we want to quit. We're done going soul winning, we're done sacrificing, we're done serving. We're through with any type of separation. We're done studying the Word of God. We're done seeking the loss. We're done standing on the promises. We've just decided to sit on the promises. Yeah. You know what the problem is is we've forgotten. We've forgotten about all the people That helped us get to where we are. You might tonight go back into your memory and think about I know Greg can he's told me the story many times about his friend that over and over again in the weight room told him about Jesus. You might have somebody that was praying for you and laboring for you for for a long time, and then maybe they're giving you rides to church. Sunday after Sunday after Sunday, and maybe they were picking you up and then encouraging you. And then when you got discouraged, they were coming and helping you along. Oh, they were bringing you along one step at a time and finally rejoiced like Paul and his son Timothy and the faith, who now was standing on his own feet and laboring to bring others to Christ and what joy it brings to their heart But you want to check out of the battle, and you know how that'll discourage them? You might tonight think about them and need to write a thank you or say thank you to somebody for what they did to bring you to where you are today, but you know the best way you can say thank you? Stay in the battle. The best way for me to give gratitude to my mother and father who all these years have been faithful to God and encouraged and helped us Six young people to serve him is to just stay in the battle. Stay in the battle. When you forget the source. We want to get out of the battle. John sixteen thirty-three says, In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. Listen, God is our strength. He is the captain of the host. He is the leader of the army. He is the source of our strength. Are you weary? with the master. Beloved, it is only those who are still in the battle who have that support from God. You don't get to step aside, walk off the battlefield, and pretend that God is still there It's amazing. When you're in the battle, you get that peace of God, that peace that passes all understanding. I've seen it many times in in in the church house, in God's family, where people have been in the battle, they've been fighting, they're struggling, they're going through something. that you look at it and you say, unbelievable. How can they do that? But they have that peace. The peace of God. They're going through it with the help of God. And then you've got somebody that checked out of the battle a long time ago and their life is in turmoil. And you think The difference is they don't have that peace of God. When you're in the battle, you've got that peace of God. When you're in the battle, you've got the protection from God. Proverbs twenty-one, sorry, protection. You know what I meant. Protection from others for you from God. Not protection from God, you know. Proverbs 21, 31 says a horse is prepared against the day of battle, but safety is of the Lord. You can have all the strength you want, you can have all the weapons you want, you can have all the things you want, but ultimately he is the one. That protects us. He is the one that goes before us. He is the one that rages in the war for us. Our powers from God. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with winged as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Yeah. I know that's hard. Waiting on God. When you need strength for the battle, wait on God. God. Don't check out of the battle. Don't say, oh, I'm tired. I've had enough. I'm weary. This is too hard. I'm just going to get out of it. No, you see, you need strength from God. You stay in the battle and wait on Him to give you that strength. And you need purpose. One of the hardest things in life is to go through life without purpose. It's one of the biggest struggles that people in this world face They ask themselves all the time, what's it all for? What's it all about? Why are we here? What does it mean? Is this just a big rat race just because? But we have purpose in the Lord, beloved. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord for as much as ye know that your labor Is not in vain in the Lord. The labor, the work that we do, it's not in vain. There's purpose, there's reason. There's victory given to us by God. Are you staying in the battle? I exhort you to keep reading the orders. Could I encourage you to report for duty? Could I try and just push you maybe to to get get involved in recruiting some sinners? And rescuing some of the fallen. As Christians being part of the battle. Not be weary in well-doing, for in due season you shall read Keep if you faint not