The book of Acts, Acts chapter number twenty-seven is where we're going to be. A story that takes place here in the Word of God. It's one of those You know, those passages that they just draw you in. I mean it's a real life story. It's a situation that takes place and The life of Paul Our text verse from which we'll be drawing to application this evening comes from Acts 27 and verse number 31. Acts 27, verse number 31, he says, Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved. Except these abide in the ship, you cannot be saved. Back in twenty fourteen I brought a message, this thought from this text, and I challenged the church family the idea to stay in the boat. To stay in the boat. He said, Except these abide in the ship, you cannot be saved. On October third, two thousand and five, Brother Jim Morris A dear saint of God was but a few days for this world. After a strong bout with cancer, his body was on the verge of passing off into eternity. And Brother Jim Morris looked at Pastor Hanks and handed him a note and he said, Pastor Hanks, I want you to read this sometime. after I'm gone. Sometime read it to the church family after don't read it at my funeral. But sometime after I'm gone, as the Lord gives you liberty and the Lord leads you to do so, would you read it to the church? Pastor Hanks took the note. Some time later, he read this note from Jim Morris, who was in heaven. Jim Morris said, I'm in heaven. I'm here and I would like to gather some of the other saints of God and say to them, Look down there. Look there at that dark place. That place dark with degregation and sin. Yeah, that's Lawrence, Kansas. It's a wicked city. But in the midst of that wicked city, do you see that bright light there? That one shining right over there? Yes, that's Heritage Baptist Church. You see, they're still going soul-winning. They're still sending out missionaries. They're still storming the gates of hell and still teaching sound doctrine. You sure can see that Satan is attacking them. Demonic forces are raging against them on every side, but yet it still stands, uncompromised, unafraid, and undefeated. When I was on earth, it was my privilege to be part of that church. And I praise his holy name again for this church that was uncompromising, unafraid, and undefeated. Pastor, tell the people to stay in the boat. Tell the people to stay In the boat. Jim was a man that had a real desire, a real I mean really had a heart for missions. It was the highlight of his year was missions conference. Reaching souls and and sending the gospel around the world and him and his dear wife are faithful to the church there. But as he looked at it from the standpoint of what could I tell the church family and I'm I'm passing off the scene and my time here on earth is just about done, I want to give a note to those that are still here and and what would it be in what he said is Stay in the boat. What Brother Morris was talking about is stay in the church. Stay in church. Now in this text, we'll read and get a little bit more of the story and the background of what takes place here, but the Lord had given some spiritual discernment, some insight to Paul. concerning this storm and concerning them traveling and and what was going to happen and he said, Hey, ultimately, right now in this situation, what we need to do is stay in the boat. If you stay in the boat, you'll be saved If you get out of the boat, you won't. I know it looks tempetuous. I know things look bad. I know that there's a struggle. I know things are hard. But stay in the boat. Back in twenty fourteen, when I gave this thought the first time, we were in a storm. As a church, things were as tempestuous as I had ever seen in my life. Some of the hardest days that I went through. But I praised God for the church family that are here and those that stayed in the boat. You don't know what you do for me as a pastor? You may think about yourself as I'm just a church member or I just come and I'm just here for this or that or I I really don't do that much, but I want you to understand that each and every one of you are valued and you're a part of the church and You you literally as Aaron and Hur held up the hands of Moses as people of God, you do that for me. As a part of the church, you think, oh, well, I I'm not that important, or I don't make that much difference. It doesn't really matter. But you do matter. This pastor loves you. This pastor is grateful for every one of you that stood by and stayed faithful all these years. That walked with us through that struggle and the burdens that we carried in the following years. A court case that we thought was never going to end. But you stayed in the boat. I'm grateful. You are important. I think about Brother and sister Maramba God moved him to Texas Brad's mom and dad And uh he took us to lunch on Sunday afternoon. He said, Hey, you want to take you to lunch, Pastor? And I said, Oh, that's awesome. I like lunch. So we went and sat down at this nice place and we were over at Papa's. Sat down and were enjoying a nice meal. Wilby looks at me and he says, Pastor, I want you to know that we're moving to Texas. And I started to cry. I c I couldn't eat. I was trying to keep it I was trying to just but I couldn't. It was heartbroken. He looked at me and he said, I didn't think it was going to be that big a deal. I said, brother, you're one of the family. You're one of God's church. You're one of the members here. You're one part of this flock. So how could it not be a big deal that you're just you're gonna be leaving? Said you gotta do what God wants you to do, but you gotta understand it breaks my heart And hunt for you and I I I want what's best for you and you do what God wants you to do and uh not against you at all. I said, I want you to know you're loved. And we're gonna miss you. I just remember how shocked he was that it mattered that he was leaving And maybe I'm not real good at showing how much I value you. How much I value those that have stuck by this stuff and that are here with us day by day, week by week. That you're here doing the job that God has called you to do and you're fulfilling your ministry, whatever that is It takes all of us doing what we do to make a church service come off. Everybody fulfilling their role. Everybody serving. And when everybody's doing their job and the the the church is moving forward how it's supposed to, man, there's joy in that. I just want to say thank you to the church tonight for staying in the boat. For continuing to do what God has called you to do. I know there's times that the s seas are tempetuous. I know there's times we we look at it and Say, I don't know if I should do this, or I don't know if if I should stay or if I should if this is really what God wants for me or whatever, but I just want to tell you tonight, thank you for staying in a boat As we see in this text, if you back up to chapter uh well, verse number nine of chapter twenty-seven. I have an outline written in my Bible here. I'm not sure if I came up with it or if I got it. I had a Bible teacher in college that he would just be teaching and he would he would throw out outlines in the middle of his teaching. He's like teaching and he's in a text and he'll say, here's an outline for you preachers. And he'll he would throw out an outline. And it had nothing to do with his notes, but he would be teaching through a text and he would throw out an eye line outline for us. So I have an outline written here that you'll see in verse number four the contrary winds that were there. And then you see in verse number 9 the compassionate watchman. Then you see in verse number 12 the commodious winter. And then the comfortable wind in verse number 13, the casting out of weight in verse number 19, the companions in 24, and the commission to wait in 31. We see the committed workers in verse number 40 and the completed work in 44. We're not going to read all 44 verses here, but I want you to see beginning in verse number 9, he says, Now when much time was spent And when sailing was now dangerous because the fast was now already passed, Paul admonished them, and he said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading of the ship, but also of our lives. Nevertheless, the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship more than those things which were spoken by Paul And because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more part advised to depart thence also, if by any means they might attain to Phoenicia, and there to winter which is the haven of Crete that lieth towards the southwest and the northwest, and when the south wind blew softly supposing that they had obtained their purpose, loosening thence they sailed close by Crete. But dot not long after there rose great against a a tempetuous wind called Euryclyton. They wrestle and struggle with the ship and deal with many aspects of trying to survive and jump down to verse number 21. But after long absence, Paul stood forth in the midst of them, and he said, Sirs, you should have hearkened unto me. and not have loose from Crete, and to have gained this harm and loss. And now I exhort you to be of good cheer, for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you, but of the ship. For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am and whom I serve, saying, Fear not, Paul, thou must be brought before Caesar, and lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee. Don't you like it when somebody tells you I told you so? Paul Paul stands up and he says, See, I told you you shouldn't have done this. Why is it so hard not to say I told you so? Like when you told somebody and then if they they get in, you know, your kids, they do something and you go you're like, didn't I tell you that was gonna happen? Yeah. Now you gotta deal with it, right? I told you that was gonna happen. It's hard not to say I told you so. Of course Paul does this here under the inspiration of the scripture, of the Holy Spirit, not not just to be vindictive or to prove a point. Paul he uh says I you should have listened to me. God gave Paul The 276 souls that are on that ship, they survived and lived because of God's plan for his life. Beloved, you and I need to be sure we don't step outside of God's protection. God's protection. Paul was God was protecting Paul. And those that were on that ship were saved because of that. By application, can I say to you, you could be the savior of your family? If you are walking with God and living right and doing what God wants you to do and God has a plan or a purpose for your life, your family could be blessed because of you. That certainly applies to mom and dad. We would say, yeah, mom and dad, we need to be right to preserve and protect our family. Amen. But do you know what, kids? It can apply to you. You could get a hold of God in such a way and let God lead and direct your life in such a way that God would bless your family. Because of what you're doing. Wow. What a what a privilege. What a privilege. 25 through 32 in this passage, you see there's fourteen days that pass through the storm and They wanted to let down boats and they wanted to go and get to a country that they're tired of being on this ocean and thinking their life was going to be lost. Paul says to them, you've got to stay in the ship if you want to be saved. And beloved is certainly just a means of application, but we could talk about the boat as the house of God. And I've said it before and I'll continue to say it. As long as you're alive, just purpose in your heart to stay in the house of God. To stay in God's house, because that's where even when things get bad or even when your heart gets cold or even when God stops speaking to you you you you think of yourself Uh man, uh it's not impacting me the way it used to. And you and you if you get out of the boat, for one, you're outside of God's protection. But also you are not in the place where God can speak to you. Where God can continue could get a hold of you again. Could bring revival to your heart. He could do this for you It's important for you to be in a good Bible preaching church. You know, the fact of the matter is that you follow what you're tied to. There was two hunters that were out hunting and they came upon a piece of property they wanted to hunt in and uh they saw this farmhouse and w an old dilapidated building and several barns that were looked like they were about ready to fall down and they walked up onto this property and there was nobody around and they they thought well maybe it was abandoned. The only thing that made him think it possibly wasn't abandoned was the fact that there was a couple of chickens, you know, walking around and helping themselves and and there was there was one goat in the yard wandering around. So they thought, well somebody's got to be here. So they were looking for people and while they're wandering around the property there, they saw this old well. When they looked down this old well and they thought, well wonder wonder how deep this well is So they they reached down on the ground and picked up a little stone and dropped it in and uh there was no they couldn't hear anything. They thought, well that's not big enough. We need something bigger to hear the splash and find out what how deep the well is. They look around There wasn't anything real close except uh part of a transmission of a car. They thought, well, let's throw that in there. So they they together they grab this transmission and they go over and they throw it in a well And they're they're listening, they're like, man, that's a deep well. And they turn around. When they turn around, this goat is charging at them full head on. I mean this goat is just coming at 'em. They jump out of the way and the goat goes right past them and right into the well. They start leaving the property there and they see the farmer coming home. They stop the farmer and ask about hunting on the property. He says, Oh sure, no problem. And they're about to leave and the farmer says, Hey, have you seen my goat? And he says, Well, yeah, it's that that goat is crazy. That goat charged right at us. You ought to have that goat tied up. And the farmer says, well, I thought I tied him up to that transmission. You see, the fact is is you're going to follow what you're tied to. You're gonna follow what you're tied to. And if you're in a weak church, if you're in a church that doesn't preach the Bible, doesn't preach reaching out and soul winning I've already taken criticism for pushing the church to uh pass out tracts. You have come and told me we shouldn't be doing that. It's the world we live in. But do you know what? If you're not in a place that's pushing you to do that, you're gonna follow what you're tied to. You need to get in a place that's challenging you as a Christian and motivating you to do more for God and to be more for God and striving to to try and encourage and help you. Because if you get into a place that doesn't challenge you spiritually, that's what you'll be. You'll be like where you're at. We see Paul's admonishment to him there in verse number nine. He says, now when much time was spent and when the sailing was now dangerous, because the fast was now already passed, Paul admonished them. Paul told them, hey. That that word there, um Weirsby says that the word perceived in the text means to perceive from past experience. You know, Paul had been shipwrecked several times. Paul had learned a thing or two about sailing in these waters. And he said, I perceive that this is a bad time to go sailing. I don't think we should do this. But they didn't want to listen to him. The admonishment, friend, is to listen to spiritual leadership. Listen to spiritual leadership in your life that's encouraging you or challenging you or telling you the direction that you should go. They should have listened to Paul. Paul told them what they should have done and they didn't want to hearken to that. It was not commodious to winter in there. They wanted a more comfortable place to winter. So beloved, they allowed circumstances and they allowed other people to dictate what they were going to do instead of God dictating what they were going to do. You see, you've got to be led by God. Do what God wants you to do. Following God, not circumstances. You know, circumstances they can get rough. And many times we don't like this the situation we're in, the circumstances we're in. But that's not what gives leads us. God's will is not directed by the circumstances. What God wants you to do and and the steps you should take should be directed. And many times, you know, there's safety in a multitude of counselors. You need to have some spiritual leadership in your life. You know, Gehazi should have listened when Elisha said, hey, we don't want to take that money. That's not what God wants right now. But he didn't. Men should have h heeded and listened when Noah stood up and said there's going to be a flood. But they didn't. We need to listen to spiritual leadership. You need to stay in the boat. That's where God's protection is. I think it just what brings this to mind. I hope it's okay to say it, but I I look back and I see Brother Greg. And one of the greatest joys of his life is that his son Ben trusted Christ as his Savior. Prayed with Greg and for Ben for several years. I think about it and think, but what w would Ben be safe today, Greg, if You got out of the boat. You see, it's not just about us, it's not just what we think, it's the impact that we have on others when we continue to be faithful. And God uses that. And we get to see fruit and we get to see results like that. But they don't necessarily come in our time or when we want to. But We need to stay in the boat so that the possibility is there. We stay in the boat so we can continue to be fed. We see their appetite in verse number 34. He says, wherefore I pray you to take some meat. This is for your health, for they shall not an hair, for there shall not a hair fall from your head, if any of any of you. When you're in the boat, you still need you still need meat You still need to eat. You still need to have sustenance. You need to be nourished spiritually. And we've dealt with this and talked about it in recent days, but our personal walk with God is of utmost importance. It's not just the church. It's not just Sunday morning. It's not just uh Sunday night. It's a personal walk with God, a personal relationship, being fed personally. I remember when Dr. Keller was sick, he reached a place where he wasn't eating anymore And they said, hey, if you don't eat, you're you're gonna die. I mean very very soon. I mean you stop eating And they were very concerned about it, so they had some type of a pill that actually was an appetite stimulant. And so they gave him this pill and it stimulated, he just had no appetite. He just said, I'm not hungry. Why should I eat? I'm not hungry. They said, you need some food, man. You can't, just because you're not hungry, you still need to eat But he just wouldn't he says I'm not hungry so I'm not gonna eat so they gave him this appetite stimulant and it stimulated his appetite. He started eating again and he started getting some strength again and and uh lived for several more weeks after that But uh you know we need an appetite an appetite stimulant. That's what the church does for us. Being in the church, uh the preaching of the Word of God and the songs we were singing in choir practicing for these coming weeks and The message in the songs that we're practicing for the coming weeks is is just strong messages, powerful truths that are that we're singing about. And as we're singing them, I'm just thinking, man, this is This is a great message. This is good spiritual nourishment. This is challenging. And you hear that and it and it challenges you. It is an appetite stimulant. You know, you guys know I like to cook. I like to to to make especially meat. Amen. Meat. I like cooking meat. And uh, you know, the first time I ever had uh a full pork loin was at work party. Brother Clay slow cooked a pork pork loin over charcoal out back. He just took a couple of rocks, uh uh uh cinder blocks and he brought a little grate from home and he had a charcoal fire under the cinder blocks and he cooked this this pork loin on there and I said, man that was good. First time I ever had one and it was then And I said, I like that. So you know what I did? I went and got some pork loin. I said, I'm gonna I'm gonna try this. You know, I'll bet you I have cooked 50, 60 Maybe a lot more than that. Pork loins by now. Could learn to cook it many different ways. You know, I I One way that I've cooked it is uh you cook bacon about uh about seventy, eighty percent and then you stuff it into the pork loin. And then you cook the pork lane. And I had the stars over, brother Randy Starr and his wife Shirley, they came to the house, and this was years ago. And uh they had it. And Miss Shirley said, man, that was delicious. She called me later, like a week or two later, and says, how do you make that? So I told her how to make it. Now she's cooked it several times. I think she referenced it in one of her books. She told me she she said, I gave you an honorable mention because of your forkway. And you know, what I'm saying is that appetite was stirred in me. Because Clay did did this. I took it, developed it, used it, and the appetite was a stirred in somebody else. That's what happens as Christians when we're living how God wants us to live and people see that and you know Miss Trudy tonight saying somebody at the church said or at her work was saying, You've got a great spirit. They they recognize that They said there's something there that maybe I need. And that appetite for that, you know what? There's an interest there. And maybe that person will come to church and if they're not saved, they'll get saved. But that's what church does for us. It builds an appetite in us for the things of God. We see the anchor in verse number 40 And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves into the sea, and loosed the rudders and the bands, and hoisted up the mainsails to the wind. and made towards the shore. They pulled up the anchor and they set sail. They let the sails fill with the wind. You know, oftentimes in the Word of God, the Spirit of God is likened to wind. That wind pushed them. That wind got them to where they needed to go. They committed themselves to it. They let the wind carry them. Christian, you and I need to let the Spirit of God Lead us. We need to give ourselves fully to the Spirit and to His leading in our life. If you yield to the Spirit, he'll he'll direct you. It seems to be coming up more and more. I think maybe I'll do a study on the Spirit. On the Holy Spirit. But the Spirit of God, as long as you're not grieving the Spirit, He will direct you. If you grieve the Spirit, He's not going to fill your sails. To grieve the Spirit is to sin against Christ, to sin against God, and the Holy Spirit is grieved by that. Like your spirit as an individual can be grieved. When somebody does something against you or or hurtful towards you, you know, you're not real excited about maybe spending time with them or about discussing with them or what because your spirit's grieved. Well, we can grieve the Holy Spirit. When we're not living holy lives. But what a privilege to have the Holy Spirit directing us, leading us in our lives. Could you yield to the Holy Spirit today? Let God lead you. Let God give you some divine appointments. As we as a church this year are trying to pass out these tracts, I believe there's opportunity for some real divine appointments. More and more I'm challenged on this idea of really just yielding to the spirit. And I I'm sad to say I think I fail in this area a lot. So I feel the Holy Spirit prompting me to do things and many times I I don't yield, I don't do it But more and more I'm seeing the need for it, even just something small where the Holy Spirit will say to me, You need to text this person. You need to just text this person a verse. Text this person something. You need to you need to give this person a call or send a note to this person. And I'm like, yeah, you're right, Lord, I should do that, and then I don't do it. You know, I really missed an opportunity. We need to yield to the Spirit of God in our lives. And when we do, we'll see God do some great things. Really, tonight I'm just thankful to the church family for those that have stayed in the boat, for those that are here with us. I want you to know that you are valued. You are important. You do give strength to this pastor to continue to do what God's called us to do and to push forward. And I I'm probably not the greatest at finding ways to express or to show that, but I want you to know you're appreciated. And that you mean the world to me. And I count it a privilege to pastor this church and to pastor you as God's people. And uh I just want to say thank you. I praise God for the victories and the stuff that He's brought us through in these past years. And we couldn't have done it without some faithful people. Some of God's church family just being faithful, just hanging in there with me as I I know I've grown a lot over the last few years. And your patience with me through that time. You know, I'm just a sinner saved by grace like you. Sometimes I open mouth and insert foot. You know, sometimes I do st stupid stuff. Thanks for having grace with me. For letting me lead. Thanks for sticking by this stuff. I guess could I just encourage as a church, let's let's keep on. Amen.