Leviticus, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, chapter number 10. You know, the Old Testament is of great value to the believer today. I hope that you as somebody that's attending and uh here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church that you realize that, that you're not of the mindset that many are today, uh that the Old Testament is a bygone uh uh portion of the scripture and no longer applicable to us, something that we do not need. Uh there are those that would even go on to say that much of the New Testament is is irrelevant and not for us, that only the words of Jesus Only the things in the Word of God that are in red are what are pertinent for us. And I want you to understand that all Scripture is profitable All scripture is profitable. The Bible tells us in Romans chapter 15 and verse number four, for whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. The things that were written, even in the Old Testament, were written for our learning. There are some things with regards to the Levitical law that uh don't apply to us today, but the moral law certainly does, and there's lots from the Word of God that we can glean even the Old Testament that is applicable, does help us, does guide us, uh and uh not to mention the least of those, you know, uh How about the Ten Commandments? Uh certainly uh applicable uh for us today. Corinthians chapter ten and verse number eleven says, Now all these things happened unto them for an en samples And they are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come. These are written as an example for us. They're written for our admonition so we could learn and grow even though it's Old Testament. Now this morning we're in the book of Leviticus And you should be in chapter number 10, in verse number 1. This is the main portion of our text this morning. Chapter 10 and verse number 1 says, And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censor. and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he commanded them not Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning. We ask you that you would guide and direct through the service, that you would speak to our hearts. Lord, that you would open up unto us an understanding of this passage of scripture and apply it to our lives. In the day and age in which we live, that we may uh be admonished, that we may be uh that we may learn from the this passage of scripture, and it would impact our life even today, these many thousands of years later from when we're gonna be able to do that. It was penned and Lord, we're we're grateful. Masteries in Jesus' name. Amen. This book of Leviticus, one of those books without many stories. You know, you you look at uh some of you don't maybe you like me and you don't like to read books that don't have pictures You know, you uh just a whole bunch of words. Uh you know, uh this is a book without a lot of pictures, Leviticus. It's one of those harder books. The book of Leviticus, the title, the name comes from the Levites The tribe of Levi, which served as the priest. This was you might call a SOP manual, standard operating procedure. for the Levites, for the tribe of Levi, and for what they were supposed to do with regards to the administration of the office of the priest What their responsibilities were, how they were supposed to offer sacrifices, in what course of events were supposed to take place, when they were supposed to, how every detail was given to them, laid out for them very clearly. Even though there's not a lot of stories in this book, today we're going to look at one story that's found in this book: a story about the sons of Aaron, Nadab and Abayu. Nadab and a bayu. Let's get a portion of the context of this. Why don't you back up in Chapter number nine, the text comes from verse number one there. I'm going to preach this morning with on a message entitled Strange Fire. Strange fire. But let's get the context of it. Turn back to chapter 9 and verse number 22 and follow along with me as we read through the beginning part of chapter number 10. And Aaron lifted up his hand toward the people and blessed them, and came down from offering of the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offering. And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation and came out and blessed the people. And the glory of the Lord appeared unto all the people. And there came a fire out from before the Lord, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat, which when all the people saw, they shouted and fell on their faces. Aaron and Moses and the priest had done exactly as God had commanded, had prepared and presented unto him the sacrifices according to his plan, and God had showed him His glory came down and consumed the altar that was offered, the sacrifice that was offered there on the altar. God's presence was seen, and God's people bowed in awe Of God and His power and in His presence. Then in chapter number 10 and verse number 1, and Nadab and Abiyu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censer and put fire thereon. And put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he commanded them not. And there went out fire from the Lord and devoured them. And they died before the Lord. Then Moses said to Aaron, This is it that the Lord spake, saying, There's two I wills in this passage of Scripture. It might be worthy to underline these, but he says, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh me. And before all the people, I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace, and Moses called Mishel. And Elspan, the son of Uzal, the uncle of Aaron, and said unto them, Carry near, carry your brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp. So they went near and carried them in their coach out of the camp, as Moses had said. And Moses said unto Aaron and unto Eliezer and to Ithmar his sons, Uncover not your heads, neither rend your clothes, lest ye die. Lest wrath come upon all the people. But let your brethren, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which the Lord hath kindled. And ye shall not go out from the door of the tabernacle of the congregation Lest ye die, for the anointing of oil of the Lord is upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses I give you one main thought this morning, divide it up into a couple of points, but I want you to see as we look at this story of Nadab and Abiyu, and how they offered strange fire. They offered strange fire to God. First of all, I want you to be aware of and realize the importance of the position that these men held. These men were very important and played a very important role in the life of the children of Israel. Aaron, of course, was the high priest. And he served as a leader, and his sons served with him. Now Aaron is the high priest, is a picture of Jesus Christ, and the other priest that served with him. are a picture of us. I'm going to expound on that a little bit more as we go on, but let me give you some of the background here. Chapter 8, verses 1 through 9, you see the vestments of the peat of the priest given. They were told exactly what they were supposed to be wearing and how they were supposed to do it. They were anointed in chapter 8, verses 10 through 13. Their sacrifices were instructed and done in 8 14 through 21. They were ordained into doing this work in chapters 8. Verse 22 to 36. And they began their priestly duties in the beginning of chapter number 9. At the close of chapter number 9 and verse number 24, we saw that the glory of God was shown. God came in. And his fire came and uh consumed and burned up the offering that they had offered there as a sacrifice unto God. God sent his fire from heaven. You know when you do what you're supposed to do? God will do the rest. They did it exactly as how God told them to do it. They had prepared everything. And brethren, church, family. When we gather in God's house, when we've prepared our hearts, when we've uh confessed our sin, when we've gathered in God's house to hear the preaching of the Word of God and come prepared, ready to do so. We gather in, we sit down, and God's presence can be seen. God's fire came down from heaven and it was visible to all those that were there. And when they saw the presence of God, the visible presence of God, the people bowed themselves in awe. At the awesome power of an almighty God. You see For several weeks I've been planning for this morning to preach this message on strange fire. I had in my plans I was going to have a fire out front all morning. It was going to be out there burning. It's going to have a bonfire out front when you came in this morning. And uh that was going to represent the brazen altar. When you came into the tabernacle, there first thing you approached was the brazen altar where the sacrifices were made. God came and lit the fire, the brazen altar, God is the one that lit the fire, and it was the duty of the priest to keep that fire burning. They were supposed to keep that fire burning. They were supposed to keep hot coals in that fire all the time. Then you pass through into the tabernacle, and in the tabernacle there's the table of showbread, and there's the uh representation, a picture of the Word of God, then there's the uh Candles, which is representation of the Holy Spirit of God, and then there's the altar of incense, a representation of the prayers of the saints. Well, the priests were supposed to go out to the brazen altar, this fire that was lit by God. It was God's fire, not man's fire It was God's fire, and the priests were supposed to go to the brazen altar. They were supposed to take their censor and lift from God's fire these hot coals. And bring them in to the altar of incense and place them there on the altar of incense. It was supposed to be God's fire that was taken from there and placed here. In our story this morning of Nadab and Abayu, what Nadab and Abiyu decided was, well, you know what? It's raining outside. I don't feel like going out there and getting from that fire. I've got my own fire. And they decided to just light their own match. To rub their own sticks together. I'm not sure how they lit their fire, but they started their own fire. They did it their own way. God had instructed them and told them what they were supposed to do, but they offered what the Bible calls strange fire. You know, by the way, God lights a fire in you when you're saved by the blood of the Lamb. And it is our job as believers to keep the fire burning. It's our job to keep the coals hot. It's our job to tend that fire by staying in the Word of God and following the Spirit of God and staying under the preaching of the Word of God and keeping the fire hot so God can use us. We're supposed to take the hot coals from the brazen altar, just as God commanded. Immediately we see in this story they go from triumph to tragedy. God came in his presence was seen in a mighty way. He burned up and consumed the fire that was there. God sent his fire as a sign of his presence and his blessing on them and consumed and took their offering there on the altar. But then that was in verse number 24 of chapter 9. And in chapter 10 and verse number 1, Nadab and Abayu thought, oh well, I know what I'm supposed to do. But I'm going to go out. I don't want to go out there and get that. I'm just going to light my own fire. We go from triumph to tragedy. Nadab and Abayu are consumed by the fire of God. They were consecrated, they were anointed, they were set apart for the Lord's service to sacrifice for the sins of God's people. They held a very important position. They disregarded their responsibilities and did what they wanted to do. They were the priest for God's people. Do you know that today we are all priests? Each and every one of you here, if you're saved by the blood of the Lamb, you're a priest. He said, I didn't know that. Well, the Bible says that you are. You see, during this time, God had men set apart for the office of priest, and they fulfilled this position. But when Jesus Christ came Shed his blood on a cross, and we, through the power of Jesus Christ, have been restored into fellowship with God. There's only one mediator between God and man, and that's the man, Christ Jesus. When Christ died on the cross, the veil that separated man from the very presence of God was rent into, and it was rent from the top to the bottom. God letting us know that He is the one that opened the veil for us, that gave us access to God. Each and every one of us can come individually into the presence of Almighty God. Sadly, there is groups and Religions that have set men up to act and serve as priest, to fulfill that position, to act as a mediator between you and God. I want you to know this morning that that's not biblical. There is no mediator between God and man except Jesus Christ. Each and every one of us are priests. What I'm saying is the importance of the position that Nadab and Abayu held You and I hold that today. Nadavan and Bayou were very, very important. You understand they were recognized. They are names like if you go anywhere in America today and you say the name Trump How many you get killed? That's very possible, Harry. That's very possible. What I'm saying is everybody recognizes that name, right? What I'm saying is it's a name that's recognized. You know in the children of Israel you went anywhere and mentioned the name Nadab in Abayu Out of those millions of people, they would have recognized their names. They held important positions. They were the sons of Aaron, the high priest. Do you know what your position, regardless of what it is, will not keep you from the judgment of God? God's still going to judge sin. Nadab and Abayu held a high position before God Almighty, and you and I today hold that position. As priests. In 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 5 through 9, I'm just going to give you a couple of verses, but you can write it down. This is a main passage that teaches what we call the priesthood of the believer, that every one of us are priests. He says Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood. We're a spiritual house. We're a holy priesthood because Jesus Christ has saved our soul and forgiven of our sins. In verse number 9, he says, but ye are chosen generation, a royal priesthood. So every one of you here this morning, you hold a very important position as a priest with the ability and the power to go to God yourself. A priest is someone who speaks to God for others. Do you speak to God for others? A prophet is someone who speaks to others about God. You and I are supposed to be both. We are priests and we are prophets. And we are supposed to be doing both. We are supposed to be talking to God. About others. And we're supposed to be talking to others about God. How are you doing? Every one of us are priests. We hold this very important position. We're supposed to be doing that. Not just Pastor Caleb, but every one of us, because we are all priest before God. All believers have the same standing before God. We all have the same access. Do you understand that I have no more right to the throne of God than you do? I have no more access to get my prayers answered than you do. Every one of us here are equal at the foot of the cross Every one of us here can go and talk to the Lord Jesus Christ ourselves. What a freedom this brings. What a religious liberty this brings. This is one of the biggest problems of the Reformation and what Martin Luther did when he nailed his 95 thesis on the walls because he was saying, hey, you don't need a priest What you need is to go to God yourself. We all have that privilege and we all hold that important position this morning. This is a birthright that's given to us by God at salvation when you are born again into the family of God. It's not earned, it's not purchased. It's something that is given to you by God because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross. Christ is a great high priest. Seeing then that we have a great high priest, Hebrews chapter 4 tells us, that is passed into the heavens. Jesus passed into the heavens. He's up there. He's at the right hand of God. He is a great high priest. But each and every one of us, as I said, Aaron was a picture of Jesus Christ as the high priest, serving as a high priest. And Nadab and Abayu and Eliezer and Ithmar, they served as priests with Aaron. We serve as priests for God. We hold a valuable position today. We hold a valuable position. It's very, very important. But I want you to see, secondly, the inappropriateness of their presentation. The inappropriateness of their presentation. Yes, they had an important position. And you and I have an important position. With that position comes a responsibility. To fulfill and do what God wants us to do in God's way. Amen? God has a way that He would have us live. It says in verse number one of chapter number 10, and Nadab and Abiyu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censor and put fire therein And put incense thereon and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he commanded them not. They knew that they weren't supposed to do that. They used their own censor, and instead of bringing coals from the brazen altar that was out there in the courtyard, they lit their own fire. They did it their way instead of God's way. And God killed them. God killed them with fire from heaven Can you imagine the pride that Aaron had as he watched his boys performing their priestly duties? Can you imagine the pride that Aaron had as he saw the his sons doing their responsibilities and serving there as a Levite is supposed to? fulfilling their their priestly duties and Aaron's watching them and he might have even been over here talking to somebody and you know of course trying not to be proudful but very proud of his sons and you know kind of yeah yeah those those are my boys Yeah, that's Nadav, and the Bible used the taller one right there. Yeah. Uh-huh. And then all of a sudden God's fire. The Bible says their bodies fell to the ground. Burned. Dead. Can you imagine the scene? Can you put yourself Your children in that place for just a second and think about that, what that would be like. Oh my goodness I think there's some here today that they can understand what just happened. But I think that the majority of us here, we look at that and we say. Man, that's harsh. Wow. God killed them? Just for offering strange, just for lighting their own fire? What's the big deal? Why does that matter so much? What's the difference? I mean you could go out there 25 feet over there and get fire, or you light it here. What's the difference? Why does it make a difference? And we begin to question God. We begin to use our own reasoning and say Well, I don't like a God like that. A God that would judge us like that for something so small? This is where people get in their mind that God is this judgmental God ready with a club to stand up in heaven and beat you over the head for stepping out of the line. But what I want you to understand is Nadab and Abayu knew what they were supposed to do. They were not sinning out of ignorance here. They knew what was right. And they didn't do it. By the way, parents, just to throw this out. When your children know what's right, they know what they're supposed to do, and they don't, you're not helping them by having mercy. You need to be more like God and punish them for doing wrong. You'll help your kids if you do that. That was free. Now, Nadab and Abayu did wrong. They were judged by God for it. And in our mind, in our sympathetic manners, we kind of look at it and think, man, I don't like a God like that that would just judge us. But I want you to understand that God is love. It is his nature to love. And God's love, he will not go against his nature. But we cannot take just the aspect of love and disregard the aspect of holiness and justice. God is also completely holy, and God is also completely just. And his love will not override his holiness or his justness. He is still perfectly just and perfectly holy, and he is still love. So God is love. And we serve a loving God. Don't think this morning that God is this mean ogre up in heaven just waiting for a chance to beat you down. That's not the case. God is love, and he instructs, and he shows, and he is provided a way. But when man deliberately disobeys God, God will judge. God will judge. Anytime we willfully, deliberately disobey God, it's not a good thing It's not acceptable. I know in our mind we like to think, oh, God will understand. After all, my situation. Are you hearing me this morning? After all, uh we just feel like well God is a God of love and and it'll be okay. But brethren, God is also a holy God, a just God. And he will not go against his holiness or against his justice to just because of his love. These boys did what they knew they were not supposed to do. In Exodus chapter 30, verse number 9. Don't turn there. Let me read it. Exodus 39 says this. And ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifices, nor meat offering, neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon. They had been told very clearly no strange incense was to be offered. But they thought, oh, it'd be okay. I'll do it my way. God is patient, he's loving, and he's merciful. Nadab and Abayu thought it was not that big a deal. After all, it's just fire. What does it matter? People try and do that today. People try and offer strange fire. God has a way. God had the fire burning at the altar of incense, a fire that he lit, and they were to take that fire. And light the altar of incense. But they didn't do that. Well, today people try and make up their own ways. Ever since Cain and Abel, people have been trying to make up their own way of bringing sacrifices to God, make up their own way to heaven. Provide their own weight of salvation. Oh, I'm going to do it this way. But God has set a way for us to get to heaven. He has showed us how to do it. God's way to heaven is you confess your sin. Every man has to realize that he is a sinner. That we stand in the need of a Savior, Jesus Christ, who is the only sinless one who ever lived. He came and lived here on earth, was crucified for our sin. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. We're all lost in our trespasses and sins. But Jesus Christ came that we might have salvation. It's not about how good you are. It's not about what church you go to. It's not about getting baptized It's not about turning over a new leaf. A lot of people can say, oh well I want to I want to get to heaven like this. I'm gonna be a good person. I'm gonna I'm gonna you know love my n you know what? Here here's one. People like to use this example, and it sounds real good, logically. Well, Pastor Caleb, you know what? There's a lot of different roads to get into Baltimore. I mean you could come in around 695, take 95 downtown, or you could come over and get on 83 and take that downtown. You could Jump in from the other I mean there's a lot of different ways and we could get downtown Baltimore. They're all ending up at the same place. The problem is we're not going to Baltimore. We're talking about that sounds real logical. I am the way. Jesus Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. It doesn't matter how logical it is, God has given us a way to get to heaven, and men try and come up with their own ways, they try and live a good life, they try and uh you know obey the Ten Commandments. They they try and give to the needy and to love people and love their neighbor as themselves. And these are all good things. I heard somebody say they'll keep you out of jail, but they won't keep you out of heaven They won't keep you out of hell. Doing good things will keep you out of jail, but they won't keep you out of hell. Only trusting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior will keep you out of a place called hell. God does love you this morning, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Amen. God loves you. He sent his own son to die for you. That's how much he loves you. But when you disregard the sacrifice of his son and say, Oh, I don't need that. I'm going to do it this way. And you light your own fire. I want you to understand. That's not going to work. And you'll be judged. And one day you'll spend an eternity in a place called hell that God doesn't want you to go to. He loves you and He wants you to spend eternity in heaven, but you've got to get there God's way. Trusting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Trusting in Him and Him alone to take you to heaven. Every man must realize, for all have sinned to come short of the glory of God, every man must realize I'm a sinner. And a man that thinks he's not a sinner is a fool. Every one of us have sinned, we've all done wrong. How can we get that sin forgiven? Do we just do it is it turning over a new leaf? You could stop doing it, but you still have that debt that has to be paid. Talked to a man yesterday, began talking to him about salvation, brother Don and I, and he said, You know what? Three months ago I quit drinking. I quit. I haven't had a drink in three months. And of course I think God put Don and I there exactly because Don went through that many, many years ago, and he was able to talk to him about that. But you know what? Quitting drinking is not going to get you to heaven. You still have a debt of sin that needs to be paid. A debt of sin that's that's before God Almighty. How do you get that debt paid? You trust Jesus Christ as you your Lord and Savior, and His shed blood on the cross. Jesus paid your debt for you. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that you're on your way to heaven, listen, don't offer strange fire. Don't try and get there your own way. Just trust Jesus today. Get there God's way. Many today want to make their own form of worship. Who? Now Pastors Medlin. You understand? Natab and Abayu were killed because they they offered their own form of worship. Today there's every single kind of form of worship you can imagine. Ever since Cain and Abel, people have been trying to come up with their own form of worship, and there's everything available today where men say this is acceptable or that's acceptable or we can have this or we can do that. Hey, it's all worship. I don't care how sincere it is. If it's not God's way, it is not accepted. It is not accepted. You may have a large group that gather together and they may stand there and and say they're worshiping God. But God in heaven does not accept it because it's strange fire. It is not his way. It's true. We've got to worship God in spirit and truth. Thank you, preaching. Amen. In His way. Not just whatever we want, call it good and demand that our God accept it. It does matter what kind of music we have in our worship services. It does matter to God. It does matter what kind of Bible we use. You can say, oh, it makes no difference what Bible we use. All the Bibles are the same. I want you to understand they're not. They're not the same. How m how many yeah, things that are different aren't the same. You realize that? If it's different, it ain't the same. They're not all the same. And you say, oh well this one's good but that one's not. I mean, why don't you just stick with the old book? Stick with the old book. You know, they they've got new Bibles coming out every year. You know, it's years ago, I think it was in the nineties, they came out with the Ibonics Bible. They have they have a street Bible, a Bible that's all built on street language. They have a gender neutral Bible. One time in Lawrence, Kansas, Pastor Hanks went to the uh group of seminary uh People there in Kansas, I don't know what they just group like a pastor's fellowship, but it was a non-denominational thing. And he he went to it one time. And that one time somebody got up to pray. And they said, Dear Mother, Father God. He's not Mother, Father God. You don't get to just change it for however you want. And I don't want to offend anybody this morning, but I want you to understand that God has a way that we're supposed to worship him. And we don't just get to make our Bible whatever we want it to be and cut out the portions we don't like and disregard the things we don't want. God has given us in his book how we are to come and come to him and to worship him. And beloved, it ought to be in our desire to do it how he wants us to do it, not to do it how we want. It should be our heart's desire to please him, not to make him be happy with what we're doing. Doesn't that make sense? He is God after all. Nadab and Abiyu were killed because they offered strange fire. I think of this, you know what? It matters what you preach. It matters who preaches. It matters how you pray and what you pray for. It matters where you worship. We were talking to a lady yesterday and she's like, oh, no, I don't go to church. I just like being out in nature. Well, Jesus Christ died and gave himself for the church, not for nature. Now he created nature, and I think we ought to look at it and be a mag uh exalt God and be magnified, and he should be lifted up for the magnificent thing that that's all around us. It's mind-boggling when you think about it. And you can you can praise God for these things, but that's not church. You know, I think of a a a great example of strange fire in the area of prayer. Is the Pharisee. You remember when the Pharisee prayed? He came and he bowed his head all piously and he said, Lord, I thank thee that I am not as other men. Especially this publican. I think that's strange fire. That's strange fire. That's not how we come to God. Beloved, when we come to God, we've got to come God's way. Lastly, let me give you this, the an uh the introduction of God's priority. I want you to see that God has to take priority in our lives. Yes, we hold an important position, but God is to take priority. Look at verse number three. Then Moses said unto Aaron, this it This is it that the Lord spake, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh me, and before all the people, I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace. Can you imagine Aaron there just saw his voice consumed? Can you imagine him turn to Moses and almost begin to say, What happened? Why what why did God And then Moses, almost as he perceived what Aaron was going to say, he looked at him and he said, This is what God said. I will be magnified, I will be glorified. Before all the people. He's saying, You're gonna do it my way, or you will be judged. God is to take priority. We read it, I'm not going to reread it, but we read it. It's mind-boggling to me when you think about this fact. Aaron and his other two sons were there serving And performing their duties as priest. God sent fire and burned up Nadab and Abayu. There they were. Everybody saw this. Moses told his uncle's sons, You gather their body up and carry them without the camp. Aaron Eliezer, Ismar, you guys, stay where you are. They could not even leave and go with their children, with his sons. They couldn't stop performing their duties as priests. He says, you better not, lest God judge you, or God judge all the people of Israel. What I'm saying is, God takes a priority in our life. Even the death of his boys didn't give Aaron the excuse to stop doing what he was doing. Do you see that in there or am I talking great? He still had to perform his duties. He said, don't uncover your head. You've been anointed with oil. Don't leave the door of the tabernacle. You have a job to do. You have a responsibility to do before God and before all the people. Let the people mourn them. Let the people bewail the fire which God did, which consumed your sons Good they will bewell them, but you have a job to do, you have a responsibility to do, and God comes first even before your family. Even before your family. And you know, I think somewhere, actually, several places in the New Testament, God said that. Unless a man hate his father and mother, his brother and sister, his own life also, he is not worthy to be my disciple. You see, beloved, these men had a position of authority. They had a responsibility to do An important job to do before God. And even family did not come before God. God came first Friend, in our lives, God's supposed to come first. I know that logically in our hearts and minds, in our sympathetic ways, we like to put family first, don't we? After all, grandma's in town only one week a year. So we're not going to put God first this Sunday. We're going to put grandma first and let God understand. Right? Beloved, if we're going to worship God his way, He is priority. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. It has to be a pattern and a way of life where we put God at preeminence and God is first and we worship and follow Him in spirit and truth the way that He wants us to. And other things in our life line up with that, not God line up with our life. That's the way it's supposed to be. The priority. So I ask you this morning, how are you doing on the priority of God in your life? Understanding that all of us hold the position of priest. We are all supposed to be carrying the message of God's love, the fire that God started in us when he saved our souls. It's our job to be carrying that and giving it to others. We're supposed to be talking to others about God. And we're supposed to be talking to God about others. Who are you praying for right now? Who are you holding up before the throne of God? Who are you carrying to the throne of grace? Are you fulfilling your duty and your responsibility as a priest? In your worship of God, or are you doing it the way God wants? Are you sticking with the old ways? Oh, I know they got a lot of newfangled methods today. But do those methods line up with God? Because God has given us a way, and God's way is the most important. And if you're here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, don't try and get to heaven your own way. God's told us how to do it, His love has provided a way. All you've got to do is accept His way. Before it's eternally too late. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed