Tonight and uh again this is just kind of a message to focus our thoughts And prepare us for the Lord's table, which we will be observing here in a few minutes. The Lord's table is a gift to the church, one of the two ordinances that the church has been blessed with, and we are uh commanded to observe and uh want to try as a church here we we try and observe the Lord's Supper about uh quarterly um you know if uh often enough that uh uh you know, you y you start to wonder when's the last time we did that or or is this uh you know when are we gonna do that again and and then hopefully it's about time. We don't wanna ever get to the place where we observe the Lord's Supper out of rote habit um you know, where we just do it every third wind Sunday of the month or something like that. I mean there are churches that have it the first Sunday of every month. There's Some churches they have it every week. It's offered in a class downstairs and if you want to observe the Lord's Supper, you just go to the class that has the Lord's Supper and you observe it that that week down there until then you can go whenever you want to. Churches do it differently. And there's nothing wrong with any of those ways. The Bible says as often as you do this, so there's not a clear command as far as how often a church is supposed to do it. I try and, you know, be sensitive to the Lord and let the Lord lead and and uh kind of whenever he starts burdening my heart about it, I look for a service that we can can incorporate it in and uh then we of course tried to back in the beginning of the year and weren't able to and uh so now we've moved it to tonight. Um just to remind you, we we well I believe in closed communion. Uh in theory, we don't necessarily police this. There's three types of commute communion as far as observances. There's open. I don't believe anybody could really make a an argument for for open communion. Uh that is anybody and everybody whoever they wants to can just come and Per take. Um I don't think that's r there's any argument for that biblically, but then there's close and there's closed. Close is Uh those that are of like faith and practice, churches that believe like you do, can partake if they happen to be like somebody who's here on vacation. and they, you know, wanted to partake in in that type of observance and there are many good churches that observe close communion. Uh as long as you're saved, baptized, and in a church of like faith, then uh go ahead. Uh and then there's those that observe clo closed. Um I believe that it's a gift given to the local New Testament church and should be observed as a family and so uh I believe in closed communion, but we don't police it if somebody who's here took it, we aren't gonna, you know, knock it out of their hand or something, you know. It's not that not anything getting too big out of shape about, just kind of telling you how what I believe as far as the teaching of the Word of God. But that's what we're going to do here in a few minutes. As we begin, I want you to look at this passage of scripture here in the book of Matthew, as I just kind of teach for a couple minutes on uh the phrase here found dealing with this strong man that's mentioned here. Look in verse number 22, Matthew chapter 12, verse number 22, and follow along as we read down through verse number 30. He says, Then was brought unto him one possessed with the devil, blind and dumb, and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb both spake and saw. And all the people were amazed and said, Is not this the son of David? But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the Prince of Devil. And Jesus knew their thoughts, and he said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand. And if Satan cast out Satan He is divided against himself. How shall then his kingdom stand? And if I, by Baalzebub, cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out Therefore, they shall be your judges. But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come unto you Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strongman? And then he will spoil his house. He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. Lord, we come to you tonight. We've got this very important observance of this ordinance that you've given to us as a church. I pray, God, that as the admonition is given to us in Corinthians, Lord, that we would be none here that would partake of this unworthily, but we would examine our own hearts. This message this evening, Lord, you know, is not uh pointing that direction. It's pointing to your son and what you did for us on the cross and how you in victorious way bound the strong man and set us free. And Lord, we just pray that you would use these thoughts and remind us of this truth in Jesus' precious name. Amen. We're looking at this passage of scripture here where a man possessed with the devil was brought to Christ. This man was possession possession was so great Uh so great was his possession that that it wasn't a physical ailment that he had that caused him to be blind. It wasn't a physical ailment that he had that caused him to be dumb as though he couldn't speak. He couldn't see and he couldn't speak because of this demonic possession that was upon him. But beloved, his paths crossed the path of Jesus And Jesus saved him and set him free. Jesus healed him of this. Now the Pharisees, of course, they didn't like that much. They tried to say this is not the work of God at all, but in fact the work of Satan in Christ in his usual way, cut right to the heart of the matter, asked them a simple question based on sound logic. And he says, hey, a house divided against itself cannot stand. So how is it that Satan could have casted out Satan? I mean that doesn't make much sense. And if he did, his house would be over anyway. So what is the the it made no sense what they were saying. He did this, he casted out Satan by the power of Satan. And of course, that logic hit home to their hearts. He did not cast out by the power of Yelzebub, but in fact by the Spirit of God. He describes what he did, how he walked right into the house. And remember, beloved, we're talking about him walking into the heart of man. We're talking about a man who was under control of a demonic possession, a man who was blind he could not see, a man who was dumb and could not speak. He was under the control of this demonic possession, and God, Jesus Christ, walked into the heart of man, bound the strong man. And set him free. Beloved, as long as the devil controlled this man, this man went and did whatever the devil wanted him to do. He was bound. He had no say. This world is is confused when they think that they're free. They're confused when they think they have liberty to just do whatever they want to do. The fact of the matter is As long as the strong man was in control of the house or the body of the man, every part of it was under control of this demonic possession. He didn't have control himself. He had to go do this. He had to go do that. Wherever Satan sent him, he went Whatever Satan told him to say, he said. Whatever Satan told him to listen to, he listened to. Whatever Satan told him to watch, he watched Satan had control of this man's life completely, entirely. This man, even of his own will, probably at times Who saw what he was doing and didn't want to do it and he tried to fight against it and he r he resisted. He thought, I I can't go down there. That's hurting me. I don't want to go down there. Yet he still went down there Over and over again, and you've seen it before where people sometimes addicted to a drug or addicted to alcohol or something in their life that literally is destroying them and they know it and they don't want to do it, they hate themselves for it, and yet they still continue to do it. They're bound by the strong man, and they need Jesus Christ to set them free. First, I want you to see tonight the condition of the patient. The condition of the patient, this man that was brought to Jesus. Are you thankful tonight for the time that somebody brought you to Jesus? Understand somebody brought you to Jesus, whether it was a Sunday school teacher or a pastor or a church or a worker or a brother or a sister or a mom or a dad But somebody took you and pointed you to the Savior of Jesus Christ so he could come. This man who was bound had a friend or a mom or a dad, somebody that cared enough what the Bible says that he was brought to Jesus. We need to be about the business of bringing people to Jesus. There's people all over this world that are bound by Satan and blinded by Satan And dumb by Satan. They don't even know what to ask for. They can't see how bad things are, but they need somebody to point them to Jesus. I'm thankful somebody pointed me to Jesus. I, of course, you know, had the privilege of growing up in a Christian home. But listen, just because I was in a Christian home doesn't mean that I wasn't on my way to the devil's hell. that I wasn't lost and undone and a heart just as dirty and just as filthy with the sin of this world without Jesus Christ and his forgiveness. This condition of this patience, he had no hope without Christ. He couldn't see his way to Jesus. He couldn't express the wants that he had in his heart. But somebody brought him to Jesus. How many are there out there yet in this world whose eyes the God of this world is blinded? Who don't even know what to ask for if they could. Let me remind you this evening if the arm of God is not shortened, that he cannot save. Neither is ear heavy that he cannot hear. God is still in the saving business. There's still people that need to be brought to him. The people that saw Jesus free this man saw them release this man of this bondage The miracle that took place, the man who couldn't speak could now speak, the man who couldn't see could now see. They thought to themselves Hey, is not this the son of David? And you understand that they were not expressing there that uh he was literally the son of David. They were expressing, is not this the promised Messiah Who was supposed to come through the line of David? They said, Is not this he the promised Messiah, the son of David, the the the one that was supposed to come? They recognized the miracle, but you see, secondly, the contention of the Pharisees But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of devils. You know what, beloved, there's always going to be critics. There's always going to be somebody that's going to criticize, somebody that's going to complain, somebody that's going to have an issue or problem with what's done. The world around was filled with admiration, but the religious crowd was filled with anger. That's mind-boggling. You would think the religious crowd would be the most happy, the most excited about this man being freed, but they weren't. You see, the fact of the miracle could not be denied. They saw this miracle, this man that couldn't see could see. This man that couldn't talk can now talk. It could not be denied. There was a miracle that took place. So now they're trying to find a way to explain it. I just pondered this for us for a little bit as I was developing this, and I I wondered today, why is it that so many conversions Leaves everybody wondering if there was a conversion. You see, this took place and even the world stood in admiration and said, Wow, that person's different. There's something changed in their life. All those around them, even the religious crowd, there was no denying that God had taken somebody who was bound and set them free. Beloved, there's a problem today where so many conversions leave even Christians wondering if there was a conversion. If if if any miracle took place in the heart of that person. Maybe they just wanted fire insurance. Instead of truly repenting of their sin and letting Christ come into their heart and bind the strong man and set them free. Truly set them free because I believe when conversion takes place, when they've truly been set free, there's a change that's evident. that's present, that people around, not that they're perfect, not that all of a sudden they know the scriptures and and and but there's something different in their life And and there's a there's a great change that's taking place and they may still even in church you might hear them cuss because that's such a part of their life, but as soon as they do they're like, oh man I am so sorry that I don't want that to be part of my life. I'm trying to get rid of that stuff. And you know what? That that but they're growing They're changing. They're taking steps. There's change in their life. There's way too many conversions today where there is no change. There is no difference. Their family, all the people around, they look at them and there's no difference. They don't know if they got anything at all. And people in the church wonder if they got anything at all. That's a sad thing, beloved. The evidence was right before them. Nobody could deny what had taken place. The one who is blind could see and dumb could speak. When somebody gets saved, beloved, there should be no question that a miracle is taking place. That a miracle is taking place. I want you to see the cause of the power. Verse number 25. He says, And Jesus knew their thoughts. And he said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand. And if Satan cast out Satan He is divided against himself, how shall then his kingdom stand? And if I be by Beelzebub cast out devils? By whom do ye child your children cast them out? Therefore, they shall be your judges. But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come unto you. Or else how can one enter into the man's house and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? What I want you to know is we see here several things. First of all, is Jesus knows your thoughts. These Pharisees were thinking these things and Jesus knew what they were thinking. And Jesus knows your thoughts. In a few minutes we're going to partake of the Lord's Supper, and we're not to do so unworthily? You know, just because nobody's seen you do something? God's seen it. God knows. Just because nobody's heard that that critical spirit, God's heard it. God heard the thoughts of these men as if they would have opened their mouths and spoke it aloud. God sees what's in our heart God sees that bitterness or that unforgiveness. God sees whatever it is in your heart and life, and you want to get that right before you partake of the Lord's Supper tonight. God sees our thoughts. And he states to them an unchangeable fact. He says, a house divided against itself cannot stand. You know, beloved, Satan and all the forces of hell are united in one goal, the overthrowing of Christ. They're all united in it. There is no question that there is no way that Satan would have any part in casting out Satan. Because they're all united in the overthrow of Christ. I had a revelation. I thought, you know, that's that's something that Satan and all the demons of hell are united in the overthrow of Christ. But Christians find it real hard to be united in the exalted. A house divided against itself cannot stand. Your home, man Woman, house divided can't stand. Your church? A country? One of the scary things about our country right now is the division that's in our country. Because the fact of the matter is the nation divided against itself can't stand. It's it's it's not long. It can't stand that long if a nation is truly divided against itself. Listen, political powers as they are, they can bring balance. They can keep someone from going too far in any one direction, but when a nation truly becomes enemies one with another, As we saw with the Civil War in this country when father fights against son and brother against brother, when a nation is divided, it doesn't stand. You know what? Even in your own heart, if your heart's divided, you won't stand. Christ says you can't serve two masters. Either you love the one and hate the other or serve the one and the other. You you you you you can't be divided If there's any division in your heart or in your life, you need to get that settled tonight. Jesus came in and he bound the strongman. He spoiled his goods. I did some studying on this, the spoiling of these goods. I couldn't help but thinking about the idea, you know how they say that he's got the goods on you? Yeah. I was just thinking, you know, Satan, he had all these goods on you, right? He had he had the down low on on on you. He had it all. But Jesus came. He came and he took all that away. Everything Satan thought he had you bound by, every past sin and and regret and every failure and every everything that you did that he was holding over your head. Satan came and said forgiven. Savior came and said forgiven. Praise God. Satan there. He had the goods on us, but Jesus came. He had the goods, but God took them away. These goods here are the tools that Satan uses, the tools that he has at his disposal disposal in the life of the Christian. Do you realize tonight what Jesus did for you when he bound the strong man? When he came in and bound the strong man. You see, the strong man had total control of our life. And Satan came in. And took that strong man who had total control and bound him and freed us You know, even if a man came in of equal strength, they would have just been as a stalemate. But see, Jesus is so much greater Than Satan. And Satan is no match for him. When he comes in, he frees the soul that seeks him. What I want you to understand is that in the observance of the Lord's Supper here, this is a picture of Christ, who by his sacrifice on the cross won victory over the Satan and he bound the strong man. Do you see yourself or remember yourself as blind and dumb? Are you thankful tonight for the one that brought you to Christ? Are you thankful tonight for Christ who came and bound the strongman in your heart? There are many here who did not grow up in a Christian home. I don't want to brag on sin at all tonight. But I think there's something to be said for stating a truth in the acknowledgement that Christ freed me from this. It's not a praise of sin, but it's an exaltation of Christ who freed us from that sin. I wonder Back when you were a natural man, the for salvation