But you all don't laugh laugh at mother-in-law jokes. I'd scratch them off. Don't even do that. I tell one or two mother-in-law jokes and you guys get really quiet. Like your wife's gonna give it to you when she gets home. This is not a mother-in-law joke, all right? A young boy walked to the corner shop to pick up a large-sized box of laundry detergent. The grocer walked over and asked the boy if he had a lot of laundry to do Yeah. Oh now boundary the voice there. I'm gonna wash my cat. But you shouldn't use this to wash your cat, the shopkeeper warned. It's pretty powerful, and if you wash your cat in this, he'll get sick. In fact, you might even die But the boy couldn't be deterred and carried this to turns it and bought the bought it, went home. About a week later the boy goes back to the store to buy some candy and the grocer asked the boy how his cat was doing. Well he said My cat died. Well the grocer trying not to be I told you so said, Well I'm really sorry about your cat, but you know I tried to tell you that you should not use that detergent on your cat. Well the boy replied, I don't think it was the detergent that killed him. He said, Well, then what was it? He said, I think it was the spin cycle. I think something was working not laughing. I really Cats people. Hey, how many cat people do we have in here? You love cats. How the lion. Wow. Do I dare talk about it there's quite a few of you pretty impressive. Pretty impressive. I'm not gonna say a word about that. I won't see what you have here. Alright, I'll catch you more, but anyway. Hey, who in the world chooses submission for the last session? This is crazy. I did. Anyway. Hey by the way, some uh Steven and Luistia. I'm related to Lysia, not related to Stephen. So Lisa, just letting me know. I talked to Stephen before the surgery. And I said, listen to lessons on submission. He says, I am so glad. He said my life really needs it. So I told Steven, I'll let everybody know so they know what possession is. And by the way, if you don't y'all know, just teach him what submission is, okay? Hey to be honest with you, I don't think it's gonna be as heavy as you think it is, alright? You know, submission is what we're all supposed to do, alright? Now I know sketchy notes and I'll just I'll try to I'm doing my best to try to say that as much as I possibly can. But submission in the Greek actually means to subordinate or to come under another. That's what the that's the word submission means to come under another subordination. Alright? How many of you guys are in the military? Raise your hand in the military. Did you have to practice submission in the military? I suppose when you showed up at Bootcamp, you uh they asked you what you'd like to wear. And they asked you how you would like your haircut. And they asked you what you would like to eat. No, they didn't ask you any of those questions. You know why? Because they expect you to cement. They expect you to subordinate to come under another. And so I want to just teach on this for just a little bit. And to be honest with you, I don't it's not the submission that I want to teach on, because submission is just fruit. That's all it's submission is just fruit. I want to talk about what the root submission is. I want to talk about that for just a little bit. And by the way, ladies, hey, listen, this is not about you. Because by the way, just reading Ephesians chapter 5, there's a lot of submission going on in this passage here. It's not just the woman, it's the husband to God, it's the child to the parent, it's the servant to the master. And it's the master to God. There's a lot of submission going on. It's not what we always want to. Why submit yourself It sounded good. But we're going to talk about submission. Let's ask the word blessing. Father, thank you for everybody who's come. Thank you for the people that are here. Lord, I should please help this last session and something that we can take home, something that will that would change our life. worth of your people. Lord please you can use the power of the Holy Spirit the words to say. Lord I asked again bless Pastor Soder, Pastor Trell, and all the other pastors that are here, I know that today Many of them are traveling long trips home and they've got to get prepared for them all. Well you please give them the message for the hour. Give us wisdom now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Hey, we're in Ephesians chapter number five in the Bible. And um listen, this is gonna be a very elementary lesson. But I want to I want you to look at your Bible now. Please, you're gonna need your Bible for this. Be supervised. And listen, we always go down to personal things, you wife, submit yourself and your own husband. I want you to understand. that all the people are supposed to submit is what I just mentioned. Wives in verse number 22, husbands in verse number 23 and 25. And chapter 6, verse number 1, the first word is children. Chapter 6, verse number 4, the word is fathers. Chapter 6 and verse number 5, the word is servants. Chapter 6 and verse number 9 is the word master. I circled all those because every person is supposed to subordinate or to come under. Alright? Now, what I want you to see is what takes place before submission. Alright, let me say it this way. What takes place because. In other words, this happens, causes submission. Look at your Bible now in Ephesians chapter number 5, verse number 18. Can we do a little English talking a little bit? I'm not good at English. Now why isn't English major? And if you pastor That's not a good thing, all right? In Ephesians 5, verse number 18, what's the punctuation at the end of verse number 18? Semicolon, alright. If you don't know, ask you what. What's the punctuation at the end of verse 19? Semicolon. What's the punctuation at the end of verse 20? Semicolon. What's the punc Are we all good so far? Alright, now let's see what the Bible says in verse number 18. He says, Be not drunk with wine during his excess, but be filled with the spirit. Alright? And obviously it has not stopped. Now he's going to tell us what the evidence of being filled with the spirit is. Verse 19 there's one, verse 20 there's one, verse 21 there's one. Verse number 19 it says, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs in my Bible and alone the Lord singing. Singing a making melody in your heart to the Lord. Now I'm not going to be wrong, I promise, but I just want you to stop and think for a second here. A spirit filled Christian is a person who sings. Alright? Hey, I want to tell you something. I enjoy Pastor Walsh, and by the way, he does a good job leading and getting people to sing. But the truth of the matter is, you know why you sing? Because probably the average person here is the A student, not the F student. You want to please God. You're in your Bible. You're trying to walk with God. There's a natural singing that takes I'm going to take some, I can't sing. We were talking the other day, I was buried for about a year, year and a half. And uh when I went there the first year they asked me to go on the ensemble. Well I I felt really good about that. And then they found out it wasn't my thing. It's because I talked to people. Now I at least that's what my wife says. I don't believe it, it's because of my thingy. Now, can I just tell you, I didn't go on the ensemble, by the way. Can I just tell you that there is a natural tendency for a person to sing when we're filled with the Spirit? Look at the next thing here. He says this in verse number twenty nineteen. I'm sorry, verse number twenty. Giving, what's the word? Right? So seeing verse 19, thanks in verse number 20, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. So he says the second evidence Of a person being filled with the spirit is a person who's what? Thankful. Thankful. That means as a husband, you ought to be, if you're filled with the spirit, you're going to be thankful for what she does. Yes. For Italian chicken. Hey, I want to take you from that. I there are some marriages. I don't think the husband began to his wife for anything It's almost like it's expecting. You know, you married me, you took on the main job. That's not how it works. And I want to tell you something, a Christian who is spirit-filled is a person who's grateful for what God's given in their life. So God said the first evidence is saying that. Second evidence is being painful. Look at verse number 21. What's the first word? Submitting. Submitting. Alright, so it's evidence because the spirit is submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God Period. So we have verse number 18 to 21 is one continuous sentence to tell us what means. How many times have you heard from the pulpit, be filled with the Spirit? And by the way, I would think something that a person acts deaf differently when a person is filled with spirit. Years ago, I don't know if Charles listened at this time, but we were in uh Lawrence Games on our first site And I would uh do radio broadcasts at night from the pulpit on cassettes. I'm gonna know what a cassette is, right? You don't know what a cassette is, right? Anyway. So I would go to the pulpit and I would record a radio broadcast at 11 o'clock at night and then I would take down to the radio station but I'm excess I wanted to flight on the radio. One of those nights I came out and there was a truck in the middle of our yard and had rained and the truck had sunk down all the way to its axles in the front yard of the church. And I can tell that there was somebody else. I called the police, the police came out. I walk out there in the police officer, and this guy is in the front seat, in the truck, and he he was trying to get out in the wet grass, and he spun his tires so much he stunked his truck all the way down. The police officer says, sir, you gotta get. You need to get out of the truck. And he says, oh, what? He says, you need to get out of the truck. He gets out of the truck and he says, uh sir, do you know where you're at? And he says, no. And things you're in the middle of the Heritage Baptist church rest in the middle of the yard. He says, you're gonna have to come with me. And I you know, I said, that's not really I just never really got ground drunk people before. But here's a police officer set in my life. But anyway, I said, where the police officer I was with my police officer, and the police officers Walking through his car and this guy, I am not lying to you, he's walking this direction, the police officer is walking this direction. He couldn't even walk straight. You know why? Because you've done that on us? Be not drunk with wine wherein is excess but be what? So the comparison of the two phrases is just like a person is under the influence of alcohol, he talks different, he acts different, he is different. I remember a month later I was in the grocery store with my wife, this guy walks up to me. And he said, uh he said, Are you passing pace? I said, Yes sir. He said, You know who you you know who I am? I said, I have no idea. Um, have we met before? He says yes about a month ago. Well I didn't know what he was talking about. It was that guy that was drunk in that truck. This time, very neatly groomed Not drunk, talked very he was an educated man, but he got drunk that night. He was a completely different person. Can I just tell you you can read this place with a completely different spouse? It got filled with the spirit. Right? Now here's what our problem is. Our problem is is we've been told all of our life we're filled with the spirit. Most of the time we don't even know what filled with the spirit even means. But if we were filled with the spirit, I don't have to come to a search service and I don't have to have Pastor Wallace, but Pastor Wallace, I don't have to have him try to get me to sing. I want to sing. I don't know if you notice how he was singing up here, but he got into it. I mean he acted like he really had the worst. He acted like the song really uh took up took something did something in his life. I'll tell you what happens. It's because when you're filled with the Spirit, there's something about your thing that changes. We all go to Baptist churches and I'm for the most part in our guessing, but I'm just trying to tell you this. How many times a person goes to the Baptist church and the visitor walks in, they think they're at a funeral home? You can't get you have to do anything you can think of to try to get people to sing. You wouldn't have to do anything to get people to sing if they were just filled with the Spirit of God. So the three evidence of being filled with the Spirit of God, first of all, you're going to sing. Second of all, you're going to be thankful. You're going to be grateful. Your marriages could change. If that's the only thing that changes, just being grateful for your spouse. That could really change things. Hey ladies, what about remember the times when you first were dating him and you did you know you did the little things? You know, my wife and I went to Ferryhum and you were supposed to write no day, so many rules of Ferrari is ridiculous. I they I don't think still do, but they do they're just they're just crazy rules, all right? You know, you can't you can't talk. I mean it's like don't look at the opposite gender, you know, just you walk a straight line, if you stay stand still for very very long, you're lawyer. Yes, I'm being critical. I'm sorry. That was 37 years ago, so I couldn't care less. Still holding a dress. So we had to come up with unique ways to be able to contact each other. So my wife, she she said she's a chewing gum hole big. And uh she would unwrap the big bread and she'd take the foil away from it and she would write me notes on the foil and she'd wrap it up just like it was and then she'd put it back into a sleep. And then when I would check out to go to work, we had to go take a like a punch clock. take your card and she would have pieces of gum attached to so that people didn't know they were love letters. She broke the rules. And I married her anyway. Do you remember those times in your life that you just did funny things or unique things? You know why? Because you cared about them and you wanted to show your gratefulness and how you cared about them. You know, the longer we get married, if we're not careful, we lose that baby. And I want to tell you how you get it back. You get filled with the Spirit of God. But here's the other one that's interesting. God connects this last thing called submitting yourselves one to another, coming under subordination one another. And then after he does that, he explains all the different groups. Groupings of people that are supposed to submit to one another, to come into the subordination, the wife, the husband, the servant, the master. I want to tell you something, Church family. When I learned this a long time ago, it changed my life. Because it's not work I'm not a I I can't sing, okay? I know I can't sing I enjoy singing. You know, I'll be in the car and just sing when nobody's there. That's the best time. You know, I feel like that there are times that I'm grateful, more grateful than others, but grateful, and I show that gratefulness within my spouse or chat or church family. And it all goes back to it from full of the Spirit. In subordination, submitting to one another is no different. Let me show you now. Here's what I want you to see and we'll be done tonight, second, but look at the Bible. You're saying in Ephesians number five, and I know many of you probably have seen all this before, but I I think it's just a good reminder. But you're saying in Ephesians number five, verse number eighteen through twenty-one is you know the evidences of singing and giving thanks and submitting, and then it lists all the submission wives. Verse 22 and on and on down. Would you look at the mirror passage of Ephesians 5? Look at Colossians 3. This is the mirror passage of the golden spirit of God. And I want you to see what Paul wrote to the Colossians here. In Ephesians, I'm sorry, Colossus. Colossus number three, look down verse number sixteen. Colossians three, verse number sixteen. It says, Let the Lord of Christ dwell in you richly with all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. What's the next word? Alright, evidence number one. Then he says verse number 17, and whatsoever you do in word or deed to all the name of the Lord Jesus, giving what? Second evidence is giving thanks. And then he goes right into the submission thing. He doesn't say submitting yourselves, but he showed all the submission. Verse 18, why submit you to do that? of your own husbands, as children of the Lord. Verse 19, husbands love your wives, be not bitter against them. The verse 20, children obey your parents in the Lord, or parents obey in all things, for this will pleasing them the Lord. Verse 21, fathers, dwelt not your children wrath. Verse 22, servants obey in all things. Chapter 4 in verse one master to give unto your servants. He goes into all the submissions. But you can I know you see it. But when you look at the two passages, There's only one statement that's different. In Ephesians number 5, he says, Be not drunk with wine, but be what? Now look at Colossians 3, the very first phrase in verse number 16, before you see all the evidences and see all the submissions. What's the very first phrase in verse number 16? Let the word of Christ swell in you rich. Hey. I submit, but I just don't know how. Come on. I'm going to tell you how When you look at those two passages being filled with the Spirit of God, produce to the first thing you can stay, the person who is thankful and the person who submits. When you look at the book of Colossians What causes a person to sin? What causes a person to be thankful? What causes a person to submit? Let the word of Christ dwell in you, richly. Now follow me. I'm going to say one statement when we're going to be done. Supposed to be that. A spirit-built Christian is a scripture-built Christian. A spirit-filled Christian is a scripture-filled Christian. I just don't know why my life doesn't submit. Well, maybe you're not filled with the Word of God. I don't know why my husband doesn't love. Maybe he's not filled with the Word of God. I don't know why my children don't obey me. Maybe our children are not filled with the Word of God. Just if you understand, submission is just the fruit of being filled with the Spirit of God. We can have all the messages in the world, and I can give you all the practical on how you ought to submit and how you ought to put yourself under. But it's just like a tree that don't get fruit unless you have root. Yeah. Right. So tomorrow morning, you're going to get up. And if you can be at work at eight, you've got to get up earlier than eight. And you're going to spend your time in prayer. And then you're going to open up the scriptures. And you're going to have a schedule of scripture. You're not going to sit up, drop the Bible open wherever I fall, that's what I'm going to read. Because people who do that do not read their Bible You have a schedule of reading. And if you're a new Christian, I'd start the New Testament. But if you're a a Christian that's been saved a long time, you put yourself on a schedule. And by the way, we've been told all I read three chapters of the reading, read through the Bible in a year. I'm not opposed to that, I do the same. But I want to tell you something, it's not so much the amount as much as what I'm putting in. The more I put in The more spirit filled my final. Just running time, Tyum, again, if your pastor teaches different, I don't think they would, but if they do it, you all if your pastor's right, I'm wrong. But a spirit-filled Christian is not the Holy Spirit, me getting more of the Holy Spirit, is the Holy Spirit getting more of me. Right, right, right. Come on. Do you understand? The third part of the Godhead, when I got saved, doesn't get his arm or his nose or his mouth. The whole the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 6, 19 to 20, What know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? It doesn't say his foot So when you got saved, the Holy Spirit came and dwelt you. So why am I not a spirit-filled Christian if the Holy Spirit's dwelling inside of me? Because the more scripture I put in, the more the Spirit has control of me. So can you follow me for a second here? Flesh, Spirit, right? Grace number five. Yeah. Uh this I say then, walk in the spirit, you shall not fulfill the loss of the flesh. Great. And he goes for the works of the flesh. There's a fight going on inside of us. What's going on in our marriage? The fight's not between you and her. Your pastor just told the story and I'm yeah, I know it's a money woman, but it's so true and I can't I figured I I look at this the most perfect picture. It was the old Indian that had two dogs and he'd take them down and they would fight. And they'd have the dog fight and when he would bet on which dog was going to win, black dog, white dog. And every time that the older of those dogs would come, he'd bet on the black dog, the black dog would always win. The next week he'd come back and he'd bet on his white dog and the white dog would win. The other Indians got upside upset about how come every time there's a dogfight, you know which one's gonna win? And he said, Uh that's easy. If you want black dog to win, I feed black dog all week long, starve white dog. He says, if I want white dog to win, I feed black dogs. White dog all week long, I start black dog. You know what the problem is going on in our marriages? Oh. That's easy. The problem's not her. And the problem is not him. The problem is what's going on inside each and every one of us. A spirit-filled Christian is a scripture-filled Christian. And the more scripture I put in, the more I sing, the more I'm thankful, and the more I submit to one another. You didn't come to get a bunch of rules that your wife had to change in her life, a bunch of rules that your husband had to change in his life. I want to tell you something, the Bible is very clear. Husbands love your wives in the two ways. If we just did a second one, we take care of our wife. Look at the size of some of those guys in here. We take real good care of ourselves. That was funny, by the way. Hey, so I'm listening to this time to leave. And I and I'm just telling you, if you want to change your marriage, I want to tell you where it's going to start Get scripture filled. I'm gonna get on the road, and I can tell you right now by God's grace and by his will. I'm gonna spend time either pulling or reading while I'm driving. I shouldn't say that. But I'm just trying to tell you. Part the biggest part of life is how much you're putting in to be able to change what you are. Yeah. I know one thing. Submission would not be a hard thing if a person read their Bible and got as much as they possibly can, it would not be a hard thing. And I know what you're saying. I can't submit to him. But I'm telling you, according to the Word of God The natural tendency of a submissive person is from reading their light. But the word of Christ will only ritual. Now listen, you might say, well that should maybe I should memorize verse on submission, you can do that. Maybe you should try to memorize verses and verses. I talked to Stephen last night. Maybe some memorized memorization. My goal for this year is try to memorize two new verses of the week. That's not very much. But I I just want to continue to try to do something. Keep scripture in. What does the Bible say to Psalm 118? Thy word I hit my heart, what? Did you know not being submissive is a sin? Did you not you know not being grateful is a sin? And Vinom out saying praise for God is the same. What keeps you doing that? To be a spiritual Christian, I've got to be a spiritual Christian Find out every way possible that you put the word of God inside your heart, and I promise you you want it to work at these unless it'll come naturally. Would you probably close your eyes for this and then personal plan. God knew if you were to be here long before you decided to come. That'll do what the messages would be. It's not a matter of pastor standing up knowing what you need. It's a matter of what the Holy Spirit knows you need. I would guess that you're saying, you know, for sure you're on your way to heaven. Always say it's through Christ. But after you get saved, what is life? It's living in the Spirit, walking in the Spirit, being filled with the Spirit, not quenching the Spirit. How does all that happen? In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with you.