Rebels against any type of submission. It is our mindset, it is the the human nature, it is something that just we from the time that we are the the youngest of children to the oldest adult is just something in us in eight that resist the idea of being submitted. Uh There's just something there that is exasperated in today's culture, as culture itself today is taking a stand against all authority. As you see these YouTube videos of people arguing and completely unwilling to submit to re-reasonable requests. It's not that the officers are being jerks or that the officers are being, you know, unreasonable. They're just Uh I know my rights. Nope, I'm not doing that. I'm not, you know, just completely unreasonable resistance against all authority. And you see it in the classroom, you see it in the courtroom, uh, you see it on the street, uh, the mindset uh to resist all authority. A few weeks ago we had some young people in the auditorium and they from the very first anything that was said up here, they on purpose did the opposite. If we told everybody to be seated, they stayed standing. If we told everybody to stand up, they they stayed seated. Told everybody to be quiet, they they talked. You know, that mindset uh i is just very prevalent. in society today. And beloved, I just want to remind us of the biblical admonition and how important that spirit of submission is. And we want to see it from a biblical perspective, because I know Nobody here would have any question or any problem with just saying, boy, we need to be submitted to the will of God. Everybody's amen. We need to be submitted to the Holy Spirit and follow the Holy Spirit and uh Amen. You know, we need to be submitted to our Heavenly Father, Amen. But In the book of Peter here, we're not going to take time to go through these things, but it begins talking about how that we are supposed to be submitted to the magistrates. That is the government, those that are in rule over us in whatever capacity. That includes the police officers, that includes uh government control and mandates that they pass and As long as it's not contrary to the book, we're to submit to that. We don't really care much for taxes, but The way to change that is to change who's in office and get them to pass laws that change the taxes and then you don't have to pay them. It's not just to stop paying taxes. I mean, we're supposed to render unto Caesar that things are ri that are Caesar's. And we know that. We're supposed to submit to the magistrate. We're supposed to submit to our masters. Those that have rule over us, the masters that we would have in our lives. And the servant and master relationship described here, I know it's not an exact equivalent. uh with regards to today the master slave relationship and uh slave in our mind because of um history here in America has a very bad and and derogatory and and that was certainly not acceptable and it's not endorsed in the scriptures in any place. As a matter of fact, it is the scriptures that guided men to to stop slavery. Uh however, that relationship is in the Bible and so it is addressed, the slave and master relationship. Well the closest thing that we would have to that today would be uh the employer employee relationship where you are in subjection to them, that you are under the authority. And then we could read on further and we'll see that you're supposed to have submission in the family. That, you know, wives are to submit to their own husbands, and children are supposed to submit to their parents. You you you go further and we're supposed to submit to one another. There's a mutual submission that's supposed to take place. It's an overriding theme and I'm not maybe going to get down into the weeds and dig into the details tonight, but really just the main thought is what I want to share with you as we deal with just this idea of submission. And I gave Pastor Gus my text, and I've added a couple of verses, so we're going to begin reading in verse number 13. The main text for tonight that we're going to be looking at is verse 18 through 25, but verse 13 really digs into this topic directly, so we're going to begin there in 1 Peter chapter number 2 verse number 13, reading down through verse number 25. The Bible says, submitting yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. Whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, or as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, or for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God That, with well-doing, ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, as free, and not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness But as the servants of God, honoring all men, love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the King Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and the gentle, but also to their forward For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience toward God endured grief, suffering wrongfully For what glory is it, if when you be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? But if when ye do well and suffer for it, Ye take it patiently. This is acceptable with God. For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example. that ye should follow his steps. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to himself that judges righteously. Who, his own self, bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. For ye were as sheep going astray, but are now returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. We're going to speak for just a few minutes on this idea of submission. First of all, we're just going to address the overall theme, the overall principle of submission. The question for you tonight is Is that something you find yourself resisting? Is that spirit of resistance honoring to God? Or do you live with a spirit of submission? Do you find it acceptable and okay to Submit to the authorities that are over you, submit to your master, submit to the government, submit to those that we are called to submit to. We see first of all the conditions for submission. We see that in verse number 18. Where he says, servants be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the foreword. You see, Peter leaves no ambiguity here in his directive to our submission. You see, in our mind, in modern thought, and maybe this has always been this way, but there is something that's kind of uh I mean I've heard this numerous times throughout my life being a pastor and leading people and encouraging, exhorting people to try and do what that's do what's right. You know, they they've said something along the lines, well, I'm not going to submit to them. They don't deserve it. Or I'll respect them when they earn it. Or I you know, just the mindset or the idea that, well They have not earned my submission. They don't deserve my submission. They're not the kind of leader that I'm going to submit to. And you establish that in your own mind. But you see, beloved, what God calls us to do is to submit regardless. Well that's not very pleasing. Even as I say that, I have no question That there are those that have been under a less than ideal situation with somebody that was an authority in your life. And as I say that, you're like, well, you didn't know that boss. You didn't know that person. You wouldn't, I mean, you you know, there is immediately a resistance. To that. But you see, God does not put those qualifiers there that, well, if you think he's worthy of your respect, then submit. He says you're to submit not just to those who are good and gentle. Those who have treated you fairly, those who have earned that position in your heart and mind, but he says also to the forward. That word forward literally means perverse and crooked. He said, if you're under a boss who is perverse and crooked, you're still supposed to be submitting to them. You are still supposed to have that spirit of submission in your heart. He is dealing with submission to, as we said, the magistrates, the government, as to our masters. You know, we could consider and think about this idea of Peter giving us this statement, and it might do us well to remember who his magistrate was. Because sometimes we think maybe maybe well it's easy for him to say that because he had a good boss. It's easy for him to say that because he had good rulers over him. Remember who his ruler was? Nero. Remember Nero used to take Christians and stick them on poles and light them on fire just so he'd have light in his garden. That's the magistrate that Peter was under when he said, submit not just to the good and gentle, but to the forward, the corrupt. Sometimes we find in our local or national government leaders who are corrupt. That's a sad reality. But we're still supposed to submit because they hold the office. But we see here in our text, beloved, the reason. Look Secondly, in verse number 19, we see the conscience of submission. He says, for this is thankful, if a man for conscience toward God Endure grief and suffering wrongfully. You see, beloved, you cannot, it is impossible to have a clear conscience before God and not be in submission to the authorities that are in your life. You cannot reconcile the two. You cannot, you see, because rebellion and submission do not live in the same heart. Let me tell you this: pride and submission do not live in the same heart. It is pride that makes us not want to submit. You feel it well up inside you. Anytime that that resistance to any level of submission comes, it wells up. That pride just wells up, and you're like, I don't want to do that. He's not going to tell me what to do. I'm a grown man. I can do what I want to do. Some of you young men that are reaching that age. Lucas getting close. Eli, he's there. Timothy's there. Caleb's getting close. Stephen's got a little bit further to go. But I know what it's like. You get to about 16 years old and you start thinking, yeah, I I know what the world's about when you really don't even have any idea what you don't know Uh y y you you cannot comprehend it. When you get to be about 30, you'll realize how ignorant you were at 16. But it's probably not until you're about 30 that you start to realize that And so would you listen to the amens and the other people? And and what I'm telling you is I'm trying to exhort you and encourage you. To try and guide you. Your mom and dad are not there to make your life miserable. They are not there to try and restrict your activity, to keep you from doing what you want to do. They have no intention but your good. That's all they want. They want nothing more than for you to be successful and to be happy. And so when they come to you and tell you, I don't think this is a good idea, or you shouldn't do that, beloved, there is something that God behooves us to do, and that is to be in submission to the authorities and in our life And even though you might not understand it, could I encourage you that God will bless you for doing it? Listen to mom and dad. Sometimes dad didn't make the right decisions Sometime dad didn't handle the situation correctly. There's been times, more times than not, I had to come to my kids and apologize for how I handled the situation. Because I I was in the flesh or I was angry and I spoke unkindly or whatever. But beloved, the principle is still true, even though at that moment I was a forward master We're still called to submit, correct? That's what the Bible says. And if you have a forward master, beloved, the reason is we do it for a conscience sake before God. So that we might have a clear conscience before God, so that we know that we have done what God asked us to do. Even if your boss is unfair or unkind or demanding or selfish. Whatever description you want to put on there that he fits into some reason why we shouldn't submit. Beloved, when we submit, can I tell you that God sees it? And our submission is before God. You see, we have it we have it wrong because we look at it like I'm not submitting to them, they don't deserve it. But God does And the reason we submit is we submit as unto the Lord. Beloved, our submission. To a forward master is worship. It is worship to God It is acknowledging and submitting ourselves to God, and God sees that. By the way, the world sees it too. He says there, I think it's verse number fifteen. For so is the will of God that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. He's saying when you when you submit like you should, they see it. The world sees it. We could have a clear conscience before God. Our submission is before God. It's unto God. Because our goal, beloved, is to please the Lord in all that we do. And the principle doesn't change because we have a good boss or a bad boss. Now it's certainly much harder to do it to a good boss But what does he say there? He says, hey, if you do good when everything's going good, I mean what's what's there to say about that? I mean, good for you. Wonderful He says, hey, but when you do when you suffer wrongfully, when you're doing right and you're still suffering, God sees that. God realizes that. And so we see the credit that we get for submission. Verse number twenty. For what glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? He's saying if you get buffeted for your own faults, you know, have you ever walked through the living room in the dark and stubbed your toe Before you walked in there, there's something in your mind that said, I should I really should turn the light on. The Holy Spirit was trying to say, you better turn the light on. And you walk in there, you hit your toe, and you're like, oh, I knew I should have turned the light on. That I mean that's just a simple illustration, but sometimes in life we do things that are stupid and we re we reap the results of having done something stupid and he's saying, listen, what do you what do you expect? What what do you expect? Uh Yeah, watch these guys that really don't have the experience and they get behind the wheel of a supercar. And they they they think they're hot rotting and they get out on a street and they're like, we're gonna race and they floor it and they lose control of the car and smash it into some tree or a building or something. You're like, what do you expect? I mean you do not you do not know how to drive that kind of a car and you're taking it and and flooring it like you are what's a good race car driver, Carol? I I don't know any race car drivers Bob could give us some, I know that. I know that's Bob. I thought you might have just got a little bit by just being around him, uh Mr. Petty. Okay There you go. Way back there. Uh I know Bob could give us some, but you know, just you think that you're him and and you know, what do you expect? Sometimes we do some things. He says, Hey, if you be buffeted for your own faults and take it patiently, then what He says, if when ye do well and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, he says, this is acceptable with God. Can I tell you that word acceptable means favorable? It means pleasing. It pleases God when we submit and it's not comfortable. When we have that spirit of submission because we have a correct view. We're not giving anything to this earthly uh individual. You know, we just don't We we we get to that place where we we don't want to submit or yield to that person at all because of who they are But when we have a correct view, we realize that we're submitting for God and as unto God. And we're pleasing God when we're doing it. And this man or woman or whoever it is really is not part of the picture. They are, because that's who you're submitting to, but that doesn't dictate whether we do it or not. You see, God sees it and it's acceptable to him. It's pleasing. Your right and proper submission, especially in the face of an unjust world, brings favor to you from an Almighty God. And then we see a comparison that he gives to us here in verses 21 through 23. He says, for even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example. That ye should follow his steps. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth Who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. Well, there is no greater example of complete submission in the face of unjustice than Jesus Christ. We consider him who endured such things for us. And in all of it, can I ask you, Jesus who had the power to call 10,000 angels? Was he in reality submitting to the king? Was he submitting to the jailers, to the soldiers who were beating him with a whip? Was he there submitting to them? He was submitting to the Father. He was receiving this of them, but his submission in his heart, in his mind, his submission was to the will of the Father. Submitting to him and enduring all of this unjustly It is a sad thing that so many today have bought into the prosperity gospel mindset, and they fail to understand that, yea, all that live godly shall suffer persecution. That you will endure some hardship. That there is going to be some suffering. And the reality is, as this world continues to wax worse and worse, and it is going to, The Christians will suffer more and more. God said Jesus said they hated me before they hated you. Jesus suffered unjustly. And man, there's just something in our makeup. I mean, God made us this way. But isn't there something in us that just doesn't like it because it's unjust? Like, that's not fair. It's not fair. It's just not just. I mean, that can't happen, you know, and and there's something that we fight against it because it's just not just. But beloved, we're to submit anyway We're to submit to God. It is a spirit of submission that we're to have in our dealings with our magistrates, with our masters, with our mates, with one another. That spirit of submission, which can I tell you is rooted in a heart of humility He says there that we may follow in his steps. Leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. Let me ask you to engage your brain. This is not typical. This would be more like a Sunday school lesson. But let me just ask you for some audience participation. some feedback, what would you say would be the steps of Jesus that were to follow in? What's something that you say, okay, as I read this, I'm like, okay, we're supposed to follow in his steps. Well what steps are we to follow in? What is it that we're supposed to be doing like Jesus did? Is there any comments, any examples, any biblical principles that come to mind, Jacob? Answers two questions. Answered in wrap I I I l uh I really like that. that answer. I really like that. I believe it's given to us right here in the scripture. Uh but could we we put it succinctly like this, he controlled his tongue. Yeah. So if we're going to look at some steps of Christ that we're supposed to follow in, things that we should be doing to be like Christ, we need to control our tongue. Any other examples? Any other things that we think about, Ms. Trudy? Yes. Could I say it like this? He continued in prayer. He continued in prayer. If we're going to be like him, we need to keep this communication going constantly. Keep the communication going. Continue in prayer. Be people of prayer. If we're going to be following in his steps, we need to be people of prayer. Any other examples? Brother Taylor? He trusted God. He followed the Lord following God's example We could use this, what we just talked about here, and say he uh consented to submission. Hallelujah. Isn't that rich? That's just fun. He consented to the Father continually, just submitted, just continued to have that area of submission in his life. Because we have to it you know, as things progress, as life goes on You know, we're prone to wonder. We start to get our own idea, but if we're keeping this communication open, so we're talking about following in the steps of Jesus, being what Jesus was, living in that idea of submission. We're to be communicating. We're to be controlling our tone. We see I can't come up with a word here, but that he was humble. He was humble Setting that example for us. But he was humble, and we see that in this passage and all through this, if we're following in his steps, we cannot be eaten up with pride. We're not going to be submitting when pride is on the throne. Not going to happen. So we've got to humble ourselves. to follow in his steps. It means that we're walking the way Jesus walked. And here's where I really stretched my outline a little bit. Let me give you the last one. The craving for submission. It really maybe better word would be the motivation. The motivation. for submission, but where does the desire come from to why would we want to go through this? Why would we want or be willing to suffer unjustly? And yet still submit. Why would we want to do that? Well, he tells us in verse number 24 and 25, who his own self bear our sins and his own body on the tree. That we, being dead to sin, should live unto righteousness by whose stripes we are healed When we understand this correctly, beloved, we come to the knowledge that Jesus Christ was beaten. That it is in and through what he suffered that we have been healed. Not physically healed. but spiritually healed and given the ability to be able to submit in the face of unjustice Given the strength to be able to. This is the motivation. This is where the craving comes from. When we truly understand what it is that Christ endured for us and how it is his suffering. That has healed us and made us whole or well spiritually That we're willing to endure hardness as a good soldier for Jesus Christ. We're willing to suffer unjustly. When the world attacks, when it is falling apart around you, you don't lash out Instead, you bring glory to the Father by walking in his steps, by submitting in those situations. You see, beloved, when we desire to please and honor him more than we desire to have our way. Or to have our voice heard, or to express our opinion, whatever it is, whatever level of pride or argument you put into the into the front of that When it's more about really what I want to do is please him, when that's the desire, then the other things fall away. They're not near as important. And that's how we do that. You see, this spirit of submission is not acceptable by the world. It's certainly not appealing to our flesh But the Bible tells us that it is acceptable to him. It's acceptable to him. That means favorable, pleasing. And I want to please him. And I know you want to please him. And we do so by having a spirit of submission. If you sense in your spirit or in your heart through your dealings work, home, church, whatever, that you're resistant to something, ask the Holy Spirit to help you, to see it, and to say, you know what? I need to willingly submit to this. I need to have a spirit of submission, not for the individual you happen to be dealing with at the time, but to please him. Let's stand to our feet with her heads bowed and her eyes closed. Are you living with the spirit of submission?