This is our last lesson this morning on how to stay positive in a negative world. Our text, Philippians chapter four, verse number thirteen. The title of the lesson this morning is Success Comes in a Can. Success comes in a can, Philippians 4:13. I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. I can do all things through Christ Which strengthen his me. The fact is that every believer must develop in his life a true I can attitude. An I can spirit in his life. Oh, we all know the verse. We quote the verse. The verse is listed on plaques It's listed, uh sewn into fabric. It's painted on nice boards and crafts. It's put on the bumper stickers and on the covers of Bibles. We all know we all know the phrase. But do we truly believe it? Do we truly believe it? For the Christian, it must be more than a Bible quote or a bumper sticker. It's got to be a firmly held belief. Something that is in their heart that they can succeed in and through the power of Jesus Christ. Many Christians have chosen Philippians as their life verse. Some of those, it was maybe because somebody they love or respect has that as their light verse and they wanted to have it for that reason Some, it may have been a careless choice, didn't put much thought into it. But I think that most people that have chosen that verse for their life verse is because God has brought them through something. God has brought them through what would have been an impossible situation, except for Christ. And that verse became very real for them and very powerful for them. And they realized that they can do all things through Jesus Christ, and that has become their life verse as a result. It is truly a firmly held belief for them. Beloved, God wants us all to be successful. Now, success is not a bad word. Success would be what the world wants us to have. I mean, that God wants us to have. Now, it's not the type of success that the world gives. But in fact, God has promised for us success. To a particular group of people, he has promised success. He's promised good success to a particular group. What group is that? Well, we're told in Joshua 1. 8. This book of the law shall not depart out thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. A promise given to us. Success as a Christian. Good success in our lives. And I believe that as God prospers the Christian And uh that success filters through and travels into to every area, every part of their life. It's not just a matter of, oh, I've got a good understanding of the Word of God or oh I've got a uh success in my personal walk with God, it becomes I've got success in my family. Oh, I I've got success in my finances. Oh, I've got success uh in my in uh my workplace relationships and I've got success. It it just starts Success just starts to abound in your life as a Christian because of the blessings of God. And if we're going to see that, I want to give you several points this morning about the I can attitude, the spirit that we should have as Christians. First of all, success requires a positive attitude. I want you to write in the space next to that that I've put down in quotes. I want you to write, I can. I can. This is what we're talking about, having a positive I can attitude. In whatever situation arises, in whatever thing that you may be dealing with. We need to have that type of a spirit that success is possible, that I can, I can. In Philippians 4, if we just back up a couple of verses, we can see the context in which this was written. He says in verse number 11 on through our text this morning, he says, not that I speak in respect of want. For I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound. Everywhere and all things I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need, I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me He's saying, hey, whatever situation I'm in, you understand Paul was writing this when he wrote this to us? He was in prison? He's saying, I I've learned that whichever situation I'm in, too many of us have learned that when things are going good, we can. But when things are going bad, we feel like God deserted us. God's left us. Somehow he forgot about us. How did this happen to me? But Paul said in in whatever situation we've got to maintain and have a positive attitude. Why? Because God is on the throne, He's in control, and we can be successful as Christians and in our lives, in and through the power of God. Albert Schwarzer said, success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. That's what we're talking about this morning. That positive spirit. That positive attitude. A spirit-led Christian Stays positive even when things are going bad. Now that's a battle against what we call the flesh, because our flesh doesn't want to stay positive And and listen, you're looking at uh a uh what you might call pragmatic type person, right? I mean, a realist, right? Now you all know my wife, she's just an optimist. I mean she's She she but God gave her to me to help me because I need that. Because situations arise and and this is a struggle for me. I've got to stay positive Stay positive and and Mary helps me with that because because I look at it and of course I make it spiritual and you know I'm I'm just looking at it the the reality. You know, but but hey, is God still in control? Does God know? Yeah, God knows. A spirit led Christian, stay don't get in the flesh. Don't allow your flesh to pull you. down. Stay on top. Be positive. Paul wrote this when he was suffering in prison. You can have this even in hardship because it's not based on external circumstances, but on the resource that you have within. Jesus Christ. Often God allows us to go through trials in life to help us learn how to be content. To help us learn how to be able to do this. That amazing songwriter, Fanny Crosby, who penned so many songs. Many that we still sing today, actually over 7,000 songs that she wrote in her life It's amazing that songs like Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine, pass me not, O gentle Savior. Praise him, praise him, rescue the perishing. Songs of sheep end. But of all of these Things that she wrote, probably the most applicable for us today would be a poem that she wrote about herself. When she said, Oh, what a happy soul I am, although I cannot see. I am resolved that in this world, contented I will be. How many blessings I enjoy that other people don't. To weep and sigh because I'm blind, I cannot, and I won't. You see, it was a choice to stay positive. It was maybe you in your life are going through some great tried tragedy or trial at this time. You see, she said to sigh and weep? Because I'm blind I can't and I won't. Are you going to stay sigh and weep? Whatever burden you're carrying, whatever heartache you're you're facing, whatever struggle you're dealing with in your life right now? Would you say, Oh, uh I'm just gonna crawl up and die? I'm just gonna sit down and cry. I I I'm this is just or are you gonna make a decision to maintain a positive attitude. A positive attitude. That's what is given to us here. We see that in this passage of scripture. He says, I can. Not only do you need a positive attitude, But you need to have a planned action. Success requires a planned Action. Right next to that in the quotes there would you put I can? Like we did in the first point. Put I can, but then right next to that, put Do. I can do. It's a positive action. Planned action. There's got to be an action. There's got to be something You know, uh put some feet to your prayers. There's got to be something that you're doing. Slothfulness and success are arch enemies In order to be successful, you must be self-motivated. You must be willing to add the word do to your I can. You know, it's like two young people arguing and one's like, well, I can do that, and the other says, Well then do it. And he says, Well, I don't want to right now You know, well uh whatever they're comparing, it may be jump off of something or or you know, swing across the stream or well I could do that. Well go ahead. Well I don't want to right now. You know, oh well, we all have a lot of things. We look and we say, well, I can, but we've got to have a planned action. How are we going to do that? We've got to put feet to our prayers. We've got to put actions to our plans. Some scriptures I've given you here on this spirit of slothfulness. There's lots in the scripture about slothfulness You can read through those at your own leisure. I didn't put in even half of the scriptures there are just in Proverbs dealing with swallowness, but I wanted to give you this morning some symptoms of the slothful. Maybe you could use this as a gauge for yourself, uh thermometer or barometer to look at your own life and say, uh Am I slawful? Do I need God's help to overcome this in my life? You're going to have to be real honest with yourself because the first one here is that a slaughter man does not believe That he's thawful. This is a given characteristic of a slawful man. Oh no, he would never admit that he's slaughter He he would not describe himself as thawful. He would just say he he you know works other times or works a different way or you know he he he uh he He just I mean if you called him slothful boy, he wouldn't like that. He never is going to admit it. The Bible says in Proverbs 26, 16, the sluggard is wiser in his own conceit Than seven men that can render a reason. I mean, if seven godly men walked up to him and said, listen, you've got a problem with laziness. You've got a problem with slothfulness. You need to get out of bed. You need to pursue a career. You need to accomplish something in your life. You know? He wouldn't see it. He wouldn't see it. He doesn't believe he's thawful. That's because slowfulness is not necessarily his goal It's not like in his mind he thinks, well, I want to be thoughtful. It's just who he is, and it's a byproduct of the lazy spirit that he has. A slothful man will always have an excuse to avoid hard work. He'll always have an excuse. There'll be some reason. It could be one of ten thousand different things that arise. In Proverbs 22, verse 13 says, The slothful man saith, There's a lion without, I shall be slain in the street. He's saying I can't go out, there's a lion out there. No, I can't do that. Well the slothful man always gonna have an excuse. You go out and you take care of the lion, and there'll be something else. There's there's some excuse. It's just a pattern of of his life. And if you find yourself always making an excuse why you can't get to work on time Why you can't be available to do what needs done. Oh, I I would love to help you, but I I'm just saying if it's it's a pattern of your life that you are quick with an excuse for why you can't participate. You might wonder, maybe I'm a little sloppy. Maybe I have a tendency towards laziness and I need to work on that. This gets a little bit harsher here. Thirdly, a softful man is not going to be self-sufficient. Proverbs chapter 20, verse number 5. says, the sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold. So you see the excuse there? Therefore shall he beg in harvest and have nothing. So it comes harvest time, and the slothful man, the one that said, Oh, it's too cold to plow today, it's too hot to go outside and work, it's too hard to attempt this task, when it comes time to pay his bills. He's going to come to somebody else in the church and say, hey, man, I just don't have money to do this Why don't you have money? Well, I mean I know when they offered me that overtime, I didn't take it I know when when I could have worked those two weeks, I really didn't have anything planned, but since they were offered time off, I went ahead and took it. I I I didn't I mean it it wasn't vac family vacation, it wasn't something planned, it's just it was they didn't need anybody and they said if you didn't want to work tomorrow you don't have to and so I didn't And now I don't have money to pay my bills. I've wasted my money on righteous living, and now I need from you That's what happens with a slothful man. My kids sold their first quart of wood this last week. We delivered it It was too far away. Oh my goodness. But there was no traffic, so that helped. But we delivered it out there and uh boy the there's an older gentleman probably late seventies. He was out there and we we I mean they didn't even wait for us to finish unloading. He went and got an axe and he was splitting some of it down into kindling and went and started a fire in the fire pit, you know. And uh he's out there and his daughter was out there And we're I looked at their backyard and their their backyard was immaculate. I mean beautiful backyard, very nice done pavers and fire pit and little uh pavilion type things built and nice landscaping all the way around the backyard. And I just told him, I said, man, I know this is a lot of work. It's beautiful. And by that time their son had come out of the house, which was probably in his 40s. And uh this is what their son told me. He said, well, it's all him, the you know, almost eighty years old Well sometimes she helps and usually they're they're complaining at me why I'm not helping. That's why he's 40-something years old and living at home He always has some excuse why he's not helping. Because he's slothful. And when harvest time comes, he has to beg off a mom and dad. I can do You've got to put some feet to your prayers. This last one is very descriptive. He lives life dreaming about what could be done About what could be. Boy, I could do that. I could do that. Boy, this would be great. Wouldn't it be awesome to be this Or wouldn't it be wonderful if I got this job and had this much money or boy, I wish I could drive that car, and it's all dreams because they aren't doing anything In Proverbs 21, verse 25 and 26, he says, the desire of the slothful killeth him, for his hands refuse to labor. Isn't that descriptive? He's got this dream. And it's just eating him alive. Boy, this is what I want. But he won't get off of his lazy tail and do something. Get to work. Get after it. Put some dew in that can. I can do. That's what it takes. It requires a planned action. Success is not just going to happen because you're dreaming. Not just because you say, Oh, I've got the spirit of I can. You've got to have that spirit, yes. You've got to have a positive attitude, but you need to have a planned action as well, and you need to push through and accomplish something. Yeah. Listen, you need to thank God for the people in your life who push you to achieve There was an elementary boy in school. He was told that he had to stay after school and he had to write on the board 100 times: I am an underachiever. Now today a teacher would be fired for making a student write that. But back when they had discipline in the classroom This kid had to write, I am an underachiever, and he completed his 100th time and he had space on the board and he wrote one more sentence He put, I am not an underachiever. I happen to be tortured by a teacher who is an overexpecter. So many young people feel that that's what it is, that just the authorities in their life expect too much. Listen, you need to praise God if you've got a parent or a boss or a pastor, somebody in your life who is pushing you to achieve. Who's expecting something from you? Who's pushing you to accomplish something for God? J. C. Finney, who was born in 1875, the seventh of twelve children. Grew up in a pastor's home who was also a farmer in that work ethic. My dad always said he felt sorry for young boys who didn't get to grow up on a farm. Because of the work ethic that's put into you, because of what has to be done, getting up early and accomplishing those tasks day by day by day and the fun that he had of growing up on a farm, but J. C. Penney grew up on a farm and He said, at least he's attributed to having said, if I could wrap all my father's counsel into one sentence, it would be Get busy, son. Get busy, son. And J. C. Penney built that successful retail empire Off of that kind of work ethic, the do. God commands us to be doers of the word, not just hearers. And God has no patience with laziness. You and I should have no patience with laziness in our own life. I know on occasion the flesh gets in, and the flesh kind of, boy, I just want to lay here. I just want to relax today. I've earned it. I I deserve to just sit around. There's nothing wrong with getting away. There's nothing wrong with taking a break. There's nothing wrong with relaxing. But you know in your heart If you're just being lazy. And we as God's people shouldn't put up with it in our own lives. We should say, I need to I need to get up and do something. I need to accomplish something. If you have an entitlement mentality, you need to get rid of it. The world doesn't owe you anything. Get that unbiblical philosophy out of your head. The Bible still says if a man doesn't work, he doesn't eat. You've got to get up and do it. Got to get up and do. It also, if you're going to be a success, success requires a pure application Right next to that in quotes there, the I can do, and then add all things. All things. So beloved, the question is, is this a blank check from God? Is this literally that I can do anything I want to do want to. Literally, I can do all things. Whatever I want to do, that I I can do that. Is that what this is? Or it would it be necessary for us to have a pure application Of the promise given to us here. I think that's what we're talking about. There's there's obviously some level of guidance added along with this, given to us. If we take scripture as a whole, the scripture guides us first of all. There's three great whatsoever in the Word of God that should guide what we do. If we're talking about doing all things, well Let's look at the three whatsoevers that are found in the Word of God. First of all, 1 Corinthians 10, 31 says, Whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. And Colossians 3, just a few verses down, 17 says, and whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving Thanks. And in Colossians 3:23, he says, And whatsoever ye do, do heartily as unto the Lord. So in this all things that are available for us to do As you attempt to do anything in your life, ask the question: Can I do it to the glory of God? Can I do it in the name of the Lord while I give thanks for it? Can you do it heartily as unto the Lord? I think if you applied those three principles to your life to guide the whatsoever, the all that is living to us here, it would give you A pure application of the principle that I can do all things. It's not anything and everything that I want, but those things which fit inside of the will of God for my life. Those are the things that we can successfully accomplish. Success also requires a particular axiom. A particular axiom. Now, I have put these beginning words in there, but the axiom is Through Christ. Write that down next to it there. I can do all things through Christ. Now, there's many young people watching, and I know axiom is a word that maybe doesn't used uh quite as often and some might not know. Uh you know, kids you can try and guess right now. You can tell your parents what is the next An axiom is a principle that does not need any proof. An axiom is a truth that is accepted That is self-evident. It is it's there and there there's no nothing else needed. And so we have this here, this particular axiom. This is the truth regarding all of this. It's I can do all things. But if we left it there, I think we understand that that's not true. We've got to complete this, to make it a true statement, to make it something that makes it powerful, and that is through Christ. It's through Christ that we can do all things. It's not in and of ourselves, but in and of the power of God. I need Christ's wisdom to accomplish what He has for me. I need Christ's strength. to accomplish what he has for me. I need that power just to overcome my own flesh. My own desire to stay in bed. My own desire to sit and weep and cry. Just it's too much. I can't take it. I'm just gonna. How am I gonna get past that? Through Christ Which strengtheneth me. How am I going to get past the desire to just sit around all day through Christ, which strengtheneth me? Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain to build it. God has to do this work, and He does it in and through us. I read the story of a Christian who worked for a very large corporation. He was one of their most successful troubleshooters. It seemed like no matter what problem he was faced with, he would find a solution. He was so successful at solving these problems that he was called in and flown to all over all over the country to different plants and places to solve these different problems. He he became so well known across the company that the CEO had him flown to his office. He came into the CEO's office and the CEO said, I I do not know what problem solving seminars. You've been to. I don't know what background of deductive reasoning courses you've taken. I don't understand where you get all that you have, but I would like you to put it into a class. And I want to teach every single person, maintenance facility operator, every plant manager, they are all going to be required to go through your class. So they can all get what you have. So they can all solve problems like you solve them. And the man looked at the CEO and said, well Sir, when I tell you how I solve these problems, I'm not I don't think you're going to want me to teach a class on it. And the CEO's like, why? I mean it works. We know it works because you you're successful. Why wouldn't I want you to teach a class? And he says, well, sir You see, before I begin to solve any problem, I stop and I bow my head And I say, God, I see the problem, but will you help me see the solution? You see, sir, I'm a Christian and I rely on God, and before I begin to tackle any problem in my life, I ask God for wisdom and in God has miraculously seen fit to give me wisdom and to help me in each of these situations that I've been asked to accomplish for the company, but it's not me, it's Christ that worketh in me. That's the testimony of a Christian that says, I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens So I ask you, how is your reliance on him? A lot of us Christians have the I can do all things We've got that. And we we we got a real get-or-done attitude and we grab life by the tail and accomplish it and just go after it. And we're we're gonna find a way But what about our reliance on Christ? The power that worketh in us? Beloved, prayer is a declaration of our reliance on God. Just as that man told his CEO before I begin to tackle a problem, I say, God, I see the problem. I ask you to give me wisdom to see the solution. From the very onset, he was recognizing he needed God's help. He was showing his reliance on God. And beloved, a lack of prayer is a testimony of the exact opposite. So, how is your reliance on God? You say, Well, I think I rely on God. Do you carry everything to God in prayer? Because that is the truth of how much You're relying on God. That's where you're saying, God, I need you. Every time you start a project without asking God for His help, you're telling Him, I can do all things without you. But every time we begin a project and we call on God, we're saying, I can do nothing without you But I can do it with you. You're saying, I need your help, God. I need your strength Who do you think will be the most successful? You see, uh as we wrap up this morning, uh there's a trend truth given to us in this passage of scripture. The truth is that one success leads to another. Could I say it like this? One success gives you strength to succeed the next time. Our verse says it like this: I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth. It doesn't say who strengtheneth me. I think there's the implication here that there's strength gained by continued success. God gives you success and that gives you strength and you realize it was Him and Him. and that that strength adds to the strength that you have, and the strength that you deal with and face gives you success the next time. What he's teaching us is that success begets success. And if you follow the pattern, the principle given to us here, you'll begin to succeed in ways that you never thought possible Each success will give you confidence for the next. Albert Scherzer also said, one who gains strength by overcoming Obstacles possesses the only strength which can overcome obstacles. You see, by being successful, you gain strength to be successful. You yes, you can Success comes in a can. And if you look down in the can, you're going to find a positive attitude. Planned action, a pure application of the principle, and a particular action which gives us the power to succeed Staying positive in a negative world. Because I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this morning and the time around your word. We pray that this very familiar verse, Lord, I doubt there's one listening today that Could not have finished the phrase. If I said I can do, I think most anybody would say all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. But Lord, I pray maybe some new light was shown on it this morning. Some new importance on the truths that ascended through the power of God and is not just a dream. We've got to get out and do something Lord, I pray you would help us to stay positive in a negative world in and through the power of God at this most trying time in our country. I pray you'll be with us here in a few minutes as we go into the morning service. Lord, I pray some would tune in that need the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ and they would see their need of a Savior today. Thank you for your love in this time in Jesus' precious name. Amen.