So I announced to you this morning we're going to be talking about the suffering saint this evening. When I began this study, I had titled this message, literally I typed it in as my title, What does the Bible say about suffering? And I began my study and then I very quickly realized that that topic is so big. There's no way that I could in one message cover what the Bible says about suffering. I could not even read the text let alone any commentary or preaching on it, the count that there's so much the Bible has to say about suffering, and if we're going to do the passages justice, we've got to dig into them a little bit. And uh so I changed my title because there's no way I can just cover what the Bible says about suffering in in one service. And so I just thought, well, we'll we'll dig into it a little bit tonight, just look at the the suffering excuse me, the suffering saint. And hopefully it is going to be a little bit of a Bible study. I hope that you'll be reminded of some things. I hope you'll get some scripture. You'll you'll mark some things down, maybe mark some things in your Bible, make some notes so you'll have it for future. Uh even if you are not in need of it right now This is something that everybody needs at some point. And you can be a help to somebody else who comes to you with that age-old question of why and and what's going on. And being able to share with them some biblical truths and show them that can be a tremendous help to them and to be used of God, of course, is a is a great blessing. Now, on Thursday nights, we've been studying the book of Job, and I would encourage you to listen to, or even better yet, come and be a part of that Bible study. That book is the greatest book on suffering that there is, uh and there's much we can learn from that. But because we're going through that on Thursday nights verse by verse, I'm Outside of a couple of references, I'm not going to be dealing with Job particularly that much tonight. There's plenty more in the Word of God that deals with this subject And so I'm going to refrain from going down that very obvious route of Job, you would think, to look at him, but we are studying him on Thursdays. So this evening, I would say let's turn begin by turning your Bibles to maybe 1 Peter chapter number 4. 1 Peter chapter number 4. Then we're gonna move into Corinthians and I'm gonna give you a lot of scripture, but uh I'm not sure how many of them we'll take time to be moving to uh to look at, but let's begin this evening with looking at the reality, the reality of suffering. I don't have to spend much time here. I think the reason that we're dealing with this topic at all is because uh people know there's a reality. They they understand that there's suffering that i if you've been alive for very long you've endured some suffering. Job 141 says a man that is born of woman a few days is full of trouble John 1633 says, These things have I spoken unto you that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation. The fact of the matter is, is men go through suffering. Tears are the universal language. Tears crossed all borders. Doesn't matter where you are Uh when somebody begins to shed a tear, you understand what their heart's communicating. When we were in the Philippines, we gave brief testimony about uh something taking place in the church there at Pastor Tessens where a family was undergoing some great hardship, uh a real struggle and a trial for them. As they began to give testimony of that in the service, we maybe couldn't understand what they were saying, uh, speaking in Savano, but We could hear their hearts. We could see the burden that they were carrying. We could see that it affected not just them. There was numerous people throughout the church that began to uh tear up and cry because knowing the burden that their family member or their fellow church member was going through and uh weeping with those that weep, we understand that Just a couple of truths with regards to the reality of suffering that I want to remind you of. First of all, is that getting saved doesn't remove you or protect you from some suffering. That is m maybe a misconception that many people have and especially sometimes people feel like well and and that's one thing that uh certainly we got to be cautious, those of you that are at the prison uh and dealing with those that are in that stage of life, uh, to be able to very clearly communicate to them and understanding that getting saved doesn't get you out of jail. You know, getting saved doesn't necessarily fix all the problems that you're carrying right now. Getting saved forgives you of your sin. It puts you on a on a possibility for future blessing, but it's not going to remove the suffering It's not going to change your current condition. We think, man, I've been doing good. Andrew's question tonight is not unusual. It's not uncommon. There were several in the audience when Andrew was saying that, they were saying exactly an amen. And yes, we've been there to asking God, well, why is this going on? And almost to the point of kind of being, you know, you want to be careful, you know, you're not irritated at God or frustrated with God or whatever, but you're just like wondering why. We think, oh my goodness, what's going on? But First Peter chapter four and verse number twelve says, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial. Which is to you as though some strange thing happened to you. You see, he's saying, listen, don't think it to be a strange thing. Don't be shocked when trials come. Don't when a when a when a trial or a testing or you end up going through some suffering you say and listen don't stand back and say Why am I going through this? What what is this? Why is there suffering here? Don't think it's strange. We're being warned ahead of time that suffering is normal, suffering is a reality, it is a part of life. And can I tell you that you are not special? What I'm saying is that you're not the only one that's going through suffering. I know sometimes we like to be like the prophet and crawl you know underneath the tree and sit down there and have our have our pity parties, but I want you to know that you're not the only one going through this. It rains on the just and the unjust. And there are seasons of suffering. Sometimes people are going through a season of suffering. They're going through that time of great trial and great heartache and great burden. It seems like one wave after another strikes them and and they just can't hardly get their head above water and another one comes. And that's when God's people need to be holding them up in prayer and coming alongside them and and helping to carry their arms and get them through that time of suffering because this too shall pass. It does pass. It does, because you don't always, you don't stay in those times of suffering forever. But just a couple of things there to note is that don't be shocked when it comes. Realize that all men are going through suffering, that everybody has it. It's not unique to just you. God doesn't have it out just for you. So the reality of suffering, we understand that, that we go through suffering. There's there is the reason that there's so much interest in this topic is because everybody's enduring some suffering. at one point or another in their life. So we want to look at the reason for suffering. Now I again don't want to spend very long here because this first point is self-evident. The reason for suffering is sin. There's twofold aspect to that. First of all, ultimately all suffering is a result. Of sin. Because had Adam not sinned, man wouldn't be cursed. You can go back to Genesis chapter 3 and see the fall of man and where man was cursed and so understand that all suffering that is in the world is ultimately a result of sin. That's for sure. That's a very clear understanding. We know that All sin involves suffering, but not all suffering is because of sin. Okay, so we need to understand that. Now there is the aspect of and again I don't want to spend a long time here because I think that you guys know uh when I'm when I'm Talking to people about uh salvation and I'm explaining to them, you need to understand there's a penalty for sin. For the wages of sin is death. It is a it is understood when you break the law, there's a penalty. There's something that people know. It doesn't matter what society they grew up in, doesn't matter what culture they grew up in, doesn't matter where they're at in the world. There's something in H. The law of God's written on the heart of man And people understand when you've transgressed the law, there's a penalty for that. And so we know, beloved, that when we sin, we bring suffering upon ourselves. That is the case. There's no question about that. He says in 1 Peter 4 and verse number 15, he says, But let none of you suffer as a murderer. Or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters. He's saying, Listen, there's some activities that you could do that are going to bring suffering upon yourself. He said, Don't let the suffering that you go through Be a result of that. Don't let it be a result of these activities that are sinful, that are wrong, that you know if you partake of those, it's going to cause problems. It's going to hurt you. We know the fact of the matter is, is the Lord chasteneth those whom he loves. God's going to chasten the Christian who's out living in sin and doing wrong. And I think sometimes the Christian knows it better than anybody else why they're going through some things. They understand, they know I I've been running from God, I haven't been doing what God wants. We know 1 Corinthians 11, 29, he says, For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. This of course talking and speaking about uh the Lord's Supper and those that partake of that having sin in their life. And he said, hey, we know that some of them are sickly and some are even dead because they did that unworthily. So the idea tonight, and I'm gonna move on from this, but because I I don't think this is what we're struggling with. People aren't wondering like We know in our heart and mind that when we're in sin and we're suffering, we know why. The question that people have It's why am I suffering when I'm not in sin? Why am I suffering when I'm living right, when I'm doing what God wants? And why do I have to go through this? And the Bible gives us some great insight into those things as well. Would you turn to 2 Corinthians chapter number 1? We're going to be here for a little while. We're going to look at a few verses kind of in a row here, just doing a little study in these verses in 1 Corinthians. Second Corinthians, I'm sorry, Second Corinthians chapter one. So the reason for suffering All sin involves suffering, but not all suffering is because of sin. I mean Job is a great example of that. You know, in in Job chapter 2 he's talking to Satan and he said, Thou movest me against him without a cause. You remember we talked about that on Thursday night. Thou movest me again. There was no sin in Job's life. There was no reason for him to have to endure that suffering as far as sin in his life that caused that. But there are other reasons that it could be. And so that's what we want to look at tonight to see some other reasons why we endure suffering. And so look first of all, 2 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse number 3. He says, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comforts. One reason, beloved, is so that we might experience the mercy and the comfort of God. You know as well as I do that often those days and hours that we are closest to our Lord is when we have gone through tremendous trial. That is when we in a very special way experience the mercy of God, the comfort of God. That we would never know or be exposed to outside of that. God is doing something in our hearts and in our midst that would not be experienced any other way. Sometimes things that we may perceive as suffering is not suffering at all. It is God working in our life. God doing something in our heart, doing something that ultimately is good for us, like a parent working with his child. Teaching him and training him. A child may say, well, I don't really enjoy this, but ultimately you know that it is for the child's good. I read about a man that was very concerned and he came to his rabbi. He said, Rabbi, rabbi, I need some help. Something terrible is going on. And he says, well, what's the matter? What can I do? And he said, well, my wife is poisoning me. He said, I don't think so. Surely not. And they talked about it a little while, and the rabbi said, well, let me let me talk to your wife, and then next week we'll I'll get back to you and tell you what I think you should do about it. The next week comes by and the rabbi sees the man and the man comes up and says, What am I gonna do? What am I gonna do? He says, Well, I did talk to your wife. I spoke to her for three hours He says, Do you really want my advice? He said, Yes. He said, Well if I were you, I'd take the poison. Sometimes things that you think are bad aren't really all that bad. They might they might be good for you Now that is uh humorous way to say it, but sometimes there's things that we look at our life and we say, boy, that's really bad, or we don't enjoy that, or that doesn't look good, but we don't understand what God is trying to do can be good for you It's a work that God is doing. We can experience His mercy. God is being merciful to us and comforting us. In verse number four, we see a second reason. He says, who comforteth us in all our tribulations, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted. So I think this is understood. But sometimes we go through what we're going through so that we will have the capacity and the means to be a comfort to others. You have the strength to endure or to go through it and you say, boy, I wish that I couldn't go through it. But one result of it is you'll be able to comfort others. You'll be able to care for others that are going through those trials, those great burdens. And without that, there would be no way you could. Over and over again, we hear in grief share that blessing that is there By and large, because the others in that room are enduring or going through a very similar thing It is something that they share, a loss, a heartache, a grief that they're carrying, and they draw comfort from the fact that somebody else in there understands why they're crying. Somebody else understands why they don't feel like getting out of bed in the morning. Somebody else understands why they're not sure if they can go to work tomorrow. And just having that understanding is what brings great comfort. In verse number five, we see another reason. We see, for as the suffering of Christ abounded in us, so our consolation also abounded by Christ. This one verse right here could be an entire message in itself. And maybe you would want to take upon this study here, for as the suffering of Christ abounded in us. Just ponder and think about that. What was the suffering of Christ? He says, as the suffering of Christ abounds in us, we know Christ was misunderstood. He was mocked. He was abused. He was beaten. He was scourged. He was crucified. We know it was all unjustly. The sufferings of Christ. As the sufferings of Christ abound in us, he says, here So also our consolation, which means comfort, also aboundeth by Christ. So it's so that we can know the consolation of Christ. So that we can understand and know the comfort that Christ brings It is only in that hour of the greatest heartache that you can experience that closeness to God. That consolation of Christ, where He comes and ministers to your soul in such a powerful and effective way. And if you have yet to have been there in your life, You you can't understand what it means. But if you'll stay faithful to God, the day will come when you will have nothing left. But to look up. And it is at that time that you experience the consolation of Christ, the comfort that comes from Him, that can come from nowhere else. And it is a blessing to know the presence of God and the comfort of God that way. Also, for some, we see in verse number six, very clearly, for some, this is a method through which they are brought to Christ. We see in verse number 6 there, he says, and whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation. which is effectual, which means effect of, in enduring of the same suffering, which we also suffer, or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. You all know that sometimes God has to bring people to the end of themselves before they'll ever look up We don't one of the reasons Brother Taylor and I were talking before church tonight, just one of the reasons why by and large society today people people don't go to church. families don't raise their kids in church. I mean there was a day when young families, man, if they had that they once they had kids, they're like, oh well, time to go back to church. We need to get to church. You know, they that that's what they did, but by and large the reason that people don't do that. is because they don't need God. They haven't been brought to the end of themselves yet. We live in a society and and a area where we are so richly blessed. That men can live without God and feel okay. So sometimes God brings suffering into people's lives that they may turn to him that they may seek his his salvation. In second Timothy two ten Paul says, Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. Sometimes, beloved, we go through things that God might use your life to bring others to Christ. Was glad tonight to hear uh about Miss Sandy's opportunity to be a witness. I wonder how many times in our life something as mundane As a bone radiator, is God putting us in the path of somebody that needs Jesus? And for us, we look at this as a burden. We look at it as a trial that we have to go through, something that we have to endure, and God is saying, I'm using you to be able to endure some things so that others can come to Christ. That's what Paul said. He says, I I endure these things. I endure all things. That they may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus. So sometimes we go through things ourselves so that others can hear about Jesus. In verse number six, we see in the middle of there, 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verse number 6, we see in the middle of that verse He says, which is effectual in the enduring of the same. So that effectual means effect of It is effective in teaching us to endure the suffering. So sometimes we are going through suffering so that we might learn how to endure. So that we might learn how to have what the Bible calls patience. You know, Job, one of his defining characteristics is patience. It is even a modern Cochialism or statement, people say, well, you need the patience of Job. They might not even know the story of Job, and they would say something like that. Uh it is so understandable that Job had patience. Why do people say he had so much patience outside of the fact that the Word of God uh says that that Job had patience in James, I think it's James chapter five, but he says that Job had patience. uh but because of what he went through, because of what he endured, patience, accepting these difficult situations from God. where we are able to endure them with his grace. Would you look at Romans chapter number five? Romans chapter five, verses three through five I know this is a Bible study, looking at a lot of different scripture tonight. We are Just scratching the surface on this topic of suffering. But we see here in Romans 5, 3 through 5, and not only so, but we glory in tribulations also. Knowing that tribulations worketh patience. And patience, experience, and experience, hope. And hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which giveth. Which is given unto us. Unpack that few verses right there. There is so much right there that we could dive into, but understanding that We go through the tribulations that we go through. Why? Because it worketh patience. Patience brings experience in our life, and experience brings hope. So we see that God's teaching us how to endure. In 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 8 through 10, 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 8 through 10, and we're going to turn back there, we see that we must trust God and not in ourselves. He says, For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble, which came to us in Asia, that we were pressing pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despair even of life. But we had the sentence of death in ourselves that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God. which raised the dead, who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver in whom we trust that we that he will yet deliver us. He said, Boy, we're we're going through all these things. We've even been threatened with death. We got people that have said they're going to kill us. If they see us again, we're dead. But you know what? We're not trusting in us, we're trusting in God. So sometimes enduring or going through some great trouble or hardship in your life teaches us to trust in God. To not trust in ourselves, to not look to ourselves, but to look to Him. We know that this is God's perfecting process. It is his refining fire. Sometimes the burden that we're going through is God removing the dross, the the storm that you're enduring, the struggle, is God working on your heart. Sometimes, Christian, we have to go through the same storm several times because we didn't learn it the first time Right? Because we didn't get what God was trying to teach us. We didn't take that step of faith or rely on him as he wanted. And so we had to endure it several times. But this is God's refining fire. You don't have to turn there, but in Romans 8. 18 he says, For I reckon that the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. You're in 2 Corinthians there. Turn to chapter 4 and verse number 17, just over a couple of pages, chapter 4, 17. He says, For our light affliction, which is but for a moment. worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. You see, beloved God is doing something in our heart as we go through these fires or times of trial that would not be worked out any other way. Arthur Gordon relates a story of a young man who had been stricken with polio at the age of three. His parents, who very likely Were overwhelmed, who had come through the depression and were very poor Left him on the steps of a hospital in New York City. He was taken up by a foster family and was sent to stay with some relatives in Georgia. They thought that down in Georgia, that warmer weather might be good for him and would help with the polio that he was experiencing in this debilitating disease and his inability to function or to move. Well, it wasn't the warmer weather that did much for him, but it really was Mama Jean. Mama Jean was an elderly black woman who took this frail and lost little boy. Not just into her life, but into her heart. She loved him and labored with him for hours every day for six years. For six years she would wake up early in the morning and take without any medical training, without any knowledge, she just felt that this is going to help him and she would take him down to the river and stand in the water with him and cause him to move his legs and give him hydrotherapy. She would for hours every day massage his legs to keep the blood flowing and and to help with the circulation Night after night, Mamjean continued to labor and massage his legs, and as she massaged his legs, she prayed for him. One morning at the age of twelve. This young boy begins to relate his own story. He said, She told me that she had a surprise for me. She said she she put me on the sled and dragged me out into the yard. She stood me up and leaned me against a big oak tree. He said, I can still feel that rough bark gouging into my back as if it was today. She's pushed propped me up against this oak tree and she put, she took my crutches away and removed my braces. She moved back a dozen paces and she told me that God had given her faith, that God had instructed her that it was his time to walk. He said, I can't do it. No, Mama Jean, I can't. She says, you can. Come on, walk over to me. Walk over to me. He says, no, no, I can't. My instant reaction was fear. I knew that I couldn't walk. I had never walked unaided or without crutches. I shrank back against that solid tree and Felt the comfort of that support. And Mama Jean continued to urge me. I burst into tears and I begged and I pleaded and I said, no, Mama Jean, I can't. But suddenly, no longer gentle and no longer coaxing and no longer kind, Mama Jean looked at me and with a powerful voice and in command, she said, boy, you can walk. Now take a step. He said, somehow impelled by something stronger than fear, I took a faltering step One step and then another. To this day, I don't know how I did it, but I reached Mama Jean and fell into her arms and we both began to weep. It was two more years before I could walk normal, but I never used crutches again. You see, beloved, it was this experience Undoubtedly an experience filled with fear. An experience filled with pain. I'm sure that the muscles that had never borne that much weight The tendons that had never stretched that far were painful. The joints that had never carried that much weight on them ached with pain with each and every step that he took I'm sure it was debilitating pain. I'm sure it was pain that he did not enjoy. And he he looked back and sh and leaned against that tree and Even though it wasn't comfortable there, he he found comfort there and he says, Boy, this is where I want to be because this is where it's safe. And Mama Jean says, No, you need to take a step Out of your comfort zone, you need to endure a little bit of pain. Why? Because you'll be set free from the crutches that have kept you bound for all of your life until now And beloved God is trying to do something miraculous and something beautiful in our lives. And we crunch back against the tree and we say, no, I don't want to endure that pain. No, I don't want to go through that suffering. No, I don't want to take that step. And God looks with a command and says, you can walk. Step out. Step out of the boat. Do what I've called you to do. And you say, But I don't want to suffer. God says it's only through suffering that you'll know the glorified work that I want to do in your life This is the reason that God allows suffering to come. It is not to hurt us, but to help us. We know, beloved, that it is always for our good and for his glory. Try and bring this to a conclusion and talk about the results of suffering. The results, beloved, really are the reasons tied up in their conclusion. If the suffering fulfills and accomplishes God's purpose That reason can become a result. That's what God was trying to do in your life. Greg shared with me a statement this last week. Hard times create strong men. Strong men create good times. Good times create weak men. And weak men create hard times. You see, sometimes we have to go through some hard times to make some strong men. If we aren't careful, I read a statement this week, very eye-opening to me Said comfort is the cheapest ticket to depression. When you think about our society today, in the soft society we live in, in the good times that everybody's enjoying. But they're all depressed. They're all depressed. There is no joy. Because they haven't gone through some hard times. So I would encourage you, don't despise God's working in your life We see a couple of results of suffering and I'll wrap it up. We see first of all that it reveals the strength of our faith. Abraham, when he offered Isaac, the Bible says to us that it was accounted that God was able to raise him up even from the dead. That Job, I'm sorry, that Abraham understood. That God was in control and that he is there in the hall of faith because he knew that God could raise him again. But he was going to do what God wanted him to do. He was going to go through that great test, that great trial, and come out the other side because why his faith was strong. When we go through the test correctly, we reveal the strength of our faith. It reveals what's in our heart. When God tested Hezekiah, and we didn't get to get to Hezekiah this morning in Sunday school, but Hezekiah was tested greatly. And in 2 Chronicles chapter 32, verse number 31, he says, How be it in the busyness of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon who sent unto him to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land, God left him to try him, that he might know all that was in his heart. It reveals what's in your heart. But I think everybody here knows that God knows what's in our heart already. God knows that already So sometimes God sends us through some things so that we could know what's in our heart. We've often said different things. Boy, if that happened to me, I would do this. But you really don't know Right? Until it happens to you. You i you know, talk is cheap, right? It's easy to say, well I would do this or I would do that until you go through it. Until you're the one carrying that burden. Until you're the one. But it reveals what's in our heart. We know from Job that it also silences the enemy. We've studied Job chapter 1 and chapter 2, and you know how Satan came twice and was flaunting before God what what he did and how he was doing this or doing that, going to and fro among the earth, and and and God says, wait a minute, you can stop your bragging. Have you thought, considered my servant Job? And he attacks Job, all of his possessions and all that. But Job didn't curse God. Satan couldn't say anything. He says, well, of course he hasn't cursed you. You didn't let me attack his body. And he he attacks his body and he still doesn't curse his God. Satan couldn't say anything. So it silences the enemy when we endure suffering correctly. And lastly, turn to John chapter 11. And verse number four. I have many more things here that I can give you It strengthens our faith. It teaches us to be dependable, depend on God, it teaches it it conforms us into the image of Christ. It makes us sympathetic to others. It keeps us humble. But I want to give you this last one. From John 11, verse number 4, he says, When Jesus heard that he said, This sickness is not unto death. But for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. Beloved, we know that our duty, our goal as a Christian, we're here on earth, that our the whole duty of man is to glorify God. And one of the greatest ways that we can glorify God is by enduring toughness, enduring hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Allowing that suffering to come into our lives and not getting bitter, not getting angry, not lashing out But letting God work that miracle in our hearts and lives, bring about that change that He wants to bring. And that brings glory to God. And what a privilege to bring glory to God. What a privilege. I read this week about Dale and Reba Show Walter. They're a family lived up in Pennsylvania. They were part of a small Mennonite community, still using a horse and buggy. Her oldest son, Scott, had a dairy farm. He's 23-year-old man working. They were, him and a helper were putting manure into a trough Something happened with the pump and the pump had stopped broken and or stopped working and something broke and he got down into the trough to try and fix it And something was different this time. He had done this before, and yet this time he was overtaken by methane gas and lost consciousness. The Amish man that was there helping him jumped down to try and save his life, and he too was overtaken. From the farmhouse they heard cries for help. Scott's wife, Phyllis, and their four daughters come running. The Amish man and Phillips both then jumped into the trough, lost consciousness. His two older daughters, Tina and Sheila, ages 10 and 11, jumped in to save their mom and dad, and they too perished. A pastor who was living next door heard the screams and come running and with an knowledge and understanding it was taking place. Had to hold back the two and four-year-old from entering the pit and perishing as well If we read stories like that and you look at it and say, why? There's some things we will not be able to explain. No matter how profound or eloquent someone may be this side of heaven. When we get to heaven, we'll have perfect knowledge and we'll have understanding. Until then, what we have to look to is the Word of God. And God has given us some very clear things tonight, some reasons why there's some things that we endure, some suffering that we go through. And that's where faith has to step in. We just say, okay, God, I trust you. I trust you. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?