Chapter number eighteen We have um I enjoy these days where we get to set aside uh a little bit of time and honor those and And recognize those that are meaningful in our lives. Always Mother's Day is a highlight, just pausing and Saying thank you to mom, Father's Day, stop and acknowledge our fathers, whether that's a stepfather or an adopted father or somebody that maybe's filled a role. of of that for for for you and kind of became a father figure, but somebody that influenced you and encouraged you on the right path and You know we have Veterans Day and Memorial Day, just times where we can pause and think about people that impacted our lives and show some appreciation and acknowledgement of that. Hopefully you have uh you know you got a gift for dad. Or maybe you at least sent him a gift. The younger generation got that. I got I got one of those this morning early, uh a little gift and uh so we praise the Lord for that. It's a blessing always, but You know, there was a a young man who couldn't make it home for Father's Day and so he sent his dad some cheap couplings and uh along with a little note and he said, Dad, sorry the couplings are so cheap, but that's all you could afford. And uh so sometimes it's that way. Sometimes the kids are are dipping into dad's pocket to get dad's gifts, but you know it's exciting when they get a little older and they get jobs They start earning some money and uh it's amazing how generous the kids can be. The last couple years I've been very uh uh just really humbled uh at at my kids' generosity and what they've done for for their father uh now that they're they're all working and have jobs and making more money than I do, you know No, there it's exciting to to see, but they just uh you know want to show their appreciation. I'd encourage you to do that on Father's Day, at least with a note, take some time to let that individual in your life know what they mean to you. I read this week about a uh lady who Wanted to compliment her husband, I guess, and she looked at him and said, You know, you are the model father He was feeling pretty good about himself. Thought, man, I'm the model father. So he started sharing that with people. My wife said, I'm the model father. Yeah, you know what my wife said this week? She said I was the model father. Until somebody said, you know, you might want to look that up And he thought, why? But he thought, well, he had that will, and he looked it up and he saw that a model was a small imitation of the real thing And uh kind of changed his perspective a little bit. Uh oh, uh I don't know, maybe you shouldn't be quite so proud of that, but you know there are some men that we should model In the Word of God, there are lots of men that we read after that we look and we can see these were men of God that lived their lives for God and raised their family for God. And there are some men in the Bible that did the opposite. And what they the results they had were evident to the fact that they were not living the right kind of life. And this morning We want to look in the scriptures and we want to contrast two individuals. We want to look at the examples that they set, the fathers that they were. And the results that they achieved. As we look this morning at Abraham, a surrendered follower of God, and we look at Lot. A sinful follower of gold. That's what we want to remember or consider this morning. We'll weigh these. Look in our text, Genesis chapter 18. Down in verse number 18 and 19. We're going to be in these beginning chapters of Genesis here. We are going to look at a number of passages of scripture as we see And expose for us a little bit of Abraham's life and Lot's life. And so I hope you're ready to turn in your Bible and kind of track along as we look at the Word of God this morning. But we see in Genesis chapter 18, verse number 18 and 19. Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord To do justice and judgment that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him. Would you stay with me for a few minutes as I preach on a surrendered or sinful Father, which will you be? Lord, we come to you this morning. We ask that you would go before me, that you would guard my tongue, that I would only say those things that Are needful this morning, that I would say them in the spirit that you would have them shared. Lord, this is your word. And we ask you, God, that you would do the work in the hearts of your people. Just use me as a vessel on my best day. I'm unworthy, unfit to do so, but we know, Lord, that you have a worthy message because it's from your book. I pray, Lord, you would use it in the lives of these men and really all of us present today can be challenged To be a godly individual and live our life in pursuit of you instead of pursuit of wealth. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So I'd have you see, first of all, a surrendered follower of God. Abraham was a surrendered follower of God. Would you back up to Genesis chapter number 12? We're going to start to see a pattern in uh Abraham's life and his desire to follow the Lord. In Genesis chapter 12, verses 1 through 4, the Bible says, Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house into a land that I will show thee And I will make of thee a great nation, and will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee. And in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him, and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Horan. You see, beloved Abraham followed the will of the Lord. He didn't know exactly where he was going. The Lord said, I want you to get up and I want you to take off. And as you're going, I'm going to show you where you're gonna end up. I'm gonna show you where you need to be, what you need to do. And Abraham just as a pattern, as a habit of his life, when the Lord said it, he did it. He just followed the Lord. I appreciate men who are that committed to God when they see something on the pages of Scripture, they say, Hey, if God said it, that settles it. Beloved, there's a bumper sticker out there that people have out and it says, God said it I believe it, that settles it. Well that sounds really good, but the problem is it doesn't matter whether you believe it or not. If God said it, that settles it. We need we need to believe it, but if you believe it or not doesn't change the fact that God said it and it is fact and we need To follow it. Abraham had repeatedly followed God. In his life, as God gave direction, he did it over and over again Abraham established this pattern in his life. I believe that his kids knew that if God said it, we're gonna do it. If this is what God wants, this is the direction we're going. We're going to do what the Lord wants us to do. It's not even so much what dad wants to do, but we know we're going to do what God wants to do. That ought to be something your kids don't have to wonder about They don't have to question. They don't have to consider. Can I tell you there's never been one Sunday in my fifty years of my life, there's never been one Sunday that it was up for debate whether I was going to be in church or not Now there was lots of Sundays when I was a young man that I wish I could stay in bed. That dad wouldn't have come and got me up and uh we you know drug me to church. I wish he wouldn't have done I wish he wouldn't have done that. I w I was I wanted to stay home and watch cartoons, amen I was a spiritual kid. But but I mean uh hu human nature, but you know it was never up for debate. There was never a question in our home were we going to be in God's house or not No, we were going to be in God's house. If the doors were open every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, every Wednesday night, every week of my life, fifty years I have been in church unless I was providentially hindered. And that that means like puking my guts out or in the hospital. That that just it was the way it is. You know, your family ought to know that you're going to do what God wants you to do. That as for me in my house, we will serve the Lord. Amen? That's Abraham set that pattern. You know, at the camp out in one of the morning sessions, uh Pastor Schifflet talked to the men and he said, boy, you know men, we're we're driven. We like to get we like to accomplish things. We like to excel. We like to be the best we can be at whatever we're doing. If you have a passion or a desire or something that you enjoy doing, you like to do good at it Whether you enjoy golfing, whether you enjoy shooting, uh where's Brother Joe? You know, he doesn't race cars anymore, but he did race cars for a while. And he invested a lot of time, energy, and money in racing cars and learning how to be a good driver. And uh I'm not gonna go down that road. He doesn't race cars anymore. You know why? Because he found there was something more important than that. He decided it's taking too much of my time, energy, and money. I'm not going to do that anymore. But you know there's nothing wrong with excelling and being good at things. Maybe you're very proficient at golf. Hey, wonderful, you can be on my team. Okay. Maybe you're very proficient at shooting guns and you can tell how many you know feet per second this bullet travels and what's its marksmanship and accuracy and You know, you learned about all these guns. I couldn't name five guns. Maybe you could name fifty. Great. But here's the question. How much do you know about the Word of God? How much do you know about spiritual things? What I'm saying is we're committed to things that really don't matter. We're the hill of beans in the grand scheme of eternity And we're spending all this time you know what you guys know I love cooking. Some of you are like, well that ain't very manly. Hey, when you put it on a fire with wood, it's manly, amen. I love cooking outside, smoking meat Gotta be careful though, because my kids tell people I love smoking and that's not you gotta be careful how you say that. But I like smoking meat. And you know what? You know how many videos I've watched? Uh they're all the same. They're all smoking the same kind of meat They're just putting a rub on there and sticking it on the fire. But I've watched hundreds and hundreds of videos on how to smoke meat. But I wonder how many videos I've watched on how to interpret the Bible How to be a spiritual father. How to lead my family in the things of God. I'm saying, beloved, we're we're we're awful committed to things that really don't matter. And as a father, we need to be committed. We need to set a pattern where we are following after God. We repeatedly follow God. We see not only did he repeat follow God, but he relished Fellowship with God. Look at chapter 12 and verse number 7. And the Lord appeared unto Abraham. Abram, and he said, Unto thy seed will I give this land, and there builded he an altar unto the Lord. An altar is a place where he would fellowship with God. Now we believe today in the priesthood of the believer, and we believe that as A child of God, we can go directly to the throne of God and you can be in his presence no matter where you are at. Abram went to the altar of God to fellowship with God. It was something special to him. He valued that. It was something that he looked for. And we see over and over again that Abram built an altar. Look at verse number eight. He moved to Bethel. As soon as he moves to Bethel, he builds an altar. And he removed from thence unto the mountain on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west. in Hai and on the east, and there he built an altar unto the Lord, and he called upon the name of the Lord. So he moved, and as soon as he moved, he built an altar. He wanted a fellowship with God. The Bible says that Abraham was a friend of God. I wonder where they developed that friendship. In fellowship, in spending time together. Look at Genesis chapter 13 and verse number 18. Just a page over there, I'm sure, Genesis 13 and verse number 18. He moved to Hebron, and there he built another altar. 1318. Then Abram removed his tent and came and dwelt in the plain of Mimara, and which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the Lord. He built an altar. Everywhere he went, he built an altar. He valued his fellowship with God. Can I ask you, Father, do you have family altar in your home? Do you have a time where you look heavenward, where you pray together as a family, where you read your Bible together as a family, where you talk about the things of God? Do you have time? Does your family know that you have a walk with God? That you that you're following after God, that you enjoy fellowship with God. We've all heard the statement. You guys can finish it. A family that prays together. We've heard it, we've heard it, we've heard it, we all know it. But do you know the reality is most families never pray together Most families in good, solid, Bible-teaching churches never pray together. You know how I know that? Because I've been at this for 20 years. Can I tell you how many wives have sat across from Mary and I, and they said, I wish he would just pray with me. Dads. We need to be spiritual leaders in our home. They say, Oh yeah, I'm the leader of my home. Bless God, she should follow me. When's the last time? You prayed. It's been so long that it's going to feel uncomfortable to you. Your kids are going to be wondering, what are we doing? Why why are we doing this? You know what, you just need to own it. You need to say, kids, I I haven't been doing the best that I can do. I'm human and I've fallen a little bit short. But I want to do better. I want to be the best kind of father I can be for you. So I'm going to try. We're going to try and have a time where we walk with God. We're going to pray together Listen, you don't have to have an hour-long service and a Bible study and preach the Word of God to them. It can be simple and short. But you just take a minute and pray together. God's calling. Are you listening? He's got your number. Amen. Better pick it up. Listen, how important is worship to you? How important is fellowship with you? Not only did Abram here enjoy fellowship with the Father, but I believe he enjoyed fellowship with his son. He spent time with Isaac. They worshiped together. They talked together. Don't turn there. We're going to get to Genesis 22 in a little bit, but in Genesis 22, we have the story of where uh God had told Jacob, uh Abram to go and sacrifice his son, and Isaac had to gather up the wood And they gathered the wood and they went to go. The Bible says after three days' journey, after three days they looked and they saw the mountain. And they're going to go and they're going to go up there. What I'm saying is they spent this time together. This is not the first time they've done this. Isaac knew exactly what was happening. The Bible says, Isaac looked and said, Behold the wood. We we we have the fire, but where's the sacrifice? Isaac knew there was something missing. He says, I I know what we're doing. We've done this before. What I'm saying is they spent some time together. How much time do you spend with your kids? I read this week that the average dad spends 17 seconds a day in meaningful conversation with his children. You're not going to impact their life if you're spending 17 seconds a day. Now, uh by and large, I'm talking to the men here, and you guys can handle it, right? It's all right if I get real practical I feel like this is is getting heavy and and you guys are like, man, he's sure stepping on our toes. That's what we come to church for, okay? We want the Spirit of God to challenge us and we need to be the kind of men that are leading our families in a godly way. I hope you didn't come to church this morning just to get patted on the back, but to get encouraged to do what God wants you to do. We need to be spending time with our kids, talking to them. Finding out what's going on in their life, fellowshipping with them. I read about one one young man that his father for his birthday gave him what he said was the most meaningful and life-changing gift he ever received. He said it was a card. He said, What? Yeah, it was one card. He said, but in that card, my father said, I will give you for your birthday present this year one hour every day this year. After supper, it's your hour. We'll do whatever you want to do. We can play a game, we can talk, we can do whatever you want to do. But for an hour every day, I'm yours. I'm going to spend that time with you however you want. And he said, for 12 years, my dad has renewed that commitment every year on my birthday, and that is the most life-changing gift I've ever received. Some time. Some time. Men, I know we get busy. You're looking at one of the most project-driven men in here. I love getting things done My boys are laughing. But we gotta spend some time with them. Andrew, stand up. What are you? Are you twenty-two or twenty-three? Twenty-two. Listen, if you want to have any influence in their life when they're twenty-two, You gotta spend time with them when they're six and seven. You can sit down. The other night Andrew and I sat in my living room and we talked for an hour and a half till almost two in the morning. About what's going on in his life. As a father, if you want him to care at all what you think when they're twenty-two, you have to spend time with them. When they're seven. Yeah. Ten. Eleven. Twelve. It takes time. When they're two and three, they're gonna obey you because they fear you. That's biblical. Spare the rod, spoil the child. Not going to get into discipline, but some of you need to be disciplined in your two-year-olds. Come on. But at some point, there has to be a transition where they obey you because they want to. And that means influence in their life. So from the time that they're two until they're 20, there's a constant transition. They obey because of fear here, they obey because of love here, and that changes through their years of growth. Right. Where discipline becomes a lot less necessary because they desire to please you as their father. And that only takes place because of time and energy and investment in their life. He had enjoyed fellowship with the Father By the way, Dad, uh let me just throw this out here. I believe Isaac was carrying his own wood. He is a picture and a type of Christ. Isaac carrying his own wood to the sacrifice like Jesus one day would carry his own cross to the top of Golgotha There's many other areas where that picture and type of Christ is present. I'm not going to get into that, but what I'm saying is you need to be careful. Don't protect your boys from hardship. Or your girls so much. They they can handle it too, right Melissa? They can handle it. Melissa runs a chainsaw pretty good. Listen, you need to let them have some hard times. You protect them from everything in this world and you're going to be raised in the next inmate. They need to learn how to toil. They need to skin their knees. They need to face some hardship. And by the way, Dad, you need to know that mom's nature is to protect the kids. And that's okay. That's mom's nature. That's She's going to do all she can to protect them. You need to stand up and say no. Mama says, they can't do that. You say yes, they can. Now my wife is downstairs, so I can see this. Yeah. Now I wish she was in here because th there is many times she's like, I don't know, I don't want the kids doing that. I said, They'll be fine. They're only gonna do it once. I said their their tendency and desire for self-preservation is greater than your desire to protect them. They don't want to hurt themselves. They're going to hurt themselves, but they're gonna be okay. But I'm saying is you gotta be careful. Listen David would have never defeated Goliath if he hadn't first faced a lion and a bear. Some of you parents are protecting your children from the lion and the bear, and they are going to be taken out by Goliath. Right. Because you are not letting them endure hardship. You're not letting them grow up. You're not letting them face The trials of this life. Do you know every year in our national parks forest rangers have to shoot deer and bears? Because there's people there that think they're being nice and they disregard the signs that say, do not feed the deer and the lions. of deer and the bears, sorry, not lions. Don't feed the the deer and the bears. Why? Because those deer and bear become dependent upon that food that people are just leaving out for them. And no longer can they go out and get their own. And that's what happens when we overprotect our children. We're keeping them from being able to fend for themselves, to be able to stand up, to be able to fight the battle. Right. And we think we're helping them, but we're really hurting them. Let's move on. We see he rejected fortune. So not only did he relish fellowship and repeatedly follow the Lord, but he rejected fortune. We see that in several places. Turn to Genesis 13, verses 8 and 9. We see here when he gave Lot the choice of the fine land, whatever he wanted, Lot, you do whatever you wanted. What we see is his pattern of not looking out for numero uno. He was looking out for other people, whatever other people want. We see in Genesis 13, verses 8 and 9. And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, between my herdmen and thy herdmen, for we be brethren Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee from me. If thou wilt take the left hand, I will go to the right. If thou depart to the right hand, I will go to the left. He was willing to just take whatever was left over He wasn't necessarily like, listen, I'm the older, I'm more mature, I'm the one who brought you out here, I'm going to take this good land, Lot, you're going to deal with what's left. No, he said, lot, whatever you want, you take it. I'll deal with whatever's left over And he had that kind of habit, that pattern of his life. We see he rejected wealth when he rejected the bounty that the wicked king wanted to give him. Look in Genesis chapter 14. And Genesis 14, verses 22 and 23. And Abraham said unto the king of Sodom, I have left up my hand unto the Lord, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth. That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, that thou and that I will not take anything that is thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have made Abram rich. He said, Listen, I'm not going to allow you to give me wealth because I say it came from God. God's the one that blesses me. I'm not going to take that wealth from you. I'm looking to the Lord. Whatever I have or don't have is because I'm trusting God. Unless you're gonna stand up and say, Boy, I made Abram rich. And you know there's some people perfectly willing. I'm gonna I'm gonna leave that off. We're gonna move on. We need to be careful where we're getting our wealth from. He rejected wealth. He wasn't willing just to get it however, any way you can. Wealth was not the end goal. Praise the Lord if God blesses you. There's nothing wrong with being wealthy. I mean praise the Lord if you have means and capacity, got that's just a sign of God's blessing and his goodness on your life But if that is what you're pursuing, there's a problem. He rejected our wealth wealth. I wonder if our kids see us making choices that are based on moral right. Instead of just what is expedient or most financially beneficial. Now I'm going to get real practical here for just a second. Most Christians Make ninety percent of their decisions, if not greater, solely on money. Their decisions are are are dictated by where's the money coming from? And it should not be that way. It ought to be God's will. What does God want for my family? You know how I know this? I know this because they change jobs without considering anything about what God would want, and they take whatever job's paying more. They will leave a good church like this and move to another city where there is no church, where there is no place for their family to be fed spiritually. Why? Because that job paid more And now they're not even in church. Don't tell me they made the decision based off what was right. They made it based off where the money was coming from. Abram rejected, well, Dad, we need to be considering what is right and wrong. We don't do what is uh pragmatic. We don't necessarily do that which is the most beneficial to us. We need to do what is right. Do your children see you making decisions based off of what is right, based off of what God wants, instead of what is most financially expedient? You you've live your life by those kind of principles and your kids will get a hold of it. Your kids will see it and they also see the opposite. We see that he made spiritual decisions when he gave his increase to the Lord. Look at Genesis chapter 14 and verse number 20. Out of his increase, out of the good that God had gone to him, he gave to the Lord. Genesis 1420. And Blessed be the Most High God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand, and he gave him tithes of all. He was willing to give unto the Lord. It wasn't about getting all he can and canning all he could get. He was willing to sacrifice and give to others and to minister to others. I want you to see that his life revealed his faith. His life revealed his faith. In every step of obedience, his faith was revealed to his children, his faith was revealed to those that were following him. In Hebrews, don't turn there, but in Hebrews chapter 11, verse number 8, the Bible says, By faith Abram, when he was called to go into a place which he should after receive for inheritance. And we read about that in Genesis chapter 12 when we first opened up. He didn't know where he was going. Hebrews eleven said that that was by faith. He just stepped out. He just did it. Every act of obedience is faith in action. When you obey God and you don't necessarily know the outcome and you don't know ex actually Absolutely how it's going to come out, but you say, you know what, this is what God said. We're going to do it. That is faith in action. That is just trusting the Lord to take care of it. You know, I read this week, beloved, that I would much rather see a sermon than hear one any day. I would much rather see a sermon than hear one any day. And you know what? Your kids are watching you. They're seeing the sermon, Dad, that you're that you're preaching. And they need to see you to be being a man of faith. They need to see you spending time in prayer. They need to see you reading the Word of God. They need to see you being a witness and giving out gospel tracts. They need to see you praying tearfully for your family, for your wife for your children. They need to see you earnestly seeking after the things of God. They need to see you pursuing the Lord more than you pursuing the things of this world. It's the sermon that you're preaching every day. Yes, you can sit them down and say, don't do this and don't do that. I read a story about a man who uh his son really loved the like Broadway plays. He really loved these live productions and his son was just infatuated with them and he enjoyed going and seeing them all the time and and uh dad looked at him and he said, Now son You can go to these theaters right here, but that theater that's over on H Street, you don't go to that one. That's a wicked theater, it's bad, and you'll see things there you shouldn't be seeing So you don't go to that one. And his son said, okay, but some time passed and his son the temptation was too great, and he thought, well, Dad told me not to go. I wonder what's there. I wonder what's there. Finally he decided he was going to go and he went to check out that theater that Dad said he shouldn't go to, and he did see something that he should never see. He saw his father It doesn't work to say do as I say, not as I do. We've got a men gotta be gotta be men that are living. Living what we're preaching. And what you live preaches a whole lot louder than what you say. He believed God for the impossible God promised him that he was going to have a son. God promised him that he was going to be the father of nations. And they didn't even have any kid. And they were beyond childbearing years, but he believed God for the impossible. Can you believe God? Can you believe God for the impossible in spite of what it looks like, in spite of what this world says, in spite of uh where culture is going? Can you believe God for the impossible? Dad, are you living by faith? Do you have strong faith? Or are you living in constant fear and concern and worry? Do your kids see the faith in you? It's gonna be alright, son. Because I know God. And I know God's in control But Dad, you just lost your job. That's okay. God knows. God's in control. He'll take care of us. But Dad, this situation and that that's okay, son. It's gonna be okay. Do they see your faith or do they see you living in constant turmoil and anxiety, stress over the tumultuous storms that come in life. One of the greatest things you can do for your kids is to be a man of faith and live by faith. Just trusting God, having that confidence. He believed God would provide a sacrifice even when he went to the mountain with not without one But just his son. But when his son said, Here it is, here's the wood. We have the altar. But where's the sacrifice? Abram said, God himself. Shall provide a sacrifice. He said, God's gonna do it. I know what God's told me to do, He's told me to put you My son, my beloved son, he told me to lay you on the altar and to sacrifice you, but what I know is that you are a child of promise. I know that God gave me your life Miraculously, and I know that in his ultimate wisdom and his will, that he knows what's best, and I'm going to follow through what he's asked me to do because he will provide a sacrifice And God did provide a sacrifice. Probably none of us here will ever have to be tested to such a great extent as Abraham was to sacrifice his own son. But I wonder how are we doing on the tests we are facing? How are we standing up under those challenges? You know, the true test of your faith and your commitment only comes when it's hard. Everybody can do right when it's easy Everybody can do right when there's no nothing on the line. When the sun is shining. But what about when it gets hard? That's when your commitment is revealed. I don't know if you ladies should say anything or not. Well let me just apply this to the husband and wife relationship. Aren't you thankful for a husband that sticks by you when it's tough? I mean, every husband enjoyed the honeymoon. Every husband was there and all on board when things are going well. But what about when you're in the hospital? What about in the storms? That's when his love and commitment to you is revealed. And you sit back and you think, man, I praise God for a husband who's sticking by me. Who's here when it's not easy, when I know he would rather be somewhere else, when I know that he he he he didn't sign up to carry this burden, but you love him all the more for it Beloved, we consider all that Jesus Christ has done for us. Every Christian is a great Christian when the sun's shining. Every Christian is faithful when it's fun. The only time we get to show our faith and our faithfulness to God is when it's hard. We ought to look at that as an opportunity and say, praise God, I get to be faithful when it's difficult. To show my commitment to my Savior, to my Lord. That's what Abram did. As a father. A true man of God is faithful, especially when it's hard. You know, a whole lot more is caught than taught. Your kids are gonna end up doing what you do, not what you say. If you put T ball in front of God, don't be surprised when they're fifteen and you can't get them to come to church. What type of sermon are you preaching, Dad? We're not we're not gonna get into Lot a sinful man who Went after gold. I'm gonna bring this to a conclusion right here. We're gonna wrap the service up. But as I do, I just wanted to say this. To be an encouragement to you. You know what? God uses imperfect fathers. If those of you that are here and you've been in church a little while, you know that Abraham did a few pretty stupid things. You remember he went down to Egypt and Pharaoh said, Man, you've got a very beautiful lady there. And he said, oh, she's my sister. Remember when he lied about that? And God is the one that had to fix the situation. Yeah. See he didn't do everything right. There was times that Abraham messed up. You remember that time that Abraham followed his wife's direction and he went in and laid with Hagar? They had Ishmael. He wasn't supposed to do that. It wasn't what God wanted. That wasn't the plan. They thought what I'm saying is I want you to know that you say, man. I've messed up. I haven't done it right. Well, you've said a lot of things today that I'm not doing. I don't, I, I don't listen, God uses imperfect fathers. He's not as concerned as where where you are as he is with the direction that you're headed. Today as a father you can say, you know what? I haven't done it all right. I I've messed up in some areas. That was yesterday. To the best of my ability and with the strength of God's help, I'm going to try and be the kind of father. And listen, your kids will respect you for owning that and for being willing to head the right direction. You can you yesterday is gone, you can't do anything about it, but you can decide today to make a change. And you know what? Six months from now, you're either going to have six months of excuses or you're going to have six months of progress. What's it gonna be? I know I was pretty straight because I was dealing with the men today. But ladies, we need to be godly ladies too. Many of these things can apply to us, to you as mothers, as leaders in your home, as you're helping raise those kids. God wants you to be faithful as well. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.