But I wanted to uh uh preach this morning on something that I think is very, very important in our life and I want you to look at three passages of scripture uh this morning and uh as a introduction. In Genesis chapter number um Uh number uh thirteen is where we'll start uh in just a minute. Genesis thirteen we'll start with verse number ten Genesis thirteen, verse number ten, and we'll read through verse thirteen, then we'll go to Deuteronomy chapter thirty, and then Joshua twenty-four. But in uh Genesis chapter 13, verse number 10, and Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan that it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest into Zoar. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan, and Lot journeyed east, and they separated themselves the one from the other. Abraham dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. Now the book of Deuteronomy, chapter number thirty. Verse number uh fifteen is where we want to start through verse number nineteen. See, I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil In that I command thee this day to love the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his judgments. That thou mayest live and multiply, and the Lord thy God shall bless thee in the land whither thou goest to possess it. But if thine heart turn away, so that thou wilt not hear, but shalt be drawn away and worship other gods and serve them I denounce unto you this day that ye shall surely perish, and that ye shall not prolong your days upon the land whither thou passest over Jordan to go to possess it. I call heaven and earth to record this day against you that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore, choose life That both thou and thy seed may live, that thou mayest love the Lord thy God, and that thou mayest obey his voice. Let's go now to the book of Joshua. Chapter number 24, verse number 15, Joshua 24, verse number 15. And it says, And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell. But as for me and my house We will serve the Lord. Our Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for this opportunity to preach at the great Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I ask you, Lord, to anoint this message with the power of the Holy Spirit of God as I speak for the next few minutes. And I pray that you would meet every person's spiritual need here today. Lord, anyone here that's lost, may they repent of their sins and trust you as their very own personal Savior today. And Lord, those that are born again by the blood of Christ, they have you in their heart. They're they're saved. I pray that you would help each person that's in that particular situation that they would uh make the right choices in their life and do what you would have them to do. And Lord, we are grateful and thankful for all that you do for us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now, do you know that There's uh a lot of things in life that you do not have any choice over. In fact, do you know that you didn't have any choice of what your name would be till you get married and change your life last name, but your parents gave you your name. And if you don't like your name, sometimes people go to court, maybe get it changed, but but uh you don't choose your name. You don't choose your gender As much as the world tries to teach you, somebody uh today and as they're trying to get you to try to think that there's no such thing as a man or a woman or and Some guy got reprimanded the other day just tremendously because he wouldn't uh tell him uh w he was a man and he wouldn't tell him whether he was expecting a baby or not. So you guys are idiots. Do you know and and so on. But uh the man, this is getting to be a weird world that we're living in And it's gonna take godly people with convictions in their heart, with love in their heart toward other people, to live and act how they ought to act and live in this world that we live in. Your hair color, you didn't choose it until you got older, maybe dyed it blonde or or w blue or purple or whatever, you know, but uh you're born with your hair color until you start to get older and my hair started to turn gray when I was about twenty years old Really, by the time I was twenty-five years old, my hair was about as white as it is right now. It's amazing what happens. But you don't choose your eye color or your hair color or your eye color. Um you uh you don't choose where you were born. Your parents chose that. Wherever they happened to be when you were born, that's where you were born. Your height Unless you have those heels you put on your shoe to make you another inch or two higher, uh something like that, you don't choose your height. You're however tall you are. That's why even on your driver's license it has your height And it has there some numbers that tells how tall you are. So if you are uh uh s seven foot two and your driver's license says you're five foot one The police officer when he stops you're gonna know something's rotten in Denmark here. We're gonna have to figure out what's going on here. This this license doesn't go with this man. Um you don't uh choose who your parents are God chooses who your parents are. You don't choose um uh where you'll live while you're home. You'll live with your parents while you're home. And uh maybe later on you might move to some other place, but not um not uh while you're living at home. And then you don't choose what language you would speak. Uh your parents choose what language you would speak in the family that you grow up in. But There are a lot of things that you there's a lot of other things if we're going to be uh real real uh uh uh detailed about it that you don't choose, but there's a lot of things that you do choose. For instance You choose what kind of job that you're going to do in this world and when you grow up. You're going to choose to either obey or to disobey. You can choose after you get a little older what state you're going to live in. You can choose to be honest Or you can choose to be dishonest. You can choose to be kind or you can choose to be mean. You can choose to be happy or you can choose to be sad. You can choose your diet. Probably can't stick to it too long, but you can choose it. You can get saved, or you can stay lost. You can get saved and go to heaven, or you can die without Christ and go to hell. You can choose who you're going to marry. You can choose to either live for God or not live for God. You can choose right or you can choose wrong. I suppose one of the hardest things in life to do is to make the right choices And then be happy with the choices that you do make. Do you know, have you ever taken your wife, fellas, to the shoe store? And watch them try to pick out a pair of shoes and they try on, you know, choose uh I mean they can hardly choose, but they have to choose something. You know, hard time making choices. Um, we do not like other people making choices for us Can you imagine if you went to a restaurant and you sit down with your family, and all of a sudden here comes the waitresses? They bring out your food and set it on the table right in front of you and say, What in the world is this? And they say, Well, this is your food. They said, Well, we didn't order anything yet. He says, Well, at this restaurant, we do it differently. We pick what you're going to eat. You know, and you you we just set down what we think you ought to be eating today. You wouldn't like that. You probably would not go back to that restaurant anymore. You know, there's some things that you want to choose for yourself. Did did you ever tell your wife, uh say, sweetheart, I'd like to take you out to eat tonight for supper? And you say, Oh, wonderful And so you get in the car and you start somewhere and then your husband says, Where would you like to eat? And she says, Oh, I don't care. Where would you like to eat? And he says, Well it doesn't matter to me. And pretty soon you get in an argument and then you go back home and you don't even go out and eat. But do you know that um you do have choices in life? When I was in a freshman in college, I was engaged to a young lady. It wasn't My wife that I married. It was another young lady and and um uh she told me that she did not want me to be a preacher. That she wanted me to change colleges and to be a doctor. You know what I did? I broke up with her. Do you know that choice, the word choice, is used over eighty times in the Bible Most of the time it's choice or choices, something like that, or choose, but most of the time God is making the choice for you. It would be great if, before you made any decision, if you would pray and say, God, what do you want me to do? You as a Christian, you get saved. And once you get born again, then you give up your rights to make your own choices the rest of your life. Now you may not give them up willingly and you may fight with God about it, but the Bible says, what? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you Which ye have of God, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. In other words, when you become a Christian, when you get born again, you have the Holy Spirit, you invite Jesus into your heart, then God in the form of the Holy Spirit of God comes into your life and lives in your life and you are no longer your own. You're supposed to obey the Holy Spirit of God the rest of your life. You've been bought. You know, when you buy something, whatever you buy belongs then to you. And when God bought you with the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, then you belong to Him. If you came to me, any of you high school kids came to me and I said, uh, hey, uh, what are you gonna do when you get out of high school? They'll say, well, I haven't made up my mind exactly what I want to do, but I think I want to be a and I said, Hold it, you don't have any right, not if you're saved, to do what you want to do. You say, well, I want to be a teacher. I want to be a plumber. I want to be a computer operator. I want to you don't have any right. You only have a right to go to God and say, God, what do you want me to do with my life? That's what your choice is, following God's guidance and leadership in your life, you teenagers and young people, and everybody else here. We only have a right to do what God wants us to do, and we need to seek and find out what that is and follow God's leadership in our lives. Excuse me. I guess I'm gonna need it a little more because I dropped the lid. But uh Do you know uh the uh the the word of God is pretty clear uh about following his guidance. He says in the book of Philippians, he says, let. When you see the word let That means that God wants you to do what He is telling you to do there. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Do you know that if you're going to do that in your life, it's a choice? You have to choose to Exalt other people more than yourselves. Philippians 2, verse 4. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. That's thinking about other people. God says to do that. Philippians 2 5. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Let this mind, he's saying, do this. Let this mind be in you that was in Christ Jesus. So uh all of these have the reference to a choice. You can decide what you're going to do or not. The Bible is telling us What to choose. What a book. You have the Bible to lead you and guide you and direct you in your life to do and to be what God wants you to be. And he gives us the guidance in the Word of God. And so we have that. Joshua instructs his people to make their choice. But as for me and my house, we are going to serve the Lord. Now, he chose what he was going to do. God has chosen that we are to be in the image of his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ We're supposed to put on Christ. We're supposed to act like Christ. We're supposed to live like Christ. We're supposed to be like Christ in our lives And have the character of Christ and have the the uh uh uh reactions that Christ would have. Lord, what would thou have me to do? How would you like me to talk? How would you like me to react to this situation And so on. So God has chosen eternal life for us. He has chosen that we live holy lives. He has chosen that we worship Him. He has chosen that we uh live according to his guidance and and so on in our lives. Uh so we can choose those things. But most of the things that God gives us a choice on, like that, we can choose or not choose. God says, don't forsake the assembling of yourselves together, as the manner of some is in Hebrews 10. 25. But many of us don't pay much attention to that. We just, well, I go to church when I want to. You know when I go to church? When the doors are open. Don't want to neglect the assembly of myself. Well I'm not gonna make uh church that's a religion to me. Hey, why don't you make Jesus? The exalted one in your life. I don't I I don't come here enough to know everybody that's here all the time. But the preacher does. Do you know that there's some people that he just knows you're going to be here? Because you're faithful. You just I mean the doors are open, you're here. And there's some people that he says, Well, I don't know whether they're going to be here or not. And sometimes you show up and sometimes you don't. And folks, uh, you say, well, it's none of his business. Well, it is the preacher's business. And the preacher's in love with you. I mean spiritually. He's love he loves you. If he has a pastor's heart at all, he loves you. And and folks, he cares whether you're in church or not. And it's a choice that you make. Am I going to serve God? Am I not? Am I going to be faithful to God or am I not? Now, uh, you can say no to the Holy Spirit as he speaks to you. But he does speak to you and talks to you. And we need to talk to him and ask him, Holy Spirit, what do you want me to do? No. If you get to the place to where you will pay attention to the Holy Spirit of God, you will very quickly be amazed at what He'll tell you. He'll even tell you, go talk to that guy out there on the corner. And you'll go out there and talk to the guy on the corner and find out that he was looking for the Lord. Just like God sent uh Philip to go talk to that Ethiopian eunuch. He told him to go to the way that goes toward Gaza. I don't know whether he ever did or not. Whether he ever went to Gaza, but he got out there on the desert edge of the desert, and God said, Hey, see that guy in that chariot over there? Get over there and talk to him. How was he going to get Philip in that place? Well he needed to go to Gaza so he'd be there. And then he saw him and he ran over there and he said, Hey, do you understand what you're reading? And The Ethiopian eunuch said, How can I except some men should guide me? He hopped up into the chariot and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus, led that Ethiopian eunuch to Christ. He probably went to Ethiopia and started the first Baptist church in Ethiopia. You say, Well, I don't believe that. I think it was some other kind of church. Well, you know what I would be if I wasn't a Baptist? Ashamed. Right? Okay. Well some of you may not like that. I didn't get too many amens on that, but but um But that but listen, I'm a Baptist because I believe that Baptists teach the closest to the Word of God of any other religion. I that's the reason I'm a Baptist. And if I thought some other church was preaching closer to the Word of God than a Baptist church, then I'd go go to that one. I'm a Baptist because of conviction and a Baptist because of what is taught and preached here. Um l let me see If I came to your house, Brother Gambrell, and walked in and I saw your uh furniture, and I said, What that couch is brown leather. I think you ought to have black leather Let's get rid of that, and I take it outside, and he would say, Hey, now wait a minute, preacher. This is my house. I have the choice of what furniture I want in my house. It's none of your business what couches I have in my house. And that's the truth. I don't have any right to come into your house and tell you what you're supposed to have as furniture in your house. But look let me say that uh uh it's his decision on that. And let me just say that in your life, God has the authority to make whatever decision he wants to make about your life, and we are obligated to seek God's guidance and will. To follow God's guidance and what He wants us to do with our lives. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these other things will be added unto you. Do you know that we belong to him and so we have no choice in the matter but to follow him? Now I belong to Jesus. Jesus belongs to me Not for the years of time alone, but for eternity. Do you know when you got saved? You were sealed by the Spirit of God, by the Holy Spirit of God. He says in Ephesians 1:13, in whom ye also trusted. After that ye heard the word of truth the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. You know the Holy Spirit will make choices for you in your life if you'll let him. But he will not force himself upon you. You have to choose yourself to follow the guidance of the Holy Spirit of God. And you know that the preacher does not have any kind of corner on the Holy Spirit. The same Holy Spirit that's in me is in you. And you can get guidance from God yourself. Now I don't think it's wrong to go to the preacher for advice and guidance and where he can help you. But also, it's wrong for you not to go to the Holy Spirit of God and say, God, what should I do about this? When you make or when you're making decisions in your life, what causes you to make a decision? Well, I heard about a guy that bought a car. First, before he ever bought the car, he um Ask some people advice. And the people said, no, you you shouldn't buy that car. No, you shouldn't do it. But but he went and he bought this car. And so somebody said, Well, I thought you got advice not to buy that car. He said, Well, I did, but I knew my credit was so bad that I knew that if I got a loan to buy that car, it must be the will of God. Because my credit's so bad. And so he bought the car on that type of guidance. Now that is dumb to do something like that. And you would say, yeah, that is really dumb. Well, you and I as Christians, we make silly decisions because we make choices in our life because of how we feel about something, rather than upon the guidance of the Holy Spirit of God. We ought to pray about things and say, God, help me not to be at ease about this if you don't want me to do it. If you want me to do it, help me to be at peace in my heart about it, Lord. But guide me and direct me in what you want me to do and follow the leadership of the Holy Spirit of God. And then as he speaks to you, then be sure you listen to him and pay attention. And he'll make choices for you if you permit him to, if you will allow him to, and not go against his guidance and leadership in your life. You know, when you got saved, there were some choices that were made for you already. If you got born again, then uh your destiny That is made for you already. You're going to heaven. If you're born again, that's your destiny where you're going. And you can't change that. Once it's made, you're going to heaven. Your lifestyle has been chosen for you. We're to glorify God in everything that we do But you can disobey that. You can decide not to glorify God. You can decide not to live for God. You can decide not to put Him first in your life. Do you know the happiest person in the world is the one that is saved in putting God first and following God's leadership in their lives? The most unhappy people in the world are people that are saved that will not do what God asked them to do. If you want to be happy, then you need to do what God wants. Surrender to do what God wants. Say, God, if you want me to be a preacher, I'll be a preacher. If you want me to be a preacher's wife, I'll be a preacher's wife. I want you to know, ladies, that I'm already married, and so uh I'm not in on that part of it Uh there's my wife right down there and and but but uh do you know uh uh uh i if you want me to uh if you want me to go to the mission field, I'll go to the mission field. If you want me to serve you, I'll serve you. But God, will you lead me and guide me and direct me in what you want me to do? That's what I want all my grandkids to do. Just do what God wants, and then they'll be happy their whole life, following God's guidance in their life. If they don't do what God wants, they'll be unhappy. Do you know that your pastor would maybe not want me to say this, but do you know that when he was a young man? He wanted to be a millionaire. He may have said that to you before, I don't know. And he was going to He worked at Walmart and he was going to become a manager of that Walmart and then he was going to be a manager of a bunch of Walmarts and and so on and he was going to be a millionaire And so he said, but you know, I need a little bit more character than I've got. So I'm going to go to Bible college for one year. And I'm going to get that character I need, and then I'm going to quit Bible college and become a millionaire. That was his goal in life. But Every day they had devotions at Fairhaven Baptist College. And in the men's dorm, about 10 o'clock at night, the men would get together And my son David, your former pastor, should pray for my brother Caleb. The next night, my son Daniel, who was in college there, said, pray for my brother Caleb. What did I say first, Daniel? Excuse me. They were praying for Caleb. Every day they would pray for him. And I prayed for him every day in El Paso, Texas, where I was at the time. And we prayed and prayed and prayed. And that year, you get back up here and probably ought to stay up here, I guess. But that year, God got a hold of your pastor's heart. And he started doing what God wanted him to do. Now he's your pastor. And he seems like to me that he's pretty happy. Seems to me like he loves his wife. Seems to me like he loves you five kids with all of his heart. He'd die for any of you. I'm not sure he'd die for me, but I know he'd die for you guys Do you know your position in Christ has already been chosen for you. You're his child. That can't change. But your purpose in life has also been chosen for you. God wants to give you direction and your life of how you're supposed to live and what you're supposed to do and how you're supposed to act and where you're supposed to go and where you're supposed to work and all those kinds Things And if we'll follow his leadership and his guidance, you'll have happiness in your life. You'll have joy in your life. And it'll be wonderful. But you can choose to not do what God wants. Thinking that you know more than God does or better than God does. You know, Isaac's kind of a picture of this in the Bible. You know, Isaac, he never chose where to live. God told him where He never chose his wife. His father chose his wife for him. He never chose his occupation. God chose that. Very few things that he chose on his own. We need to get to the place where we'll trust God and let God choose for us. Let Him say, hey, that's the guy I want you to marry. That's the man I want you to marry. That's the Direction I want you to go in your life. This is what you ought to be doing in your life. God will tell you, uh, you know, you have the choice in life of whether you're going to accept or reject Christ. You have the choice of whether you're going to be saved or whether you're going to be lost. You can choose salvation early, and the earlier you choose salvation, the more wonderful it's going to be. But the longer you wait, there are er very few adults get saved. According to how many there are. Do you know that if you wait till you're sixty years old, only one in seven thousand people get saved after the age of sixty? That's one of the reasons that you have BBS to reach those kids when they're little. So they get born again when they're little. So they get saved when they're little. And not many people get saved after becoming an adult. But the Bible says in the book of 2 Corinthians 6 2, now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. If you're here today and you're not saved, then now, today is the day that you ought to trust the Lord as your Savior. Because he says he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance You can't decide to reject Christ today and reap heaven tomorrow. You can't do it. You say, well, I'll get saved later. A lot of people have thought that in their lives and died before later came. You uh have a choice of occupation. If you choose the Lord and He saves you, then I'm letting I I'm encouraging you to choose God's direction in your life. The Bible says, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth in Proverbs 27, verse number one. Tomorrow may be too late to decide what you're going to do with your life. You make any other choice other than Christ, and you've chosen death and destruction and eternity without God. In life we could we have the choice of who you're gonna marry. I have five grandsons, uh three grand uh two grandsons and uh and three uh I have three grandsons and two granddaughters over there. None of them are married yet. And so you know what we pray for quite often, your grandmother and I? Oh God, help our grandkids to marry the right person. Lord, don't let 'em mess up and marry the wrong one. And do you know God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam? And then he slept, and he took one of his ribs, and he closed up the flesh thereof. And the rib which the Lord God had taken from man, he made a woman And brought her under the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh Adam had no choice in this. God didn't come down and say, Adam, you want a wife? He said, What in the world is a wife? No, God didn't do that. God said, Adam's lonely. He needs somebody, and he made him a wife. But let me just say that you have a choice. All of you grandkids have a choice on who you're gonna marry. You marry the right one, you can be happy. You marry the wrong one, you'll have a miserable, miserable, miserable life. Do you know If g if Adam would have gone out looking on his own for a wife, he might have married a monkey. He says, I'm gonna find a good looking monkey. I've never seen a good looking monkey to myself myself. But no, no. God made him a wife You know, God has a person picked out for you to marry too if you're not married. He has one for you. Do you know that when your daddy was born kids? That um We started praying for his wife. We didn't know who she was. We said like like uh like uh my daughter when I was praying for her, but we said, Lord, someplace in this world there's probably an ugly little woman born I I didn't we didn't we didn't pray that we just kidding. But Lord, I pray that you would lead them together and put a hedge about her and protect her and watch over her. But God has picked out somebody for you to marry. Choose the right one. Listen, if you wait on God, you would be amazed at what you'll get. See what I got? Amen. Isn't that great? Yes it is. Amen. And uh you know uh you just trust the Lord. How about occupation? Acts chapter 9, verse 6 says, And he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into a city, and it shall be told there what thou must do. When Saul got saved, his occupation changed. And when you get born again, God will give you leadership in your life to help you to be what God wants you to be. You ought to always surrender to the will of God. God, what do you want for my life? Choose a life of service. Give your life to helping others. That brings you the most happiness. You don't understand this when you're a little kid. But do you know that parents enjoy giving their parents or their children gifts more than the kids enjoy getting the parents getting the gifts? Uh don't pay attention to what I say, pay attention to what I mean. You know, let God make the choices in your life. Surrender to His will. Whatever God calls you to, you'll be happy in that calling. You'll be happy doing what God wants you to do. And let me say that God also in your life, He will not put you in a position where it will be a compromising position and questionable thing. For instance, in your life, don't do anything that would be displeasing to God. For instance, God does not want you to drive a beer truck. Now, if there's anybody here who drives a beer truck, I'm sorry and I didn't know it, but that doesn't change the truth that you ought not to be doing it. You ought not to be driving a beer truck. Why? Because the Bible says wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging. Whosoever deceived thereby is not wise. I don't have time to prove to prove it to you today from the scripture, but I can prove it from the scripture. that uh that Jesus never, ever, ever in his whole life drank anything that was fermented Liquor and so on. He never did. He said, What about the marriage feast of Canaan? He d if he turned it into liquor, he was a sinner. Because the Bible says whosoever giveth to his neighbor a strong drink is in danger of the judgment. He does. God couldn't Jesus couldn't couldn't be our Savior if he turned it into liquor. He turned it into grape juice. That's what they drank there at the wedding feast. It was the best grape juice they ever had in their life. But uh God would not want you to get a job where you had to sell pornographic literature Most all of your convenience stores sell sell stuff like that. They sell beer and liquor and and pornographic stuff and things like that, and you don't want to get involved in that. You say, well where can I work? Well, there's a lot of fit places that you can work. Talk to some of my grandkids. They work at a lot of different places and make quite a bit of money, I think. And um uh but uh uh but none of it is doing wicked things and ungodly things. God probably would not have you to be working on the Lord's day. But whatever you do, choose to work hard. God wants you to work hard. And let me just say that you have a choice of your entertainment. You can choose what you're going to do to have fun. The Bible says, delight thyself also in the Lord. And he will give you the desires of thine heart. You can have fun living for God. Amen. Isn't that a shock? You can have fun living for the Lord. I mean, folks, it is fun serving God. Most of what the United States of America considers entertainment, God considers sin. Oh yeah. Most all of the entertainment today, especially out of Hollywood and all that kind of junk, God considers it sin. Christians can't participate in non Christian entertainment and be pleasing to God. He said, Well, I don't like this preaching. I'm not going to come back here anymore. Well, I'm not preaching next week. Somebody else is, so you can come back. But you can let God choose your entertainment and it will be right. Christian fellowship, fellowship with God's people, church-related activities. Not spending hours and hours and hours every day playing one of these video games. There's more to do in life than that. Choice of a church. God lets you choose what church you're going to go to. But you better get peace from God about that. This one is a good one. But unto the place which the Lord your God shall choose out of all your tribes, to put his name there, even unto the habitation, shall ye seek, and thither shall ye come. In other words, you find a good Bible believing church like Hunt Valley Baptist Church and get in it, become a part of it and let it let and help it to grow and and let it be a help to you in your life Most of all, if you haven't chosen Christ yet, you need to get born again. If you have chosen Christ, then he has purchased your life. He's purchased you with his own blood and has a right to say, here's what you ought to do and here's what you ought to not do. And he gives us those things in order to make you happy. You'll be happy if you serve God and you put him first and do what God wants you to do.