Well we just sang uh the song of the month and looked at the idea of uh this sweet hour of prayer. And I mentioned to you that the Lord And certainly we all should be people of prayer in and of ourselves. I'm gonna talk first about this song and kind of Th this song is chucked so full of doctrine, of strong teaching about what it means to pray and and what God does in and through us through prayer and those things. We want to talk about About that a little bit, and then when we bring this to a close, we're going to just I'll be done a few minutes early and we'll just take a remainder of the time we have tonight and just spend it in prayer. Um I did Ask Ms. Darcy to print a few of the prayer sheets that we give out on Thursday night. I know many of you probably have your current week's prayer sheet and that's available to you. But if you don't have it Uh we'll when we go into the prayer time, we'll ask the ushers to grab those and bring them in and and distribute those for those that would need uh some things to be prayed. You know, beloved prayer, we know from the scriptures, as we even as we sing this song, prayer as is is as much an attitude Yes, we are to be involved in the act of prayer, but prayer as it is as much an attitude as it is an action. We are to always be in the attitude of prayer. We are always to be praying. How are you always praying, well you're always in that attitude of prayer, in that spirit of prayer. Ephesians 6. 18, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the spirit. Spirit. We know it is the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man that availeth much. That attitude of prayer that is necessary to see Victory through prayer. As we look at the song tonight, there's several phrases that jump off the page at me, and I see, first of all, the refuge that's found in prayer. He says, sweet hour of prayer that calls me from a world of care. That sweet hour of prayer that calls us from the world of care. We are in this world, and this world with all of its burdens and with all of its trials and all of the heartache that we We endure, whatever that is, whatever burden you're carrying, but he calls us here. We see this refuge that's available. He calls us from the world of care into his presence. To experience that refuge, to know that it is, beloved, at the cross that we lay our burdens down. He says in Psalm 55, 22, cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. Casting all of our burdens upon the Lord Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. We know Philippians tells us, Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication With thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And what does he say? The peace of God. The peace of God shall keep Your hearts and minds. It is that peace of God that's available to us, that refuge that you find in prayer. And I would dare to say, if you have not experienced the refuge that's available in prayer There's one of two things. First of all, you've never really endured hardship. And you've never really had to crawl into the presence of your master and just crawl up into his arms and let him carry you for a while. Praise the Lord if you haven't. That's not a slight at all. Praise God that He's protected you from enduring such pain as that, right? Yet. But the time will come. Come, where you'll be into that place. But it's possibly that you've been there, but you didn't realize the refuge that was available to the Christian. That we can come into His presence, and so you didn't avail yourself of what's available to us as we, through that sweet hour of prayer, find the refuge in Jesus Christ and truly begin to lay our burdens out upon him and let him carry them for us. It is in this place of stillness that we experience God. He says in Psalms 46:10, be still and know that I am God. We know God's strength. When we find ourselves in a place of weakness, we learn of God's strength when we get into that refuge of prayer. Isaiah 40, 31, they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. It is the refuge of prayer where we come into his presence and Get still before God, we are able to lay our burdens at the cross, and He carries them for us, and we are renewed in our own strength. Writer says, In seasons of distress and grief, my soul has often found relief. And I ask you tonight, have you found relief? In the refuge of prayer, that place of prayer that's available to us all. It is the place where we truly commune with our Lord and our Savior. It is the attitude of prayer that brings us into His presence where we commune with Him in worship and in adoration. You see, beloved, true communion with God. does something to us. It does something to us. It brings us into his presence and gives peace to us. It strengthens us. We learn of God in that place. Matthew 6, 9 and 10. He says, after this manner, therefore pray ye Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We pray and Experience God, and it's through that that God changes us. God does something to us. We see also the songwriter reflect upon the request of prayer. He says, and bids me at my Father's throne make all my wants and wishes known. It was John R. Rice that wrote the book Prayer, Asking and Receiving. And I suppose probably more clearly and more definitive book on just the process of prayer has never been written. It literally that's what prayer is. It's asking and receiving. Do you what the Bible says you have not because He asked not. Prayer quite literally is us coming and making all our wants and wishes known Asking of God what it is that we would desire, what it is that we would have, as Psalm 6. 11, Matthew 6. 11 says, give us this day our daily bread. It, beloved, is a command for you and I to ask. We come to him with every request Hebrews 4. 16 says, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. Come boldly Unto the throne of grace. Why? Because, beloved, you're a child of the King. You've been granted access to the Father, and you can come boldly to the throne of grace and ask of him what ye will. Mark eleven twenty-four Therefore I say unto you, what things soever ye desire when ye pray, believing that ye receive them, and ye We see the request of prayer. That's the job, that's the role, that is what we're doing when we bow our heads. It is literally to come to the throne of grace. And make our petitions known. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Can I tell you something? Tonight, beloved, God delights in answering your prayer. God delights in providing that answer just like a parent, a father, a mother delights in Meeting the request of their children. They they they find such joy in that. It makes them as a parent so happy to see their children Happy, to see the joy on their faces, to see the satisfaction in their eyes. And our Heavenly Father looks at us, His children, and desires That we would come and ask so that he can provide. He bids me at my Father's throne make all All my wants and wishes known. I'll cast on him my every care and wait for thee the sweet hour of prayer. Beloved, we understand that where the refuge of prayer does something to us, the request of prayer does something for us. It's God does something for us. God is answering that prayer. He's meeting that need. He's supplying that request. He's healing that Sickness, he's he's he's doing something for you. And he delights to do it. We see thirdly the reliance of prayer. In verse number two, the songwriter says, and since he bids me seek his face, believe his word. And trust his grace. Beloved, the reliance of prayer is a complete and total reliance on the one we pray to. It is a reliance of prayer Upon God. Totally trusting Him. Psalms 37:5, commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in Him Him. You know, beloved, prayer is supposed to be the place where we cast our problems upon the Lord. But you know, we're supposed to leave them there. How many of us are guilty of casting that problem on the Lord and then picking it back up? You see, we're not completely and totally relying on Him to solve that problem or to meet that need or to answer that when we don't leave it there. we go and retrieve it, pick it up and carry it again and continue to look for solutions, we're not relying on him. We're to believe his word. This book that is chocked full of the promises of God and He's told us over and over again what He will do and how He's promised. to supply all of your needs according to his riches and glory. Can you trust him? When we pray for others, not just our own needs, we are involved in the ministry of prayer. And what a privilege that is To be able to go to the throne of grace for another person in need. To see God answer another request. God answered a request today. Theodore was born this afternoon at 1 o'clock. 21 inches, 8 pounds and some ounces. Big baby for such a small lady. But God answered the prayer. Mom and baby are both doing well. We went to God for that need, and God answered. What a privilege it is to have a ministry of prayer. Do you know, beloved, you don't need anything special. To have a ministry of prayer. You don't need a call of God or a commission by a church or a request by a friend. You just have to have a burden for somebody and say, okay, I'm going to pray. For them. First Timothy two, verse number one says, I exhort, therefore, that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and And giving of thanks be made for all men. You see, beloved, the reliance of prayer does something through us. It does something through us when we rely upon God. God does something through us, we see forth The reassurance of prayer. In that fourth verse that Pastor Gus mentioned as we began He says, sweet hour of prayer, sweet hour of prayer, may I thy consolation share. Consolation Means reassurance. It means committing and giving to you the confidence that you need. May I thy consolation share till from Mount Pigvas. Lofty heights I view my home and take my flight. And shout while passing through the air, farewell, farewell. Sweet hour of prayer. the necessity of prayer will be gone. But so will the privilege of prayer. But the confidence we see there, this phrase literally comes from Deuteronomy chapter, I think it's it's the last chapter of the book of Deuteronomy where Moses is standing up and he's looking over on Mount Pigfield there and he's looking over into the promised land. And he sees the promised land. He sees that place that is promised and what God wants to give his people. And that same imagery is cast in the song where he says, I view my home and take my flight. Beloved, it's through prayer that we're able to get a picture of heaven. It's like standing on the edge of that cliff and looking across the great gulf that's fixed. And be able to view that shore, that one day we're going to be there. And one day we're going to cast off this old robe of flesh and And on our way out, we'll say farewell, farewell, sweet hour of prayer. But until then, it is in that hour of prayer that we're able to get a vision, to get a glimpse of that home and that celestial shore. The reassurance of prayer. 1 John 5, verses 14 and 15 says, and this is the confidence. The confidence that we have in Him. That if we ask anything according to His will, He heareth us. And if we know what that we know that He heareth us, whatsoever we ask, we know That we have the petitions that we desire of Him. It is a consolation, a comfort to know That through prayer we're talking to God. Through prayer, we stand and gaze over the portals into heaven, that place where we We long to be, the place where we know our burdens and cares and the weights that drive us to the place of prayer will no longer be needed. But until then we look forward to it. Anticipate it. And we see the reassurance of prayer does something in us. Beloved, the sweet hour Of prayer, it's not just a song. It's more than a song. It's a scripture-soaked reality. Of the truth of prayer that's available to us all, but do we avail ourselves of it? We can all have the ministry of prayer. Prayers are refuge in trouble It is the request line where we ask, where we petition the Lord to meet Every need. And it is the faith of reliance on Him that He can and will answer the sweet idea. Hour of prayer. It's our privilege as a church and as a people to go to the Lord in prayer. And as Pastor Gus pointed out, one day That privilege is going to be gone. And we must seize the opportunity we have. It moves the hand of God. When we pray. What a powerful, powerful thing to think about and consider what's available to us through prayer