Uh we have been of course looking at the Baptist distinctives and specifically with regards to the doctrines that the Baptists have come to be known for and We've discussed those week by week. We've considered uh the systematic uh teachings of the Baptist Church, but also in light of the fact uh of the development of that over history, like kind of how we ended up here and then also the differences that we have between us and what other w would be mainline Denominations. And tonight we are teaching the next to the last lesson with regards to this. We are going to be covering the two offices tonight. The two offices and And then next week we have the privilege of Brother Chuck Harding going to be with us, and he's going to teach on the separation of church and state. uh separation of church and state. So he'll be looking at that next week. You're not going to want to miss that. Plan to be here and uh be a part of that if you would. But tonight we're looking at the two offices. The office of the pastor uh and And the deacon. These uh the pastor is not necessarily a Baptist distinctive in itself, why most denominations, most churches have uh pastors. I, in recent years, have even heard I was speaking with a member of the Catholic Church, and they talked to me about how they have a pastor. And they are referring to their priests now as pastors. And I know that the Catholic Church has for many years um made their teachings fit in line with the other churches and what other churches are teaching. And it used to be when you talked about, you know, have you been saved? they might not have known what that was. They would say, well, no. But the Catholic Church started using that terminology and started teaching it. And of course their definition of what being saved is is completely different. But they would use that and so when you would talk to them they would say, Oh yeah, I've been saved. I've I I've been saved and and so they use terminology that fits in with what other denominations are using so that there's uh not any lines or there's no distinctive differences that people would look at I mean you would say, Oh well we're we're just like you. We're the we're all the same and and everything, you know, where uh all the all the roads lead to Rome and and it doesn't matter which path you're on, it's all gonna end up at the same place and so on. And we of course know that that is not true. But the idea of the pastor, although it's not exclusively a Baptist thing, the recognition of nothing else is where you start to get into uh where it is a Baptist thing, uh because we don't recognize any other offices or any other positions. or any other uh places of authority or leadership in the church uh that are that are not found in the Bible and so we don't recognize other offices outside of the pastor and And the deacon, that's because these are the only two that are found in the Bible that are part of the local church. So, first of all, let's look at the doctrine, the doctrine. Now we of course know that Jesus is the head of the church. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, 1 Corinthians chapter number 3. Verses number nine through eleven. But we know that Jesus is the head. The head controls the body. We know that you're not going anywhere without your head. Uh if that happens, you've got some serious problems. You you're not going anywhere without your head. The head directs the body. It it leads the body and So Jesus is the head of the church. In 1 Corinthians 3, 9 through 11 says, For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building, according to the grace of God which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon, but let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon, for other foundation can man lay than that is laid which is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the head. He laid the foundation, he started the church, and he is the head of the church. We know that. And uh what that means for us If Jesus is truly the head, it's not just a statement. We're not just declaring that as Jesus is the head of the church, but for us, it means that we Are executive, not legislative. As a church, we act out and fulfill the written laws of God The direction that God has already given us. The written program that God has already done. We are not legislative. We don't get to write new laws We don't get to determine which laws that were already written that we want to change, that we want to modify. Or readjust. You see, our job is to enforce, follow through with, and fulfill the written law of God. That is what it means to recognize Jesus as ahead. When we say Jesus is the head and we do things in the church that are contrary to this book, that means it's just talk. Right? Talk is cheap. If Jesus is truly the head, that means we're going to do what he has written for us as a church to do. We follow the orders he has already spelled out. Secondly, it means if Jesus is ahead, it means that every member answers directly to Christ. Not to the church. Not to the pastor. If Jesus is truly the head of the church, which we say he is, we recognize and understand And this goes back to individual liberty and soul liberty than the priesthood of the believer, that every one of you as members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church This is the place that God has brought you to be a part of the body of Christ and to fulfill his will for your life. But in the church, you still answer directly to Jesus Christ. For what you do. You don't answer to me as the pastor. You don't answer to the church, and the church does not exercise or hold authority over your life and what you do or don't do. That's between you and Jesus Christ. Now, hopefully, the church is instrumental in teaching you the Word of God and encouraging you in the path towards God and becoming all that God wants you to be. That's the ministry of the church. That's the job of the church. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. I think that's in the book. So the job of the church is to teach what the book says, and hopefully we're getting in line with the book, but we answer directly to the Holy Spirit, to God, to Jesus Christ, not to the church. This is a big major difference as we get down into the differences that at the churches wanted to exercise authority over its members and control their very life. What they could and could not do, what they should and shouldn't uh uh participate in, what they should give to, what they shouldn't give to, uh, you know, and they used the power of the church To control the lives of the individuals. Hopefully the church points to the book And the power of the Holy Spirit controls your life. Not the power of the church. That's the way it should be. Hopefully that's the way it is. The church is under the direction of the pastor as the under-shepherd. A simple definition of the church. government or how it's organized is this the ditch the democratic administration of Christ's laws by the church under pastoral leadership The democratic administration of Christ's laws by the church under pastoral leadership. So the church is continuing to fulfill the written laws of God under the direction and the leadership of the pastor. Which the pastor has put into is his position by the church, by the church family. So we're going to see the two offices. First, the office of the pastor. The office of the pastor. Now his his titles The office with three names but one position, that's because in the scriptures many times you will see the pastor or the physician of the pastor referred to in different names. Could anybody tell me what one of those might be? Joseph? A bishop, that's one of them. A bishop? An elder, that's the other. And the pastor, which is also or means, shepherd. So these things are found. So first of all, the title of pastor. This is uh I'm going to give you a couple of definitions or descriptive terms with regards to each of these positions if you want to write them down. First, the pastor is the one who feeds The flock. This comes from the Greek word, which means shepherding. Shepherding. And that's where we get this idea of the shepherd of the flock. The pastor is a term which kind of describes the duty of the office. The duty of the office is to shepherd the flock, is to feed the flock. Um the word shepherd or its different how it's appeared, whether it be shepherd or shepherdine or shepherd, however it might appear, appears 11 times, 18 times, sorry, in the New Testament. Then the term bishop. Bishop signifies the word actually means, it's a Greek word, which actually means overseer. So this signifies the design of his office. The design of his office. What he's supposed to be doing. He's supposed to be overseeing. He's supposed to be administrating. The organization that it takes to have a church, to have a program, to fulfill the laws of God. So he's the bishop is the administrator, the overseer. This term is found five times in the New Testament and describes the responsibilities of the pastor. Then there's the elder. This is one who leads, one who gives direction. The Greek word here for elder is Describing the dignity of the office. The word elder signifies or is pointing to a more mature. spiritually mature person. Now we look at elder in a physical sense of respect your elders. Those that are older than you, those that have walked some some roads you haven't walked down yet. But in a spiritual sense, I think this refers to the biblical requirement of a pastor to not be a novice. You see you you you wouldn't want a pastor to come who uh was just out of high school. That would be a novice It depends on the ministry and the church and the place and the individual, the individual person, because a person can be very mature spiritually, but not have a whole lot of years on them physically. So, I mean obviously there's many in this room that are my elder uh in age and in y in experience. And I have much to learn from these men. But God has put me in the position of pastor here. Why? Because of the spiritual maturity that I've displayed. That the church felt confident in and therefore voted me into the position of pastor. Although I'm much younger than you physically, you say, hey, he has displayed a measure of spiritual maturity that we recognize and therefore we're going to get behind him, he we're going to elect him or vote him to be our pastor. So There is a difference there. Obviously, it doesn't necessarily mean somebody that's old, but somebody that's mature. So that word, the Greek word specifically speaking about somebody mature. And in the New Testament, this term appears 67. times the idea of an elder. And this is again referring to the dignity of the office. So you have the pastor that's referring to the duty of the office. You have the bishop that's referring to the design of the office, and an elder that is the dignity of the office. The pastor dealing with shepherding the flock, the bishop dealing with overseeing the flock, the elder dealing with leading or directing the flock. And so these three terms that you see in the scriptures are referring to the same person. In 1 Timothy 3, verse number 1, this is a true saying, if man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. It's a good thing to desire the office of a bishop. It's a good work to be involved in. It's a privilege to serve as pastor here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And it's a privilege to serve the Lord in any capacity in any church. Um and I continually uh just don't count myself worthy and stand amazed uh at God's goodness and allowing me to be a part of this church and to to serve the ch the the church family. here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. The reason I think that we as a church and typically Baptists use the term pastor um opposed to the word bishop or elder is because this is referring in a more personal way Uh it emphasizes the nurturing aspect of a leader in the church, that he's to lead the flock of God. He's to minister to the flock of God, caring for them, protecting them, comforting them. And so we look at the pastor that way, and I think that's one of the reasons why we typically use that term pastor. It would be biblically okay to call me the elder. It's not a term we use as much and so to us not as as comfortable. Or the bishop. It would be biblically okay. Those are biblical terms And we're going to look at some other terms that aren't biblical that people in this position hold in a little bit, but those terms will be okay, but uh we uh kind of like the word pastor because it refers to the nurturing aspect, caring, compassionate. And uh, you know, that's the shepherding uh has with it, I think, even a an aspect of humility as well. And I think that's why we like that term. So uh his qualifications. I don't think we're going to spend much time, uh actually any time on the qualifications of the pastor. Those are found in the scriptures, very well spelled out. Let me just give you the references. If you want to write them down, you can. The qualifications are Titus chapter 1, verses 5 through 9, and 1 Timothy 3, 1 through 7. You can read those and the qualifications for the pastor are spelled out. And we've looked at these. We've talked about them, especially as the church was searching for a pastor. We really taught through all of this. And uh somebody blinded you guys and you ended up with me. But we did talk about them. We did tell you what the qualifications were ahead of time, so uh you guys knew what those were. So we're not going to spend much time there. Um but let me just say this. that uh the position of the pastor is not an in uh an invention of man. It's not man came up with this idea. Well let's get a guy, let's organize, and we'll let him lead. This was uh what does the Bible say that he gave some prophets, teachers, pastors, what it's a gift. to the church. It's a gift to the church. This is God uh blessed the church with a pastor and hopefully your pastor is a blessing to you uh because that's God's design that's God's plan it was a gift to the church Now he's chosen by the church, but only with spiritual principles as are set forth in the requirements So let's talk about his responsibilities. Let me give you a couple of his responsibilities. Obviously the names kind of lay out his responsibilities a little bit, but uh let me give you these three things. He's to lead, feed, and heed. The flock of God. He's to lead, feed, and heed. And I'll give you a couple of things, and I have references with all of these. If you want them, you can you can look at my notes later. But with regards to leading, the Bible speaks to him as a ruler. ruling. He is to lead by example according to 1 Peter chapter 5. And he is to lead by give providing oversight according to 1 Peter chapter 5. And then he's to feed the flock. That means he's to preach the word. Acts chapter 20, verse number 28. Timothy, 2 Timothy 4. 2. Preach the word. Be instant in season and out of season. these familiar passages of scriptures. He's to teach the Word of God, Ephesians 4. 11. He's to evangelize. 2 Timothy 4. 5. He's to train. in uh Ephesians four twelve. So he's to lead the flock, he's to feed the flock, and then he's to heed the flock. And I have several areas here that uh I would like to point out that he's supposed to be You know, the Bible scripture says that the pastor answers for your souls, that he's watching over you, that it's i you fall under the responsibility of him as a leader. And so he's supposed to heed the flock Just like a shepherd would look over the flock, and if he sees one of them herding, he wouldn't say, Oh yeah, there's somebody herding over there. No, the pastor is supposed to heed the flock, so he's supposed to be aware of what's going on in your lives, how things are going for you, when you're going through a trial, when you're going through a struggle, when you're dealing with a burden, it's his responsibility to heed those that are hurting. Those that are hurting. And don't get frustrated with the pastor. I mean sometimes I feel like It's it's it's a balance. Because I want to be there for you. I want to be a help for you. And sometimes I'll find out two or three weeks later that something happened and I never knew about it. I can't help you if I don't know about it. At the same time, I don't want to just be a bother and just bug you and just call and say, Hey, what's going on? Uh just let me know, you know what I mean I I I want to check up on you. I want to make sure you're doing okay. I stopped this week and visited somebody that hadn't been in church in the last four or five weeks and said, hey, how's it going? Just making sure you're doing fine. Are you healthy? Are you are you is there any problems that we can help you with? Haven't seen you, haven't been able to check up, and uh just just want to make sure you're doing all right. But it's it's a balance. But that's the job of the pastor. He's supposed to heed the flock, and when one of the flock are hurting, he's supposed to know about it and try and at least be there to be able to pray with you and pray for you. He's also supposed to heed the heart of the flock. Hebrews 13, 17. How's your heart? How's your heart doing? Are you right with God? Are you spiritually strong? Are you headed in the right direction? Why? Because I answer for you. Because I'm going to answer to God for what how your heart is. And if I'm feeding you how I'm supposed to be feeding you, it's a responsibility that I that I carry before God. To know how your heart is. So he's to heed the heart of the flock. He's also to heed the hurtful people in the flock. Sometimes you get wolves in the flock. The Bible talks about those. It's the job and the responsibility of the pastor to see a wolf. And to recognize it and to say, hey, we're not going to do that. This is not acceptable. You can't do that. The Bible talks about the pastor seeing uh, you know, um backbiters. Um people uh gossip, busybodies, people in the church that are sowing discord. It's the job of the pastor to to know who that is and to say, hey That's not helping, that's hurting. And we don't want to hurt the flock. So that's the that's the job of the pastor, the responsibility, what he's supposed to be doing. He's supposed to heed the flock and be aware of that And do something about it when it comes. So don't think I'm not loving. If I point out somebody that might be hurting. You guys need to wake up so I'm gonna tell you a skit I saw this week. I saw this uh this skit uh where this guy was sitting on a park bench. And he had a little puppy that was barking just a little black puppy. And it was like a poodle with all the curly hair and all that. And he was sitting there and he had this puppy and the puppy was barking. So he picked up the puppy. And he's like, shhh, shh, no, you can't do that. Shh. And he set the puppy down. And then somebody behind the bench reached around and grabbed the puppy and put it away and put a stuffed animal puppy that was the same size as the one the little dog you just had and there was a lady sitting on the bench next to him and he was like, The dog's too noisy, you know and the dog started barking again. And so this guy grabbed the the the the leash and went, wham, wham, and he slammed the puppy down on the ground. Now it was just a stuffed animal. But the lady didn't know that. And his dog, of course, they're making the sounds like And the lady's like, You can't do that, like stop that. You're hurting that dog. And then, you know, he let 'em know it was just a stuffed animal and of course they laughed about it. But what I'm saying is this lady wasn't just gonna sit by and let this man abuse that dog And the pastor shouldn't sit by and let somebody in the church abuse another member. So don't get mad or upset at the pastor or feel like, oh, he's not caring. I am caring. I care about the people that person is hurting. And that's the job of the pastor, to heed the flock, and those that are hurting the heart of the flock, and those that might be hurtful. So th that's the position of the pastor, the recognized scripturally, and then there's the office of the deacon. We have spent a numerous amount of time uh looking at the office of the deacon when we as a church began to elect deacons, and so I'm not going to take a lot of time here with teaching about his uh requirements or qualifications. I'll give you the references for where those are found. Acts chapter 6, verses 2 through 7. And in 1 Timothy 3, 8 through 13, you'll find the qualifications of the deacon listed. They're very clear, spelled out. You've got to find these men, and we've taught on all of those things and what they are supposed to do. But his responsibilities We know that the responsibility of a deacon is to be uh biblically is to be a servant. That's what the word means. The biblical examples that we see throughout the New Testament with regards to the office of deacon is those that serve from the very first deacons in Acts chapter 6. And even Jesus him Christ, Jesus Christ Himself who set the example, who said he came to minister unto, uh, not to be ministered to. And he set the example for us. But um they are to assist the pastor in serving the church and doing whatever the church needs. And that includes many things. They may they may preach if they are gifted in that area and can do it, just much like Stephen did uh as a deacon. Uh they should be soul winners. They should be spirit filled. They should help uh the members of the church, both physically and spiritually. They should be able to spiritually help uh the members of the church as well. And they should help with the facilities and with the finances of the church. And uh our deacons have been a great help to me. Now I don't have much with regards to the development of this. As you can imagine, as we've studied this and I began reading through a lot of things on Baptist history, the development of how this came into play, there really wasn't much on that. Uh so I don't have much with regards to that, but let me give you a couple of things with regards to the differences. Um as I said, uh the office of the pastor is not a distinctive of the Baptist only. There are many churches that have pastors. The distinctive comes in that we only recognize the pastor and the deacon as the only biblical positions that are recorded for us. So the scripture does not speak of anything along the lines of a cardinal. Uh vicars, presbyteries, priests, popes, rictors Only the terms that we've described already, elder, pastor, and bishop, which all three refer to one position. and the office of the deacon. So there are other churches that have people serving in these other positions. And some people might say, well that's just a name. I mean, it doesn't really matter. I mean it's just a name and they're just calling them that and uh so what difference does it really mean? Uh does it matter at all? Um I think it does matter. Uh myself, I I like we we we say the scriptures are the final authority of our faith in practice. And then let's get back to the scriptures. Um a very accepted name that a lot of people call themselves is Reverend. Uh and sometimes people uh they'll they'll say, hey Reverend, uh because they know that I'm a pastor, um, although this is uh probably okay. It's also not found in the Bible. The the term reverend actually comes from uh the Catholic Church And uh historically in about fourteen eighty-five they began using a term that was closely associated with that and then it just kinda carried carried over But you say the name doesn't matter, does it not matter? Turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter number 23. Matthew chapter 23. And verse number eight. When you're there, say amen. Alright, Matthew 23, verse number eight. Uh he says But be not ye called rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ, and all ye are brethren, and call no man your father upon the earth For one is your Father, which is in heaven. Neither be ye called masters, for one is your master, even Christ. But he that is the greatest among you shall be your servant. So very clearly here Christ says, hey Don't refer to him as rabbi. You only have one rabbi as then spiritual leader, the head of the church of Jesus Christ. Don't call him Father. Call no man father because you only have one father, Jesus Christ. So I think that the name matters. The principles set forth in the gospel seems to show a man of humility. Somebody desiring to serve people and the leader of the church should be that. Therefore, it's appropriate to call him a pastor or a brother in Christ Now, let me give you a couple things with regards to ecclesiastical organization, which is where we might differ from some other churches in how the church is organized. You have autocratic rule. Autocratic rule, this is governmental organization in a church. Autocratic is rule by one. And uh the Roman Catholic Church is this way. It's ultimately ruled by the Pope. The entire organization, all of the churches, all of the people put Underneath that uh are rule by one and what he says is the final authority. Then you have oligarchals uh and uh oligarchals rule by few. Some of the churches that have this type of administration or leadership in the church are Eastern Orthodox, the Anglican Church, the Lutheran Church, the Presbyterian Church, and the Methodist Church. a few, ruled by the few. The the uh Senate or the uh you know there's different names that escaped my mind as far as a group of people that are set up as the authority of the church and they rule and say this is what the church is going to practice, this is what we're going to do as a church, this is what we're going to recognize. And so these churches use that type of form. Then you have congregational rule, which is rule by many. And this, there are several churches that are like this, including the Baptist. Many times Bible churches would be like this, set up very similar to ours and how they elect their officers and so on. It's ruled by the many, that is the church family itself. So the Bible churches would be this way. Most evangelical churches would be this way. And then of course the Baptist churches this way. And that is that the congregation rules as they make the decisions. And so governmental power is with the memberships, not with the pastor. The church is the one that votes on the decisions. And the direction we're going to go and what we're going to do, leadership, guidance, direction is given by the pastor, but ultimately the church has to determine this is what we want Let's go do it. And so the church together agrees to do that and to follow the man of God and uh to act as why we have deacons here and good men in the church that give wisdom and counsel and And uh direction to the steps that we take as a church. And so the m majority rules and the minority is supposed to unify with the majority. So in this congregational rule like this, the majority rules, and then the minority says, hey, this is what everybody else wants to do, this is what I want to do. And let's say we were going to deny, we're going to say, okay, after church tonight, we're all going out to eat. Who wants to go to McDonald's? And, you know, ten people said McDonald's. And uh we said, who wants to go to Chili's? And we fixed several places. Let's say the majority of the people said, well, let's go to The majority said let's do Chipotle. It's close. It's gonna be relatively fast. It's pretty good fresh food. Let's do Chipotle. Chipotle. And uh Miss Amy doesn't really like Chipotle. So she just goes home. No, you see the minority is supposed to unify. All of us would feel bad. Mm. Because she's she's like, Well, I don't like Chipotle, so I'm just gonna go home. We'd say we want you to be a part. We we She should say, Chipotle's fine with me. I could just get a salad. I mean, there's always an option. Let's do Chipotle. That's what is supposed to happen in the church. We aren't necessarily all going to agree on everything, but when the majority rules, the minority says, hey, that's what everybody wants to do, let's do it. And they be a part and jump in. And for the sake of unity in the church and for the sake of the spirit of the church, you say, I want to be a part of that too. And you go do it. That's what's supposed to happen. Bible examples of this. The church decides on issues. I can give you these references. The church is supposed to decide on issues. Matthew 18, verse number 17. The church votes on men in Acts 1, 15 and 16. The church elects officers, Acts 6, 2 through 6. Am I going too fast? The church decides on issues, Matthew 18, 17. The church votes upon men, Acts 1, 15, and 16. What these are is examples of the church ruling. The church making the decisions, voting to do or exercise their power of leadership or uh government in the church. The church elects officers, Acts 6, 2 through 6. The church sends missionaries. The church sends missionaries. Acts 13, 1 through 4. And the church disciplines its members, 1 Corinthians 5, 1 through 13. The church disciplines its members, 1 Corinthians 5, 1 through 13. Again, these are illustrations or examples of the authority belonging to the church as far as the congregation. Another place that we differ, and I'm almost done here, is with the idea of elder rule. There's actually a very strong movement in the world today of elder rule and how churches should be led by elders or multiple elders and that there should be more than one and there shouldn't be just one pastor and we need to have multiple pastors or we need to have multiple rulers in the church. Um and this is something a movement today. So I just want to give you a couple of thoughts with regard to this. Elder rule is where a group of men make the decisions for the church. And the pastor does not actually have the authority, the oversight, or the direction of the church. And Acts chapter 20, verse numbers 16 and 17. We see that uh Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus because he would not spend time in Asia. For he hastened it, and was possible for him to be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost. And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church. So we have here the word elder, the elders of the church, and then in Acts chapter twenty, verse number twenty-eight, he says, Take heed, therefore, unto yourselves and to all the flock, over which the Holy Ghost has made you overseer. To feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. So in Acts chapter 20, verses 16 through 28, if you read those, I skipped a few verses in the middle. But in that same passage, all in the same context, discussing the same thing, you have him refer to the elders of the church, to the overseer of the church. and to the to the to f to feed the church. These three Greek words are the exact words that we say represent the office of the pastor, the elder, the bishop, and the pastor. The same word is used there, which means shepherding or feeding the flock. All three names are given to the same position. The picture of the shepherd given by Christ and the sheep. A pastor serves as the shepherd of the flock. You don't have a bunch of shepherds. You have a shepherd. And as the overseer of the flock, you have one head, not a lot of heads. I would like it if we had a lot of heads. Because that means I'm not responsible. That means I can say, oh, I didn't decide that. Brother Crane decided that. You don't like that? Ask talk to him. You know, or I I didn't I didn't make that decision. Uh but you see, what it means as one one head means there's one person responsible before God. For what happens in the church. Ultimately, I will answer to God for what happens in our church. You have the principle of headship. The head is what makes decisions. You know, a head doesn't have a lot of a body doesn't have a lot of heads. Uh the church, each individual local church doesn't have a lot of heads. The head assumes the responsibility before God. And uh wish I had a little bit more to give you on this because this is a strong movement today that people uh want to try and say should happen in a church. And uh again, if it was biblical it would be okay with me, but I don't think it's a Bible example is that. I think the Bible example is there's one head, the shepherd. He's the Under Shepherd. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. The Under Shepherd is the leader of the church. and serving in that position, and he's the one that stands responsible for before God for the church. So this is some of the ways we we differ in some of the the other uh groups that are out there with regards to the two offices. Let me close this in prayer and we'll be done tonight. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to be in your house. We thank you, Lord, for your word. And Lord, I pray that uh each and every person here uh would hear the word of God. And uh as it was taught and presented this evening and I pray God that we would do our best as a church to line up with your word and with Christ as the head and not just our own philosophies or ideas or or how We think it might work best, but that we would line up with you. And God, I pray that you would bless the church accordingly. And Lord, if we as a church are doing anything That would be contrary or contradictory or uh even uh just a little bit out of your will, I pray God that you would make it very well uh known and that you would show us that we might be uh uh church, Lord, without spot or blemish uh before you that or we would be exactly what you want us to be. And Lord, that's our desire. I pray, Lord, you'd give wisdom that we might might fulfill it. Go with us now. Keep us safe till we come together again. Lord, meet the spiritual and the physical needs of your church here at Hunt Valley. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.