Your Bibles to this evening to Psalm chapter 34. Psalm chapter 34. Hope to deal with this psalm uh this evening. Um you know as a as a visiting preacher certainly I have I've always been taught to always be ready to preach, and I enjoy preaching. So I always, Lord, if you open the door, I'm gonna Uh uh take the opportunity and to preach just because I enjoy preaching and certainly God has called me to this and I want him to use it and I will say this tonight that there's probably some messages certainly that I would probably feel more comfortable preaching or a more polished. But I really feel like the message tonight is what God would have for us tonight. Okay? And so, uh, but I want us to go to Psalm 34. And I really after Um I tell you what, I I I I've got a sermon notebook and I've I had gone through that sermon notebook and looked at a couple different things, uh kind of uh and looked at some things and as I looked at those things Um, I I really wasn't settled on anything, and then I got up this morning, and the Lord brought me to this particular sermon, and I'm I I'm like, well, you know, I I think that one would work. And then Pastor preached the message that he preached this morning And I thought, you know, this is really goes hand in hand with what he preached and what he talked about this morning. Maybe In a little bit different vein, as you'll see here as we get into the message. But if you're in Psalm 34, go ahead and just stay in Psalm 34. Now I want you to take your song book. Now I don't always do this But I want you to take your songbook and I want you to turn to page number 51. Page number 51 in your songbook And just hold that there. And then I want us to go back to Psalm 34. So you're page 51 in your songbook? Alright, now go to Psalm 34 and look at verse 1 Psalm 34 and verse 1. Now I don't if you've been saved any number, any length of years. Now I'm not assuming there's I don't know my experience here i i is limited. I don't know all that much about you. I don't know how long some of you maybe saved a few short years, some of you saved a long time, but this particular psalm. with a lot of people is kind of like a favorite psalm or like whenever we begin reading the psalm, we're like, oh yes, you know, it's a very familiar psalm. But notice what the psalmist says in verse 1 of Psalm chapter 34. He says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be. in my mouth. Now, as soon as we begin reading those words, we um there's almost really a message right there in and of itself because I could we could stop right there with verse one Where the psalmist says, I will bless the Lord most of the time. Is that what he said? I will bless the Lord when. At all times. And notice the next phrase. His praise shall, what's that next word? Continually Is that your experience? My wife is laughing. She lives with me. I know that's not her experience. Okay. So if Miss V, if that's not her experience, I know it's not your experience either. And by the way, I got before we go on, I just got a few, I know it's not Tim's experience either. Because he lived with me. And I just want to go talk to this boss of his because my experience It's not been what his boss here has been. Like, oh yeah, man, if you're made out of the same stuff your brother is, come work for me. I'm thinking he broke most of the stuff that I gave him Like come on, you know, like just watch your stuff, man. It might be broken before it's all said and done. Especially your expensive stuff. Just watch that. So You gotta be careful coming and working for the guy and then having your dad let him preach. Nah, Tim really was a blessing uh this summer And he did break some things. He didn't probably let you know that, but I I got stories. Bless the Lord, brother, all the time. So I was just thanking the Lord all summer for Tim. Yes, Lord. Your praise is continually in my mouth. Now, the reason I come to this text The pastor preached a message this morning, which is very true. I wouldn't take one word away from that message. Because if you make the wrong decisions, listen. There is a life of hardship. There's a life of destruction, and certainly Satan is looking to get into our lives, to make us make the wrong choices so that we, our lives will be destroyed. But let me just say on the flip side of that, that the Christian experience is also true, that there are things and there are valleys that we go through that sometimes We begin wondering in our own experience about where we are at and if God is really good. In this text of Scripture, we're going to continue to read. The Bible says, I will bless the Lord at all times. Praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me. And let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lightened And their faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his trouble. The Lord, the angel of the Lord, encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. And then the verse 8 says this, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man That trusteth in the Lord. Tonight I want to preach a message just simply entitled, Taste and See That The Lord is Good. Taste and see that the Lord is good. Let's go to the Lord in a word of prayer to God. And Heavenly Father, Lord, we are certainly thankful for this body of believers and Lord, I'm thankful for all that took place in Kirksville today among my own people. And Lord, we're here tonight, and Lord, we need we really need to hear from you once again. Lord, I believe we heard from you this morning, but Lord, I pray that we would Also, just be as committed as David was to knowing that God is good Lord, certainly the the wicked one, certainly the enemy wants to take things that will transpire in our life to turn us from the Lord. But Lord, I pray that ultimately our trust will be in you. And Lord, I praise the people of God tonight, Lord, that we would look to you, and Lord, that we would love you. Lord, as you desire us to, and Lord, as we uh as we need to. Lord, I pray that you'd speak to each and every heart, and Lord, we ask and pray it. In all of these things we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. You have your song book there. It's actually, this is 51, Psalm 51. It's actually one of my I have many favorite hymns. I enjoy a lot of different hymns, but this particular one probably ranks up there for me. But just the words, just listen to the words, blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine, heir of salvation, purchase of God, born of his spirit, washed in his blood. This is my story. This is my song, praising my savior all the day. It sign sounds a little bit like Psalm 34 continually praising the Lord, does it not? We look right across the page to this song, page number 52, another great song, to God be the glory, great things he hath done. So loved he the world that he gave us his son, who yielded his life and atonement for sin and opened the life gate that All, that includes me and you could go in. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Let all the earth hear his voice. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Let the people rejoice. Oh, come to the Father through Jesus the Son and give him the glory. Great things he hath Done. Now let me just tell you that both of these songs that we have just read, Psalm 50, number 51 and number 52, do you see who wrote those songs? Who wrote them? Fanny Crosby. Now we're I'll tell you a little bit about Fanny Crosby. You probably already know this, but listen, oftentimes when we come to these songs, notice the words again This is my story. This is my song. Praising my savior all the day long. Hey, this is the song that you sing after Goliath has been killed. Right? Hey, this is the song you sing when you get on top of Mount Carmel and you call fire down from heaven. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Amen. Right? To God be the glory, great things he hath done, Goliath our enemy, right? Is no more. It's easy to sing those songs When everything is going good. It's easy to sing the song when you have a job and maybe you just got the raise. The promotion. It's easy to sing the song when you're holding the new baby in your arms. It's easy to sing the song When someone just got saved, it's easy to sing the song. Listen, there's times when it's easy to sing the song. Look at verse 8 again. Want you to notice the first two words. What are they? Oh taste. You see, part of the Christian experience is that we know this, that there are times in our life when things just don't taste. Good. I I I'm gonna be honest. I've been saved a long time, but I read that verse sometimes and I say, oh taste, and I'm like, well, I'm not gonna invite too many people to taste. what's going on in my life right now. Because I'm not so sure it's something that I want them to experience and know. So why would the why what is he talking about? Oh taste If you're there in Psalm chapter 34, look at Psalm chapter 34. And I'm not going to ask you not to look at the text of Psalm 34. I'm going to look ask you to look at The introduction to Psalm 34, as it's given just under Psalm 34, between that and verse 1, notice what it says if you have a Bible that has it. Maybe not all of you have it. But how many of you have that in your Bible? Give a little introduction. A Psalm of David. Now a psalm is just a song, right? A Psalm of David, when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. How many know this story? Here David is. David, listen, he has slain Goliath. And listen, the people are singing in the streets. David has. Saul has slain his thousands, but David his ten thousands. I mean people are singing his praises. People are elated. Here's a young man. Listen. He had, it wasn't just long before that that Samuel the prophet had come and anointed him to be the next king of Israel. Can I tell you a lot of things were going right in David's life? But listen, from that moment that he killed Goliath, and great things were happening. Listen, there seemed to be this perpetual valley that he seemed to be going into. I mean, I I mean it didn't matter. I mean, his father-in-law, you know, hey, his father-in-law You would have thought, hey, listen, if you do this great wonder, you know, I'll give you my daughter. Hey, the reason that Saul gave him that task to do is Saul was hoping that he would die. Like I don't know if I want to be married into that family, right? Like and then once he's there, can I tell you that on a couple different occasions Saul sought to kill him and actually threw spears at him? And then hunted him like a dog all all over the countryside. And here David is. He is running for his life. David is in a valley. David is in a dark time. David is in a hard time. David is in a difficult time. David is in a time where he was wondering: what is going on? I know I'm uh God the man of God came and said God has something special for your life. I just saw a great victory, but it seems like everything since then It's just not right In 1 Samuel chapter 21, we have a story in there in that 1 Samuel chapter 21, and I'll take you there in just a moment, but in 1 Samuel 21, we have the story of David. Who goes before Abathar the priest and he he he's able to get some bread, but listen, Saul is coming for him. And he goes and he is hiding and and he he's he's tired of running and hiding and so what does he do? He goes to Akish, the the king of the Philistines. And he feigns himself to be a madman. Not A good time. But the Bible records for us and how instructive this is for us tonight, the Bible records for us Where he says, I will bless the Lord in the good times. Is that what he says? No. I will bless the Lord at all times. And listen, when we understand what he was going through, we understand, wow, this was quite a statement that's being made by David. And here David says O taste and see that the Lord is good Now it helps us to understand the text and and what we are dealing with. We are in the book of Psalms, and the book of Psalms, if we if we remember from our Our younger days or our Sunday school days or maybe even later in life you've been told this, but the book of Psalms and Proverbs and Ecclesiastes and the Book of Job, what are they? Books of what? They're books of what? They're books of poetry So a key to helping us is to know that they're books of poetry. And we come to Hebrew poetry. Hebrew poetry there you have to put a a the first phrase with the second phrase. Sometimes there's an antithesis in that, sometimes there are opposites in what they say. But sometimes uh the key to understanding the first part is to understanding the sec or to have that second part with it How many of you, this has been your experience? Now, this is going to be opposite of what we're going to say here in just a moment. But how many of you, this has been your experience? How many of you Have gone someplace and there has been this dish of food in front of you and it looks terrible And you were with someone and they said, oh, you gotta taste it. And you tasted it. And you know you knew this. Your eyes were deceiving you because it tastes far better than it looked How many have ever been there? Right? Right. Okay. Can I tell you the opposite is true in our text? When the psalmist is saying, oh taste, he's asking you to taste first. And then see. That is the order. Oftentimes we see something and we're like, that doesn't look good. And then we taste it and we're like, I want more. Right? In this text, we taste the bitter situations in our life and we think, I don't, I'm not so sure I want that. But we're not done. You taste first, and then you see. Are you hearing me? Now let's let's finish the verse because the second part of the verse is key in this poetry, this Hebrew poetry, for us. Notice what he says in verse 8. O taste And see that the Lord is good. And notice the second part. Blessed is the man that does what? Blessed is the man that does what? Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord. Now I'm going to tell you something. The only way that you will see God as good in the bad times is if your trust is in him. That's the key. Listen, the truth of the matter is if I just went to someone and said, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good They would look at all kinds of things and they would say, that statement is not true. And I could agree with them because there's a lot of things in life that the lost world looks at and says, well, if God's a God of love and if he's a good God, why do all these bad things happen? And there's some truth to that. Why? But here's what David will tell you. Oh, taste and see that God is good. Listen, I've gone through some difficult things in my life, but here's what I'm going to tell you, that God is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord. You know what David's key was? David's key was this. Listen, I'm gonna trust all these situations to God. And I believe that God can take the bitter situations and the difficult situations and the less than ideal situations in life. And he can turn them around for my good and for his glory. Now, can I tell you tonight that the lady that wrote those songs, Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine, oh what a foretaste of glory divine, that when this young lady was just a child She had a sickness and someone came in and she was uh Fanny Crosby was not born blind, but someone came in and they put some kind of salve on her eyes which would make her blind for the rest of her life. And I know you've heard this phrase, but you can either get bitter or you can get better. And listen, she she could have grown up and she could have been a very bitter young lady, but listen, we have all the hymns and all these songs that we sing almost on a weekly basis from this lady. You know what I think I think that Fanny Crosby's testimony would be the same that David's testimony would have been. I think that her testimony would have been this. Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. She wrote these words, oh what a happy soul am I, although I cannot see, I am resolved that in this world contented I will be. How many blessings I enjoy that other people don't to weep and sigh because I'm blind. I cannot. And I won't. You see what her perspective was? Oh, and her songs, it's revealed to us that her, that the praise of the Lord continually came off her lips, right? Her experience was, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Why could she say this? Listen, because Fanny. Crosby was looking at the fact that she was blind and she took her eyes and her lack of sight and she gave it to the Lord and she says, Lord, I don't understand, but I am trusting. You and can I tell you it makes all the difference for you to say, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good if your trust is in. There's another song in our songbook. It's a song that I love to sing. Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus. Just to take him at his word, just to know, just to rest upon his promise, just to know, thus saith the Lord. Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him, how I've proved him oar and or Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus. Now who wrote that song? Oh, for grace to trust him more. Her name is Luisa Stead. Louisa Stead was walking one day along the shore with her husband and someone had got caught in an undercurrent and they were drowning, and Luis Estad husband went out to save that person. And the process ended up dying himself. And here she was with the child, and she was all by herself, not knowing how she would care for herself and her need. And she got on her face and began to pray. And listen, it wasn't too long. Specifically, they were praying for some shoes for her daughter. They were in need. A knock came at the door and she went to open the door and there was no one there, but there was a bag of groceries and some money to buy the shoes that her daughter needed. And she knew this. There has been loss in my life. But there is a God who takes care of me. Can I tell you, Louisa'stead was this? Tis so sweet To trust in Jesus. Someone would have come along and said, Louisa You just need to forget God. Look what you're going through. I mean, your husband was trying to do something good and he lost his life. I mean, you can reject that. You know what Luisa dead wouldn't know I need to cling to him. I need to trust in him. Oh, taste. Sometimes we taste bitter things. But wait. And see that the Lord is good Familiar with the song written by Mr. Spafford, it is well with my soul. His business had burned, it was struggling. He sent his wife and girls on a trip that they had planned. And listen, in that trip he would lose his four daughters. But it was as he went to meet his wife and he was going over that place in the ocean where he lost his daughters to that sunken ship, he began to pin these words, when peace like a river attendeth my way. He'd gone through a difficult time, but listen, God gave him the words. It is well. It is well. With my soul. How many people have that s has that song blessed? You see, God has something bigger than just Mr. Spafford in store, he saw all the Christians down through the ages that would sing, It is well with my soul, and he knew it would bless them. And he said, listen. If you'll just wait and see, don't you think Mr. Spafford is on the other side of heaven and he's looking down and he God maybe the angels maybe just every once in a while let him Get in on some of the song services down here on earth and say, hey, they're singing your song again, Mr. Spafford. And Mr. Spafford probably says, yes, I tasted and it was bitter at the time, but I've waited long enough to see. Mr. Spafford would tell you today, oh, taste and see. The Lord is. Blessed is the man that trusteth In the Lord. We could look at Joseph's life tonight from the scriptures and how his brothers hated him. And it seemed like things were going good in his life. His father loved him and made him a coat of many colors. His father respected him, but listen, his brothers hated him. They sold him into slavery. It seemed like everything was he went through a long road. A valley, a very deep time in his life. But listen, on the other side, God exalted him. And I think Joseph would say to his brothers, you meant it for evil. Certainly I went through some difficult things, but listen, on the other side, God is good. God meant it for good. I would invite us Christians to taste, and I'm going to tell you it's not always going to taste good. It did not taste good for Job It did not taste good for Daniel. It did not taste good for Peter, and we could go on tonight and many Christians down through history, but they trusted in the Lord. I want you to notice the text and what the Bible says in verse 1 of Psalm 34. First of all, I see that there is a resolve by David. David, the first two words, what is it? I will. Can I just say this tonight before that bitter taste comes into your mouth, before you go through the difficult circumstance, or maybe you are in the midst of that difficult circumstance, can I just ask you tonight To just trust the Lord. Can I just ask you tonight to just make a decision And do the same thing that David says. And in the midst of this difficult time that David was going through, first words out of his mouth were, I will. Can you do that tonight? Can you say, I will bless the Lord? Here's something else. This verse is powerful. I will bless the Lord at all times, but I want you to know this what the psalmist said. His praise shall continually beware. Not in my thoughts. It'll be where In other words, David was saying, listen, Lord, I'm just going through a difficult time, but Lord, I'll just keep it in. Lord, you know that in my heart of hearts I'm praising you. It's not what he said. I listen, I so enjoyed tonight the handing of the microphones around and the speaking. Listen, we need to get up and testify every once in a while. Amen. Hey, we need to sit in that pew listen and I'm gonna tell you you're gonna be going through very difficult times. I don't know you may be going through a health problem, you may go into a financial problem, you may be going through some problem, but you take your song book out and you open that songbook or you look at the screen. and to the top of your lungs and to the best of your ability to the glory of God, you begin to sing those hymns. Can I tell you why? Because your mouth needs to praise God and your mouth needs to testify. I'm going through a hard time, but my trust is in the Lord. I'm gonna keep coming to church and I'm gonna keep singing those songs. Amen. Notice what he says in verse two He says in verse 2, my soul shall make her boast in the Lord. But notice that second phrase. The humble shall hear. Now, we're going to see there's there's a little bit of a transition here. First of all, there's someone that's going through a difficult time. His name is David And David is not allowing that trouble to so trouble him that he ceases from singing a song. And can I tell you, it came off of his mouth to the point where someone else heard what he was singing. Can I tell you, God's going to send you through a difficult time just like he sent David through a difficult time just like he sent Daniel through a difficult time just like he sent these people. I'm so glad that listen There wasn't just a little girl by the name of Franny Crosby that grew up and just never wrote any songs. That her voice was heard Now notice what the Bible says. Who will hear? Who will hear? Humble. Now, there's a few proud people that'll hear too. But what is the response of the humble? They will be glad. Can I tell you, humble people do the same thing that David did. They just trust the Lord. It is proud people that say, you don't deserve that. Are you hearing me tonight? You should just quit on God. Hey, remember Job's wife? Just curse God and die. She wasn't glad. She was not humble, I can tell you that. But you know what Job said? The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Job said this in Job 23. I cannot find the Lord, but he knows the way that I take. And when I come forth, I'm going to come forth as gold. You know what Job was saying? My trust is in the Lord. The humble will hear. The humble will hear Can I tell you, if you're going through a difficult time, there's some humble people around you, hopefully, that need to hear you praise the Lord. And then let's notice what he says in verse 3. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name. You see, here's David. I will praise the Lord. Then there was a few people that heard him praise the Lord And then he gave an invitation to others to praise the Lord. You know what's convicting is when someone's going through a hard time, you just don't hear them praise the Lord. But I'll tell you what, it's sometimes it'll put tears in your eyes like, will you just come praise Jesus with me? Like I don't uh I don't know if I can or not, but yeah. Amen. I've been there. Amen. You want to talk about revival? You want to talk about blessing your soul? Hold your place here. Go to 1 Samuel chapter 21. 1 Samuel chapter 21, look at verse 10. The Bible says, and David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul. Went to Agish the king of Gath And the servants of Akish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? Then they not sing one to another of him and dance, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands And David is ten thousands, and David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Akish, the king of Gath, and he changed his behavior before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands. and scrabbbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down upon his beard. Then said Akish unto his servants, Lo, ye have Seeing the man as man, wherefore then have ye brought him to me? Have I need of a madman? Ye may brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence. Shall this fellow come into my house? Verse chapter twenty-two and verse one David therefore departed thence and escaped to the cave of Dolum, and when his brethren and all his father's house heard of it, they went down thither to him. And everyone that was in, now get this, everyone that was in distress, and everyone that was in debt And everyone that was discontented gathered themselves unto him, and he became a captain over them. I want you to get the picture. I'm going through a really bad time. Everyone that was in distress. Everyone that was discomforted. Everyone that was in debt. Are you hearing me? Where'd they go? David. You know what I believe David did? David didn't let them wallow in their sorrows. I want you to notice, okay? So go back. Now you have some context. I want you to go back to Psalm 34. Psalm 34 I think will mean a little bit more to you. I hope it means a little more to you now that you have that context. Psalm 34 and the first part that we have dealt with is really just dealing With David and his experience and his testimony, his song to us. So if you want to, if you would outline it, verses one through nine or one through eight is David's song, but the latter part is his sermon. Who is he preaching to? You know who he's preaching to? The discontented and the distressed and the indebted, right? Those that came to him But what were his words to them? Notice what he says. The young lions in verse ten do lack, and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. Come, ye children, hearken unto me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord. What man is he that desireth life and loveth many days? that he may see good. Keep thy tongue from evil. Hey, listen, when David could have spoken bad about the king, he kept his mouth shut. Right? Keep thy tongue from evil and thy lips from speaking guile. Depart from evil and do good. Seek peace. Here David, David, man, I believe he sought peace. And Saul was just kept coming and kept coming and kept coming Depart from evil, do good, seek peace, and pursue it. Let me tell you, verse 15, the eyes of the Lord They're upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth But the righteous cry, and the Lord heareth, and delivereth them out of all their troubles. The Lord is nigh unto them That are of a broken heart and saveth such as are of a crontite spirit. Let me tell you, he got those people together and he began to preach to them and he began to tell them, hey, listen Don't tell me about your difficulty and how you can't do this and you can't do that. Can I just tell you what you need to do is you just need to trust in the Lord. Because if you'll trust in the Lord, the young lions can lack. They can suffer hunger, but can I tell you those that seek God You withhold no good thing. You can trust in him I think it was that audience that saw the trouble that David was going through. I think it was that audience that heard his song I think it was that audience that David said, Oh magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name. Listen, preacher preached a message this morning on, listen, if we're not following God, certainly God wants good in our lives, but sometimes, just like in John chapter 15, uh Ye are the uh I'm the vine and ye are the branches. Every once in a while our branches need some pruning. God's got to do a work in our life Sometimes that work is not a comfortable work. Sometimes we can taste it like, man, it just doesn't taste good right now. But I'm just going to tell you, just wait a little bit on him. Oh taste and see that the Lord is good. The key to seeing that He's good is trusting. In the Lord. Are you trusting in God? I'm going to encourage you tonight to put your trust in Him.