And uh if you're here this morning and you're not aware that there's a real devil and uh his plan is to destroy your life, then uh this is gonna be a revelation to you. But for for the most of you you're well acquainted with him. He's been pretty active. And anyways, let's look to the Lord in prayer and then we'll begin. Thank you, Lord, for the privilege of being in your house with your people on your day. We're thankful for uh the Word of God that uh you've given to us that we can uh not just stand upon but sink our teeth into and that we can uh get what we need today from it. And I pray, Lord, for your blessings. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We're going to start with the baptism of Jesus Christ. Matthew chapter 3, beginning at verse 13. Because if I can't see, if you don't see some of the things in the baptism of Christ, then you're not going to see the things in the temptation of Christ that we need to see. So it says, then came uh cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan, about a 45-mile trip, unto John to be baptized of him. That's how important baptism was. But John forbade him, saying, I had need to be baptized of thee, and cometh thou to me. John says, look, I'm out here baptizing to repentance. I'm trying to uh get a revival spirit among the Jewish nation. And uh I'm baptizing in the Jordan River and uh preparing people for the coming kingdom. And uh I'm baptizing sinners, not saints. So please, I don't want to be baptized or to baptize you, and Jesus said, suffer to be so now, for thus it becometh us to fulfill or to accomplish all righteousness. And then he did. And when Jesus, Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water, there were three miraculous events that took place. The first one is one that I want to spend a little time talking to you about because I think it's so vital It says, and lo, and I have underlined in my Bible the next phrase, particularly the last word, and lo, the heavens were opened unto him. Not them, him. He was there, John the Baptist was there, a crowd of people were there, and only one person got a glimpse into heaven, and that was Jesus. Now I'm gonna step out and tell you right now that I I am making a connection to this that I cannot absolutely prove to you, but I'm gonna tell you what I believe he saw. When he looked into heaven. This is the beginning, the official initiation of the ministry of Jesus Christ. And when he came, he recognized who he was, we know, at the age of twelve. When he sat among uh the elders there in uh the synagogue, in the temple, excuse me And uh told his mom and dad, wished he not I must be about my father's business. He knew who his real father was and who he was and what he was here to do. So I think if you could just hold your finger there and turn over to Hebrews chapter 12 with me, I'm going to put these two passages together, and you can agree with me or disagree, it doesn't matter. because this is not absolute on this. But here's what I believe. It says in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1, wherefore Seeing where our compass about with so great a cloud of witnesses, and those witnesses, the wherefore, are those witnesses that are already in heaven in chapter 11, the God's Hall of Fame chapter All of those witnesses, and he's encouraging whoever wrote the book of Hebrews, I believe it was the Apostle Paul, but whoever wrote the book of Hebrews is encouraging these people to go on for Christ, to be motivated to serve Him in the midst of all the persecution that they're suffering. And he said, We have a heavenly cloud of witnesses watching us. That's one motivation. So, because of that, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us. And let us run with patience. Notice this next phrase. The race that is set before us. A race that is set before us. Would any of you disagree with me here in believing that that race that is set before us, so-called a race? Is God's plan for our life? Would anybody disagree with that or would you agree? This is what God has for us to do. And each race is different in this room. But God has a race for each one of you to run. And it was placed before you at the moment of your salvation. Now, take that thought and go to the next phrase. And it says, looking unto Jesus. Here's our second motivation. We have a heavenly witness. Of all of those that have gone on and run their race, we have a race set before us. We have Jesus Christ as a motivation. So here's the comparison. The author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was, notice the phrase, sat before him. The joy that was set before him. Just like the race that was set before us, he could have said, God chose not to use the word race. Because the calling of God was to come and to summa give himself as a human sacrifice for all of our sins. That's what the race was for Jesus Christ. He put in front of him a cross and said, This is your race. And Jesus said, It's my joy. It is a joy set before me. Alright? So I think that that joy that was set before him, that race that was placed in front of him Was done so at the beginning of his ministry. So go back to Matthew chapter 3, then Jesus now knows who he is and what he's here to do. It's clear to him that there is a cross to bear and to die on. Now I say all of that because that leads us to the into the temptation and sets the foundation for the temptation. So the second miracle, it says, the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting upon him. Here's his anointing from on The Holy Spirit of God, the third person of the Trinity, Jesus has now been veiled in a human body. And I'm not going to get off on this concept, but he never ceased to be God when he took on human flesh But he subjected himself to the authority of God the Father and was led by the Holy Spirit while he was here in human flesh. And so, uh, and then the third miracle, and lo, a voice from heaven sing, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Any doubt as to who that was who said that? It was God Almighty. That crowd, John the Baptist. Jesus Christ, whoever was assembled there, heard a voice from heaven, this is my son. Pretty clear. So there's all kinds of miracles that have just taken place. Now we have to go through that chapter division and look at the very next word. Then Now this was the beginning of Jesus' ministry. This was a high point in his ministry. He's beginning, he's initiating his ministry by a baptism and having these miracles and the voice and the approval of God and his calling set before him. Then Was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil? He was led into the wilderness to be tempted. And for those of you that listen to some of those joy boys on the television who are telling you that everything's going to be all right. That you'll not ever experience any sorrow or suffering in this world. Especially the more money that you give them, the happier you're going to be, and the better your life is. I'm here to tell you that's not God's plan at all. Not at all. And so here he is. He goes from all of this miracle, the voice of God, the Holy Spirit In the baptism, he knows he's headed for the cross, and the first thing that he's taken to is the wilderness. And we're not stated, it doesn't say which wilderness, but none of them are a place where you would want to be for a long period of time. And it says he was there and he fasted. For 40 days and 40 nights. Now again, would you disagree with me when it says that the Holy Spirit led him into the wilderness? Would you say then that he told him to fast? Now, this is Jesus Christ, who has put himself under the authority of God the Father, and the Holy Spirit is leading him, and he's out in the wilderness. And he's there for 40 days and 40 nights, and he's not eating. He is drinking, or he wouldn't survive that long. But he's not eating Okay, so he's exactly where God wants him. And it's a little rough. The seas are pretty deep and rough But he's doing what God told him to do, and this is where the devil doesn't want him to be. And so let's take a look at the temptation of Jesus Christ now. And when the tempter, not if in your life, it's just a matter of when, not if. When the tempter came to him, he said. And would you, if you're underlining or taking notes, notice that first phrase. If thou be the Son of God. Now was he attacking his deity? I think not. And I believe not because of the answer that he gave. But what he is attacking is what was stated in the previous chapter. Who said, This is my son? God said it. And so what's the devil trying to do here in this first temptation when he says, if thou be The Son. It's not attacked directly upon his deity as it is upon the Word of God itself. And let me tell you, that's exactly where the devil wants to begin. Okay? And this temptation involves two things. Well, let's take a look at what the devil said. Comes to Jesus, and he said, if thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. I've had a few offerings before where the bread has been made stone. Okay, that's not a miracle. Okay, but this is taking a stone and turning it into bread to eat. That is a miracle. And he said, Command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, just as you should do as well, when the devil shows up It is written. Just throw the scripture out there. Devil hates it. It is written: man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word. That proceedeth out of the mouth of God. And we stop on that one for just a little bit. Every word, not every topic Not every thought, but every word. Do you know that you have in your hands the inspired words of God, not just his thoughts? And somehow incorporated by man into human words. You have the very words of God. And if that's not settled, then look at the next phrase. That proceedeth not out of the mouth of Matthew. Or David, or Moses, or Peter, or Paul, but out of the mouth of God. Do you know how privileged we are this morning to be sitting here with God's words in, not just his words, his words, every word from God. Proceedeth out of the mouth of God. That's where Jesus. Do you know why he gave that answer? Because he knows, just like you and I know, the devil wants to create doubt. Now I know he's a roaring lion and he comes and uh he wants to destroy you, but most of the time he's gonna come as an angel of light, Second Corinthians. chapter 12. He's going to come as an angel of light. And he's going to and instead of jumping all over you and just tearing you all apart He's going to just create a doubt. Is that not what happened in the Garden of Eden when the first sin was committed? What was it that the serpent Satan said to Eve? Hath God said Half God said. So if He can if He can take a period or an exclamation point and turn it into a question mark in your heart and mind, he's got you. He's got you. Because then that leads to the second temptation in this one. And I want you to understand that there was not, it would not have been a sin for Jesus to have taken a stone and turned it into a bread by his miraculous power and enjoy it. He took a piece of bread and some fish and fed 5,000 men, plus the women and children He used a miracle to feed. He can do that. That's not the miracles, but that tells you how subtle Satan is. You know what he's trying to do here? He's trying to get Jesus Christ to act without divine authority. Let me yank you back a minute. He was led of the Spirit into the wilderness, and he was fasting 40 days and 40 nights. Because that's what God told him. And here's the temptation of the flesh to kind of look at the surroundings and the circumstances and say, I got, all right, God, I know I I You got me this far. I got it from here. I can handle this and start making decisions based on your human fleshly mind. And that's what he was trying to get Jesus Christ here to do. He was trying to cause a division. He was trying to get Jesus Christ to act independently of his divine authority. And that's how Satan's going to begin moving in your life. He's just going to pull you away from God. He's just going to draw you away. Come on, you can do this. That's not that bad of a thing. This is just a little ways from just the next step away from where you are now. And you need to claim what she Jesus claimed, it is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. We need to claim God's word So there's two major temptations here: the temptation of doubt and the temptation of division, trying to create a gap between us and God. And if you don't know this by now, you should know it. And just need to be reminded, your relationship with God is the only thing you have. Really strongly going in your spiritual life. Your relationship with God is more important than you being here today. It's more important than going out on that bus route, or more important than going door knocking, and not your relationship with God is your pipeline to heaven. And that's where the devil knows he doesn't mind if you go out and win souls. He doesn't mind even if you read your Bible this morning. He's not afraid of you giving a gospel message and singing songs and putting money in the offering plate and doing all of these works As long as you aren't connected to God by faith, he can create a doubt. That's what he's after. And he tried it with Jesus Christ and failed. Then I take you to verse 5. So that one didn't work, so we go to the next one. And the devil taketh them if into the holy city, that would be Jerusalem. Does it uh bother you at all where it says the devil taketh him? You get this impression that that uh Jesus doesn't have a mind of his own and uh you know he's a 30-year-old man being dragged by the devil around? And it says, he setteth him up on the pinnacle of the temple, which is the highest parapet on the temple. And the temple is on the east side of the city of Jerusalem. The city of Jerusalem is is built on two mountain ranges going through there, two large hills. You look at pictures, and if you go over onto the eastern gate there Um uh today and look down. By the time you jumped off and finished rolling down the Kidron Valley, you've gone about 400 feet. Okay? You've gone a long way. So this this is not just a leap off from a rooftop. A small shack. This is a killer descent. And the devil taketh him up into the holy city, sitteth him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, same Start as the last one. Cast thyself down. And before he could stop there, he rolled right into, for it is written, ho, what do you know? The devil's quoting Scripture. How about that? And he's quoting it, or I should say, misquoting. It out of Psalm chapter 91. And I think we need to go back there and look at Psalm 91 and see how much Or how close he was to the truth. So turn back to Psalm 91, and we're going to look at verses 11 and 12. He reaches back into David's Psalm and he says this. He quotes For he, God, shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways, protection. To protect thee in all thy ways. Okay? They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. Alright, so here's what Satan said when he quoted it. It is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. What do you miss out? He conveniently left out in all thy ways In all thy ways. It wasn't that he was dyslexic and couldn't see it. He did it on purpose. He misquoted Scripture on purpose. So back in Matthew chapter 3 or chapter 4 again, it says that he misquoted it and said He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against the stone, see, Jesus said. It is written again, and he quotes out of Deuteronomy 6, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Now, there are two parts of this temptation that I think the devil uses against us as well, similar to the last. The first one is the matter of pride. You know, if the devil has the choice of where to take Jesus for this temptation, there are a lot of other higher precipices to drop him off from. The Dead Sea is just there, 1,300 feet below sea level, with cliffs very high up in the air He could have taken him there and taken him to the edge and looked over and said, now jump. But no, he took him to the pinnacle of the temple. You know why, don't you? That's where the people are. And he was trying to make a spectacle of Jesus. He wanted Jesus to in pride demonstrate his power. He wanted him to get up on that temple and say, look out below. Watch what God will do for me, and then leap off that temple like Superman. And uh watch the angels as they come and grab him by the arms and gently lead him down to a cheering crowd. But I know, and you know as well, that had he done that without God's permission, he'd have crashed below. Because this is the sin of presumption. This is the sin of pride. This is doing what we do to be seen of others and putting God in a backwards place and say, I'm just going to go do this, and I'm going to do this, and I'm going to do this, and I'm going to do this, never pausing. Never pausing to get God's permission and God's blessing. Do you know how many lives are wrecked? By the devil, people just taking off on their own. Never taking the time to say, Lord, I've got a big decision. Here's the job offer. Lord, I've got a big decision. Here's an opportunity God has given me to do this. Lord, here's a big decision about my family and things that need to be done there. And instead of coming to God and getting on your knees and begging for God's guidance, they just trample right on through. This is what I think I ought to do, this is what I think I ought to do, this is what I want to do. And my friends, that's presuming upon God's grace. That is presuming upon God. And just expecting God then to bless you doesn't happen. Too many casualties spiritually because they do that. Too many shipwrecks in God's Sea of Life. Because people do that. And he was still being led by the Spirit. But Satan's trying to get him to be prideful and presumptuous Then we come to the third temptation, and if you were bothered by the fact that he took him to the Holy City, this is going to bother you as well. Well, I guess we didn't get Jesus' answer again from the book of Deuteronomy. It is written, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Don't put God to the test. Follow God regardless. Again, the devil taketh them into an high, exceedingly high mountain and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee. Unless you understand who Satan is and where where he's at at this point in time, this smacks a blasphemy. How can Satan offer the world that God created? It's as simple as this. He's a squatter. When he was created, he was created a perfect being. He was created one of God's anointed angels. Read Isaiah 14 and particularly Ezekiel chapter 28, and you'll find out that he was given this earth. To minister and to serve here. That's where God put him. And he learned all about it, and he knows all about this planet Earth. And then when he fell, that's where he came. And he's been in charge of planet Earth ever since. Why? Because he owns it? No, he's a squatter. He doesn't own it. He didn't create it, but he owns the people in it. Year of your father the devil and the lust of your father ye will do. And in 1 John chapter 3, why did Cain kill Abel? Because he was of that wicked one, the devil. He controls this earth. Okay? And that's the blessing of the book of Revelation. We find that God's going to redeem it back someday. He's gonna take back what he's owned all along. But at this point in time he offered it, and this is a real temptation. Now listen carefully to what he says He says, all of this I will give to thee. All these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Now back up. Remember chapter 3. The heavens were opened unto him. And the race, the joy was set before him. Jesus is facing the cross. And Satan is offering a kingdom without a cross. He's saying all you have to do is bow down and worship me. Okay? And that's not bow down and say a prayer to me. That's not bow down and sing a song to me. That's not bow down and just say words. My friends, that's not what worship is As a matter of fact, Jesus tells us what worship is when he responds. Will you look at it with me, please? Verse 10. Then Jesus saith unto him, Get these hands, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God. In him only shalt thou play an instrument. Give your tithes. Come to church. Be happy. Him only shalt thou serve. Your service is your worship to God. And he knew that. And if my Painted mind would have been there. I would have crossed my fingers, crossed my legs, and said whatever he wanted me to say. Just not mean it. But I'm telling you, that's not worship. That's not what he's asking for. He's not just asking for a few accolades. He's saying, I need you to bow down and to worship me. And he this was a real temptation. Because we know that when G that cross got closer and closer and closer. That finally, when it got there, Jesus prayed three times that he wouldn't have to go to it. He asked the Father. If it be thy will, let this cup, this cross, pass from me. And if not, so be it, I will do your will. But he prayed it three times in such agony that he was bleeding Through his sweat pores. Okay, this was real. He didn't want to do this. He knew he had to, and he was going to follow his father's will regardless. So he says, it is written, thou shalt worship the Lord thy God and him only. Shalt thou serve. So here's the second or the third of the temptations. And this is a temptation in two ways, and that's the temptation to compromise. And the temptation of convenience. And let me tell you, the devil is offering you a Christian life that's convenient to you. He's offering, and there are probably in this community, like there are in my community, multiple churches. Come as you are and stay in your car if you want to. We're not going to load any burdensome on you. We just want you to come. And be happy, and we've got uh contemporary music for you to make you happy and feel comfortable and come as you are any way you want to come, it's okay Okay, there's no cross to bear. And that's the temptation that he gives to Jesus here. And of course, to remove the cross would have damned you and I. It would have damned you and I to hell. And Jesus and Christ knew why he was there, refused to deny the cross, and went to the cross. Because he says, I've come to seek and to save that which was lost, our heavenly Savior. All these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. And he said, Then the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels came and ministered unto him. Now I want you to note a couple of things concerning what we need to derive from this lesson. And then we'll be done. I want you to know that these were not the only temptations that Jesus ever suffered. Luke's gospel tells us that he was tempted, being tempted, 40 days. These were not the only temptations. That he suffered. But they represent every area of our life where he's going to attack. You here today are a trichotomy. You're made of three parts. You know why you're made of three parts and what makes you different from the animal kingdom? It's because God created you differently and you were made in His image and His likeness. And what image and likeness is that? You have a body Now that body is a temporary house. But that body and its five senses is how you experience the world around you. Okay? Temptation number one, satisfy the flesh, the body. You are a soul. There's a part of you that is inside of you that is the real you. Your body is just your house. It's the outside. The real you is inside. How you think. How you feel the decision powers that you have, that's you. That's your personality, your mind, your emotions, your will. Okay? That pride factor. Cast yourself down. In front of everybody. Let everybody see And then there's the temptation that, or the part of you that the third temptation was involved. You have a body, you are a soul, and if you're saved today, you have a spirit. There's a place inside of you that only God has access. Your flesh is how you connect to the world around you. Your soul is how you connect with people around you. Your spirit is how you connect with God. And there's where you ought to be living. That's the part of you that ought to be the strongest and in control of the others. And that's the part where your worship and your service for God comes from. And that's this last temptation. And he tempted him in all points. Like as we are, and thank you, Jesus. He never sinned once. And I know that this is difficult to understand, but he felt every temptation as though it was real Hebrews 4, 17. And he and he overcame that temptation for you and us. It offers that same strength. We have the same spirit. We have the same scripture. We have the same power of God in our lives to overcome any temptation that Satan brings our way. So determine in your heart that you will be in God's will always. And you will be committed to staying there. Don't let Satan move you. Be sensitive to the leading of the Holy Spirit and be armed with God's word And the first Adam's sin was overcome by the second Adam's victory. And that's where we want to live Thank you, Lord, for the time together, for the lessons we've learned, and I pray that you would encourage us, Lord, to be filled with the Word of God so when Satan shows up Whenever or wherever, and in whatever circumstances it will be ready. And may you find us victorious. And Lord, I pray for your blessing on the service to follow Pray for those that have come and may not know that they're saved. Help them to get it settled today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.