Looking forward to that in a few minutes. Daniel chapter number one. I want you to follow along with me as I read this chapter and engage your mind so that you can Get the story, what's taking place here. In the third year, starting in verse number one, in the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, came Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, unto Jerusalem. and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, with part of the vessels of the house of God Which he carried unto the land of Shinar to the house of his God. And he brought the vessels into the treasure house of his God. And the king spake unto Ashpanaz, the master of the eunuchs, that he should bring certain of the children of Israel, and of the king's seed, and of the princes. Children in whom was no blemish, but well favored, and skilful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge, and understanding science, and such as had the ability in them to stand in the king's palace and whom they might teach the learning of the tongue of the Chaldeans. And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat, and of the wine which he drank. So nourishing them three years, that at the end thereof they might stand before the king. Now among these were of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishel, and Azariah, unto whom the princes of the eunuchs gave names, for he gave to Daniel the name of Belteshazzar, and to Hananiah Shadrach and to Mishel Meshach and unto Azariah Abendigo. But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat Nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested of the princes of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. Now the king had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the princes of the eunuchs, And the prince of the eunuch said unto Daniel, I fear my Lord the King, who hath appointed your meat and drink, for why should he see your faces worse, like then the children which are of your sort? Then shall he make me endangered, my head to the king. Then said Daniel to Melsar, whom the Prince of the Eunuchs had set over Daniel, Hananih, Mishal, and Azariah Prove thy servants, I beseech thee. Ten days. And let them give us pulse to eat and water to drink. Then let our countenance be looked upon before thee, and the countenance of the children that eat after the portion of the king's meat As is set as thou seest, deal with thy servants. So he consented to them in this matter and proved them ten days. And at the end of ten days the countenance appeared fairer and fatter in flesh, and all the children which did eat portions of the king's Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat and wine that they should drink and gave them pulse. And For these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill and all learning and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding and all visions and dreams. Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring them in, then the princes of the eunuchs brought them before Nebuchadnezzar. And the king communed with them, and among them all was found none like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. Therefore stood they before the king In all matters of wisdom and understanding that the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better. Then all the magicians and the astrologers that were in his realm. And Daniel continued. Unto the first year of the King of Cyrus. Looking back at verse number 20, where we find the title of tonight's message and the thrust of the thought for this evil. He said, and in all the matters of wisdom and understanding that the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better. Here in this story we have for us Daniel and the three Hebrew children. These Men who were taken out of their homeland. They were uh at a young age taken from what they knew, taken to a place that they did not know or did not understand, and they literally were put into captivity and forced to do certain things. They were going to be raised up as eunuchs. They were going to be raised up as servants in the king's palace. And they were chosen among all those people that were chosen. They were chosen as men of excellence. It was recognized in them that there was a quality about them that they could stand before the king. So they need to be trained and taught And they set aside a portion of the king's meat and a portion of the king's wine to feed this group of young men, and preparing them to stand before the king, they set a lot of amount of time that they were to prepare and get ready to go. But Daniel and these three had decided that they knew what God would have them do, and they wanted to please God more than they wanted to please this king. And the wisely and the wisdom that Daniel exercised and how he dealt with this situation, I'm not going to de get into this evening, but He requested of the one that was over him and children, that's something you ought to learn when you're dealing with an authority, how to communicate with an authority. If you have a desire or there's something that you would like, you don't demand of authority, you don't tell authority what you're going to do. You come to them and ask, can I do this? This is what I would like. And Daniel, in a place he was a servant, he had no rights of his own. But he asked, could we do this? Could we give it a try? Could we do it you know just a quick 10-day test and see how it goes? And if if we aren't fairer, then then do whatever you would like. You can tell us to do that, but at least let us try this, and of course, God rewarded them and they were found to be fatter. We wouldn't like that today, you know, fatter. They were they were found to be more healthy. Uh those health nuts out there that uh you know d they they don't want to eat any meat and kind of stuff. They love this passage right here. They love this passage where see you shouldn't be eat meat. If you were vegan you'd be more healthy, you'd be have better color and and so on. But uh uh Uh I don't know that I think that's taken this out of context a little bit, but uh anyways. We see here that after the allotted amount of time they came before the king, and the Bible says that they found them ten times better. These men were ten times better than all the rest of the magicians and the astrologers that were in the king's realm. You understand today as Christians, it should be of utmost priority to us that we give our best to Jesus Christ. That we do our best for God, that we dress our best for God. Listen, if you're gonna come to the house of God and all you have is uh, you know uh G's in a t-shirt? Then do you you come to church and G's in a t-shirt and you're you're certainly welcome and you're going to be loved and and and not nobody's going to say anything about it, but Listen, if you uh have the means and the ability and you're you're just too lazy to get dressed up, well that's something different. We ought to desire and want to do our best for God. If we were going to meet well maybe that wouldn't be a good example right now. I was going to say meet If you were going to meet the president, you would dress up. Maybe I don't know how you feel about the president. We're not going to get into that tonight, but if you were going to meet somebody of importance You would say, hey, I've got to be ready to do that. I'm going to put my best foot forward. And maybe you'd be a little bit embarrassed about the meager means in which you have to prepare to meet that person of excellence. But Jesus Christ, the King of kings and the Lord of Lords, the creator of the universe and the Savior of your soul, we gather in his house to worship him. And as Christians, we ought to want to put our best foot forward Well a desire to do our best for God. There used to be an old joke that they would say, well, it's good enough for government work. Yeah, I know everybody's heard that it's good enough for government work Sorry if you work for the government, but that's what they joke. Well, I think today, the today's world, Christians have bought into this mentality for God's work. Well, it's good enough for the church We wouldn't never do that for our place of employment. We wouldn't never do that for our family. We wouldn't do that for other things, but we've got a mentality, a mindset that was good enough for God. It's good enough for the church. That's okay. God will be all happy with that. Lord forgive us for buying into this philosophy that it's just good enough for God There should be a spirit of excellence in all that we do, not just individually, but as a church. I wonder, have I done my best for Jesus, who died upon a cruel tree? To think of his great sacrifice on Calvary, I know my Lord expects the best of me. Have I done my best for Jesus Well Daniel and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo, the Babylonian names, of the three Hebrew children were found to be ten times better. Than all the rest. Why were they ten times better? I hope tonight that you desire in your heart to be ten times better and If I could tell you, listen, how is here's here's the means and the way in which you could be ten times better. Uh I guarantee you, if I said tonight, here's the means that you could be ten times richer, everybody would be getting their pins out Everybody would be writing down the notes. You want to increase your your your uh net value by ten times, here's what you do. Well, tonight I want to tell you how to be ten times better according to Jesus Christ and according to the Word of God. Daniel, first of all, we see here in verse number eight that Daniel purposed in his heart. Daniel purposed. In his heart that he was going to do right. That he was going to do what God wanted him to do. You know, if anything's ever going to come to fruition, it starts with you purposing in your heart. You have to decide in your heart that this is what you want and that you're going to do it. You know, I don't remember what Mary and I were talking about just the other day. We were riding in the car and we were talking about something. And I I I gave the old the old saying, well, you can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink. My thorn in the flesh is my mind. I cannot remember what the discussion was about, but I remember saying that to her. And you understand Nobody's gonna make you do anything. You have to want it. You have to desire it. It starts with an internal conviction. It starts with a spirit inside of you where you decide and purpose in your heart that you're going to do what God wants you to do. The Bible says in Proverbs 23, verse number seven, for as he thinketh in his heart So is he. I can guarantee you that what you begin to muse upon, what you begin to think about, is something that's going to come to fruition in your life It's going to happen when you start giving your mind towards something. Some of you here may have been giving your mind towards something that's not right that you shouldn't be doing I guarantee you a long time before an individual ever commits adultery against his wife, he begins been thinking about it for a long time. A long time before a church member ever quits coming to church and decides to just stay home and quit on God, they began thinking about it in their hearts and in their minds. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he Whatever you're given your heart and your mind to purpose towards, to be thinking about, is the direction that you're headed, and sooner or later that's going to come to fruition. That's why we've got to think on these things. We've got to think right and control our mind and don't let the devil get in there. Daniel purposed in his heart. And he was found ten times better. His ten times better started with a heart that purposed to do some things. This word purpose literally means to set. To set, to be set, to be determined. Daniel fixed his heart on doing right, on not defiling his body with the king's meat Can I ask you, have you ever set your heart on something? Have you ever determined in your mind, whatever it might be, could you think back through time and When there was a time where you purposed in your heart, you set your mind and said, this is what I'm going to do, this is what I'm going to accomplish, I'm going to get out of debt. I'm gonna lose this much weight. I'm gonna achieve this level of work. I'm gonna accomplish this. I'm gonna read through my Bible this year. I'm gonna you set your heart and mind on something. Has there ever been a time you've done that? I don't mean you were just interested in it or you thought that it would be a good idea or you were gonna do it if the opportunity ever came up I'm talking about you've set your heart on it. You set your mind to it. You said, this is what I'm gonna do. Is there any of you ever done that? You know what? Men have a free will and they can set their heart to do right or they can set their heart to do evil. We determine that. Of course, God has a desire, but we determine our what we're going to do. Ecclesiastes 8 verse number 11 says, Because the sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the Son of Man is fully set in them to do evil. Because they because you went into the store and and picked up something and stuck it in your pocket and walked out and nobody saw you and nobody arrested you. And lightning didn't come down from heaven? Pretty much guaranteed the person that did that is gonna steal again. And they're going to steal again. And they're going to steal again. The Bible is right every time. The Bible says because judgment was not executed speedily because of God's mercy and God's grace, and He doesn't doesn't come down with a hammer every time you mess up, we begin to think we're getting away with it. And parents, let me just throw this out. That's one reason why your kids' heart is set to do evil. Because judgment is not executed speedily. Because you let it go and you let it go and you think, oh, they're gonna grow out of it. When they do wrong, they need to be disciplined. That's Bible. When they're not, they think, Oh, I can do this. Uh this fine with me. Why not set your heart to do right instead of setting it to do evil? We can set our heart to do right in 1 Chronicles chapter 22, verse number 19. He says, now set your heart and your soul to seek the Lord. What a desire, what an ambition, to set our heart and our soul to seek the Lord. Wouldn't that be good? Have you made up your mind? Have you determined that you're going to do something right for God? New Christian, old Christian alike, you need to determine in your heart something. You need to set it as a this is this is what it is is what it is and it ain't gonna change. On the way to church yesterday morning Timothy was telling me how when he gets older, he wants to be the kind of person that's on time everywhere he goes. He doesn't want to be late. He doesn't want to be known as somebody that can't be on time. He wants to be on time. He's setting his heart towards that right now. Now he went on to tell me that's why he needed to get a sports car so he could speed to get everywhere everywhere he needed to get, so he could be there on time. Not quite what I was hoping for, but towards the right way anyway. You know Kids, you need you need to determine some things. You need to set in your heart that you're gonna do right. Mom and dad aren't always gonna be there. Mom and dad can have rules for you and they can set up guidelines for you and they can say you're not supposed to do this and you are supposed to do this. They have these rules for you, but what do you do when mom and dad are gone? What do you do when mom and hat mom and dad are out of the house for a little bit? If you haven't in your heart and mind set your heart to do right, then the devil's gonna come and say, hey. Mom and dad are gone. They're never gonna know why why don't you do this? But if you've set in your mind, you've purposed in your heart, You could be found ten times better. If you've established what you want to be and do, you've determined for yourself You know, Jacob started a job in the construction field working for electrical You know, Jacob, is that environment conducive to praise and worship? Is that environment conducive to just testifying and talking about the love of God? I told Jacob before he started, I said the first day, you just need to right out right on the outside, you just need to let him know you're a Christian. That removes so much temptation to try to Try and blend in or fit in or or what whatever. Then you've established that hey, I'm a Christian, I don't do these things. I don't talk about that stuff. And thus far he's held a uh a testimony before his co-workers. But you know what he had to establish that? He had to set his heart to do that. It doesn't just happen. I remember Anthony giving a testimony more than once about after they come to church here for a little while. How he just decided. Together they decided. You know what? We're going to be in church. We're gonna be there. This is this is our church and we're gonna be in church and we're gonna we're gonna be a work party and we're gonna we're gonna be a part of what's going To just be a part of what's happening here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. The reason many Christians miss church anytime is because they haven't set their heart to to be there. It's just a matter of well if it's convenient. If I can Oh, I know it's important, but I'm saying have you set your heart, have you determined, have you purposed that this is important for you? That you would not miss church. I I uh told you about Elysian How at eighteen months old she knew already the pattern of our home and she understood that in order to go to bed we had to have family devotions. And so she wanted to go to bed, so she had her own devotions and asked if she could go to bed that time. At 18 months old, well, now she's eighteen years old. And for eighteen years, that's all she's ever known. In eighteen years, she could probably count on one hand. The times that we as a family did not sit down and have family devotions in the evening. Now we don't have a 45-minute praise and worship service every night. Sometimes it's pretty simple, it's pretty straightforward. We might sing a song and read a little bit and pray and we're done in 10 minutes. Because I'm tired. Sometimes we talk for a while. Sometimes we do a little more reading But Mary and I set our heart. When we got married, we said, you know what? We're going to do this. We're going to, every night. Have devotions together. We're going to read the Bible. We're going to pray. We're going to talk to God every night. That's the way it is. And we have set our heart to do that. What have you set your heart to do? I want you to see, secondly, that if you're going to be ten times better, you've got a first, you've got a purpose in your heart. But also that what made Daniel ten times better is that he had a plan for his hands. He had a plan. For his hands. You see in verse number 11, he says, Then said Daniel to Melzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had said over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishia, and Azariah. Prove thy servants, I beseech thee, ten days, and let them give us pulse to eat. Pulse was vegetables. Some people believe it was beans. Amen, Brother Glover. Beans. But some type of vegetables. He said, let us Have pulse to eat and water to drink, then let our countenance be looked upon before thee in the countenance of the children that eat of the portion of the king's meat. And as thou seest, deal with thy servants. He had a plan. He set a plan in action. He said, listen. I don't wanted to pile myself with the king's meat. And he didn't just stand up and say, No, I ain't doing it. You can't make me. He had a plan He says, here's a solution. Could we do this? And what I want you to understand, uh church family, is that the the you can purpose in your heart. But do you understand if something's going to come to fruition, there's got to be a plan. There's got to be a way to die to do it. When Mary and I began to decide that we were going to have family devotions every single night. We had to figure out what time would work for us. Now listen, I know some of you, you get your kids to bed by 7:30, 8 o'clock. Praise God for you. And I highly recommend it. Then you can have a little bit of time of peace and quiet. But for us, our lives are so different from week to week. There's many nights we're not even home by eight, nine, or even ten. And so we determined as a family, even when we had infants, That we were going to read and pray together at 10 o'clock at night. That would be our time we shoot for. Sometimes it's 11. Sometimes it's 12. We have actually as a family had family devotions as late as probably two in the morning because we didn't want to miss. Now we shoot for 10 o'clock, but that was the plan. We're going to try at least to make 10 o'clock the time we read and pray and send the kids to bed. What is the plan? What plan do you have to accomplish what you set your heart to? Daniel faced opposition, but he had a plan. What is your plan to read your Bible? Man, I want to read my Bible. Do you have a plan? Do you have you say, okay, I'm going to read? Maybe you're on the reading schedule with us. Maybe you're doing your own reading schedule, but do you have a plan that you can work that you're going to accomplish? Have you laid it out? Maybe you say, boy, I want to pray more. Do you have a prayer list? I told you I called Pastor Starr this week and was talking to him and this morning in that illustration and in our conversation Pastor Starr said, how's your court case going? He said, I want you to know you're on my list every Wednesday night. I pray for your court case every Wednesday night. If I and sometimes other times as the Lord brings it to mind, but at least every Wednesday you're on my list. Every Wednesday night I pray for your court case What about your list? Do you have a list? Of family and friends you want to pray for, of the needs of the church that you want to pray for? Without a plan, it's not going to happen. You want to have family devotions? Do you have a plan? With uh we have six kids. One of those is left us. But uh um we have five kids, we have one in heaven. But there's seven of us in the home, except now Alicia's gone. And so for us, our plan was that, hey, there's seven of us. One person can pray every night of the week. So every night a different person has their their job to pray that night. And so we've done that for a lot of years It's just a plan. It's how we do it. You need a plan if you're gonna succeed, if you're gonna see your purpose come to fruition What's your plan for being a greater witness for God? Do you have a desire to witness, to see people saved? To reach people? Do you have a plan? Brother uh Don Wilson a couple years ago started getting a burden for seeing people saved. And he he printed up the Romans Road nice and big, like size forty-six fonts, so he could read it. And he put it in his Bible. So he had a plan right there. So whenever there was an opportunity, he would have it laid out. So he could talk to people about the Lord. He made a plan. This is what will work for me. Do you plan to have tracks with you? Do you plan to have a means to be a witness? Just a good intention, just a desire to do it's not going to make it happen. What about your relationships? Do you desire to have a better relationship with people you love? How is that going to happen? One of the big problems with husbands and wives today is after they got married, they stopped planning. How to be married. They stopped planning about how to love each other. They stopped giving any thought or effort into their relationship because, well, hey, after all, now they're married. And they just let life happen to them. And somehow they look at it and they say, well, we just grew apart. Well, yeah. You haven't put any thought into your relationship in 10 years. You haven't invested any time. Here's what I want to tell you. If you want to be closer to your wife tonight, There's only one thing standing between that goal, you. I can guarantee you that if you wanted to, you could be closer to your wife next Sunday than you are this Sunday. If you put some thought and effort into it and purposed in your heart and began to get a plan for how to build that relationship How to grow closer to them. You working with your kids and having a hard time in an area? Sometimes, and we've got five kids and sometimes they uh you know they need some work. Mary and I say, what do how can we help them in this area? What do we need to do? How are we going to address that? How are we going to deal with this? Here's our plan. This is what we're going to put into place. It can happen if you put a plan in place. Daniel persevered when it was hard. He persevered when it was hard. Look in verse number five of our text. He says, And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat. So nourishing them what does it say there, how long? Three years. That at the end thereof they might stand before the king. Now look in verse number 18. In verse number 18, he says, Now at the end of the days How long was that? Three years. Three years. Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring them in, then the princes of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar. What I'm saying is Daniel didn't decide to eat pulse for a day. He didn't decide, you know what, for ten days I'm going to try this and we're going to see how it goes and if it works real good I'm going to I'm going to continue. Daniel purposed in his heart, he set forward a plan, and then he persevered when it was hard. He kept going when he didn't feel like eating rice and beans. anymore. He said, here's the plan, this is what I want to accomplish, and if I've got to live on rice and beans to accomplish this Then I'm going to. I'm going to stick to it. I'm going to persevere through it. I'm going to keep on, keeping on because I want to see this accomplished. He had purposed in his heart. He had set a plan. But it took some perseverance to do it for three years. You do anything for three years, it takes some extra work Many of you know that I quit drinking Mountain Dew as of last August. I haven't had a Mountain Dew since August. I just decided there's a goal that I have. I wanted to I'm not saying I'm quitting drinking Mountain Dew forever. Mountain Dew's not a sin and I'll look forward to the day when I get to have another one. But I I just decided, hey, I drink too much Mountain Dew. For the sake of my body, for the sake of my my health, and some other ulterior motives, uh, which you'll find out about in some time, I'm sure. But there I'm gonna give up Mountain Dew For a year. I'm not going to drink any Mountain Dew for a year. I purposed in my heart. And you know what? Some mornings, oh my goodness. That was my breakfast. That was I mean I never ate breakfast, but I would walk every morning, walk into the fridge, grab a mountain dew. That's what I had for breakfast every day. It was a Mountain Dew. And some mornings My body is just like, hey, you try and give up your morning coffee, okay? Then talk to me about it There's been some times where it was hard. Where I where I've just I'm just not feeling good. I'm like, man, a mountain dew would be so nice right now. You've got to persevere. When it's hard. You've got to persevere. Some Christians start doing right. And then give up. Let's just take a couple of examples. Let's say you started reading your Bible, you started having daily devotions. And you did it for about a month or two in January. And you thought, man, I'm not a super Christian. I don't feel like on fire for God. This reading my Bible and praying every day is not making that big a difference. So I'm going to quit this. And you give up. But if you want to be found ten times better, you've got to persevere. You've got to keep on And your growth will happen over time, but you just got to keep on doing it. You got to keep on doing it. Keep on doing it. Keep on doing it. Here's another one, a big one I think happens a lot of time with younger Christians, and and that is in the area of giving. Well, I heard God will make the 90% go farther than the 100%. And I heard if you give to God, He'll multiply and give to you and you know and uh heaping, you know, pressed down and running over and man, that sounds exciting. And so they give to God for one paycheck. And they're looking, where's the blessings coming from? Where's the where is it coming from? And they have a flat tire Man, what is this? I gave something to God, and now I got a flat tire, and they might tithe or give to God for a week or two, and then they quit. First of all, I don't think they were very purposed. They didn't really purpose in their heart that this is right, and I'm going to do it because it's right. They were trying it because they wanted the windows of heaven to open. But do you know that when you're faithful to God, God's not a debtor to any man? I was actually thinking just this week about my kids and and how blessed we are and how good God has been to us. and thinking about just what my kids have themselves. You know, Andrew and Timothy, they both have their own motorcycle that they bought with their own money. All my kids have have so much stuff and it's mind-boggling to me. I'm almost embarrassed about how good God has been to us. But do you know what my kids from the time they were infants have tithe on everything that they've gotten? From the time that they were probably four or five years old, every one of them have given faithfully to missions every month. Of their own money. They don't get the money from mom and dad. Every month they they they take from their money that they got for Christmas or the money they got for their birthday. They saved that and then when it when next month came up they were able to take that money from their birthday and give it to a missionary. But look how God's blessed them. There's been numerous times over the years that my kids have come to me and said, Dad, do you think it'd be alright if I doubled my mission giving this year? Do you think it'd be okay? Do you think I could do that? I said, well, did God need it last year? Did you did you get everything that yeah, God gave me everything I needed to give last year? I said, I think he could do it again this year. I think that'd be okay And I'm not bragging on my kids. I'm just trying to show you that when you persevere You do see the fruit in time. You might not see it today. You might not see it tomorrow. But you will if you persevere. You you purpose in your heart, you get a plan, and you persevere you just keep on keeping on and you can be found ten times better You know, we serve a ten times better God. He's a greater God. He's the only God. God is ten times better to his children there, and he's ten times better to us Don't you think we ought to do our best for God? Can I ask you, do you want to be ten times better? Do you want to be a better dad? Do you want to be a better mom? Do you want to be a better child? Do you want to be a better Christian? Do you want to be a better soul winner? Do you want to be a better student of the Word of God? Do you want to be a better giver? Do you desire to be better? As I studied this, in my heart and mind I said, do you want to be a better pastor? Is that what you want? Then you need to purpose in your heart. You need to set a plan. And you need to persevere. Let us stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Are you striving for excellence in your life? Are you trying to be ten times better? Some may say, well, I'm not in the ministry, Pastor. I'm not involved in this or that. That's okay. You're a child of God. And God has a plan for you. And God would want you to be ten times better. Don't let Satan tell you that what you do doesn't matter. You're a child of the king, and God has a plan for you. And he wants you to be ten times better.