Praise the Lord, it's humbling and uh a little scary. But then you think about it and you say, it's it's the family, right? We're here with family tonight. And uh it's encouraging, you know. Uh I get to preach more or less every other week now with the junior church. We've got a rotation set up. Thank you for all those who have helped. plug in with that and give us opportunities to be up here. But when you have the opportunity like this you don't want to Fumble, you don't want to whatever. And then you step back and you realize, listen, all you're doing is presenting God's word. It's his word. And all you have to do is relay what he has to say. And you take that and it's humbling and it's challenging. And when a pastor looks at you and says, Can you are you willing to preach? You say, Yeah, I'm willing. I don't know if I'm able, but I'm willing, right? You know, if you want me to, sir. If you want me to. I made a promise to God. years ago that if he gave me opportunities to preach I would not turn them down. Basically under any circumstances, barring I was ill or dead. And uh I've kept true to that. And that means even driving out to Oakland occasionally, that meant driving up to Conestoga, Pennsylvania occasionally, that meant going wherever he led and I'm just thankful for the opportunity. Turn with me in your Bibles this evening to John chapter 15. John chapter 15. Pastor uh Gus texted me and said, hey, you got a title? You got you know, some things going on. I said, yeah, we're tonight we're going to be talking about tending the vine. Tending the vine. I gotta give credit of that one to my father. He realized he's been in church more days than I've been alive, probably. I said, I've got this sermon, I've got it, I just I need a title. And uh we were bouncing ideas off of each other for days and we got to that one. I said that's the one. Tending the vine. In John chapter 15, Jesus of course is speaking and he starts here in verse 1. I am Love to see that capitalized. I am, right? I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit. He taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now you're clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me, and I in you. Why? As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine. No more can ye Except ye abide in me. I am the vine. Verse 5. Ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me. Ye can do nothing. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered. And men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Wonderful promise of prayer right there. Verse 8. Herein is my Father. Glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. Be keep my commandments. Ye shall abide in my love. Even as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love, these things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might remain in you. might be full. Verse 12 will end here for now. This is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. Let's have a brief word of prayer and we'll get into this. Dear Holy Father, Lord, I do thank you so much for this wonderful passage of Scripture and the others we're going to be examining tonight. Lord, I pray that you would help us as we turn our focus uh slightly away from the celebration of Christmas and towards the new year now. Lord, I pray that you would help us to refocus ourselves to Clean ourselves up, Lord, to tend the vine so that we can grow for you in the new year. Lord, I pray that you would just be with me, Lord, and help everything that's said and done bring honor and glory to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So here in this passage, Jesus is laying out a very familiar thing to the Christian. If you've been a Christian for some amount of time, at some point you might have heard the phrase, I am the vine, ye are the branches. Jesus is giving the classic description of a relationship in Christ. That I have to be a part of Christ if I'm going to have any kind of spirituality whatsoever. I can't go to the garden and cut a branch off a tree and lay it on the ground and expect it to do anything. It has to be attached. To the whole has to be a part of the thing that's living. And I, in myself, am dead. My trespass is in sin. I have no righteousness. I have no spirituality. I have nothing that appeals to God or can make peace with God. I need Jesus Christ to begin my relationship with God. And so it starts there. My very first point is very simple. We're talking about divine in Christ we have life. In Christ, we have life. Without him, we have nothing. And he described it there. We're dead branches on the ground fit for the fire. We're meant where the brush meant to be cleared out. You know, I don't want to get too off topic here, but you think of those brush fires out in California. Why? Dead, dead, dead, dead brush everywhere, dead brush everywhere. No one had been doing any control burns. No one had been going through and clearing out the stuff because nature will handle it. Well Good luck with that. We see how that turned out. Billions of dollars later. Okay. Why? Because it's not alive. It's not living. In Christ we have life. How, though, can I abide in the vine? Jesus talks about abiding in him. That means staying put That means attaching myself and not removing myself. The Bible talks elsewhere in Scripture about being engrafted in with Jesus Christ. I gotta be taken in and and you know I can't just touch and then run off and do my own thing. No, I gotta be side by side, growing together with Christ. I gotta be tapped into what he has, because without him I don't have anything. And so here he gives us through these verses at least how we're supposed to be abiding in him. The very first thing I see as we're supposed to have his word in verse 7. In verse 7. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. If I am taking the words of Christ, the word of God, into my life, then I am going to be filled with that life-giving power. That word of God needs to be saturating my life. I can't go days without reading, or weeks without reading, or months without reading I can't go hours without reading. And then you say hours, what do you mean? Well, you know, if I go twelve hours and then twenty hours and then hey it's been a day or two and then Oh yeah, it's Sunday, I better bust out the Bible. Oh hey, I gotta study for that lesson, I better pull that out. If I don't have this as a constant, regular thing in my life and I'm not really abiding with Christ, we kinda have a I'll see you once in a while relationship. I love my wife tremendously. We abide together. I see her multiple times a day. I even see her sometimes she doesn't see me. When I'm waking up in the morning and getting ready to leave for the day, I see her, but she doesn't see me. She's asleep. And I leave her that way on purpose. Say, here you go, hon you. You know, sleep until Dixie wakes you up or until the alarm goes off. Have fun, either way But I get home and I see her and I see her and I see her, and do you know some of the most difficult days that at least she has admitted to me that she's had or days when I was working a crazy shift. down at the Bay Bridge or when uh for a brief time she went down on a trip and was away from me for days and days and days and we hadn't had that kind of distance at all. And she said it was so weird, it was so odd, I just couldn't stand I I needed you to be here. And I be honest, yeah, I needed you to be here too because I just feel like a robot now. I go to work, I do what I have to do, I come home, I sit, I wait, I go to sleep, I get up, I go to work, I sleep. You know, I just My life is devoid of some of that that I have with you because I'm not abiding with you If that's how I treat God's word and the seriousness with which I take when reading and studying the scriptures and abiding in the scriptures, That I just see him once a week, twice a week maybe. Well then that's a problem. I'm not going to be abiding, I'm not going to be growing, I'm not going to be bearing that fruit which we're going to talk about in a minute. That abiding in his word in verse 10 is going to produce some things. Verse 10 If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love. If ye keep my commandments, shall abide in my love. I taught on this from the junior church a few months back. People say they love Jesus, but what's Jesus measuring stick of love? If ye love me, keep my commandments. Easy on the surface, harder in practice. A constant dedication to looking at situations, and I know it's an old cliched phrase from the nineties Of what would Jesus do? But for the believer, for the Christian, for the person that is abiding in Christ, every moment of our day, from when we wake up to when we lay our head down at night. What am I doing that reflects Christ? Are people seeing Jesus through me? Are they seeing his love? Are they seeing his compassion? Are they seeing his dedication? Are they seeing the things that are different from the world because Christ and the world are as opposite as you can get? What do they see? If I'm abiding in his word, then I'll know his commandments. And so when I come across those situations all throughout my day, I know what I'm supposed to be doing. I'll be following his commandments. You see they build on each other. A lot of these things are not just, well, I can follow this part of Scripture, but I'm not going to do this. I can do this little piece, but that sounds a little much. These things build on each other. They're intertwined together. The Word of God is built together. You cannot have one peace without the other. If I'm really taking this seriously and studying, then it's going to change my behavior. Because I'll be following his commandments. And when I'm following his commandments and abiding in him, that leads me to the third step here, the love. In verse 12, he tells me, This is my commandment. This is my commandment. What? That ye love one another as I have loved you. When did Christ love me? Before the foundation of the world? Before I even knew him? Before I was saved. How should we treat you know some people the word the Bible uses the word heathen, but I do not really believe it uses it in the sense of they're a horrible person. We've taken that, we've twisted that to mean that, right? Oh, they're heathen. What does heathen basically mean? They don't know God. They just don't know God. They might think they do, but they don't And Christ loved them when they were a heathen, spitting in his face, just like he loved me as a heathen spitting in his face. I grew up in a church and I heard the gospel. I heard about the things I was supposed to be doing. I didn't believe any of that stuff. I'll be honest with you, I looked at the people around me. I looked at the things going on around me and I said, if these people actually believe this stuff You'd think I'd see it a little. I couldn't say that about my parents. They were honest, they were truthful, they were all these things, but I looked at everybody else and said, okay, yeah, if this is real, okay. What? When I was spitting in his face, he loved me. And he continued to shine the light and shine it and shine it and break up that hardened heart. Until I was ready to hear and receive and believe. Say, you know what this is? This is real. In Christ the vine, we have life. We get it through his word, through our obedience to that word, and the love that then is outpoured to others. Jesus stopped for the lowliest sinner and the highest noble and treated them the same in his love. In his love. He didn't condone sin. He was honest, but he still loved him. He didn't treat the noble with favor. He still loved them. Even while respecting their position. In Christ we have life. But what about us, right? The practicality, the meat of the message. What does this mean to me? The branches, the branches, bearing fruit, bearing fruit is natural. It's natural. Whenever I talk of fruit now, my brain immediately goes to Galatians, and that's where we're going to go. Galatians 5 in a minute. You can go ahead and turn there if you want. In Galatians. We're given contrasting images of the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. And I think God was very specific in his language here. He could have called it the works of the flesh and the works of the spirit, but he didn't. He changed it. He said, no, no, no, this is the fruit of the spirit. And I say, well, what's the difference in that? A work is an action that I choose to engage in. I choose this work of the flesh to give into this anger, this bitterness, these things we're going to look into. But the fruit is something that is naturally produced. A strawberry plant makes strawberries because that's its nature. It's what it does. A pear tree makes pears because that's what it does. Don't really like pears, but that's what it makes. There are things that if I'm abiding in Christ will be naturally produced in my life. Here's the kicker. If they're not. If they're not, if the strawberry plants aren't making strawberries, I'm gonna say, well what's wrong? What's hindering the natural process. And the only thing in my life that could limit God's working through me and making something is me It's the only thing. So when we're going uh go ahead and turn here. In Galatians, when they give these examples of the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit He puts them right next to each other there in the Bible, I think a pretty clear indication that, listen, these things are related to each other in a sense If you're engaging in and following these things, and these things will not be produced in your life because of the problem. If I got a tree that's withering and not producing anything and the apples are rotting on the vine, I'm gonna look and say, okay, listen, has it got a soil problem? Does it have a A parasite problem? Is there what is hindering this from naturally producing what it should That's why I think he gives us the works of the flesh right there with the fruit of the Spirit. He's saying if you're getting these things, you're not going to get these things. Bearing fruit is natural. You know, I misunderstood this even when I first was saved. I had a problem sometimes with my anger. with getting upset with people from hanging on to that. And I said, you know, I gotta work on that. I gotta work at being better at this fruit of the Spirit, because the Bible says I should have it and I don't. So that's a me problem, so I gotta work on it. And he's like, it's not a work. You are still giving into this sin, this work of the flesh, and that's why you don't have it. You've got to stop doing this for that to grow. You've got to restrain and stop and forsake that sin for this to grow. I can't hold on to my hatred and have peace in my life. They're mutually exclusive. I can't do both no matter how I try. I can't get better at being gentle from hanging on to these things. And I think personally, when I I really I've studied these ones out for a long time. I went and listened to some other sermons. I've pulled these together a long time ago. About two years ago I preached a sermon similar to this These things are related, and we're going to get into that. Are we lacking in a fruit? Are we lacking in these things that are listed here? Starting in verse 22, but the fruit of the Spirit is love. Joy, peace, long-suffering. Man, that's putting up with people right there. Gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, Temperance, against such there is no law. If I'm lacking in one of these fruits, it's not that I am failing in the sense that I'm not working on it hard enough. It's that I have something on the other side of the spectrum hindering that from growing in my life. So what is it? What are the ones that are I believe tied together here? Listen, I'm not saying this list necessarily as all inclusive or a hundred percent, but here we go. In the works of the flesh Go back, just let's start in verse 16 and we'll walk our way through this passage. This I say then, Galatians chapter 5, 16, just to clarify for everybody. Galatians 5, 16. This I say then. Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary the one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. That sounds like was my problem for years. I wanted these I wasn't getting them. Why? Because I was still walking in the flesh in areas of my life Verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication. Uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations Wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like, of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God And oh well there it is, too. Genius. Forgive me, but we sang that song, Pastor Gus, and then I sang that special, and now I'm I'm feeling it. Oh So, which of these line up and which of these are a problem? Look with me at these first few that are listed: adultery. Fornication. Uncleanness. Lasciviousness. Adultery? Pretty open-ended. What is that? Extramarital affair. Relations with a woman while one's married or a man. Fornication, any sexual misconduct whatsoever. Uncleanness, impurity Thinking about it, dwelling on it, having it a part of one's personality. Finally, lasciviousness. What? That's just filthiness. The way that we talk, the way that we listen, I I want you guys to pray specifically for the junior church class in this area. with some of our kids that are coming in. They're inundated with the world and the internet culture. It is pumped into them 24-7. I don't have my phone on me, but I'll set it in the pew up there. But I would pull that out because of those things. They are obsessed with them. How do you know? Because every word that comes out of their mouth is from some video, from some trend, from some whatever. And I need to tell you. 80 to 90% of that stuff is filled and pumped with filthiness. Innuendo. Things that are just a little off-colored. Things that could go either way. Oh, it doesn't mean anything. I can't say that to me, oh it didn't doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything, Miss Ryanana. Miss Ryanna was calling one of them on saying something. He said, Oh, it doesn't really mean anything. It's like, well what are you implying Well, it doesn't mean anything. Okay. All right. What is that going to restrict in my life if I have those things? It's the first one in the list. Love. Love, if I have these problems and am engaging in these behaviors Then I'm going to struggle with love and charity. Why? Because those things are for self gratification. They are. Self-gratification, fulfilling my desires, my wants, my way of thinking. This is what I want and I desire, and I'm going to struggle to show love genuine love to people. Because I'm more obsessed about fulfilling my own wants than anybody else's. If I'm struggling with these works of the flesh, adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, then I'm not going to have love. The fruit of the spirit of love is not going to be present in my life. Because love is what? Patient love is gentle, love is kind, love is all those things that revolve around making somebody else Happy and complete and whole, as opposed to myself. I'll try to keep rolling. Idolatry and witchcraft. Idolatry and witchcraft. Why would one engage in any kind of worship at all besides true worship to God? If you really break it down and think about it, it's because they want something. I'm praying to this God so that it gets me this thing. The Greeks had a thousand gods. Why? Well, if I'm going on a journey, I need to pray to the God of journeys. If I'm going into war, I better pray to the God of war. If I'm gonna want my crops to grow, I better pray to the goddess of fertility and the god of the fields and the god of the rain and the god of the whatever. Why? Because it's fulfilling something I want. It's fulfilling something I need, fulfilling something that I desire, putting oneself first in idolatry and witchcraft. Witchcraft is very real. And I don't think we appreciate that fact in America. When I took a trip over and visited Klay and Meiji in Thailand, it became a lot more real to me. Seeing what people were selling on the street corners, seeing what was okay, this is gonna on the bumper stickers They had bumper stickers on everything. You say, why would they have bumper stickers on everything? And they'd say real dumb. Clay looked at one. He said, you know what that says? He said, this car is black. And it was a blue car. I said, why does it say that? So because they went to one of the priests. One of the priests said that that color is making the spirits angry this week and they need to buy this bumper sticker to fool the spirits into thinking that this car is a different color. And so they did. And I went, Man, I could make a killing here. Man. My TV preacher personality started to come out and say, man, I could make men here. Oh man. Oh no, no, no, no, no, Jacob. Magic and sorcery. They want power, they want protection, they want these things. What's that going to hinder in their life? Joy. Joy. You say how? Joy. Jesus, others, yourself. Putting Christ first in everything, even above myself, prioritizing God and relying on Him. For joy. Versus what? Idolatry is seeking and putting anything in front of God. An idol doesn't have to be a wooden statue or a gold one that I stood next to. That was about three stories tall and probably was worth more than even some of these properties around here. Huge golden statue. Come there and put money in the box. You seen uh there talks they want to build one down in one of the Carolinas, I think. Huge would probably be one of the largest statues in the country. Dwarfing even the Liberty Statue and everything. Statue of Liberty. They want to build one down there. Why? In the end, they're not relying on Christ. First, they're trying to get something from a God to fulfill themselves. The next one is hatred. I already mentioned this of course, but hatred, opposition, and enmity. I, for some reason, people offend me and I hang on to it This can easily blend into bitterness, I know, but hey, you know, if they offend me, if they slight me, if they push me the wrong way, man, that cashier. Man, that guy on the highway. Man, that person, wherever, under whatever circumstances, I pick and I make enemies all the time. What's that going to rob me of? Peace. Any kind of peace. If I've got enemies all around me that I make in my own mind, when am I ever going to be at peace? And have the serenity of God's presence. I don't feel like that because I'm surrounded on every side by people that are upset with me, or people that I are up that I'm upset with, or I have all of these discordant relationships with my family or with my roommates or with my co-workers or with anyone and everyone people in the church house and so there's people there that I can't stand. Where's the peace going to stand be if that is in your life. Where is the peace that God promises if you are just constantly picking and fighting with everybody over anything? Far from you. I'm just trying to lay the correlation here. When there are certain works of the flesh in our life There's an opposite on the fruit of the Spirit side that you're just not going to have. And you're sitting there scratching your head saying, God promised I would be at peace in my life, and it just seems like everything is just horrible all the time. you might still have something on the other side of the spectrum that you're engaging in. We call it the works of the flesh for a reason, as I talked to my junior church class today. A lot of people, even today, like to soften their sin and say it was a mistake. It was a mistake It was a mistake. It was a mistake. I didn't mean to, officer. The gun leapt into my hand and went off twelve times. I'm sorry. It was a mistake. It was a mistake. No, it was a choice. A deliberate choice. Whether you were tempted or not, in that moment you made a choice. And it wasn't a mistake. I put it to the kids like this. I said, if I walked by and I stumbled and I spilled my water on Miss Ryan's favorite book, that would be a mistake. If she made me upset with something she said earlier, and I purposely walked up and splashed that water on there and didn't tell her about it, so it would ruin the book. That wasn't a mistake. That was a choice. And I know what it was. And other people aren't stupid either. We're really good at deceiving ourselves and not the best sometimes at deceiving other people. Sometimes other people can see through us and we don't like being called out for it. Mistakes are mistakes, but most sin is not. It's a choice. It's the works of the flesh, something I engaged in for my own reasoning, for my own self-gratification, for my own desires. Keep moving along quickly here. I apologize for slowing down. Here we go. Variance and emulations. Variance is debating. Debating. I might not hate the guy, but I'm always one to argue. And listen, it's not wrong to be in a debate society, okay? It's not wrong to have a point and to stand on it, especially if you know you're right. All right? It's not wrong. To stand up for Christ or to stand up for things that are true and to stand up for things that are good. But I'm talking about about everything If I can't make it through a couple of conversations, if I can't make it through what does that mean? That means on some level my own pride is saying I'm not willing to be wrong, or I'm not even willing to Be silent about it. I'm gonna pick a fight over these things no matter what. And I might not hate the person, but I'm gonna make sure they know what I think. That's variance. What about emulations? That's self promotion. Emulations where I'm emulating I'm saying, hey, look at what I'm doing. Look at what I'm doing. Look, do you see me? Oh let me tell you about my day. Thirty pictures on Instagram, all the money, all of the fame, all the things. Look at what I'm doing. Look at my success. Look at my ability. Look at all these things I have. Let me tell you about this wonderful trip I just took. And there's nothing wrong with family picture trips. I'm talking about when everything is about how good I am and how you should follow me and you should obsess over me. I mean it's the influencer culture to a T. Emulations. I want to reflect how good I am so you can see it. Emulations. What is that going to rob me of? Well, if I have that much of a self-inflated view of myself, I'm never going to be long-suffering with other people. I'm never going to be patient with other people. Because I'm on this level and they're down here and I don't want to bother to give them the time of day. They were dying of heat in the desert, I wouldn't even bother to spend on them. There's that beneath me. And you've met these people. Sometimes you don't realize it, but you've met these people. They're on this level, maybe even of spirituality. They couldn't be bothered or deigned to stoop so low as to help a new brother in Christ or to stop and explain something and not be condescending about it or to Take a moment and pray with somebody or inconvenience themselves because they got this going on and they don't have time. Long suffering and patience. If you've got a problem for bearing brothers in Christ, you might want to check on how you view yourself. Wrath. You know, if you look into this word, it's literally heavy breathing, indignation. Wrath. Hanging on to that anger. Strife. Factions and contention. If you're so obsessed with an identity other than Christ That it causes problems. That's what we're talking about with strife. I'm so obsessed with an identity or a team or a faction. That other than Christ, that it puts me at odds with people? Listen, there's Ravens fans And then there's Ravens fans that f start a fist fight anytime they see yellow and gold. Uh yellow and black, right? That's something dumb like sports, but I'm talking about in your own life if there's step on the landmine, even politics. If it's if I'm so obsessed with this identity that is outside of Christ, it's okay to be obsessed with Christ It's okay to be abiding in the vine. It's okay to stand up for things for the Lord. But if I'm so obsessed with something other than that, that it causes constant strife with people around me, then that's not an identity that I need to be holding on to that strongly. I need to step that back a little bit. Why? Because that's going to rob me of the gentleness. The gentleness. The ability to be kind to people no matter what is going on. If I view everybody through the lens of what stick on it, then politics, then that's where you get the people that say, oh, I saw the bumper sticker on the back of their car and they got a flat tie on the side of the road. I ain't going to help them I can't be gentle and show kindness towards people because of some identity outside of Christ. And I don't think Christ would ever expect us to leave somebody stranded on the side of the road. I'm just saying, be reasonable if you can't help the person in the moment. Obviously understandable. But what? If I look and see a sticker, if I look and see a pin, if I look and see a hair color, and that just means I'm gonna be flippant and Whatever towards this person because of what might be going on in their head, that's not what Christ is about at all. At all And I need to be careful because I put myself outside of the Bible, I put myself in this camp and that person in that camp, and never the twins shall meet. I'm never going to be kind to that person because I'm this and they're that. Oh, if we find ourselves not being gentle. And kind towards people. Everybody. What is your view of that person then? That you would even consider not showing that kindness that Christ expects from you, his follower? Are you bearing the fruit of kindness? In your life? Are you bearing the fruit of long suffering, of peace, of joy, of love? We've got so many more to go. I gotta go. Seditions and heresies, disunion. Sex and cliques and I'm in this group and they're in that group. That's going to take out the goodness that we have. Acts of kindness. Listen, if gentleness is just kindness towards people Then goodness is acts of kindness. I'm going out of my way to help somebody. If I am engaging in these things where I'm so set against other people, I will never be kind to them in my thoughts or in my actions. Envyings, envyings, this is jealousy or ill will. Now listen, God is a jealous God, and his jealousy is perfect in the sense that he deserves it When we're talking about envyings, it's I'm looking and saying that person doesn't deserve that nice new coat. I do. That person doesn't deserve that nice new car, I do. This is a different kind. And when a believer has a problem with envy, what it really is, is a lack of the spiritual fruit of faith. Of faith in God. If God wanted you to have the new coat, he would have given it to you. If God wanted you to have the new car, he would have given it to you and made a way. If God wanted you to have these things, He would arrange it and allow it. And sometimes maybe it's because we haven't asked. Yeah, not because He asked not But when someone looks at somebody else and says, man, that's really nice. I deserve that. What they're really saying is, God, you failed me. It's a lack of faith. It's a lack of faith. Envying that desire that I want that The lack of faith. And when I set that aside and I push it and I say, God, I trust you no matter what. If you want me to live in A bungalow on the side of Route 30. And that's where I'm gonna live. Because I have faith that this is what you have for me and this is where I belong. Finally, moving on. Murdering, slaying, and backstabbing. It's the ultimate enacting of a person's will on another Murdering. It's an acting of a person's will on another. I, in my own self-will, am going to snuff out and take this person's life from them. It's the opposite of meekness. Meekness, which is power under control. Power under control. You say, well, I don't murder people. Well, back to Christ's definition of it. Okay. You hated them in your heart? Why? Because they didn't do what you said. I mean, some of the most vivid murders in the Bible that were committed were often over the person who was murdered, the refusal to do what the other person wanted. Now and even in the situation of Cain and Abel, I think it was just one brother went the other one to shut up. They're walking and Abel's talking about this wonderful service to God and Cain says, I don't want to hear it anymore. Shut up about it. He says, No They got into it, and one will pushed against the other and snuffed it out I need to be careful that when I'm interacting with people and they're not seeing things the way that I see them, they're not reading on the same page I am, they're not quite catching my drift. that my will self starts to rear up and say, you're gonna understand what I mean, or so help me. I why? Why Meekness says, okay, I need to settle that down. And I need to control that. I need to stop trying to force this issue, this situation, to set aside Drunkenness and revelings, the final ones here. And then my last point is very free. I apologize for running so long. Drunkenness and revelings, intoxicants. And revelings is just letting loose, letting standards go, letting everything go. This is what my mom and dad taught me, but I don't care anymore. I'm free and I'm going to do what I want. Capital W-A-N-T. What I want. Versus temperance and self-control. The fruit of the spirit of temperance and self-control. These are opposites laid out in these passages of Scripture. And if I am lacking in what is listed here, love, joy, peace, long-suffering. Gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Then I need to look at what that word actually means, go up to the list right above it, and say, what's my problem? Because as a natural byproduct of being in the vine and abiding with Christ, there should be this, but there's not. So what is not their problem, not what's God's problem, not what's what's my problem? Because the only person in your life that can limit the working of God in your life is you. It's you. I don't want to be gentle with that person because they've made me upset with what they say and what they do and what they believe. So I'm not going to set that aside. I'm going to engage in this work of the flesh. And They won't see this proof. I'm gonna cut that off. A dangerous place to be is looking at this list and saying I'm missing a lot of this, and I don't care. I'm seeing I'm not bearing these fruits and I don't care. Someone that's abiding in Christ and is absorbing his word and is a part of the vine, or you'll look at this list like I was and be tremendously challenged. Because I see myself lacking in a lot of these in moments in the last week of my life And I have to say, okay, what do I need to fix? What do I need to change? Lord forgive me. Okay, I need to remove this. You know, I used to be as up to date on the news as humanly possible. It really was. And a lot of it was really starting to make me upset a lot of the time. And I realized I don't need to be ignorant and uninformed, but I need to step back a little bit because this is constantly putting me on edge and upset. So I need to tone it down. Take a step back. I don't need it hardwired into my phone to ding every time something happens. I can survive if I check it like once every other day or something. just to see what's going on and then set it down because if I let it keep feeding into me, it was building an anger and a resentment and uh I gotta be careful. Just say for my own life. I'm just saying last week that's where I looking at this list, that's something I've said, okay, I gotta I deleted a couple I deleted a couple apps. I said I just don't need it getting pumped into me 24-7. Need to take a break. Why? Because I don't see this fruit of the spirit in my life and it should be there. So what's my pulled up? Oh, you're right. That is a problem. The third point of this is the husbandman. The husbandmen. We talk about the vine, we talk about the branches. Finally we get to the husbandmen. And I don't want to say finally, because he's the most important part. The husbandman, of course, is here tending the vine. The title of the sermon, the point that brought us here is the husbandman is tending the vine. In John chapter 15, we go back just a little bit in verses 1 and 2. I'm the true vine. and my father is the husbandman. And then what does he do? The Father, God himself, what does he do? He says, Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit he purgeth it pruning purging it what? So that it can bring forth more fruit The father is the one coming into the vineyard and examining the branches and saying, this one's dead and dying, this one's got a problem, this one's got this, this is what's going on. Okay, these ones are bearing fruit. Excellent. We're gonna Do some more refining. God's refining fire. We're gonna do some more to keep it producing more fruit and more fruit and more fruit. And it told us in the verses to follow that it was for God's glory that he does these things. When he walks into the vineyard and sees fruit everywhere, that brings him glory. But he's also examining and evaluating. He's the cultivator. The cultivator. He comes in and evaluates and says, this one's got to go. This one needs to get moved over. This one needs a little more sunlight. This one needs a little more work on it. If we have no fruit and no growth, I very briefly just want to point you to one other passage of scripture in Luke chapter 13. And I'll be finished. Luke chapter 13. Here in these passages of verses 1 through 9, Jesus is walking and he's presented with a problem from the people, and then he gives a lesson about the character and actions of God in a span of nine verses. Very quick, I apologize, but just stick with me here. In Luke chapter 13 Verses one through nine, he says there was present at that season some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices, which is a very fancy way of saying Pilate had these sacrifices people murdered when they were either on their way or present to do sacrifices, which is not good. Okay? They were on their way for a holy pilgrimage for God, and Pilate had them killed. Not good. Then in the next verse, and Jesus answering said to them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans, because they suffered such things I tell you, nay, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And then Jesus continues to talk. He says, Or those eighteen upon whom the tower in Siloom fell and slew them. Think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem, I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Jesus pointed to the equivalent of a government unsanctioned execution that that was detrimental to God and almost a modern equivalent of a ten-car pile-up. Okay, a tower fell, killed a bunch of people. Happened in Jerusalem in one of the districts of the city. And he pointed at these things and said, Do you think God was just sitting in heaven and realized these pectra people were extra sinful? And so he That day. Jesus counters and says, no. That was not what was going on. But then Jesus pivots And goes right into the teaching of what was really going on with God. And so look with me here. And he spake also this parable, verse 6. A certain man. Okay, we're getting back into the vineyard. Okay, husbandman, this is related. Okay? He spake also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his look, a vineyard. How cute it ties together. Printed in uh planted in his vineyard, and he came and sought fruit thereon and found none. Then he then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none. Cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? Which is a fancy way of saying why is it even here? I've been coming for three years, and this thing is yet to give me a single fig, if it's just wasting space. And man hours of pruning it every year, just cut it down. An honest, reasonable businessman. If you had a business, and there was a department of your business that just kept turning a loss for three years straight, at some point you're going to say, okay, we're pulling the plug out on that. But look. Verse eight. And he answering, this is the dresser, right, said unto him, Lord Let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it and dung it, and if it bear fruit well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. Jesus, our advocate with the Father. I know I'm tying in other New Testament, but our advocate with the Father, the husbandman. Is standing there lobbying on our behalf saying, give him more time. Give him more time I know it's not giving you anything right now, but would you give me more time? I'm going to dig around the roots. I'm going to put in some fertilizer. I'm going to do everything I can to challenge this tree to grow and give you something. Would you just give me more time? Does Jesus have to go on your behalf every year and beg for more time as a believer You're already in the vineyard. You're already a part of God's family. You're already included in this situation. This applies to the unsaved and the saved. God is examining and saying, I'm not seeing anything here. And I've given it time, and I've given it time, and I've given it time. And Jesus stands up and says, give it more time. Give it more time. Give it more time. The final pivot for the night is this, this coming year of 2026, this next couple of days before the year starts. I need to seriously examine myself and make sure I'm ready to grow in the ways that he wants me to grow. So that by the end of next year, and I'm staring at the end of another year, Christ isn't standing there saying, Oh come on, just give another year. Just give him a little more time. Just give him another opportunity. I'll keep working on them, Father. I'll keep digging around the roots. I'll keep putting a little more fertilizer. I'll keep giving them more opportunities. Just because his he's our advocate doesn't mean I should be making use of his services 24-7 every day, all day. At some point in my life I need to be bearing fruit because that's what is expected of me after I became one and am abiding in the vine of Christ. God is tending the vine. And he's looking at the branches, you and me, and he's saying, What fruit do I see this year? What was the harvest like this year? How are things going? If we would judge ourselves, we would not need to be judged. If we would take some time to clean our own branch up a little bit, using the tools he's already given us. This isn't some self-help thing. I'm saying look to the scriptures and what he's already said, and preparing myself. So that when I get that sunlight and I get that water and I get that nice cool breeze and when I get the things that he's going to send into my life in 2026, then I'm going to respond and grow the way he expects me to. Because the Father, by the end of year, is coming to what? To tend the vine. And I don't want Christ to have to be begging on my behalf for more time again. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Dear Holy Father, Lord, I thank you so much for this challenging thought. Lord, it was deeply challenging to me. There are many things that I fall short in. There are many fruits that are not present or are not what they should be in my life. Lord, I pray that you would forgive me. Lord, I pray that you would be with us this evening. And Lord Perhaps as the pianist plays, or as we have a time of invitation, there are some that would come, Lord, and do business with you. Forsake some things. Turn to some things. Embrace some things from your word. Lord, I pray that you would be with us now and bless us as we have this moment of invitation in Jesus' name. Amen.