As we get into the Word of God and look at Thanksgiving This Sunday before the national holiday of Thanksgiving, certainly a time where we want to turn our hearts towards that type of spirit. And we'll be looking at that this morning. In Psalm 69 and verse number 30. Psalm 69 and verse number 30. Let's read that verse altogether out loud. Psalm 69, 30. I will praise the name of God with a song and will magnify him with thanksgiving. Will magnify him with thanksgiving. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning. We're grateful, God, for the privilege to be in your house. We ask you as we've gathered here this morning that as we sang just a few minutes ago, that you would fill our cup. Would you fill it up, Lord? Feel it till Lord we just can't take anymore. I know, God, that there's people here in the church this morning that are their hearts are heavy. This old world has taken a toll on them. It's beating them down. They're discouraged. They've had a hard time. Or they need to hear from you today. Lord, we pray you'd be with each and every one of us as we look into your word this morning are challenged with this thought of gratitude and a thankful heart that we would indeed praise, magnify you. With our thankful heart. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The word thanks or thanksgiving occurs 98 times in the Word of God. I don't think you could be a Christian for very long and spend any time at all in the Word of God and not come to the conclusion. That as believers, as children of God, there is an expectation that we would be praising Him. Oh, if you take and include the passages of Scripture which discuss praising God or Blessing God or glorifying God. They're in the hundreds, yea, even the thousands, of places in which as believers we are admonished to give praise and thanks unto our Heavenly Father. This command given to us, this expectation that is present over and over in some of the most familiar passages of Scripture. Give thanks always for in all things unto God and the Father in our Lord, name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication. But the request be made known unto God. What did I leave out? With thanksgiving. We can't leave that out. Not just this week, but any week. We can't leave that out. Our thanksgiving, our requests come unto God, but it's also supposed to be thanksgiving. God has commanded us to be thankful. And you understand this morning that that command, that admonition to the heart of gratitude, is not for God. It's for us. I know many times that you and I, when we do something above and beyond for somebody else, we Don't do it for gratitude. We don't necessarily do it for thanks, but how often do we get bit out of shape when they don't express thanks? And we say it. Well, I didn't do it to be thanked, but would have been nice. I mean uh Uh I mean I've paid their car payment. They could have at least said thank you. They could have at least expressed some gratitude. I mean they could have at least, I mean You see, we're looking at that and desiring that gratitude for us. But God's admonition to us to have a heart of thanks and gratitude is not for him. But for us. Because thanksgiving produces in our hearts a change in our attitude. Doing what God commanded to have a heart of gratitude produces in us the right attitude. And that's what we're going to look at this morning, how the heart of gratitude produces in us the right attitude. Thanksgiving produces the right attitude in us. Cicero, that Roman orator, said, A thankful heart is not only the greatest virtue, but is the parent of all virtues. Thanksgiving, although it is tremendous virtue in and of itself, it is the virtue that influences not only our actions, but also our attitudes. Thanksgiving changes our actions and it changes our attitude. Jesus Christ exemplified a heart of gratitude and thanksgiving all through his life, the days that he walked on earth. He thanked God before he fed the five thousand. He thanked the Father for answered prayers. He gave thanks when he instituted the Lord's Supper. You know those two men walking on the road to Emmaus? You remember they said, Did not our heart burn within us? Do you remember when it was that they recognized the person with them as Jesus Christ? This is amazing because when they realized they were walking with Jesus was when Jesus gave thanks. What a characteristic where that was the defining thing. They've been walking with Jesus all this time and their heart was burning within them. But when the individual they were walking with gave thanks. Hey, Jesus always gave thanks. Jesus is the one that did that. They recognized him because it was a way of his Of expressing thankfulness. Giving thanks produces in us the right attitude, first of all, towards our Savior. Towards our Savior. I will praise the name of God with a song and will magnify him with thanksgiving Thanksgiving builds our relation, it strengthens our relationship with the Lord. When we're thankful, we're recognizing what God has done in our life. We're recognizing God working in our midst. As we're expressing gratitude, you know the song Miss Amy played on the piano. Count your blessings. Name them one by one. If we would get to the place where we would count our blessings and name them one by one, And when you start to go through and list them and start to really think about it and lay it down and count out your blessings, you really start to figure out how much you've got to be thankful for. I don't remember if I told you guys this or not, but a few weeks ago one of my children did something. And uh I said, You know what you need? You need to realize what all you have. And so I called the kids in, I told them all, I said, I want you to write down fifty things that you're thinking. before. Fifty? The first five or six come real easy, right? The first ten maybe. Then they start asking each other, what do you write down? No, I I wasn't there. I don't know. I don't know that they did that. The lists were not the same. They were different. None of them put on well I'm not going to say that. List how thankful you are. Start building a list. And you'll start realizing how much God has done for you. We just kind of lose track of it and and when we start acknowledging and realizing how good God has been to us, how great He has blessed us. How wonderful we are. You know, His mercies are renewed every morning. And when we start looking at that and seeing that, it will give us a right spirit towards God, a right attitude towards our Savior, amidst the routine of life and the difficulties that we do face God is still working. God is still accomplishing things. God is still bringing about great change and growth in your life. Thanksgiving increases your relationship with the Lord, and it strengthens your faith in the Lord. As we remember what God has done in the past. Psalms 103, verse number 2 says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Thank God for all the benefits that He has brought to you. There is an old Fable, which of course is not true, but the principle that it teaches is true And it goes like this: there was a man who knelt or laid down to sleep one night, and he began to dream, and he dreamed that he went to heaven. In heaven, he was walking around heaven and observing the many beauties that are there to behold with an angel that had become his friend. They went into this uh more industrial type area, a a work area as it were, and there were angels everywhere hustling, bustling about. They were so busy with activity he couldn't help but ask What is this area? And he said, Oh, this is the area of petition. Everybody on earth is praying and seeking from God and they're sending their prayers here. To this area. And of course, we understand biblically this doesn't line up. Your petitions go directly to God. He doesn't need an angel to sort them out and deliver them to him. They go directly to God, but for this fable I told you it was false, but he they were sorting out the petitions and they were organizing them and Putting them together in collections and presenting them to God, and everybody was very busy, such a large group of angels endeavoring in this task to stay on top of the many petitions that were coming to heaven And they went down into this industrial area a little further, and there was an even bigger area, and there was more people involved, and they were so busy about, he says, Well what is this? And he said, This is the area of grants This is God meeting and fulfilling the petitions. And there were there angels everywhere hustling and bustling about and taking the positions, the petitions that were given. And God chose to answer, and they were bringing those and and carrying down to earth the grants that were given by God to meet the needs of God's people who had prayed and asked for them fervently. They went down a little further into this area of industrialization and there was a small desk there and about three people and uh they were there playing jacks. And he says, well, what is this area here? And he said, this is kind of almost embarrassed, he said, this is the area of acknowledgement. You see, after they've sent their petitions and God has granted them, many people just forget any acknowledgement. And those angels had very little to do. He said, Well, how how do they acknowledge what God has done? He says, Well it's quite simple. All they've got to do is say, Thank you, Lord. But so few do We need to remember what God has done, and that will give us a right attitude towards our Savior. It'll strengthen our love for the Lord. How can we not love someone who has blessed us so much? Blessed be the Lord who daily loadeth us with benefits. How can you not love someone who loves you so much? We loved him because he first Loved us. The only way we could get to a place where we don't love him so much is because we've forgotten to have a heart of gratitude, a heart of thanksgiving. It also produces a right attitude towards self. Not only does it produce a right attitude where we're acknowledging our Savior and what all He has done for us. But it produces a right attitude towards ourselves in realizing that in and of ourselves we have nothing. When we realize that it is God that has sent us all that we have. Corinthians 4:7 says, For who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Now if thou dost receive it, why dost thou glory? And if thou hast not received as if thou hast not received it. You know He's saying, did you give yourself birth? Is it you that gave yourself life? Did you give yourself run? Did you give yourself brains? Did you give yourself beauty? Did you give yourself bounty? What hast thou that thou hast not received? And when we understand that every good gift and every perfect gift cometh from above. It helps us have the right spirit towards ourselves that in and of ourselves we have nothing and we can do nothing. Lord help us. Keep us from that spirit of pride that squashes out thankfulness. It's awful hard for a puffed man, puffed up man to express thankfulness. To be grateful. Henry Ward Beecher said this: pride slays thanksgiving. But a humble mind is in the soul. from which thankfulness naturally grows. You see, a proud man is seldom grateful because he always feels he doesn't have all that he deserves Because he's proud. Lord help us to live more humbly. To realize it's all from him. That we didn't do it in our own. And we have been blessed beyond measure. God has been so good. It produces a right attitude toward yourself. It also produces a right attitude towards sinners. You understand this morning that we're all sinners. Whether you've been saved by the blood of Jesus Christ and could be acknowledged or thought of as a saint. You know you're still a sinner, right? We are saints by position, but we're still sinners because we still have old sin nature. Man, wouldn't it be exciting? To just like if you got saved and the sin nature was gone, wouldn't that be great if you just you weren't a sinner anymore? This would make this whole thing a lot easier. I get to heaven, I'm asked the Lord why that why that didn't happen. You know, I mean that would have this would have been a lot nicer. Not near as much struggle if I didn't have the old flesh to deal with And you know what? Sometimes another sinner sins against you. But a heart of gratitude gives us the right spirit, the right attitude towards another sinner. Whether they sinned against us knowingly or unknowingly. We're able to have a right attitude towards them because we realize that God, who is our benefactor also sends to us individuals through which he meets our needs and provides friendship and blesses us greatly In nearly every letter that Paul wrote, he spent some portion of the letter expressing gratitude and thanks to his fellow servants in the Lord. As we saw this morning in Sunday school, a whole list of names of people that Paul was grateful for. For their work in the ministry, for their encouragement to him, for their help and service for the Lord, for their faithfulness, just the testimony that they had. Often he said, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. Do you thank God for your friends? Do you thank God for your brothers and sisters in Christ? I know they're sinners. And sometimes they say stupid things. Sometimes they forget something that might have been important, or they don't do that they were supposed to do, or they did something they weren't supposed to do, because you know what? They're sinners. And nobody's perfect. And we're all going to mess up. But are you thankful? You know, it's awful hard to be real upset with somebody when at the same time you're expressing gratitude and thanks for what they do do. For what they have done. I know they're not perfect, and they might have messed up here, or they might have done something wrong there, but have you expressed gratitude and thankfulness for what they did do right? You see, when we acknowledge that and we have a heart of gratitude and thankfulness for our friends and all what they have done, that sure helps us. To realize when they're not quite as perfect as we would like them to be, that that's okay. We don't have to hold them to that standard because they do do a lot of things right. Are you hearing me this morning? We all have friends and loved ones. That aren't perfect and at some point have hurt us. And we get to the point where That really bothers us, but what I'm saying is if we expressed a heart of gratitude and thankfulness for what they are and who they are and how much they mean to us, it would be a lot easier to have the right attitude towards them. You see, we're all very good at talking about how they've mistreated us. We're very good at remembering and acknowledging where they've failed. Pointing out how they've hurt us. But what about pointing out how they've helped us? What about choosing to focus on the good instead of the bad? Gratitude produces a right relationship between people by giving us a positive attitude towards each other. Gratitude also produces a right attitude towards our situation. Towards the situation that you're in. Whatever it might be. I know life is hard. And I know oftentimes, actually more often than not, life throws a curveball. Instead of a nice straight one. I know it rains when you want it to be sunny, and it's cold when you want it to be warm and Things break when you don't have time for it or money for it. I know that life is hard But do you understand that looking at life correctly, looking at your situation correctly? Helps you not to live defeated, negative, and upset about life situations. Frustrations and pressures and stresses may come And for some it makes them cynical and cold. But for others, they'll get through it and go on because they have in them a heart. of thankfulness. Thankfulness changes all that. It lifts our attitude out of the muck and the mire of this old world. It lifts us above the Situation that would cause us to get down and discouraged and be upset about life and life situations because Of a heart of gratitude, we realize we still have an abundance of things that we can and should be thankful for. We just need to get on the right side of the fence. I've got a message that I preached many, many years ago, probably in 2002 or something like that, entitled Gratitude from the Right Side of the Fence. You see, many times life situations are really just how you look at them. You know, I had a a pastor call me. uh a couple weeks ago and he offered to come and preach here and I was a little taken aback by that I say, well, how about if I call him and let him know what dates I'm available? I mean he could a pastor called me and told me, hey, if you want me to come and preach, I'm available on these dates. I was like, what? Hmm. Getting a little big for our britches, aren't we? I mean, let's turn it around. I just thought from my perspective, I don't call people and offer myself, hey. Just in case you want to be. I'm available. I mean I mean I don't know. I just it just took me wrong and I kinda was had a little bit of a bad attitude about it. They're called Pastor Starr, and he's been in the ministry a long time. He pastored for a lot of years. You see, missionaries they call for meetings because they're traveling and they need a meeting and they say, hey, I'm coming through. Could I could I get a meeting? And and I understand that. And evangelists, they they They you know that's their ministry. They go to churches and and they're booked up, so I'm evangelists, but for a pastor to call me just struck me wrong. I was a little bit been out of shape and I called Pastor Starr and I said, Pastor Starr Could I get some wisdom from you? So this happened. Pastor called me and offered to come to my church and preach. And I explained to him how I was feeling about it. And I says, Could you help me? I I'm just wondering, am I been out of shape for no reason or is there something He said, Well, Pastor Caleb, let me put it to you like this. You could look at it this way. Here's a pastor who has a national ministry. He preaches all over the United States and even all over the world. He has people that want him to come. And out of all the churches in America that he could preach at He called you and wanted to come and be with you. He called and offered He said, Pastor Caleb, I don't think he was calling in pride and all full of himself. I think he just appreciates your ministry and would love to come and be a help to you if possible. Thanks a lot, brother. I said, man, that that not what I wanted to hear. Now I gotta confess my bad attitude to God to get right with him. I was like, man You know how you look at it makes a big difference. I told Pastor Starr thank you for the wisdom, for helping me to have a right spirit regarding that. Listen, life situations they come at you from every angle. And many times when they hit you head on, at first you just look at it and you think, how in the world? God, what's going on? Why? And the frustration of it could get you just so discouraged Maybe we just need to get some wisdom from a godly saint or get alone with God and say, God, help me see this from your side. God give me your perspective of what's going on here, that I could be thankful in the midst of life's situation. Just like the old poem says, count your blessings instead of your crosses. Count your gains instead of your losses Count your joys instead of your woes, and count your friends instead of your foes. Count your smiles instead of your tears, and count your courage instead of your fears. Count your full years instead of your lean, and count your kind deeds instead of your mean. Count your health instead of your wealth, and count on God instead of yourself Beloved, thankfulness produces in us the right kind of attitude that we should have. The right attitude towards our Savior. The right attitude about ourselves. The right attitude about the other sinners that we live with and that we love. and a right attitude towards life situations that many times are hard. But from God's perspective, we can express gratitude even in those. That's what we should be doing. God said, Be still and know that I am God, and I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted. In all the earth. Beloved, maybe what you need to do if you're having a hard time understanding or seeing the situation or the sinner or the problem from God's perspective. Maybe you just need to be still Spend some time with God. Ask him to help you to view it from his perspective When we deliberately take time to think about God and all of his benefits and blessings towards us, there can only be one result, and that is thanksgiving.