All right, 2 Corinthians chapter 12 in your Bibles, please. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. It's a delight for my wife and I to be here. And uh we've appreciated your ministry as a church for some time. The faithfulness that you've exhibited through good times and bad times as a church and what the Lord can do with you in this needy part of the world. My wife and I were just talking, just I think it was yesterday or the day before, about another church we know here in Baltimore, and I won't call its name. I don't have a desire to attack anybody. But they used to be a a bright and shining testimony of what it meant to to love the Lord and go after souls with the gospel and and to be committed to the old fashioned way of of living and believing and preaching. And they've compromised much in the last few years and and I appreciate the fact that you guys are are are where we ought to be. And I come this morning and I feel comfortable. I feel at home, and I'm delighted to be here and to be with you this morning. 2 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse number 7. 2 Corinthians 12 and verse number 7, unless I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations. There was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Interesting, Paul uses that phrase twice in the same verse Paul had a pride problem and God knew it, and so God made him sick, or something of that nature. Verse number eight, for this thing I besought the Lord thrice. Well he says thrice here, I don't think he means just three different times he said, God, would you help me with this? I think this is three seasons of prayer, three seasons of beseeching God to remove this from him. Paul felt like he could be a more effective minister if he didn't have this particular problem. And so he went to the Lord and and and for a season of time he he he besought the Lord and he begged the Lord, Lord, take this away from me. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. When we go in our own strength, that's what gets displayed, our strength. When we go in our weakness, what gets displayed is his strength My strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities. We glory in the things we think we're good at. Push-ups, for example, I could do many, many push-ups this morning on the platform, you all would marvel. Thank I'm sure glad you laughed. That means that you know those of you that aren't laughing, I'm uh you it would be funny. Anyway We we glory in the things that we think are our strengths, and Paul said, What God has caused me to do is glory in the fact that to to to celebrate the fact that I'm so weak because in celebrating that it in having that weakness it then allows God to be displayed through me in strength Most gladly, therefore, will either glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. The older I get, the more convinced I am the world needs less of Tom Brennan and more of Jesus Christ. And Paul understood that very deeply. Verse number 10. Therefore, for these reasons I take pleasure in infirmities. If we walked around the room this morning with our microphone and asked you to describe all the things that are wrong with you physically, it'd be a long service and the rest of us would have left before we got to the other side of the room. The infirmities we have are many. That's just physical. There are of course emotional infirmities. There are financial infirmities. There are relationship infirmities. I have in-laws, you have in-laws, these things happen Infirmities. I take pleasure in infirmities. In reproaches. Don't you just love being yelled at? I mean don't you just delight when someone just sits you down and sets you to sets you right in reproaches, in necessities, in this is something we as American Christians know practically nothing of in persecutions. And I'm grateful for that. I'm not asking the Lord to send them. I'm grateful for that. In distresses for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then am I strong. Let's pray and I want to talk to you for a few minutes on the subject and that's enough. And that's enough. Heavenly Father, Lord, I have had the privilege of getting to know a handful of folks in this room, Lord, at other places and here especially in this conference over the weekend. But the majority of folks in this room I don't know, I don't have a personal connection with, I don't understand their lives, I don't know where they're at, I don't know what they're dealing with, I don't know where they're trying to go, I don't know their burdens, I don't know their Desires their hopes, their dreams, their fears Lord, I cannot connect with them on that basis. But Lord, I don't need to connect with them this morning on that basis. I need you to connect with us both. If you'll connect with me and you'll connect with them, Lord, I believe you'll take the truth that you've given me in this message and you'll transfer it to their heart and life. Lord, how often what I will preach about this morning has ministered to me I pray, Lord, that you would use it to minister grace to them, and then in the future to continue to minister grace to them. Amen. They hurt me. They did not intend to hurt me, and I did not tell them they hurt me, but they hurt me. I could not tell them that they hurt me. It would have been impossible to explain. They wouldn't have understood. But though they didn't intend to hurt me, they hurt me very deeply. It was a Sunday night and I w we were the last two people in the in the building. I was standing in the foyer. I was about about to leave and we lived right next door to the church and They were about to leave and they made their statement and they turned around and walked out the door and I just stood there in the foyer and I hurt I turned around, I turned off the light in the foyer, and I turned around and I walked up the steps back into the auditorium. I sat in the back of the auditorium. I like to pray in church auditoriums. Just a probably a occupational hazard of spending so much time in church buildings, but I like to pray in church auditoriums and the auditorium all the lights were off except for the lights on the cross which were on all the time and I sat down in the very back row all the way back there. Auditorium's empty, everybody was gone, it was the end of the day. And I just began to just begin to cry. And in that moment of hurt, the Lord gave me four statements that I think sprang from Scripture Each three words long. And I said them one after the other. I'd never said those four statements together. I had never connected those string of thoughts together But he gave them to me in that moment, and they have helped me so many times since I want to give them to you this morning. The first thing the Lord gave me sitting there in the back of that empty church auditorium looking at that cross was this statement. The Lord knows. The Lord knows. Now, doctrinally, I believe in the omniscience of God, which means that God knows everything. It's impossible for God not to be aware of something. God is aware of even the possibilities that might have happened. He's got so much information it's impossible to describe. You get to a place in your life where your mind is a little bit like a table, and you keep putting things up on there, and as you add something to the table, something else falls off the other side. And then along the way, as you get older, it seems like somebody shrinks the table. And the amount of stuff that I used to know is rather staggering. But no matter how much time I spend trying to learn something and retain something, when I try to wrap my mind around the fact that God knows everything, I just stand in awe of that. So theologically, I understand he's aware of everything, but what I'm talking about with that statement the Lord knows is more personal than that. It implies to me, it implies as I said it and as the Lord has ministered to me in that moment, it implies to me not just that the Lord was aware of something, but that the Lord was paying attention to what was happening in my life. I don't deserve for the Lord to pay attention to what's happening to me in my life, but He does pay attention to what's happening to me in my life. Well, you were coming here this morning, you drove past a stop sign, your car came to a stop somewhere. And you stopped and you looked both directions and then you proceeded across the intersection. And if you were to stop at that stop sign and get out and stand at that stop sign and take and go all the way down that pole down to the ground And you were to take an inch of soil from the ground, inside that inch of soil would be an untold number of microorganisms. You didn't even think about them as you drove past this up sign. It never even occurred to you. You never even bothered to pay attention to them. Why would you pay attention to the microorganisms in the soil? Why would you give them one moment of thought? But yet in comparison with God and me, I am less than the microorganisms in the soil to God And yet, in spite of the fact that I am less than the microorganisms of soil, yet God can't he He notices what's happening in my life We see this in the Old Testament in Genesis chapter number thirty one what the first time the Bible uses the two-word statement God is In that conversation, Laban is disc is talking with Jacob. Jacob has has served Laban for twenty years. He's married two of his daughters. He's transferred most of Laban, much of Laban's property to himself. And he's leaving and he's going back to uh home. And Laban chases him down and they have a meeting together, it's a very tense meeting, and Laban is the con man and Jacob is the con man, and neither one of them trust each other If they lived in our century, they would both sell cars, probably. I hope nobody in there sells cars. I just offended somebody. But but they're having this very tense conversation, and Laban makes a statement of Jacob, which which it's very interesting. He says, If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other wives besides my daughters, no man is with us. See God is witness betwixt me and thee. When nobody else knows what's happening, Laban said, Laban looked at Jacob and he said, I'm going back up where I live and you're going down where you live, and I'm not going to be with you, and you're going to think you can get away with something. But you can't get away with anything because God is witness. God notices, God is paying attention. Now, Laban meant that in an aggressive sort of a way, in a cautionary sort of a way But yet there is both a convicting side of that statement, God has witnessed, and a comforting side of that statement, God has witnessed. The convicting side is the fact I can't hide anything from God. The comforting side is that nothing happens in my life that God does not know about, is not aware of. There never is a moment where God loses track of what happens in your life or in my life. He's witness. He knows me even when I don't know him at all. One of the more difficult books of the Bible, I think, to understand is the book of Job. But yet if you'll put the time in to try to understand it, you'll find some wonderfully precious truths there. At one point Job is having a conversation with Eliphaz, and Job says in Job chapter number twenty-three, Even today is my complaint bitter, my stroke is heavier than my groaning. Oh, that I knew where I might find him, that I might come even to his seat. Job wants to make an argument with God. He wants to tell God all the stuff that God is doing wrong in relation to his own particular case, but he doesn't know where to go to make that argument. It's like he's lost his ability to get a hold of God. He goes on to say in verse number four, I would order my calls before him and fill my mouth with arguments. I would know the words which he would answer me and understand what he would say. Will he plead against me with his great power? No, but he would put strength in me. There the righteous might dispute with him. So should I be delivered forever from my judge. He said if I could just know where God's at. I'm going to show up where God's at and I'm going to make a legal argument with him and persuade him to change what's happening in my life Job goes on to say, Behold, I go forward, but he is not there. And backward, but I cannot perceive him. On the left hand where he doth work, but I cannot behold him. He hideth himself on the right hand that I cannot see him. He says, I I I I I I try to find him here and he's not there. So I I turn and I go there and he's not there. He said, I go over here and he's not over here. I I go over here and he's not over here. And it's it's not some sort of mystical allegory that he should have looked up. That's not what he's saying. What Job is saying is, I've looked at all the points in the compass, I've looked everywhere, and I I I I I can't seem to to find God. But then he makes a fantastic statement. But he knoweth the way that I take. I don't know where God is, but God knows where I'm at. I can't seem to get a hold of God, but God hasn't lost hold of me. I may not not be able to perceive through the fog exactly where I'm at. But God sees through that fog perfectly and He knows precisely where I am, and He hasn't lost track of a single thing about me. One of the one of the amazing statements in the book of Job about Job's great faith in the God in the midst of a time when he couldn't reach out and grab hold of God at all Behold, I he said, He knoweth the way that I take, and when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. The Lord knows He knows the results of every decision I make or that is made around me or about me. He knows my future. He knows my heart. I I my wife and I have been married for 25 years, and I've I've been spending much time thinking about our marriage just because this weekend and the emphasis on marriage and And my wife, I believe, knows my heart. But there are some things about my heart even my wife doesn't know. There are some things about my heart even my parents don't know. But there is nothing about my heart that God does not know John chapter 21 and verse number 17, Jesus is having a conversation with Peter. It's not going very well on Peter's end. You've probably had conversations with God like that, so don't be too critical of Peter. And he saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, lovest thou me. And he that is Peter said unto him that is Jesus, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Peter said, I can't explain myself, and I'm sure I'm wrong, and I've done all this stuff. But he said, Jesus, you know my heart, and you know that when you look in my heart, that I love you, and yes I say things wrong and I do things wrong and I'm not trying to get out of those things, but God, if you look at my heart, I know that you see me and I know that you know that I love you Sometimes no one else knows. No matter that no one else can know, sometimes No matter that it is a private pain, a personal disappointment, a secret heartache, no matter how deeply it cuts, the Lord knows. That's the first phrase the Lord gave me sitting in the back of that dark church auditorium. The second phrase was this. The Lord cares. The Lord cares. God has been good to give to you and I numerous people that care about us. I was in a prayer meeting one time in in uh Vancouver and uh with with one of our missionaries we supported there and it was his what he called his Persian prayer meeting. It was a group of folks from Iran who had emigrated to to Canada and their church had a had a ministry to those Persians and a Sunday school class for them and it was a prayer meeting and they were praying through some things. And there was one particular brother who was that week. That was his last week in Canada and he was leaving because of immigration situation. He had to go back to Iran. And as they were praying about that situation and other situations, it slowly dawned on me as I was in that prayer meeting that this brother going back to Iran had no church to go to It wasn't that when he got there there would be a church and it was a long way to get there. It wasn't that there would be a church and he would disagree with a substantial amount of what he taught. It wasn't that there wasn't a church there that was similar to how he'd come to understand the Lord through the Word of God. It's that when he got where he was going, there was literally no church for him to go to. The fact that you sit this morning in an assembly of God's people in your local area close enough that you can drive to and attend on a regular basis, our brother said a moment ago he doesn't think there's any guests here this morning That means that everyone under the sound of my voice at the moment in this room is is local in this area, and you come to this church at least occasionally God has given you a gift in this church. I could expand on that at great length, but at least in this area, if not others, that there's people in this room that care about you. God has given us parents that care about us. He's given us husbands that care about us and wives that care about us and children that care about us and and r a and other relatives that care about us. He's given us a pastor to care for us and and teachers that care about us and he's given us friends that care about us. He's he when we stop and think about it, he's wrapped our lives in concentric circles of of affection and care. But although all of that is true, when you're experiencing a deeply private pain you cannot share, they don't care about it because they don't know what's going on. They would care if they knew, but they don't know, and so they don't care. That brother that I spoke of a moment ago, as we're standing in the foyer, he made that statement that hurt me so deeply. He would not have said that if he would have known how much it would have hurt me. And if he'd known how much it hurt me, I'm sure he would have sought to mollify that. But he did not know. I know him, I still know him, and he's still a friend of mine He's still a good man. I uh uh i it wasn't him. He wouldn't have have dreamed of hurting me in such a way, but there was no way I could explain all of that. There was no way I could stop him as he walked out the door and say, wait a minute, brother so-and-so, you don't know how much that hurt me. I couldn't tell him that. It is precisely in such times that the Lord's care for us becomes so precious. He's not one of those who would care if he knew. He does know. What was the first statement the Lord gave me? The Lord knows. Well, it then follows that if He knows, He cares. Well, how do you know that if He knows He cares? Because there's such precious examples of that all through the scripture. I think, for example, the moment of David, who's alone on the run from Saul, and he penned Psalm 142, and he said I cried unto the Lord with my voice, with my voice unto the Lord that I make my supplication. I poured out my complaint before him. I showed before him my trouble, when my spirit was overwhelmed within me. Then thou knewest my path, the Lord knows. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me nobody else noticed. I looked on my right hand and beheld there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul, he said. I cried unto thee, O Lord, I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living It's not that I don't have people that care about me in my life, I do. It's not that you don't have people that care about you in your life, you do. It's that sometimes the things that hurt so much are things they don't know about. And you can't tell them. I define care. I don't know how the dictionary defines it, but I define care as what matters to me matters to you. Uh you know, i i if you're a fan of the Eagles and they lose tonight and you're all broken about that, I don't give a whoop. I don't care I I used to be a huge football fan. I gave it up about ten years ago when I started writing and I I honestly I I I I I I asked my wife this morning who's in the Super Bowl tonight. I don't even know who's in the Super Bowl I don't care. You say you're you're you're you're that's terrible about you. Okay, it may be terrible, but I just don't care. If that matters to you, it doesn't matter to me But it's interesting that I if I understand the Word of God right, what matters to me matters to God Maybe you're like me, as the table of your mind shrinks and things keep falling off the edges, you lose your keys all the time? If I don't put my keys in the exact same spot all the time, I don't know where they're at. And now I'm traveling this weekend. Do you know how many times I've lost those? And and and and not in large places either. You know, it's you're just in a hotel room, how many places can you lose them? But I manage it. But you know, I believe that when I go to God and I say, God, would you help me find my keys? Why would the God of the universe care about me misplacing my keys? Because what matters to me matters to him. Now, what I'm talking about this morning is about those deep inner wounds. I'm talking about those things that that that that just are are like cancer on the inside of you. I'm not talking about just losing your keys, but the point is that if something matters to me, I believe it matters to the Lord. I have some things that matter to me that you don't know about, but I have nothing that matters to me that he does not know about, so I have nothing that matters to me that does not also matter to him. And the more it matters to me, the more it matters to him. Which gives me such comfort. How can you not help but think of 1 Peter chapter 5, casting all Your care upon him, for he careth for you. The first statement I said sitting in the back of that auditorium was the Lord knows. The second is, the Lord cares. The third is, did I say they were all three words? I lied. This one's four. The Lord gives grace. The Lord gives grace. So he knows he cares. But our God is the kind of God whose caring knowledge moves him to action. And that action is to make available to me the strength I need to deal with the thing that I care about. We know this from our text itself. Paul is dealing with a thorn in the flesh. I don't know exactly what that thorn was. I've tried to study it. I've read about this for several years in advance in preparation for this message. That's not really true. Those of you that don't get that for a dollar after the service, see me, I'll explain it in more detail. But in my deep study I have come to the conclusion that Paul's thorn in the flesh. Now maybe you've heard preachers say what they believe it is, but I've studied long and hard about this. I believe that I've come to understand that Paul's thorn in the flesh was deacons. We don't know what Paul's thorn in the flesh was. It was very private. He he specifically doesn't mention it. I'm of the opinion, in all seriousness, he doesn't mention it so that if we had the same affliction, we wouldn't think we were more spiritual than the people that have other afflictions. You know what I mean? Well I have the thorn in the place that Paul had. God must really be working in me. What's wrong with you? How come you got a different one? So the Bible leaves it unnamed, Paul leaves it unnamed, and the truth is in so doing he ministers more widely to us because all of us have thorns in the flesh. It was private, it was painful, it was something that was prayed about. You say, well, God refused to do anything about it. Paul went to the Lord thrice, and you said that was three seasons of heavy praying. What kind of a care in God would leave Paul to suffer? Oh, contrario, my brother, my sister, he did do something about it. He gave Paul grace to carry it. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance, the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. The messenger of Satan debuffet me lest I should be exalted above measure. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. Did a preaching series on grace a number of years ago, and there's many facets to grace. Peter calls it the manifold grace of God. But in this context, I would define grace as God's help. The Bible says in Hebrews chapter 4 that when I need help, I go to the throne and God gives me grace to help in time of need. Sometimes that help is because I'm trying to help someone else, sometimes that help is because I'm the one that needs help. But whichever it is, if I'm trying to minister to someone else and I need God's help to do it, or I just need help myself. God, I need help myself. The Bible tells me that He gives me grace to do it No one else knew what Paul's need was. No one else cared about Paul's need. No one else was helping Paul to meet his need, but God did. God knew what Paul's need was. God cared about what Paul's need was, and then God gave Paul what he needed to deal with that pain that he had. What did he give him? Grace. So often we want God to get rid of our private pain. We go to God and we say, look out, I got this sword. Would you get your tweezers out, God? I need you to take it out God, would you take it out? God, would you God God is handicapping me? God it God it hurts me and God, there's so much you wouldn't know you wouldn't want me to hurt like this, and God is hindering me from doing the things I want you to do. God, would you pull this thorn out? And God doesn't. And then our spirit begins to ferment inside of us, and we begin to become become disappointed in God, and then we begin to think God is being unjust and unfair, and then we begin to think, oh, well, God's just being mean, and God is just torturing me. If God really cared, he would pull this out of me, and eventually, if we stay on that line of thought, we get to the place where there's no God at all, and the proof is I got a thorn. But who failed in that situation? Did God fail? No. Well yeah, God knows I have it. Yes. Yes, he does Well, you say God cares if he really cared, he'd do something about it. He does do something about it. He gives me the grace I need to continue to move forward, even though I've got this thorn. God doesn't remove the thorn, he gives us grace. Which leads me very quickly to the fourth statement I made. First was the Lord knows. The second is the Lord cares. The third is the Lord gives grace. And the fourth statement the Lord gave me. Was and that's enough. That's enough I don't need the brother to walk back in the door and apologize for what he said. I don't need the brother to walk back in the door and see how much pain and sorrow I'm in and kneel with me in prayer and And ask God to help me. I don't need whatever it was causing, what was underneath all of that that made that casual statement so painful. I don't even need that resolved. I don't need anything except the grace of God As I sat in the back row of that darkened auditorium looking at that lighted cross and taking my sorrows to the Lord, when I got done with that season of prayer And I and I walked back down those stairs and I walked across the yard and I unlocked the door and I I I went home where my family was. Nothing had changed The thing that caused the pain was still painful. The thing that had gripped my heart so suddenly out of the middle of a seemingly a clear sky, a thunderbolt out of a clear sky, the thing that that bothered me so much was still bothering me. It hadn't been resolved, it hadn't been fixed. It wasn't like God pulled out a magic wand and waved it over me and everything I ever wanted was given to me or even just that thing. Nothing changed. Except I knew the Lord knew. And I knew the Lord cared And I knew the Lord would give me grace. And I knew that was enough. I don't know what you carry this morning. Let alone what you carry this morning that nobody else knows about. But I know four things. I know the Lord knows. I know there's not a soul in here where God is ignorant of what's going on in your heart and your mind and your life. Lord knows. I know something else I know the Lord cares. If it matters to you, it matters to him. Whether it's big or small. And if it's big, the more it matters to you, the more it matters to him. I also know That whatever it is, grace is sufficient. You say, well, no, it's not. Well, yes, it is. Well, it doesn't seem like it. Okay, am I supposed to believe what you say or believe what Paul said here? Obviously you would agree with me we need to believe what Paul said. It's hard to when we're in the middle of it. But that's what faith is, right? It's trusting God rather than my own experience, trusting God rather than my own feelings, trusting God rather than my own reasoning, trusting God rather than my own vision Trusting God rather than what I what I think and what others tell me. It's taking God at His word. And God said those words, Grace is sufficient, which means I know this. That's enough. I hope God changes it. I hope whatever it is that's on your mind at the moment I hope God takes his spiritual tweezers out and pulls that corn. I hope if it's a loss that he that he fills in the gap of that loss. I hope if it's a dream that it's reached. I hope if it's if it's some long given unspoken request that just that is like needles in your soul, I hope God will pour the balm of Gilead in there and change all that and And someday you'll look up at him and say, God, you've been so much more good to me than I can ever imagine. I hope you get to that place in your life, but until you get there, Grace That's enough. Spread together, shall we? Haven't default her. You're so tender to us. You're so thoughtful of us. You notice everything. Not like a teacher trying to catch a student doing something wrong, but like a father is aware of his child. Like a mother who can identify her child's cry in the midst of a hundred other children. You notice And you care. And you provide for us what we need. You give us grace. Now beloved her heads about her eyes closed in just a moment. We'll have our hymn of invitation. What is the invitation? I invite you this morning to trust God that grace is enough. I invite you to go to the throne to find the grace you need in order to help yourself and help others. Not wrong to ask him to remove the thorn. I'm not telling you not to do that. Not wrong to ask him to do that. But if he doesn't, or until he does. Just take the grace and know that's enough