If you have your Bible this evening, turn it over to the book of Psalms, Psalm 83, and pray for Israel. Well, we need a lot of prayer over there. We just got back a few weeks ago. And uh what a triop. I got to take three of my sons over with me this last time. And uh some of them, uh one of them particular I guess it was been nine years since he has been and uh he uh so they uh well they're boys, you know, they're they're They they on their bucket list was to see the Iron Dome in action and stuff like that. And that first night, now where we live, we live on the Lebanon border, so we're about three miles from Hezbollah. You know, I was thinking about with these videos, I said, man, I should have gave y'all a video. We got videos of the iron dome knocking them rockets out of the sky, you know, right there in our on our driveway. I mean, it was crazy. And uh I woke him boys up the first morning and I said, What did y'all hear all them rockets last night? And uh Daniel's like, I slept right through it. And they're sleeping in the bomb shelter, that's the kids' bedroom and And uh and so he he's like, I slept through it, why didn't you wake me up? And then it started again, so they're out videoing that iron dome. They got enough of it through their trip, trust me. They had enough, they didn't care if they saw it anymore And uh we saw it was crazy. And but you know, I laugh about that, but understand that's a reality over there. You know, I remember on October 7th when everything started And we were about an hour from Gaza. Now we live two and a half hours north of Gaza, but we were about an hour from Gaza. We had a couple of ladies from our church and uh there in Dundalk that was up there with us as well, with my wife. And uh I remember as we got back up to our town, and again we are from our town, you can literally look into Lebanon and you see a Hezbollah-controlled town. I mean it's it's three miles away from us. I mean all of southern Lebanon is controlled by Hezbollah. And so we're watching all the tanks. They're moving the tanks from the Golans all down towards the south, towards Gaza. And the next day I started watching them bring tanks back up. And then moving tanks into our town. And they put about ten tanks in our town. And uh we're a small town, about three thousand people in in our community. Well you got ten tanks in there and all of a sudden they start firing into Lebanon and we're watching that. And nobody knew what was happening still. Still the country was in such a state of shock. Still is in a state of shock. And uh but I remember watching all those soldiers and them calling up. Now understand Israel's army is very small. It's only about 165,000 active duty. They called up over 360,000 people that week. And I've never seen anything like it. Some of the small bases up there in the north where we're at, uh literally I'm watching two, three hundred cars parked on the side of the road. as there are these reservists are coming back in. And many, I started noticing, many of the reservists that were being called in were lacking many of the things in which they needed to serve. You know, the active duty had everything physically that they needed. Uh IDF has that. Israel supplied those things. But many of the reservists, um just a uh it it's a sad situation the way it is, but I begin to watch some of them running around with sandals on. still. Tennis shoes. Some of their uniforms look like it comes from, you know, Yom Kippur war back in 1973. No bulletproof vests, no plates, things of that nature, many of those things. We just start going up on and buying snacks and taking it up to the soldiers and giving them snacks on the border there trying to trying to be a help some way that we could. And you know, as I started giving those food out to them, I'm giving gospel tracts out to them. And you know, every single one of them was very grateful. Every and I didn't have a single one refuse it. Everyone was thankful. And I remember when we left, uh we had we we were scheduled to leave that week. We came back home, finally got back home and And when I got home, the Lord began to really stir my heart about trying to gather up supplies to carry back over there. And immediately the Lord began to provide finances for that. And we were able to go through and start purchasing uh all kind of different items, uh first aid kits, things of that nature that we would carry over there. But but I I thought I don't I want to do something more than just trying to meet a physical need. I said, let's let's if we fail in getting the gospel in this situation, we're going to miss a golden opportunity. And so every item we started carrying over, we started tagging it with the gospel. We would put something, some information on it to where they could go to a website and get a free Hebrew English New Testament. could get gospel literature and we started doing that. We started making up all kind of different items. I brought just a few of them with me tonight. Matter of fact, we started making these little uh these uh These flags, it's got an Israeli flag and an American flag. And it's got a website on it. And that website, they can go to that website And again, they can get, and it tells that all these donations are given by Baptists and why Baptists stand with Israel. But then it goes through and then they have an opportunity, they can get the gospel from there. So every item that could take something like this, we would stick it on it, per se kits. And God just started giving us favor with people we were able to get those kits at cost. I mean it was incredible all the opportunities But in those med kits we started getting, they would have sharpies. And that was one of the things one of the soldiers told me, he said, we need sharpies. You would think of something like that, sharpies. He said when we put tourniquets on, you've got to use a sharpie and write when you put that tourniquet on, it could be the life of uh of whether or not that limb will remain or not. And so we started getting these sharpies and started had a company up in Hanover, Pennsylvania print the website on those sharpies and we started putting those sharpies in there. We got tactical gloves that we would take over there. We passed these out by gospel tracts. Of course they got the gospel on it as well. We got cards stuck inside it. Tactical foods. So we'll pull up at gas stations and jump out and find IDF soldiers. Hey, you need a pair of gloves. Get me for about eight bucks and they'll sit there and they say, Well, you know, once they take them and they'll say, Well who are y'all? Well we're Baptists. What is a Baptist? And we're able to go through and you wouldn't believe the open door is given us. And uh we have set in it it's just been incredible. I mean we bought bulletproof vests over there. We've gotten tactical uniforms that we're able to get. I need to do right now. Oh. Check the moving down underground. Yes it did. Thank you. But we were able to purchase bulletproof vest over there. It's a nightmare getting them from America to there, especially a level four plated Uh uh plate, because you can s go to prison for that if you take it out of America, and so we hear we did learn that, thank the Lord before we did it. But Uh though we did get good deals over here, yeah, it wasn't worth it. But we're able to get those over there, helmets and and things of that nature. And we're able to to provide many of these reserve units and that's who we're focusing on security units and reserve units on these kibbutzes and it has been incredible. I had one uh commander that we met with, we were able to get their their units several different items And uh he has sent me videos and he's sent me videos inside Gaza. And you'll see his bulletproof vest, he's got the badge right on the middle of it, and he's thanking the Baptist churches for giving and and so forth And uh but I got word uh two weeks ago from one of the men in his unit and he said he was in an explosion and uh is in the hospital, this commander was in there in Gaza, and he told me this, he says, that vest saved his life from all that shrapnel that hit him. And uh he said that best saved his life. And that commander actually reached out to me yesterday. I heard from him yesterday and And uh he's talking to me and he's thanking me again for everything. And he told me this. He says, I believe that your prayers And he said specifically, when you were up in the north, we were there on the Lebanon border just outside of our town when I first met him And we asked if we could pray over their unit, and we did. And when we prayed, we don't pray in his name or your name. We pray in Jesus' name And that's what we do. And that's what we did. And you know, nobody got offended. Nobody got mad. And here's what he told me. He said, I believe it was your prayers. That's what saved my life. And you see, what I have seen since October 7th is that opening towards the gospel like I've never seen before among the Jews. We've been working among the Jews for almost 25 years, and we've seen Jews from all walks of life come to faith in the Lord, from Orthodox to conservative to reform to atheist, but I've never ever seen an opening like I have seen since all this started. I've had people there and and that we've provided stuff for and they'll start asking me questions about what we're doing, why we're doing. And you know, I start going through and telling them Because when I went over in October, or excuse me, December the 8th, when we landed, and many of you I know know this, but when we landed, uh, it was just about ten hours later when my wife passed away. And I was meeting with a uh IDF soldier that next morning, it's a special ops unit, and I was meeting with him that morning, and I told him what had happened, and and And uh we were gonna have to be flying back to the States, and so I met and showed him all the supplies, and he's just in shock, and he's just sitting there weeping. He's like, I I I don't even know what to say. And he said this, he says, you come here to stand with us And he said, We're going to stand with you during this time. When I went back over the next month and took another trip over, we went to his home and sat in his home, they had a Shabbat meal for us and uh his his his girlfriend and his mom and dad are sitting there and as we're sitting there and they're asking me all these questions about my wife and and they're still in shock how and and they would say stuff like Are you not mad at God? Why would I be mad at God? God is good. He is faithful. He is good. And it doesn't matter my circumstances. God is good. That's who he is. That's what he is. And they could not fathom that. And it was funny, you talked about Brother Michael. I preached with him in Turkey last year, and we saw several Muslims come to faith. And I'm telling this, I'm telling these these Israelis this about these Iranians. I told him I said, I went to Turkey last year and he and he stopped me. He goes, if you go back, he said, call me, I'll come get you I said, no, it was good. I said, I'm preaching to to Iranians. He said, What? I said, Oh yeah. I said they they love Israel. He goes, no, no, no, they don't. I said, yes, yes, they do No, no, no, they don't. And he's like, What w w what do you mean? So I'm telling him, I said, I'm watching these Muslims come to faith every single night. Watching them get born again. I said, here God has taken and put a new heart in them. I said, you know, when you get right with God, you're gonna want to get right with your neighbor. You're gonna love your neighbor. And they are sitting there going, I I I I I can't fathom this. And boy, they took literature and God has gave us so much open doors with this unit in particular as well. It's incredible. It's incredible how God is softening people's hearts. I had one lady who uh almost the same scenario. We gave them some boots, their unit, we provided over 120 tactical boots for this medical unit that's there in Gaza. And and and she said something to me about uh uh about uh w us coming over and I said something about my wife dying. Here's what she said. She said, Are you not mad at God? You see, that's what I'm seeing every single time. They'll ask that question, why? Because they're hurting so bad. You know, every one of them's lost a family member, they've lost a friend, they lost a loved one, and they are hurting so bad And it's causing them to turn to the Lord. They're looking, they're wanting, they're asking questions. And I'm telling you, it's exciting. Well, she took the, I gave her some gospel literature. I gave her one of the tracks that I wrote. over there, Asur, uh, which is forbidden, what the rabbis don't want you to know. And uh she contacted me right after that uh and uh she told me she said I've been reading that she said and I am convinced that Jesus is the Messiah She said, I gave it to one of my the fellow soldiers, and that soldier likewise is convinced that Jesus is the Messiah. You see, understand, though, for a Jewish person, it's a two-stage process They first of all must be convinced who Jesus is. And then secondly, they must be willing to repent and receive him as their Messiah. And so that's the point that that she's at. She's right there at that point. And and the last trip we went over, we're sitting at the airport and got to witness into another Israeli, and he actually lives over towards Rockville, but his daughter serving in the IDF over there. He's been here for many years. Got to witnessing to him and got to open up the scriptures and he was blown away. He's listening. He said, I've actually been studying. uh on the claims of Jesus being the Messiah. And he pulled some material out of his backpack and he said, this is what I was going to read on the plane. And it was about Jesus. I've been witnessing to him and he he messaged me yesterday and he says, I've been thinking about you and he goes and I've been thinking about Jesus He said, I actually sat down with my family the other day and told them that I am getting ready to accept Yeshua Jesus as my Messiah. And uh I said, how did they take it? And he said, one daughter said, she wants to meet you. Said she's she's fine with it if that's what I want. The other one's not so sure. She wants to meet with you as well. And uh so I thought, well, praise God one at a time. Amen. That'll be great. I'm telling you, listen, their hearts are getting so open. And so pray, pray for the peace of Jerusalem. There'll only be peace. When the Prince of Peace comes. And so that is our prayer. That is our desire. So please be a much prayer for us. And again, I am so thankful for the open doors that God has gave us. And uh we are going to continue to try to get as much items in there as we can, and again, get the gospel to them. And so, Psalm 83 tonight, if you got your Bible, Psalm 83. Let's stand real quick. In reference to the Word of God tonight, Psalm 83. If you can listen fast, I'm going to preach fast. I'm going to run through this chapter quickly. The Bible says in verse number one of Psalm 83 Keep not thou silence, O God. Hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God. For lo thine enemies make a tumult, and they that hate thee have lifted up the head. They have taken crafty counsel against thy people and consulted against thy hidden ones. They have said, come and let us cut them off from being a nation that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. For they have consulted together with one consent. They are confederate against thee. The tabernacles of Edom And the Ishmaelites of Moab and the Hagarenes, Gibal and Ammon and Amalek, the Philistines, with the inhabitants of Tyree. Asher also is joined with them. They have hopen, the children of Lot. Silah. Do unto them as unto the Midianites, as to Sisera, as to Jaban at the brook of Tison, which perished at Aindor. They became as dung for the earth. Make their nobles like oras Like Zeev and yea, all their princes, as Zeevah and Zalmuna, who said, let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession. O my God, make them like a wheel as the stubble before the wind, as the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire, so persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid. with thy storm. Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek thy name, O Lord. Let them be confounded and troubled forever. Yea, let them be put to shame and perish That men may know that thou whose name alone is Jehovah Art the Most High over all the earth. Father, we love you We're so grateful for the privilege we have to gather this evening. Bless now the preaching of your word. In Jesus' name. Amen and amen. You can be seated. Now this Psalm, Psalm 83, is a Very interesting psalm because when all these things started happening in Israel, a lot of people started uh reaching out to me and saying things. I remember when we were there Uh again, there are rockets happening, it's going on, and one man reached out to me, a friend of mine, he says, Do you realize that all these nations that are gathering together today are are what you find in Ezekiel 38 and 39, Gog and Magog? He was all excited about it. My wife, she says, listen, she says, uh, you know, he may be excited being 6,000 miles away from it, but being three miles, it's not that exciting. I don't want to hear another thing about it But you know, when you look at that, and a lot of people were speculating, is this Gog and Magog? It's not Gog and Magog, because the nations that are, though we're seeing an alignment and a joining together of all these nations, understand that those nations that are mentioned in Ezekiel 38 and 39 are not Arab nations They're not at all. Many Muslim, but not Arab nations. What we are seeing now is Arab nations that are rising against Israel. And so, but understand that this war is not a battle against Arab and Jew. It is not a battle against Islam and Judaism. It is not that at all. It is a war on terrorism is what it is. And it is a war specifically focusing as it was focusing down in the Gaza area towards Hamas, but now up in towards Hezbollah, up in the Lebanon area. You see, they are all just simply proxies of Iran Now, Iran does not like, and Brother Michael would tell you this, he says that Iranians do not like Arabs. They're not Arabs. They're Persian. They are not Arabs at all, and they don't like them. They look down upon them. But you know what they will do? They will unite together for one purpose, and that is the annihilation of Israel. That is their desire But this psalm here is another psalm that everybody loved to go to. And they would ask the questions, are we witnessing an event of Psalm 83 taking place? Some will say, and I've got good friends that will even say this, that there's a battle that's going to happen. Some will even say before the rapture, and some say before the tribulation of Psalm 83 Now, I don't think any event has to happen for the rapture of the church. That's the next event. Nothing has to take place. No red heifer. No nothing has to happen. No eclipse, no nothing Listen, Jesus is coming, and nothing's got to happen for that to happen. Nothing does. That's why we believe in the imminent return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, but anyway, they'll refer to this psalm. But notice interesting here in Psalm 83, he says and he starts off a psalm, a psalm or psalm of ASAP. I believe this psalm was fulfilled not in 1948, as some will hold, or 1967, as some others would hold, or either in a future event. It is an event that was fulfilled in 2 Chronicles chapter number 20. It was there in 2 Chronicles 20 when Jehoshaphat And all these nations as mentioned here, it talks about Ammon and some of these others. They're coming over to Angeti and they're coming out uh to destroy Israel. They're trying to get, as the Bible says their inheritance. That is the land. And so they're coming out to take the land away. That's their desire. Jehoshaphat began to seek the Lord. He began to pray unto God. And all of a sudden he choir he called in the choir leaders and he called in Asaph. And he called them in and he got the singers and the singers started singing And do you know what God did when they started singing? He set an ambushment and God defeated the enemies. That is what this psalm is here. You go back and study and compare the two, and it is identical when you compare the two. But I want you to notice a few things real quickly about Psalm 83. I notice, first of all, the plea for God's presence in verse number one. Look what the psalmist said. Keep not thou silence, O God. Hold not thy peace and be not still, O God. Do you know what Jehoshaphat realized as Asaph realized? Listen, they needed the presence of God. There was nothing they could do in their own self They needed God. You know what? Israel, I'm thankful for some of their leaders. Listen, their government's messed up just as bad as ours is. Don't think they've got some righteous government. And don't you even please don't think that Netanyahu's the answer He's not. He's a politician just like anybody else. And listen, I'm glad they got a strong leader like Netanyahu. But you know what? Leaders will let you down Leaders will fail. And the psalmist here is saying, listen, it's not a great leader that we need. It's God that we need. It is God. You know what you need at this church? You know what we need in our country It's God. That's what we need. I'm telling you, it's not just a change of administration. We need God to reign and rule. We need the presence of God. And that's what the psalmist is pleading here. I'm telling you, Israel's got a great army, but you know what? Their army fails. Their army failed. We saw that on October 7th in astonishment. A matter of fact in Ezekiel 37 and 38, it talks about them sitting in safety. That uh that word that's used there speaks about relying on your own self and that's what they were doing. I'm telling you, listen, Israel, listen, they need God is what they need. I'm telling you, uh, and you're thankful for some of the things like the Iron Dome was fascinating watching that thing in action, but you realize it don't stop at all. I remember back in 2021 when they shot in an 11-day period, they shot 4,000 rockets out of Gaza into Israel. October 7th, they shot 3,500 rockets that day from Gaza into Israel. And you know what the Iron Dome couldn't do? Couldn't stop it all There were too many coming in. I remember just about a month and a half ago, they shot 60 rockets over my house and hit the city of Safat, and not a single rocket was stopped That iron dome don't always stop them. David sling don't always stop them. I'm telling you, listen, it's not military that they need. It's the presence of God that they need. And that's what the psalmist is pleading here. It's for God's presence. He said in Psalms chapter number 20 and verse 7, some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. I'm telling you, it's the presence of God that they need. But then it was God's protection that they needed. Notice verse number two down to verse number eight. You'll find in verse number two he says, For lo, thine enemies make a tumult And they that hate thee have lifted up the head. You see a cry for God's protection because of the cry of the enemy You see, he says there in verse number two they make a tumult. That word Hama in Hebrew literally means to make a noise, to make a cry, a loud voice. And well I'm telling you, that's exactly what we've seen since October 7th. People standing out on the street corner making a loud noise for nothing, not even knowing what in the world they're saying. From the river to the sea, Palestine shall be free. Do you know what that means? That means everything from the river to the sea, every Jew is to be murdered, is to be annihilated. That's what that means. People have no idea what they're saying when they get out and say, but they love making a loud noise, and that's exactly what they're doing. We see the cry of the enemy, we see the craving of the enemy in verse number four. For they have said Come and let us cut them off from being a nation, that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. You see, that is their desire. It is not a two-state solution. They don't want a two-state solution. They don't want, oh yes, they do. They want a two-state solution. No, they do not. I'm telling you, I have Palestinian friends. I am not anti-Palestinian I love the Palestinian people. I think Jesus died for them just as much as he died for the Jews. He loves all men, and he would have all men be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. But I'm telling you what, they do not want a two-state solution. Matter of fact, in the Hamas's charter It says this in Article 7, it states, the day of judgment will not come until the Muslims fight and kill the Jews In Article 8, it states that the Muslim Brotherhood slogan, Allah is its goal, the Prophet is the model, the Quran, its constitution, and jihad, which is a holy war, is its path, and death for the sake of Allah is the loftiest of his wishes. It says in Article 13 that there is no negotiated settlement possible. Jihad is the only answer. Article 15 states that the day the enemies usurp part of Muslim land, jihad becomes the individual duty of every Muslim. You see, they hate what God loves. Why do you think they hate the church so much? Because Christ died for the church. Why do you think they hate the land of Israel so much and won't it so much? Because God loves it so much I'm telling you why they hate the Jews, because God is not done with the Jews. He loves the Jews. And they hate it so much. They hate what God loves But we notice the confederacy of the enemy as well. He goes through from verse number 6 all the way down to verse number 8, and he lists several of these nations. Now listen, don't get sidetracked with all these nations trying to figure out what genealogy. Let me say this real quick. Palestinians are not the ancient Philistines. Can I say that again? Palestinians are not the ancient Philistines. Now you'd be shocked at how many people when I say a statement like that and they go, What? You'd be shocked at how many say. You see, everybody living in the land of Israel between 1917 to 1948 under that bow for declaration were called Palestinians. Matter of fact, one of the prime ministers of Israel, Golden Myair, on her birth certificate, it says this, Palestinians. You see, a Palestinian was a Jew. A Palestinian was also an Arab that was living in the land. They were not considered Palestinians to what we see today until Israel broke away and became a nation. And they continued on with that same name. So both Jews and Arabs were called that. But uh so but you'll find all these nations mentioned here. And understand the genealogies of people have been mixed up through the ages, so don't get sidetracked. He mentions all these nations, and all these nations are nations that are surrounding Israel. You see, they were the ancient enemies of Israel then, and you know what? They still are today. They still are today. still hate Israel today. And so, but don't don't get focused on the on the genealogy, focus on the geography. That's the focal point. It should be But then he goes through and he talks about the plea for God's power from verse number nine down through verse number 15. He gives a couple of different examples. He said in verse number 9 do unto them as unto the Midianites, as to Sisera, as to Javan at the brook of Tishon, which perished at Aindor They became his dung for the earth. Now here he is. He's talking about two events that took place there in the valley of Megiddo, or what we also refer to as the valley where Armageddon is going where the nations will gather. That's where our church is. It's right there in that valley. And so you got where Gideon and his men would have would have been lapping up the water like the dogs right across that valley is where the Midianites would have gathered, over 136,000 of them And there was about 32,000 Jews that had gathered there, and God said, You got way too much. And they dwindled it down to 300, and God wrote a great victory. And you know what the psalmist is saying here? Lord, you did it then, do it again. And then he reminds him of another one, a Cesar and Javan, and of course Deborah and Barack would have gathered right there at Mount Tavor and And and from Mount Tavor, uh Sisera and then would have came out with those 900 chariots and and got stuck in the mud. And right there God brought another great victory in the same valley. And the psalmist was saying, God, you did it then, do it again. And that is his plea. And so he he gives a plea for God's power over their armies and then over their leaders. And he mentions some of the leaders of the mo of the Midianites. But notice verse number twelve, look what he said. Who said Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession. You know what they wanted? They wanted the land. That's what they wanted They wanted the land of Israel. That was their desire. He gives them three examples here of God's judgment. Look, if you would in verse number 13, real quick. Oh my God, make them like a wheel. So he gives an example of a wheel. And then he says, as to stumble before the wind. So the second example is that of wind. The third one is that of fire. As the fire burneth the wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire. Now all three of these examples of the wood, the wind, and the and the and the and the fire, uh all three of these examples Are examples of the same thing. As a wheel, he's saying, as it would roll away, God get rid of them. As the wind would blow them away, God get rid of them. As the fire burns the wood, what's he saying? God get rid of them. That is his plea for God's protection and power over them. But notice God's plan real quickly. Show you these three things, and I'll be done. He gives a plea for God's plan. Look in verse number 16. I want you to notice their disgrace. He said, fill their faces with shame. Verse 17, let them be confounded and troubled forever, yea, let them be put to shame. He's saying, Lord, make them a disgrace. Make them a shame. Can I say something about the Arab people? Around the eyes of the Arab people around the world, they're like a shame. They're like a disgrace. They've got a bad name. Let me say something about Arabs. They're the kindest people I've ever met in my life. Kindest people I've ever met in my life. I'm from the south, from Georgia originally. We moved up here to Baltimore 20 years ago, 20, 20, 21, 22 years ago. And so the South they boast on their southern hospitality, right? Oh yeah, they ain't got a clue. Not got a clue. I ain't never seen people as hospitable. I mean I've walked up, had Palestinians invite me up uh to their on their porch and and make some coffee. Now this And the guy couldn't speak Hebrew, he couldn't speak English. He makes the nastiest cup of coffee I'd ever drank in my life. I mean you could chew it. I mean it was if you've never drank Arab coffee, Turkish coffee Pooh my soul, man. It's like seven espresso in one shot. It's rough, you know, it's rough. And I mean I'm sitting there drinking that thing, trying to smile, and I'm chewing I'm chewing this thing because the Lord die from this stuff. But I mean he he's just trying to be hospitable I remember we first looked at an apartment one time up in Guskalab and uh it was an Arab home and and they invited us in and they brought out cakes and coffee and and I I I grabbed my coffee and drank it. Well my wife don't drink coffee She don't like nothing hot. And she's looking at that cup of coffee like, what am I going to do? And she didn't want to offend them, so I drank mine and kind of set mine down on the other side of hers and just kind of easily grabbed hers and drank hers too We looked at three apartments. I drank six of them things. Man, I laid in bed. I was just shaking. It was like my heart was about to explode I'm telling you that's how they are. We pulled up out there in Ufasia and uh we we pulled up one time and my wife saw the lady that lived at the house, she ran over to ask them if it's okay if we could park in front of their house And she was gone. She disappeared. A few minutes later, she came out with an arm full of food. She said, come on, let's eat. You know, she has. That's just that's the Arab personality. That's how they are. I had a guy one time, a pastor told me, he said, hey, I got a guy in our church that's got a guy from another Muslim from another country. He wants to, he's living here in the States. He wanted to know if he could come to church. He said he asked me if it was okay and he said I I I met with the men, we talked about it, we just didn't feel comfortable. So we told him, you know, we just didn't feel comfortable. He said, You think I did the right thing? I said, No. I said, how's he gonna get saved? He said, you don't think he's gonna blow us up or something? I said, no. He's probably curious. He's probably wanting to know. How's he gonna know? How's he gonna learn? You see, we look at these sometimes and think they're all terrorists, they're all listen I've had Muslim landlords who would take their shirt off their back for me. I've seen them go both ways. I have. I've sat down with imams and and so forth. But I'm telling you, here he talks about their disgrace. But notice that not only their disgrace, but notice their disruption. Look at verse 17. He said, let them be confounded and troubled forever. Yea, let them be put to shame and perish. You know what he's saying? Lord, kill them. Plain and simple. Let them die. Let them perish. That's what the psalmist is saying here. But what wait a minute. Watch something real quick. Notice their deliverance. Look in verse 16. He says, fill their faces with shame. Watch this next word. In Hebrew, that they may seek thy name. Lord. He's saying, Lord, bring them to a place of disgrace. Why? That they might look to you. Matter of fact, look what he says down in verse 18. That men may know that thou whose name alone is Jehovah, art the most high over all the earth. The psalmist plea here is, listen, listen, that that they would turn to the Lord, that they would look to the Lord and be saved. And he's saying, if they don't And kill them. See, God wants to have mercy. He is a gracious God. And you look at these Palestinians, you look at these people from all these different God wants to have mercy on people. But how are they going to know his name alone is Jehovah? Unless somebody is willing to tell them. Man, we printed some Arabic tracts one time and had this one Arab that got saved, works for a newspaper. He told me he says, hey, we can print that in a newspaper. I printed that whole Arabic track in the newspaper. Over 300,000 Arabs had the possibility of reading that. So what are you doing when you're sowing the seed? You never know what that seed is going to do unless you're willing to get out and give it. And I'm telling you, let us not look at Arabs in the light of a terrorist. Let us look at the world in the light of how Jesus Looks at it. He gave his life for it. Church, stay faithful in your giving. Thank you for your giving for these 20 years. Don't stop now. Don't stop telling and don't stop getting involved. So thank you, Church. Father, we love you. We're thankful for the privilege we have to be able to serve you. Lord Jesus, I pray that tonight you'd have your will and way in every heart. Lord, we'll praise you for what you'll continue to do in Jesus' name. His name, they met, Richard.