Well you can turn your Bibles this morning for a few minutes to Psalms thirty-seven. Psalms thirty-seven. Last week in our service, we had the privilege of considering how precious the house of God is. Instructed from the pen of David, who literally longed To be in the tabernacle. And hopefully we were challenged and encouraged to value and appreciate the tabernacle that we have. The house of God that He allows us to be a part of. And as testimony this morning by the Robinsons who joined the church, thrilled to be a part of this group of believers. But today we are going to once again look into the Psalms and be instructed from the sweet psalmist of Israel, David, as he gives to us comparison. Between the righteous man and the wicked man. He describes the righteous man as a perfect man. Now you know when the Bible speaks of or describes a perfect man, he's talking about a man that is complete, that is mature. There are several men in the Bible who specifically are described as perfect men. We know that Noah was a just man and perfect in his generation. Similarly, Job is given the description, and it says that Job that there was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright. We see in our text this morning a description of a perfect man. Would you look at the end of Psalms 37? We're going to take our thought this morning from the beginning, but the end of the book summarizes the thoughts that have been presented. He kind of brings into scope everything that he's talked about. So in Psalms 37, look down in verse number 35 and follow along with me as we read through verse number 40, he says, I have seen the wicked in great power And spreading himself like a green gay tree. Yet he passeth away, and lo he was not, yea, I sought him, but he could not be found This is where the title and our thought for the message comes today: Mark the perfect man. And behold the upright, for the end of that man is peace. You know, Ms. Lewis went home to be with the Lord, and I don't know how better to say it than to say her end was peace. But, it says here, but the transgressor shall be destroyed together, the end of the wicked shall be cut off. But the salvation of the righteous is of the Lord. He is their strength in a time of trouble. And the Lord shall help them and deliver them. He shall deliver them from the wicked and save them because they trust in him. So in this text he over and over again gives a comparison, he gives a contrast between the state of the wicked man. and the state of the righteous man. Between the end of a wicked man and the end of a righteous man. And he gives many different correlations between those two and describes them as perfect. So we want to look this morning at a perfect man. Here in this text he gives to us the brevity of the prosperity of the godless. He talks about the fact that their their prosperity is not going to last that long. But he also tells us in no uncertain terms that well-doing will lead to well-being I'm going to say that again, that well-doing will lead to well-being. What you want to be in Christ Is achieved through doing what Christ would want you to do. He also contrasts the godly and the wicked. In a hopes, beloved, that it might motivate us believers. Are you a believer this morning? Amen. Well, he contrasts that for us, that it might motivate us, that it might give us confidence in the Lord. Confidence in the one that we serve. His exhortation to us is that we might conduct ourselves as the children of God we are, and not succumb to the allurements of the world and the appetites of the flesh or the attacks of Satan. And oh how we need to be reminded not to fret because of the evildoer. Look in Verse number one of Psalms 37, back in verse number one. And we're going to see here in these first seven verses four truths About the perfect man. But he says here first, a psalm of David, fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. Boy, to fret and to fume is a normal, natural Heart of man. It is our n natural way of thinking to maybe even have some fire of jealousy kindled inside of our soul when we see that lawbreakers are riding horses And the obedient subjects are walking in the mire. I'm talking this morning about your neighbor that hates God And yet you look over there and you see that he's driving a beautiful car and he's never had a wreck. And you've been driving a wreck for years and never had a car. You know when you when you look And you see the prosperity, it's hard sometimes not to wonder, even as Brother Taylor stood up here this morning and said sometimes There's a misconception of that. Well, now that I know the Lord, everything's gonna be hunky-dory. Everything's gonna be fine and dandy. Sugar and spice and everything nice. I mean, isn't everything gonna be good? Because after all, I'm a Christian But if you've been a Christian for very long, you are aware of the fact that that's not true. That we have problems as well, but the privilege we have as the believers as saints is that when we're walking through a trial, when we're walking through a test, we are doing so hand in hand with our Heavenly Father. And in those times, as that poem footprints in the sand so eloquently puts it, in those times when we literally cannot walk ourselves, he carries us. That's what we have as believers. Because of what God has done. So I want you to see these four thoughts this morning. About the perfect man. Ladies, you're looking for a perfect man? Here you go. Here's a man of what you need to be looking for. A guy that has these things in his life. He says, A Psalm of David, fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity, for they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as a green herb. He says, Trust in the Lord and do good. That's the first one. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. And then he says, Delight thyself also in the Lord. There's the second one. And he shall give thee the desires of thy heart. And he says in verse number 5, Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. There's the third one. Light and thy judgment as the noon day. Verse number seven says, Rest in the Lord. And wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. So we see these four things, and that's I'm going to give you these four things, and we're going to be done. He says, first of all, here trust in the Lord, so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Beloved, the very foundation of our faith, we know, starts with trust. With trusting God. Could I ask you this morning, have you put your faith in trust? Put your faith and trust in God and in Him alone. Matthew 7. 21 says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. I want you to understand, beloved, this morning, that it's not just a matter of going to church or carrying a Bible or being good, turning over a new leaf has never saved anybody. Being good has never saved anybody. The misconception, the false teaching that there's somehow some great scales up in heaven and our our good and and hopefully our our bad uh you know our good outweighs our bad and that's going to be weighed out in eternity and that's not in the Bible, friend. And even if it was, can I tell you your good would never outweigh your bad? There's only one way that you can pay for and cover The sin that we have in our heart, even if you could live perfect from today till the day you die, you still have a bunch of sin that you've done in the past. You've got to put your faith and trust in Christ. He paid the debt for us. All you have to do is accept that free gift. For by grace he is saved through faith and not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works. Lest any man should boast. If I could earn my way, why did Jesus die? I just want to implore you this morning to be sure that there's been a day or an hour a time That you put your faith and trust in Christ, that you admitted you're a sinner, that you couldn't pay for your sin yourself, but you believe The Bible says, if you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. You confess with your mouth, you believe in your heart that God the Father raised him, God the Son, from the dead. That is believing in the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is the gospel. That is the good news. So you confess that and you believe it in your heart. That's what it takes to be forgiven. To know that you're on your way to heaven. Trust in the Lord. Have you put your trust in the Lord? I believe that The majority present here this morning, but I wouldn't want to take for granted that all have put their trust in Christ And so I wanted to take a second and encourage you and you made sure that you step down. But do you know Christian, you've put your faith and trust in Christ and now you know I I just looked at my notes here. Uh old Maze Jackson, Maze Jackson used to say this, he says, I am so glad that I found Jesus before I found religion. And that that's the problem. Many times people find religion and they're reliant upon their religion to get them to heaven or to somehow pay for their sin. But religion's not going to do it. Only Jesus Christ can do that. Only Jesus Christ. So put your trust in him. Now you know this morning if you've been saved for a little while that that Faith and trust in Him is just the beginning of our walk of faith. We know as Christians we're to walk by faith, and we know that our trust in God has to go beyond just saving faith. We've got to have surviving faith. We've got to have faith that goes day to day, a trust that leads us through our day-to-day life where we're trusting Him, where we're relying on God. You know, faith cures fretting. Faith cures fretting. And I didn't say it was gonna be easy. I know that there's hard things that you go through. I know in the room this morning there are those whose hearts are very heavy. Nobody would question or condemn their heart from fretting. But powerful faith overcomes the fretting. But I also am fully aware of the fact that the greater the storm The greater the faith that's needed to overcome it. And there are times that we who are finite beings are like the disciples. And Jesus looked at them and said, Oh ye of little faith. There's sometimes we find ourselves there, so I want to encourage you this morning. to remember who it is that you serve and that he is an all-powerful God and that he can be trusted and you can rely upon him and he does know what's best for you and he will see you through. You can trust him today. There's an old story, and I'm sure many of you heard it because it's been around for many, many years, but there was a circus performer and I can't remember his name, it's been too many years since I had heard the story, but uh the he came and they set up a cable across the Niagara Falls. They had this cable that went from one side of the Niagara Falls to the other side of Niagara Falls and this skilled uh acrobat uh uh he got on this cable and walked from one side to the other, got to the other side there and he grabbed a wheelbarrow. And they put fifty pounds of something, you know, mulch or something in there. And and he walked across this cable Holding this wheelbarrow in front of him, full of stuff. He got back to the other side and he looked down. There's a young boy down there and he says, Hey, little man. He says, Do you believe that I could get back across this cable? And he says, Yeah. And he says, Well hop up in the wheelbarrow. And he says, No. You see, that's the difference between believing and trusting. Some people believe that God could save them. They believe in God. They they believe that Jesus came. You know the devil and his angels believe too. But you've got to trust him. A little uh man looked down at that boy and says, Why not? He uh you you just said you believed that I could walk across to you, and he looked up at him and he says, Yeah, but I don't trust you. You gotta trust him. You know, trust really comes down to Who is on the other side of the rope? I've given you this illustration before, but it's so fitting. Uh when we climbed the Grand Tetons, there's one section that the wind coming up the face of the mountain was It was on our descent. The wind coming up the face of the mountain was so strong that when they threw the the repelling rope down over the mountain, it just blew the rope back up. So the guy tied a backpack to it and threw a backpack over and it threw his backpack back up. And so he said, well the only way technically when you're going over the edge of that cliff, you're supposed to be tied off in two places. You're supposed to be on belay from somebody else and then repelling yourself. So you you have two safety things. He said, well, in this situation, the only thing we can do is somebody has to go over and carry the first rope down. And I said, I'll do it. So he tied me off and I'm back in over a 160-foot cliff. And uh and uh he he says he says now when you get to the bottom you gotta stop So well that makes sense. He's like, no, like there's a ledge. If you don't stop on the ledge, if you go past the ledge, the rope's not long enough to get you the to the next ledge. So when you get to the ledge, you've got to stop. And I said, okay But I remember in my heart and mind thinking, okay, here's this little guy that he's going to hold the other side of this rope, and I'm going to back over this 160-foot cliff. And I said, you know what? I wonder maybe if my dad could hold the other side of that rope. Because I knew that my dad would sooner go off that mountain himself than to let me go. And I had that kind of faith in my dad, but I wasn't real sure about this guide. So who's holding the other side of the rope? Now this guy liability and all that, he's like no I have to do it and he he showed me the device that he was repelling me with and it He could hold my weight with two fingers through the device that he was I was repelling with, so I'm like, oh okay. So I went off the cliff and it was fun. Um but What I'm saying is who's holding the other side of the rope for you? God. You know who's there. And I know Satan wants to cause you to doubt, wants to cause you to question, to not have trust, but you can trust him. I want you to see secondly we need to delight thyself in the Lord. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thy heart That word, delight thyself, according to Strong's, means to be soft or pliable. I looked at that and thought, well, that doesn't make a lot of sense, soft or pliable. And then I thought about it like this. When you're so in love with someone, you're willing to do whatever they would like. Your the their will is your will and I think about a young couple that's getting ready to go out for dinner and they're just so in love and he looks at her and says, Where would you like to go? And she's like, no, no, no, you decide. And he says, no, I want to take you out. I want to take you wherever you would like to go. I'll gladly take you. So they go they start heading to where she wants to go and on the way to the restaurant she changes her mind three times and uh it doesn't bother him a bit. That doesn't matter. Why? Because the heart is soft towards her He's pliable. It's it doesn't really matter. There's that love is present there. That delight is there. And I think when we delight in God, we're not concerned about what he has for us to do, and we're not pushing against His will for us, but we're delighting in whatever it is because it's a delight to do his will because you love him. Beloved, to delight in him is as much a privilege as it is a command. Yes, it's a command. We're supposed to delight in him, but could I remind you that he says he'll give you the desires of your heart? What an amazing thing. Delight yourself in God, and He'll give you the desires of your heart. I think about when I was a young man, you guys know that I wanted to be rich. You guys know you've been around here a while. You know that was my ambition. I wanted to be rich. And uh so I was going after that, but I wanted to have my own business and And I wanted to be what you would call successful in this world. And you say, well, those are normal ambitions for a young man. And I understand, but see, I went into the ministry, I I went into Bible college and started studying the Bible. Started preparing and God changed my heart. So I believe that God giving you the desires of your heart are twofold. One is if your desire is wrong, he will give you a new desire, a desire that lines up with his will. But not only that, I believe that fully that God will give you the desires of your heart, the things that you desire that aren't wrong He'll make them come to pass. And what I'm saying is, God allowed me as a young man to start a business and have, I think, at one point, 12 guys working for me. Out there, you know, from from the world standpoint, here I am, a 22-year-old guy Making a lot of money, providing a job for six, eight, ten, twelve other guys I mean, from the world standpoint, I was successful, and I remember in my heart and mind thinking, man, this is not what I went after. This is not what I was trying to achieve. I want to go serve God with my life. But God gave me that desire that I had. I didn't have any problem when it was time to go into the ministry to hang up the hammer. Get into doing what God wanted me to do, but I'm just saying God will give you the desires of your heart. It's a privilege when we delight in Him. The world looks at delighting in the Lord as a strange relationship, for they see our service to God as a duty instead of a delight. They wonder how in the world could anybody delight in holiness? The poem writer said, Thy way not mine, O Lord, however dark it be, O lead me by thine own right hand, choose out the path for me. Smooth let it be or rough, it will be still the best. Winding or straight, it matters not, it leads me to thy rest. I dare not choose my lot. I would not if I might. But choose thou for me, O God, so I shall walk aright. Take thou my cup, and it with joy or sorrow fill, as ever best to thee may seem, choose thou my good or my ill. Delighting in him means just whatever you want, Lord. Whatever you want. Then I want you to see thirdly here, he says, commit thy way unto the Lord. Verse number five, commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. You know, if you want to succeed in a Christian life, if you want to win, you've got to commit your way to the Lord. I think about a coach on the football field. You know, he's got his eye on the sky. He's got the guy up there looking down at the whole field. He's got communication on who's who's where. And he sees that their defense is leaving an opening on one side. And he's sending in the plays and he's telling the players, listen, what you need to do is you need to run this running play or you need to do this passing play. You need to have this play. Why? Because He sees the whole field, he sees everything that's happening, and he knows exactly what's going to allow the team to win. So you commit as the quarterback and as team members commit to the directions of the coach The way that he says, and you can win. Well, beloved, we need to commit to the directions of the coach. Commit thy way unto the Lord, and he shall bring it to pass. God will do it for you. He'll bring it to pass in your life. You can win and succeed at this thing called the Christian life if we will commit our way unto the Lord. The problem is too many Christians want to call God into the huddle and start giving out the instructions. Instead of letting him send in the instructions. Sometimes we are headed in the wrong way. We need to commit our way unto the Lord, but Sometimes our way maybe is drifting a little bit, our way might be a little bit off track, or our way might not be all that it should be, and God will send in some warning signs. He'll give us some cautions. Oh, he might send a loved one to come and tell us. He might send a message. In a church service from your pastor, he might send a godly friend to come and say, wait, that's not the way! This one's kinda hard. Sometimes he sins your mate. Yeah. Especially when it's your wife. I'm the man of the house, right? Your wife, you're like, who do you think you are? The Holy Spirit? You know, you would do well to listen. God has given her some wisdom And what she's encouraging you or telling you, you know, comes from a place of love. She's trying to help you be all that God would have and want you to be. And she's saying, honey, wait, this is not the way. But your pride is going to keep you from submitting to God And doing what God wants you to do just because of who gave you the instruction. You know there's times the Lord has used my children to put me under conviction. My kids and their testimony and the things that they you know that they'll say or it maybe even just a question they ask, but it makes me think, wow, I was not thinking very much like uh Christian here or I was not on track with this my kids. But humility says, hey, God sent this warning to me. God sent me this to direct my way. And I need to get back on the right way. Because God is molding a masterpiece, dear friend. Ron Hamilton, who just passed a couple weeks ago now, I think. Um, he wrote that song, Molding a Masterpiece. Master, Potter, why do you labor all day? Give such effort to rough, worthless piece of K Why such feeling in your hands? Why such care in every touch? Why all the struggle? Your creation is nothing but dust. I'm molding a masterpiece. A work of great beauty. I'm molding a masterpiece. My labor is not done A trophy, a treasure of worth beyond measure. I'm molding a masterpiece, a masterpiece of love. God's molding a masterpiece But you've got to commit your way to him to let that piece take shape. Sometimes the potter has to take some rough stuff out of the clay. Sometimes he's got to increase the heat a little bit. But he's molding a masterpiece. Will you let him mold you? And then we see lastly this morning that we need to rest in the Lord. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. He said, just rest in God. Just rest in God. Our theme for this year is rest and revival. Rest and revival. Do you know it's only when we learn to rest in Him that we'll experience revival. This word rest here, according to Strong's, means to be dumb, to be silent before the Lord, to just rest. We know that Christ is our greatest example of this for Isaiah 53. 7 says he was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was brought as a lamb to the slaughter and as a sheep before the shears is dumb. So he opens not his mouth. You know, God doesn't need our excuses. He doesn't need our explanations. He doesn't need our defining characteristic. He doesn't need us to explain it. We just need to rest in him. Just be quiet. Just sit. Just trust. Rest in the will of God this morning. Whatever that is for you. Could you rest in the love of God? Knowing that he loves you beyond measure. It's un it's indescribable how much he loves you. That love caused him to send his son. That love continually gives us mercy. Can you rest in the mercy of God? That's what David did one time when he sinned. You remember God gave him a choice. Well, do you want to be judged this way, this way, or this way? He said, Well, I I think I know I have a merciful God. I think I'll just let you handle it, Lord. Just resting in the mercy of God. So if we're going to be perfect, that is mature, complete Christians, these are things that need to be part of our lives.