Uh turn your Bibles tonight to the book of Ruth. Uh we have just seen Orpah had said to her goodbyes and turned and went back. She went back uh to Moab, uh that place of the old man that uh you know, just the old life and turning with the goodbyes were sentimental. There was tears. It was hard, but not hard enough to cause her to uh not go back. She still went back to what she held valuable. I told you last week that we would pick up today looking at the dedication of Ruth, so we're gonna look at that and just walk through Verses 16 through 22, today we'll finish chapter number one, but I'm going to pick up the reading in verse number 15 just because that's where our story left off. And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her people and unto her gods. Return thou after thy sister-in-law. So there's one more plea here that Naomi gives, and she says, Hey, look, Orpah just went back. Why don't you turn and go with her? Well, here we see the dedication of Ruth, the beginning of verse number 16. And Ruth said, entreat me not to leave thee. or to return from following after thee. For whither thou goest I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me We see the decision that she made here. It is said that uh here we just read how it said that Orpah went back, it went unto her people. and unto her gods. There was a belief during that time period that gods were tightly associated with a particular region. that uh almost to worship that God you had to be in that place. And that is seen a little bit more Uh as you think about the story of of Naaman, you remember uh him when he came and he got healed of his leprosy there in Second Kings. And uh he comes he gets healed and he comes back to Elisha. And he says to Elisha, Hey, I want to give you all these things. And Elisha says, Nope, nope That's God, all the honor and glory, and that all goes to God. We don't want anything. And then if you remember, Naaman says, Well, would you give me two mules loaded down with earth? So that when I get home, I could worship Jehovah. You see, that mindset, that kind of idea was prevalent, and he didn't quite understand that you didn't need to have the dirt from Judah back there at home in order to worship Jehovah. But that's something that they held on to in belief that, you know She was going back and she was going back to the place where she could go and she could be and worship her gods. But you know, beloved Ruth made the decision not to. She was at a critical point in her life She made this one decision that changed the direction of her life. Had Ruth turned and followed Orpah right here, there would be no story of Ruth. The book would take a completely different track. What I'm saying to you tonight, beloved, is that there are points of decision in our life and at the time we may not think them so critical. Ruth could have never known the extent of this change that this commitment made for her, ultimately to be in the line of Christ. She could have never known the extent of that difference when she made this decision. And beloved, when you and I in our lives reach the point of decision. Brother Am I just co uh Coomer. Uh Brother Coomer has a counseling ministry in Pastor Derrick and I went uh uh to Arkansas, I think, and we went through a week's training in his counseling training class so we could more effectively counsel people. And anyways he he talks about in in life, he calls it the point of impact The point of impact. When when a decision comes up, what are you going to do? What are you going to do? You have the uh option to choose and do what you want, but at that point of impact you make a decision And the decision is either to respond in accordance with the will and the way of God or to respond in the flesh. And beloved, we need to be very careful when we make decisions that we do so prayerfully. That we do so in the in the multitude of counselors that there is safety. That we are careful because we don't know how far reaching those decisions are going to be. Sometimes we think, oh, it's just a small thing. It doesn't really matter. It's not that big of change. I'm just gonna go to school here, or I'm gonna go take that job, or Or you know what, I'm gonna buy this house. Or there there's many things in life we think, oh, I'm gonna make this decision, it's not that big a deal, but we find down later, boy, it changed the entire direction of your life. This is what we see, the the impact of this one decision where she says, no, don't entreat me to go back. I'm gonna follow you Man, that point of decision. You see, beloved Moab had lost all of its luster for her She knew that going back, there was nothing there. She was willing to turn and follow Naomi Into uncertainty. She hadn't seen Bethlehem. She hadn't been over into Bethlehem, Judah. She hadn't, she didn't know all what was going to befall them on this journey or in this new land or in this new place. But as she looked back, all she saw was a meaningless life, following after false gods. And so she committed to by faith go forward, like we in our Christian life really are to do. Move forward by faith. Follow God and God's will, even though we don't see or understand completely everything that might befall us down the road. But beloved, in the path and the will of God, you're better off. Even when you don't see or understand. The discovery that guided this decision for her beloved was that she had been introduced to the truth. Of Jehovah, to the God of heaven and earth, to the creator of the universe, and the God of Israel. And I can imagine that she didn't just observe the workings of this God, but she allowed it to impact and affect her life. She absorbed it, if you would. No doubt both her and Orpa sat at the dinner table, and they Elimelech And Naomi and and maybe even their their husbands that had passed away now, maybe they recounted some stories and they told Ruth and Orpah about how boy God came into Egypt and and brought these plagues and and and he was trying to free us in this one plague after another plague after another plague and they recounted the stories how God freed them and then took them across the Red Sea and led them by a pillar of fire and a cloud and oh we went across the Jordan River into the promised land. Boy you should have seen Jericho when the walls of Jericho fell down, I imagine. They recounted unto her some of the stories that had been shared and told of God bringing them into the promised land. And there's something about that that rang true in the heart of Ruth. And she said, That's what I want. I want that for my life. I'm done following these empty, meaningless, and powerless gods You know, beloved, the day that Ruth and Orpah stood above the graves of their husbands. She could have like so many. She could have thought this is not fair. I haven't even been married that long. If this is the kind of God you serve, I don't want anything to do with him. When she was faced with that pain, she could have, like so many, got upset and began to blame God. That is the pattern, the tendency of human nature. Beloved, what Ruth did not understand is what had befallen her at that moment. Which was the worst thing that she had gone through in her life. Burying her husband. That pain and all all of that. What what she didn't understand is what God was going to do through that. You see, beloved, had she not lost her husband, and I'm not saying tonight that God caused that to happen. But I'm saying because that happened, it opened the door of opportunity for God to take her into the promised land and to have a man named Boaz, a kinsman redeemer, which was going to redeem her. and bring her into the family of Israel and ultimately to the line of Christ. And you see, beloved, that could have never happened had she not gone through this. And I'm just putting that out as a warning to us to be careful that we don't allow uh heartache or tragedy or setback in our lives to keep us fulfilling what God wants in the next step. I can't even talk about this without thinking about Michael Jr. who has a great little story where he talks about your setbacks. might be God setting you up, preparing you for the next step. Things that you look at and say, boy, this is tragedy, this is terrible, and God saying, I've prepared you for what's next. That's what God did here. Her dedication is very is revealed in a powerful way in the commitments that she makes here. This level of dedication that she states is is sorely lacking in today's society. It's less and less that you find bus workers and Sunday school workers and choir members that have been in the choir. or Sunday school or bus route or whatever for twenty, thirty, forty years. I'm not saying there aren't still some, but I'm saying it's less and less that People are just sticking by it and committed until, hey, d sh she says, listen, if there's anything but death separates us, I'm in trouble. That commitment that she had. And lest you think I'm getting onto church members, I want you to know that I believe it's a travesty that pastors today don't stick it out in churches. That they just pull up roots and and go on to another church somewhere. Every three to five years they're they're moving. I think the average tenure of a pastor is less than three years. That that is wrong. God's not moving people as as fast as that. It just got uncomfortable. It just got hard and they decided they didn't want they didn't want to stick it out any longer. And so they pulled up roots and and hit the road. I just gave a had had Alicia type type up a list from my contacts of pastors that I know in this region for Justin So he could contact them and I told him I don't know if you want to use my name or not. You know, I mean might help, might hurt, I don't know. Uh but these are pastors that I know and I think a list of pastors probably uh there might have been forty names, fifty names uh uh pastors and churches in this area. But you know in that list there was probably at least ten of 'em that the pastors that I have in my contact list aren't even at that church anymore. Probably at least ten out of forty. That's crazy. We have my Brother-in-law, Scott Hanks, who's going to be coming and preaching for the Marriage Matters Conference this year. And you know one thing I respect about him is he's been a pastor of the same church for over 35 years. I think. It was ninety-four he went into the ministry, whatever that is, over thirty years. Uh whatever that is. So long time. And I appreciate that about somebody because I know it gets hard Yeah, what about husbands and wives? Why is it so easy to quit? And and I I mean We're preaching to the choir tonight. I I I understand we're you know you guys are committed to each other, amen. That's good, but I tell you what, you just it seems like it's for better or worse, just not for very long. Right? I mean so many people it's just oh it's it's hard, it it's not as easy as I thought it was, oh that love and romance is gone, oh I'm just not in love anymore. No, you were delusional first Now you're now reality's hit. You found out it's a little harder than and and you've got to stick it out. And and stay committed. She says, boy, uh nothing but death. That's what he said, till death do its part. That commitment ought to be there. We ought to be a people of commitment. Man, she c she says, Whither thou goest, I will go. She was committing to a new path. She says, whether thou lodgest, I will lodge. She was taking on a new home. She said, thy people shall be my people. She was going to embrace a new group of people. She said, My God will be my God. She was going to rely on new power. She said, Where thou diest, I will die. She had a new plan for her future. It sounds to me like old things are passed away and all things have become new. She had a new direction, a commitment that she wasn't going to waffle on. But I want you to understand, beloved, this story that we're reading here is not a story about what she gave up. It's a story about what she gained. Oh, she left the world and the flesh and that picture of Moab, she left all that in the background, and some will people say Oh, I gave up my friends or I gave up the old crowd. I gave up the places I used to go. But beloved, when you follow God, it's not ever about what you gave up, it's about what you gain. You gain a peace in your heart, you gain a family that loves you, you gain a God who walks with you each and every day, and he's a friend that's closer than a brother You gain somebody that's there in your hour of need. Like several times this week I was on my knees with people who were in need and needed God to do something. And we could at that moment say, God, we need you. And you can call on him and he's a present help in time of need. It's what you gain at to be a follower of Jesus Christ. Don't let Satan convince you that you gave up so much. Beloved, you gave up pain and suffering and sorrow and heartache. That's what you gave up. We see that she is gonna be rewarded for her commitment in a in an amazing and powerful way. And let me just tell you, beloved, God will reward you. How did she remain so faithful? Look at verse number 18. This this verse this I almost built a whole message just off of this, but I don't have time. But verse number 18 says, When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her. Then she left speaking unto her. She saw she was steadfastly minded. She had made up her mind. She was steadfast in this commitment to follow her and do what in our interpretation is what God wanted. And for you and I, boy, we need to be steadfast. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know that your labor is not in vain. Amen. We need to be steadfast and steadfastly minded. Don't let Satan bring in doubts. Don't let Satan bring in discouragement. Don't let Satan cause you to turn by the wayside. You just be steadfast in your commitment. Get it settled in your heart. There's some of you here tonight. I talk about commitment to your your mate, and that's something you settled a long time ago. It's no question for you. It's it's this is settled. It's not we we don't debate about it. We don't we haven't talked in five years, but we are not getting divorced. Amen. I mean no I no, I don't know. I'm saying you just decided listen, if you have that commitment and it causes you to work it out. You see, I gotta live with them. I might as well be happy. Amen. So I told Mary, I says that I am not gonna be miserable. So we're just gonna figure this out because I just not I'm just choose I just I'm steadfastly minded, I'm not gonna live that way So we're going to be happy or die trying, amen? We're going to do it. And that's what maybe that commitment is settled for you, but I wonder, what about your commitment to follow God? Are you that steadfastly minded? It's not up for debate. It's not up for discussion. Satan can't do anything about it. You have decided to follow Jesus. That's what Ruth said. She was steadfastly minded. But then we are introduced to the disposition of Naomi. Verses 19 through 22 here. We get to learn a little bit about her. So the two went until they came to Bethlehem, and it came to pass when they were come to Bethlehem that all the city was moved about them, and they said, Is this Naomi? And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt bitterly with me, and I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again empty. Why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord hath testified against me, and the Almighty hath afflicted me? Beloved, there was a fifty-mile journey. Approximately that they had to go back. And this fifty mile journey, did it just all of a sudden get a lot louder? It's some it's very distracting to me, so I'm trying to let you guys figure it out real quick so that I can get back on track. I don't know what caused that. Somebody fell asleep. Uh oh. Oops They fell asleep on the board upstairs. No, I I'm just kidding, Joe. Uh he's not he was moving the camera, but uh anyways, it's approximately fifty miles, but there's also approximately eight thousand dollars in ver eight thousand dollars eight thousand feet of vertical change. Because they had to go down if you look at the map of of Israel, you have the Dead s the Dead Sea that's here and uh Moab is This way. Moab's right here. And you gotta go up around the Dead Sea, and Bethlehem, Judah is right here. And the Dead Sea lies in between. And there's about four thousand feet of descent to get down to the Dead Sea and travel around on relatively level ground and then another four thousand feet of ascent to get back up into roughly numbers. uh Google has them perfect if you want to look 'em up. Uh but uh just roughly what I'm saying is it was pretty rough terrain. The average person can walk uh two to four miles an hour if you're on level ground and in decent shape Two miles an hour is just a very casual, leisurely pace. Four is pretty good. You know, uh some guys walk that quick and And you know, that's that's a good pace, but most aren't traveling that fast. But estimates are that this trip would have taken anywhere from five to as much as ten days. They were carrying possessions probably. There was rough terrain. Uh you know, they probably were in decent health, uh, but you know, just depending upon how far they could make it in a day, it was it was quite a journey for them in that time frame, certainly several days worth of traveling to make this journey to get back home. But when they come home immediately people recognize Naomi. It's amazing some commentary cater said that it's very possible that Elimelech and Naomi's family were prominent in society or in the town, they had some position of renowned or something, and that's why people would have, whoa, that's Naomi. Like, oh, oh, that's Naomi. Um but it's almost posed as a question. They said, Is this Naomi? Beloved, what I proposed to you tonight is it was a question because they did recognize her, but She was not quite the same person. I know that she had been gone ten years, but beloved, that sweet, joyful spirit that she had, and the smile that she always carried, that pleasantness that was about her as Naomi had passed and now it was replaced with this hard, sullen, sour lady who was bitter in her spirit and her entire countenance had changed. And they thought that Looks like Naomi, but it sure doesn't look like Naomi. Is it isn't Naomi, beloved, the way of the transgressor is hard. And it was evident on her face that the ten years down there in Moab had taken its toll. Boy. What a bitter, angry spirit she came back with. We're revealed to a revelation of his or of her heart here. She tells him clearly, she says, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara. Lockyer tells of a story about a boy who prayed and said, Oh God, make the bad people good and the good people easy to live with. I wonder, beloved, are you easy to live with? Are you easy to get along with? Oh, I know you know the Lord, and I know that that God is your your Savior and that you're on your way to heaven, but I wonder, in your spirit, are you easy to get along with? Do you find that Maybe people around you are always in some type of conflict with you. Are you disagreeable in your spirit? Are you hurtful or unkind in your actions? This is what a bitter spirit does. Naomi blamed God for her situation. Love it if your life, if you find, you know what, if you are at a place where you're ready to blame God, you're in a bad place. You're in a bad place. Because if we would just get honest, we know ourselves and we know why we are where we are. People want to blame other things and ultimately want to blame God because they have gotten bitter in their spirit. It was the bad self-serving decisions of Elimelech that took them down to Moab. There was no question about that. God didn't do it. If you're disappointed about where you are in your life, beloved, God didn't do it. It's the steps that you've taken, the direction that you've gone, the decisions that you made at that moment of decision, at that point of impact, and maybe they were just little decisions, just small things over a course of time, but they led you to where you are today. Yeah. Now there is some debate whether Naomi had anything to do with the decision or not. They would say, well, she was just being a submissive wife and following her husband down to Moab. You know, it's quite possible that she even tried to encourage him not to go Like many times our wives will when we have our stubborn head on and we want to do something and our wives under the Spirit of God will come and say, Hey, I don't think that's a good idea. And you know, we were like, well I'm the leader of this house and and y you need the Spirit of God to realize that, hey, God gave her to you as a helpmeet, and that's some help to save you from getting in a mess. And if we don't know there's something, there's not anything in the scripture that tells us that. We don't know what happened in the background, but here's what we can learn from this, dads Ultimately, we see even if she had nothing to do with it, the impact of that decision was put on her. Even if she was just submitting, what I'm saying is that when we make decisions in our lives and we do things, it's never just about us. It always impacts other people. There's other people many times that are hurt or has to deal with the ramifications of the situation because we went down the wrong road. She says, Man, I went out full. I went out blessed. I went out as Naomi. Pleasant, but I came back as Mara. Bitter. Boy, she was bitter, angry, upset. Let me just caution you, and I'm not going to teach on bitterness tonight. We've dealt with that and probably will again sometime, but beloved, you know bitterness hurts the one carrying it more than anybody else. Bitterness never never helps, it only harms. You know, some have been nurturing and that's what bitter people like to do. They like to nurture and baby that bitter spirit. They keep feeding it. They say, how do I know if I keep feeding it? Well you keep thinking about it. You keep going over it in your mind. You keep re-evaluating it. it. You keep adding more comments to it. You keep you keep coming back to it over and over and over again. You're you're nurturing that. You're you're you instead of letting it go and turn it over to God and just say, okay God, I I'm done with that angry bitter spirit, you keep bringing it back up. You're you're babying that. You know what? Years of babying babying that bitter spirit, can I ask you, has it solved anything? Has it fixed anything? Has it helped anything? No, all it's done is just made you an angry person. It's taken up who knows untold number of hours of thought processes from you, robbed you of your joy, and has not helped you. She was focused on herself. We see this here in this text that there is no comment about anybody else. There is no checking on anybody else. There was not even any pause or gratitude shown for Ruth's commitment to her. I mean, how do you think Ruth felt standing there She had just made this whole trek to an unloan land to be with her, and she's standing there waiting to be introduced. And all that Naomi has to say is, boy, I went out full and I came back empty and Ru standing there. And what am I, chopped liver? I mean I came back with you. I I'm here. I I I'm uh you you y you might have a little less. You certainly have some pain and suffering from losing your husband, but You're not alone. There's something here. There is no acknowledgement. Beloved, bitter people get to the place where they can't see the blessings. She couldn't see that she had a blessing standing right next to her. We see in verses twenty and twenty-one discomfort brought by the Lord. Discomfort brought by the Lord. She says, I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again empty. Why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord hath testified against me? And the Almighty hath afflicted me. You see, Naomi believed that God had testified against her, that God had afflicted her. I wonder, beloved, if the testimony that she was talking about there is that as she came back into town and she saw the other ladies that she knew The other ladies that had stayed in church, to give me some liberty here with the illustration. The other ladies that had stayed faithful over the last ten years. The other ladies that didn't run back to Moab when the going got rough. That she came back in and all of a sudden she was faced with the fact that they didn't wither away and die. That they stayed faithful and they had the joy of the Lord in their heart and and they're doing okay and that testified against her. What she did. Can I tell you, beloved, sometimes your life is a testimony against the sin of somebody else. And they don't like it. They don't like it. They get like Naomi here, like they didn't care for that conviction that comes on their heart because God is blessing you. And God is trying to break them. And they look at you and they think, well, uh instead of just admitting it And confessing it and realizing where they're at and saying, God boy, I want to get back in a right relationship with you, they they fight against it. She didn't she wasn't ready to admit it. I wonder if what testified against her was the lady standing next to her. Here was Ruth, a Moabite. Who had more faith and more faithfulness than she did. And it stood as a testimony against her. I wonder if that was what was convicting her heart. You know what? That's what the Holy Spirit does. That's what God does. He makes us uncomfortable where we're at. And sometimes he'll use the testimony of a brother or sister in Christ. To to kind of get on our feet a little bit and say, you know you're really not doing what you should You you need to get back. You need to start again. You need to and and their testimony testifies against us. Yeah. Every time she got around Ruth and saw the joy that Ruth had. I wonder how how Ruth handled that. Just trying to be a friend to Naomi when Naomi was bitter and angry all the time. Upset about stuff. A bitter person can't stand it when people are on the winning side. Instead of admitting it, instead of acknowledging the failure and finding the joy that the Lord wants to restore unto her, boy, she just looked at life and said, This isn't fair. God is against me. God has afflicted me. You see, she didn't recognize or respond to the chastening hand of God. We need to recognize and respond to the chastening hand of God. You see, beloved, God brought them home at the start of barley harvest. We see here in verse number 22, so Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitist, her daughter-in-law, with her, which returned out of the country of Moab, and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest. You see the time of barley harvest, the harvest time was very short, and that window of them coming was exactly what they needed. Because that was the time period when the edges of the field would be left so that uh this is God's caretaking plan. that they could go and glean from the field those things that they needed to sustain and help themselves. What I'm saying is God knows exactly where you're at. God knows exactly what you're going through, and He knows exactly where you need to be when you need to be there God had brought them here through this journey at this time exactly when they would be in the right place so that they would be there to glean, not just anywhere, but in the field of Boaz, which we'll see in the coming weeks. Boy. God was there. And beloved, God wants to take those bitter things in your life and make them sweet. The first time in the pages of scripture that we see the name Mara is when the children of Israel are wandering in a wilderness and they're thirsty and they need water and they come upon a pool of water. You guys remember the story and that water was bitter. It was called Mara. The bitter waters. But beloved, when they came to those bitter waters, God did not take them and uh remove them from the wilderness. God did not even take them to a different spring. What God said is here, here is a tree. I want you to take this tree and I want you to Put it into water, and beloved, can I tell you that there is another tree that God has given to all humankind that can and will deliver you from the bitter things of this life If we will get back to the cross on which our Savior died, that tree, God wants to make the bitter things sweet And he is at this time working things out for your good and for his glory, if we would just yield to him. What amazing truths we see. Would you stand to your feet, your heads bowed, and your eyes closed? Have you found yourself in a bitter place? Boy, is your joy gone? Do you lack the peace that you once had, beloved? Come home. I want you to know that God wants to and is willing to restore and to use