I want you to take your Bibles, turn to Numbers chapter number 11. Numbers chapter number eleven. And uh on numbers chapter eleven put a marker, put your finger, put a piece of paper, something there. We'll be getting back to that here in a little bit. And then turn to Psalms chapter number 42. Psalms chapter number 42. Discouragement. Discouragement is dissatisfaction with the past. It's a distaste for the present. It's a distrust of the future. It is ingratitude for the blessings of yesterday and indifference for the opportunities of today. It's an insecurity regarding the strength for tomorrow. It's an unawareness of the presence of duty and unconcern for the needs of your fellow man and unbelief in the promises of God. It's impatience with time and immaturity of thought and impolite to God by William Ward. I'm going to deal tonight with the topic of discouragement. And as I preach this evening on the idea, or really the title of the message, is The Dangers. Of discouragement. Let me start by saying that discouragement is a real problem. Discouragement is a tool of the devil that he uses in everybody's life. At one time or another. For some, it's a tool that the devil pulls out often because he knows that you're given to discouragement And therefore, he can get you with that tool, and he'll come after you with the tool of discouragement quite often. If you battle with discouragement, it doesn't mean that you don't love God It doesn't mean that you don't have faith in God. What it means is that you're human. And that you have flesh, and that you battle with flesh. And you need the power of God and the strength of the Holy Spirit to overcome that discouragement. Just like someone else may battle with anger. And they need the power of God and the strength of the Holy Spirit to overcome anger. It's just a tool that the devil's able to use in our lives. David, in the Word of God, stands as a hero of faith, an amazing character, that sweet psalmist of Israel, the slayer of giants The man after God's own heart. Yet recorded for us in the pages of Scripture is also some of David's failures. I think put there for us to see and understand that we all have flesh. We all have weakness that we must deal with. And on occasion, David battled with discouragement. But you look in Psalms 142 So we see the passage of scripture here. It's a prayer that David prayed when he was in the cave. He was Running, had to run and flee from his own kingdom because he had a rebellious son who was striving to steal the kingdom from Alframundarim. In Psalms 142, verses 1 through 7, he says, I cried unto the Lord with my voice, with my voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. I poured out my complaint before him. I showed before him my troubles. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me Then thou knewest my path. In the way wherein I walked, have they privily laid a snare for me I looked on my right hand and beheld there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul. I cried unto thee, O Lord. I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. Attend unto my cry, for I am brought very low. Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are stronger than I. Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name. The righteousness shall compass me about, for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. Discouragement is a sin, just like any other sin. It's not trusting and relying upon God Not only is discouragement a sin, though, but discouragement, I believe, is a is is a pathway It's a doorway that will lead anyone who does not deal with the discouragement, who does not address it and fix this problem in their life. It will lead you down a path to destruction. A path that is increasingly harder and harder to get out of. Ultimately, at the end of discouragement becomes depression. In despair. My goal tonight is to try and show you the path down, to warn you of the danger of discouragement. That you might be able to recognize the characteristics of a heart that's given to discouragement, of the path of discouragement, that you might be Taking on occasion as the devil brings that into your life and tries to attack you once again with the sin of discouragement. That you might recognize it for yourself and also maybe be able to help others. To be able to be lifted up out of discouragement. And I want to define for you the cause that we find in Scripture, some of the things that cause discouragement. Maybe next week we'll get into the cure. So, first of all, the characteristics of discouragement this evening, we see Here he's very discouraged in verses 2 in the first part of 3. He says, I poured out my complaint before him. I showed before him my trouble when my spirit was overwhelmed within me. First of all, the characteristic of one that's discouraged is their spirit changes. Their spirit changes Where they were on top of the world, now they start to view things from the negative side. Their praise turns to complaint. Where they once would have a praise and would be excited about what God was doing. And man, isn't God good? And boy, isn't it wonderful to see all the spots that were available in church today, to all somebody in all of them. Wasn't that great? I noticed one nobody was sitting in. There's a change in spirit. We've got to guard against that and be careful. He said, I poured out my complaint before him. Do you remember when you used to just praise God for what he was doing in your life? It was just exciting to see God working. Just exciting to see what the changes that He was bringing, the steps that He was helping you to take, the changes that you saw in your life and in your church and in your home. But now instead of praise, there's mostly murmuring, complaining, or defeat. You either are presently discouraged or you're on that downward path towards living a discouraged, defeated life. You've got to watch for that change in your spirit and ask God to help you to avoid that. Don't allow yourself to turn from the positive to look at the negative. We're going to go back and forth between these couple of passages several times tonight, but I ask you to put your finger in Numbers chapter 11, if you would turn to Numbers chapter 11 and look at verse number 13. We see Moses here, he too changed. He had brought the children of Israel out. And in Exodus chapter 15, I think it's verse number one, they says, Moses and the children of Israel sang praises to God. And yet, here in Numbers chapter 13, not long after that passage, Numbers 11, sorry, verse 13 and 14, he says, Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? For they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh that we may eat. He says, I'm not able to bear all this people alone. This burden, this weight, this is too heavy for me. You you your spirit starts to change and The task that you did do for God graciously and excitingly, and boy, I just enjoy serving as an usher at the church. But now Man, I gotta get to church 15 minutes early? I don't that's just too too early for me. I don't think I can do that. You used to carry the weight of your Sunday school class and study and prepare and teach and you looked at it as an opportunity to influence lives, but now it just seems like a weight. It's too heavy. It's the the the burden of it's too much and and and every week studying and every week coming up with something to teach them. Now you haven't had to for some months because of COVID. But do you hear what I'm saying? What we once did gladly and with joy. What happens is our spirit begins to change. Do you see what I'm saying? Am I the only ones this has happened to us sometime? I've been involved in ministry before where the ministry got to be too much of a weight for me. Uh-oh, I wasn't as excited about it as I once was. I didn't want to do it like I used to want to do it. My spirit changed. Moses said, Hey, this burden is too great. I just can't take it anymore. Your spirit changes. You'll even begin to pray wrong. David complaining instead of praising Moses complaining Instead of praising. Why? Was he no longer doing God's will? Moses, was he no longer leading the children of Israel as God had asked them to do? I mean what had changed? Why did it no longer was it no longer fun? His His spirit changed. How he was looking at it changed. There's a story of uh Martin Luther, and Martin Luther became very discouraged and He was just down in the dumps and couldn't get the victory. He couldn't get on the winning side. And his wife looked at him and she said, What happened? Did God die? Her response was, Is God dead? What's different from yesterday? Why are you so discouraged? Is God no longer on the throne? Is God not in control? She looked at him and said, I don't understand, because God is still on the throne, and we have no cause for discouragement unless in fact God is dead and He's not. We see that Moses' spirit was overwhelmed, David's spirit was overwhelmed. It became too much for him. There's a progression here. It starts where the sphere's kind of just changed and you're just not as excited as you once were, but then the weight of it And the burden of it becomes too heavy. I can't bear this anymore. David said, My spirit was overwhelmed within me. And the amazing thing is You'll see he says in verse fifteen, he says, And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee. Out of hand, if if I have found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my wretchedness. He actually prayed, Lord. Just kill me. The weight's too heavy. The burden's too much. His spirit was overwhelmed. You know, when your spirit's overwhelmed, it can it can actually affect you physically. It's a well-known fact that doctors I want to say they almost believe in the power of positive thinking. They want you to be positive when you're in there talking to the patient. They want you to be upbeat and hey, there is a way to lick this. We are going to accomplish it. There is a certain percentage of people that have victory over this every time. And you can be in that percentage. Why? Because more people are healed. It's proven that more people are are healed when they when they in their mind say, I'm gonna whip this. Instead of saying, uh I'm done. It's over. I mean you've heard it many times, I'm sure, with family, friends, loved ones, the doctor says I don't know what's keeping them, but they're fighting. They're fighting. Their spirit's fighting. They're hanging on. They're continuing. They aren't giving up. Their spirit's not overwhelmed yet. Hey, it's hard to continue in this situation when your spirit's overwhelmed if you don't get some help. If you don't get it taken care of and fix that level of discouragement, you're going to continue. Continue on down the path. Job reached that place. In Proverbs 18, verse number 14, it says, the spirit of a man Man will sustain his infirmity, but a wounded spirit, who can bear? Once your spirit's wounded, once it's overwhelmed, who can bear that? So don't let it get that far down. Don't let it get to that point. Turn it around. You see the warning signs. You see the characteristics. Say, hey, I'm heading down the wrong path here. You've got to pull yourself back. Ultimately, Job. You remember in the beginning, he says, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. But if you continue on down through the book, He reaches a point where he says, I wish I wasn't even born. I wish I wasn't even born. Because his spirit was wounded at that point. This is discouragement. Discouragement leads you to deception. In verse 3 and 4 of Psalms, there, discouragement leads to deception. He says, When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, Then thou knowest my path and the way wherein I walked. Have they privily laid a snare for me? I looked on my right hand and beheld there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me No man cared for my soul. You see, you begin to deceive yourself concerning the situation. Because you're discouraged, you're looking at it incorrectly. You're looking at it from tinted glasses. Everything that you see is from that point of discouragement And it doesn't matter what anybody else does, it's wrong. You see, David got incorrectly just deceived himself concerning the situation. He said I had no refuge. Now we know the beginning of this thing. It says it's a his prayer from the cave. Okay God had provided him a cave. Was it was it the palace? No, but he had refuge. We get to the place where we deceive ourselves about the situation. We start saying things like, I can't do anything right. I just can't do anything right. We start saying what I do doesn't count for anything. In the last week I had somebody tell me if I was dead, nobody in this world would know Miss me. That's false. That's self-deception. This person that told me that is loved immensely by many, many people. There is no doubt or question in my mind But they deceive themselves because they're talking from a place of discouragement. You deceive yourself concerning others. Psalms 116-11 says David said, I said in my haste, all men are liars. Okay, not all men are liars. There are some liars, but not all men are liars. But we get discouraged and we begin to deceive ourselves concerning others. We look at circumstances and we say, Oh, everybody's phony. You can't trust anyone. Everybody's against me. Not everybody's against you. It may feel like it at times. But that's why you've got to fight discouragement because that is not the truth. There's a lot of people that are for you. A lot of people that want to help you, that want to encourage you. Just like Matt was talking about tonight with the church family here and how the church family loves one another and cares for each other. And yet, it is a tool of Satan to get you by yourself and make you think that you're all alone, that nobody cares for your soul. Charlie Brown walked up to Lucy's stand where she was dispensing her great wisdom for a nickel. Charlie Brown says to Lucy, Nobody loves me, everybody hates me. He looks up in the sky and he says, Lucy, do you see that plane? Those people are traveling to a place I've never been. There's a lot of people there that do not know me. I think I should get into a plane and go to a place that I've never been where nobody knows me. And have a fresh start. Do you think I should do that? And Lucy looked at him and said, No, Troutie Brown. She said, because as soon as those people got to know you, they would hate you too She said, then you'll be right back where you started. Now there's a lot of truth in that. Because Really, it's not about the people. It's not about how life's treating us. It's about how we're viewing life. And when we're viewing life that way You know it doesn't matter if you change churches. You're going to carry that view with you. Yeah. Doesn't matter if you Change jobs. You're gonna carry that view with you. You see, it's about how you're viewing it. You deceive yourself concerning God. You begin to think that God has actually left you alone Or else why would this be happening to you? Or else why would this be why would I have to endure this if God is really there You think about Elijah after the victory of Mount Carmel sitting under the juniper tree. You know, by the way, life cannot be only Mountaintops. Life can't only be fun in the sun. The only way that we really appreciate the sunny days is because we experience sunny And there is some valleys that we gotta go through. That's part of life. Do we have high days and we have low days? It's part of living. Elijah's sitting under the juniper tree Moses led the children of Israel out of Egypt, crossed the Red Sea. And then he prays, Lord, just kill me Lord, I can't handle it. This weight's too heavy. The burden of these people is too much. Do we think that God is only with us on the mountaintops? You see, you begin to deceive yourself that God's not with you in that valley. That God is not there teaching and helping you You begin to think that God doesn't love me anymore. What have I done to deserve this? And if you don't do something about it, it'll lead to depression. You see in verse number 6, he says, attend unto my cry, for I am brought very low. I'm brought very low. What was just a bout of discouragement, what was just a a little bit of changing your spirit and looking at things from a little bit negative side instead of being positive and And realizing God is on the throne brings you to a place where you're very low. You lose all hope You begin to think that even all the stuff you learned, and I've sat and talked to Christians who said, I don't even know if this book is true. I don't even know if I believe this book anymore. I mean, is is God is God real at all? Was it ever true Because they had drifted down so low. When you're depressed, you become blind You can't see God work. Instead of seeing God, you see giants You see, David, when David went into the valley of Elah, he didn't see the giant, he saw God. And God gave him the victory. But when David was in the cave, there was no giants there. But see, he couldn't see God And so all he saw was giants. You think about the children of Israel. They came and said, okay, it's time to go, Moses said, it's time to go into the promised land. Hey uh God promises land to us. Let's get ready to go. Why don't you guys go spy out the land and check it out? Tell us where where's the best place to enter, what we're gonna do, and those rascals came back with a terrible report. And they didn't see God. They saw the giants. And they said, we can't do it. And they didn't go into the promised land. So you've got to watch for these characteristics in your life. This is a tool of the devil that he would use to destroy so many Christians. Love it. I I think for every one guy that the devil gets with the immorality He gets twenty-five or fifty with discouragement. Just discouraged. Man, I've been trying to do right, I've been trying to do good, and look at this. Look at what I have to deal with. Recognize that Satan's attacking when that comes. That Satan's trying to bring you down. He's trying to hold you, destroy you. What are some of the causes for discouragement? Please note on the foundational level Any discouragement that comes in your life ultimately is from Satan. Sometimes Satan is able to work through your life circumstances, through situations. To bring things into your life that would introduce discouragement. If you understand that, then maybe you're able to avoid it If you know there's a pitfall, you can say, hey, let's go around that. The other night when the Ansam was here What was your chaperone's name? Doctor Fisher. We we fed the ensemble downstairs and he had parked over here by the bus and he was gonna pull the van up so they could unload all their luggage and everything after we had finished eating it was it was about nine thirty or nine forty five or so and I said, Oh well you can just go right out this door and we walked out the back door, the back door closed and although there is a light on the corner of the building, the the trees hide most of that light from Extending out into the driveway and we're walking up the driveway and he says, How can you see where you're going? I said, I've been up this driveway lots of times. I d I I can't see where I'm going, but I know where I'm going. He's like I'm just gonna stay right behind you then because I can't see anything. It was dark. And then I was hoping I didn't step off in the 'cause I was like, yeah, I know where I'm going and it'll be the walk off the edge. Sorry. Uh you know But when you can see down the road, you can avoid the pitfall. So recognizing these characteristics might save you, understanding some causes of discouragement can help you First of all, long connection with the wrong people. Long connection with the wrong people. You know who David's band was when he was on the run? David was hanging out with those distressed. Debtors, discontent, the Bible says. You know, you can't run with the skunk and smell like a rose. You can't hang out with somebody who is always negative, who's always wondering, who's always downhearted instead of upbeat Who never has a song to sing and not expect it to rub off. Get around people that are praising God. Get around people that love the Lord and and and just they just can't help but talk about what God's doing and it's part of their conversation and and it's part of their life, just just recognizing the hand of God That's who you want to be around. Why didn't the tin why didn't the children of Israel go into the land? Because there's ten people that came back with a bad report. Sounds like America. Like ten people have a bad report and the whole country shut down. Hey You've got to be careful who you hang around because they do influence you. To spend time with the wrong crowd, it's bound to rub off you. Sometimes it is an attack by the enemy, and the enemy is all around you, and the enemy comes and they they just don't let up, and that's an attack of Satan, or he sends people into your life, and you've got to fight against that and turn to God for strength during those times But sometimes it's because we're hanging around the wrong people. Sometimes it's because we've lost communion with God. We've lost communion with God. Turn to Psalms chapter 42. Psalms chapter 42. There's so many passages I was looking at today that have to do with discouragement and different people that dealt with it in the scriptures. In Psalms chapter 42, verses 1 through 4, there's a cry here. He says, As the heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God, which shall I come and appear before God. My tears have been my meat day and night Well they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? He says, When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in Me. For I have gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God with a voice of joy and praise with a multitude and kept the holiday. David's talking about remembering what it was like. How his soul thirsted to be back and close with God, how his soul longed to hear the the song uh of of God he how he wanted to be with God's people wanted to be in God's house he was remembering what that was like How that communion was sweet. You know the devil wants to maneuver your life situations so that you're unable to spend time with God He will adjust your work schedule. He'll change things. You've just got a routine. You're just getting faithful and steady at reading your word of God and then work says, Oh, uh we're gonna adjust this, you're gonna have to work nights now, or you're gonna have to come in two hours earlier. Two hours earlier, that just cut out all your Bible reading time Hey, the devil's trying to keep you from communing with God. Because that's what helps keep your spirit right. That's what helped keep you from being overwhelmed. Another cause is when we look in the wrong direction Satan loves to get us looking back. We've got their theme, press on. I press towards the mark. But the verse before that says, forgetting those things which are behind. For the devil loves to get us looking back. Loves to get us looking back at our failures. Listen Yesterday is history. Tomorrow is a mystery. All you have is a present. Don't let the devil steal the present. getting you to look back at yesterday. You can't do anything about it. Confess it, forsake it, get it right if you had a failure yesterday, but don't let yesterday ruin today. I can just imagine Satan working David over as he's there in the cave saying, Man, this is your fault Boy, you messed up with Bathsheba, and this is all the result of that. This wouldn't have happened if you wouldn't have messed up. Boy, you deserve this. You might as well just sit and cry. Have you made some poor decisions in the past? Have you done something in the past the devil wants to keep bringing back up? Listen, if you've confessed it, God's forgiven it, you need to let it go. Don't look back at that stuff in the past. Live for God today. Be victorious today. Do what God wants you to do. The dangers of discouragement. Listen, beloved, it's it's a tool that God uses to bring into even the most sincere They've got everything else under control. They walk with God. They're in church for every service. They're part of the ministry. They're going to be at vacation Bible school. They're going to help where they can. They're part of it all. But the devil can get them with discouragement. I've seen it over and over and over again, how the devil comes in and a good, godly Christian Men and ladies that I would respect and say they're a man of God. And I'm not exempt from this. The devil attacks. To discourage you. Make you want to give up. Make you want to quit. Make you wonder, is it worth it? Why do I bother? Listen, we need to just keep be faithful to God. There's some things we can do to defeat discouragement, and we're going to look at that next Sunday. But would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? The dangers of discouragement. Maybe tonight you've recognized some of these signs in your life. You notice that your spirit maybe has changed a little bit, or maybe you're feeling overwhelmed. You've got that overwhelm spirit, like, oh, I can't handle all that's there. Listen, God wants to provide strength to help you so you're not overwhelmed. Maybe you've been looking back at past failures and let the devil bring that up and discourage you. However, God stirs your heart, whatever you need to give to Him, whatever you need to surrender and let go, you do what God wants.