This morning I should turn to Psalm forty three. Psalm forty three. Life changes so fast today that things come into vogue and you have le hardly have time to even register one before it moves out and it's it's no longer, you know, one fad rolls into the next and uh, you know, it it it passes so quick. In our changing society, there's even pressure on the church. The church is is changing a lot today and some changing so much they look less and less like a church and more and more like the world. One area that has been challenged and in many churches has been done away with today is the altar call. It's sometimes mocked or made fun of, sometimes it's uh challenged, they do away with it. They'll they'll preach a message and they'll give no invitation at the end or no altar call at the conclusion of it. Those that lean towards Reform theology or those that are Calvinistic in their doctrine uh tend to be those who really uh frown upon the use of the altar call. Not only just do they not use it, but they uh don't like it at all. This morning I would like to remind us that we believe in the old-fashioned altar call. We believe that it's biblical. We believe that uh it's something that should be used and we don't want to get too long in our life without having used an altar. Yeah, where we've come and let made a decision for Christ. I would have you see in Psalms forty three, uh verse number three and verse number four. The Bible says, O send out thy light and thy truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me unto the holy hill, unto thy tabernacle Then will I go unto the altar of God. And God my exceeding joy, yea, upon the heart will I praise thee, O God, my God. Here you have him describe the idea that light has gone forth, that truth has been presented, that God is going to lead him. And where does he lead him? He leads him to an altar. A place where we make a decision for Christ, where our lives are changed, where one is restored in fellowship. With an Almighty God. I was planning for this to be a short message. But I'm not so sure about that. Well we'll we'll see. But first of all, I just want to teach a little bit. On what is an altar? We see in the Bible, Genesis chapter twelve, verses seven and eight. We say Abram here. And the Lord appeared unto Abram and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land, and there built he an altar. unto the Lord who appeared unto him. And he removed from thence and into a mountain into the east of Bethel, and he fixed his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east, and there he builded an altar unto the Lord. and called upon the name of the Lord. Beloved an altar in the pages of the scriptures at a place where man would meet with God. Where man would be back in the presence of God and he could be restored into a right relationship with God with the sacrifices that were made on the altar. All through the pages of Scripture you see men build an altar. Noah built an altar of deliverance and Abraham often built altars everywhere he went, he would One of the first things he would do is build an altar. Isaac built an altar and Jacob built an altar and Moses built an altar and Joshua built an altar and Gideon built an altar and Samuel built an altar and David built an altar, and this is just to name a few that through the pages of the Old Testament these men were uh called upon God or they built an altar, a place where sacrifice was made, where The sins of men were covered by the sacrifices that were given there on the altar. Now, beloved, this is in the pages of the Old Testament, and I understand that And we know that today we no longer have to offer a physical sacrifice on an altar because Jesus Christ was that sacrifice He is the one sacrifice for all. No longer does a physical sacrifice have to be made to cover sin Jesus sacrifice removes sin. It takes away the penalty of sin and uh in in every believer who would put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. The New Testament tells us that Jesus was that final, the once and for all sacrifice in Hebrews chapter 10. In Hebrews chapter 10, verses 10 and 10, 11, and 12, he says By the which we were all sanctified through the offering of his body of Jesus Christ once for all Jesus Christ was offered one time. We don't have to re-offer it. That sacrifice was made. He died. His blood was shed, and his blood was the sacrifice that covers the sins of man from that day until now. The verses go on, he says, And every peace every priest standeth daily ministering and offering, oftentimes the same sacrifices. Which can never take away sin. He says the he's describing, he said the priest would come and he would offer a sacrifice for the sins of this family, and then he would come and he would offer a sacrifice for the sins of this family, and he would come and offer a sacri But often times offering the same sacrifice over and over and over again, that sacrifice that was needed to cover the sins of man for a period of time until they would come again and offer the same sacrifice to cover the sins of man. But Jesus Christ is the sacrifice that covers the sins of man forever. That that that removes the sins of men. Verse number 12, but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand. of God. Jesus one time gave his life and then he took it up again and rose from the dead on the third day. We're going to r celebrate the resurrection of Christ in a couple of weeks on Easter. And uh the Bible tells us that he's now sitting on the right hand of God. So we no longer have to have that physical play, that physical uh altar where we physically offer sacrifice, because Jesus is that. But we can have a place where we spiritually look at it as an altar where we make sacrifices to God from our hearts Uh where we come and sacrifice and give give up the sin that we know God wants us to give up, where we come and the Bible says that present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and you can come and offer yourself a living sacrifice to serve God. And it's a place where you meet with God. I hope that each of you have a place in your home that could be thought of or looked at as an altar. Oftentimes people talk about having family altar. That is a time where the family gathers together and they meet with God, where they talk to God, where they read His Word and They spend time with their Lord and Savior, just that idea of coming to that place that's recognized as a family altar. Many churches, and including this one, this area down front here, would be considered the altar. Now obviously We don't offer any physical sacrifices up here. We know Jesus Christ was the sacrifice. But we come here and we make decisions for Christ. It's where we are Restored into fellowship with God. It's where we offer ourselves in service to God and we sacrifice those things from our life that we know God would have us get rid of. Now, beloved, there is nothing special about this particular area of the auditorium other than it has been set apart for this service. It's there what I'm saying is there's no more of God right here than there is in your seat. Than there is out front. The privilege of the priesthood of the believer and the blessings that we have with Jesus Christ is that you are with God all the time. And you can meet with God wherever you are at. So then the question is, well why have an altar call then? If we can if there's just as much God right here in my seat and I can meet with God in just the same way in my seat as I can uh towards the front or even outside, then why bother with an altar call anyway? Well, first of all, it provokes action. The altar call provokes action. And this has been berated by some that uh, you know, well, you you should not do that. But can I remind you that the Bible tells us that we ought to provoke one another to love and good works. And this when a message is preached And the altar or the invitation is given, it's calling you to action. It's bringing you to a point of decision and saying, okay, now here's what's been this is the truth. You must decide what you're going to do with it. What are you going to do? It provokes action. It promotes surrender and sacrifice It promotes surrender and sacrifice where you are brought to the point of decision and you say, okay, yes, Lord, I will do it. Yes, I will give that up. Yes, I will make that change. It pleads for humility and holiness. There's something humbling about going to the old-fashioned altar. Kneeling down before God and saying, Okay, Lord, nothing else matters except that I'm right with you, that I'm restored in fellowship with you. That this matter is taken care of. It provides an opportunity to make a decision. It provides an opportunity to make a decision for Christ. We must provide the opportunity for men to make a decision for Christ. Those who are lost in On their way to hell, need to know that there's a Savior that loves them and that He has purchased their redemption, that He died for them. It would be to me negligent to describe or explain the need of salvation. And then not provide an opportunity to make a decision for the men and their souls. The idea of taking a step down the aisle has been made fun of as if churches like ours Would say there's saving grace offered by I I have never in my life heard any Bible-believing church. sell salvation by coming down the altar. Some man may inadvertently, would you come forward for salvation today, say something like that. The idea is not that by coming down this aisle you have received salvation. The idea is not that if you come to the front, somehow salvation or grace is granted to you. It is an invitation. And you have heard me here say many times, would you be willing to come so that we could have somebody show you? It's an invitation for you to be shown and presented the truth so that you would know. That idea of coming down the altar, many people have said, well, uh if you take this first step, God will do the rest. And you know what? God says, if you draw nigh unto me, I will draw nigh unto you. And there is something in that activity. Of stepping towards God, of going towards Him and saying, okay, Lord, and you start taking that step to draw nigh unto God, and then God draws nigh unto you. To preach the truth and to offer an invitation. To preach the truth without offering an invitation is like going to a doctor and the doctor describing and explaining to you all of the problems you have And then shaking your hand and saying, okay, have a good day. We come to the house of God, and the word of God is preached, light is given, truth is shared. And then we say, okay, see ya. There must be an opportunity given for men to be reconciled to God. Evangelist Dialmoody said one of the greatest mistakes he ever made in his ministry was on October 8, 1871. It was on that night he was preaching to a packed house, one of the largest crowds in the city of Chicago he had ever addressed. He was preaching from the trial of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ when Pilate asked the question, what shall I do with Jesus? And that was the entirety of his presentation. He closed his message and he said Next week I'm going to talk to you about what shall you do with Jesus and offer for you the opportunity and you should make a decision regarding Jesus next Sunday. Come back and we'll deal with this Ayasanke got up and he sang the closing hymn. Today the Savior calls for the refuge fly. The storm of justice falls, and death is nigh And while they were singing the words to that song, the fire engines were heard going by. And that is the night of the Chicago fire. And literally thousands of people lost their lives through the city of Chicago that night. And he said, Dial Moody said, I have never since dared. Present truth and give an audience a week to ponder their salvation. They have been given truth, they have been shown light And then they were dismissed without the opportunity to make a decision for Christ. And how many of them ended up in an eternity in hell because they did not make a decision? Right. When they have the opportunity. The Bible says now is the day of salvation. Today is the accepted time. When truth is given, men need the opportunity to make a decision. This is not just something that's as is sold, uh it's criticized. By others, and the reason I'm dealing with this is because you will hear people preach this. They they they will say there's no biblical basis for the altar call. That it was started by Charles G. Finney. And uh that uh it's less than two hundred years old, churches in bygone history never never practiced the altar call, and therefore we don't need the altar call, and there there's no biblical basis for the altar call, and therefore why would you bother doing the altar call? Well, you know what? There's a lot of things that we do today that there is not a biblical command for. There's children's ministries and nurseries and youth meetings and missions conferences. There's no there's no missions conference commanded in the Bible, but it is a method by which God can accomplish his purpose. There is certainly nothing wrong with it, certainly nothing contrary to Scripture about it, and it's a tool that God can use. And that is the altar call, although uh maybe in a period of history it was not practiced, although I believe that that is debatable. I do believe that the altar call is based on biblical principles. And I would like to share those with you. Let me give you some biblical background for the altar call. I believe, although, yes, there is no clear command in the Bible that you should have an altar call. I believe there are precepts and principles that would lend itself towards this very clearly. First of all, from the very beginning when you had the fall of man, God went to the garden and he called Adam and Eve. God has been giving an invitation to men since the very first fall. He's been calling to man for them to come since the very beginning. And all through the pages of Scripture and all through the halls of time, men have been presented with the truth and given an opportunity to make a decision. Joshua looked at the children of Israel and he said, Choose you this day. Whom you will serve. He didn't say, guys, we ought to serve God. Now you go home and think about it and decide what you want to do over the next week or two or three, you know, whatever. No, he he looked at him and he said, choose you this day. Here's the truth, now decide. Elijah stood on the on the Mount Carmel there with the prophets of Baal and the children of Israel, and he said, Hey, listen, if God be God, serve him. If Baal be God, serve him. He said, make a decision. And that's what preaching does. It brings people to a point of decision. You've got to decide, listen, am I going to follow God or am I going to follow man? Am I going to follow the scripture or am I going to follow my own will? And that's what preaching is supposed to do. Moses came off of Mount Sinai and he found the children of Israel there in that idolatrous uh heathenistic worship of a of a golden calf. And he calls for them to repent, to make an immediate response. In Exodus chapter 32, verses 19 and 20, he says, And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, he saw the calf and the dancing. And Moses was anger waxed hot, and he cast the tablets out of his hands, and he broke them beneath the mount. And he took the calf which they had made and burnt it in the fire, and he ground it into powder and uh strewed it upon the water, and he made the children of Israel Drink of it. In verse number twenty six, a couple of verses later he says, Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp and he said, Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him. What he said, he said, Here, listen, what you've been doing is wrong. This worshiping this golden calf, this calf didn't bring you out of Egypt The God of Israel and Jacob and Isaac is the one that brought you out of Egypt. This is what you need to uh bow down to is God Almighty, not just some golden calf made with hands and you remember Uh in those intermer intermittent verses there, verses 21 to 26, is Joshua's excuses. You remember he said, Oh, they brought their gold to me and I threw it into the fire and that just came out Just yeah, you guys ladies could try that at home. Throw your throw your jewels into the fire and see what magical thing comes out. That's not gonna happen. He he formed it and he fashioned that. And and you know Moses says, hey We're not worshiping that. If you're worshiping God, here's a line. Here's a line in the sand. You guys come on this side. There was an invitation given. There was an altar call. There was a decision. Make a decision for Christ. Zacchaeus, Jesus was walking by and he very publicly looked at Zacchaeus in front of the whole of the crowd there and he said, Zacchaeus, you come down I'm going to your house today. Zacchaeus, make a decision for Christ right now. You and your house were going to go. There was without question a public invitation at Pentecost. In Acts 2, verse 37 and 38, he says, Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts, and said unto Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? What shall we do? They said, What what are we going to do? The truth has been preached. Jesus Christ has risen from the dead. What do we do? And Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. How else would they know that there was three thousand people? That were saved and baptized that day. Because men came and says, What do we do? And they says, You need to repent of your sin. You need to follow the Lord and believers baptism. Christ, all through the pages of the New Testament, calls for men to come unto him. He said, Come unto me all ye that are labor and labor and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He says, come, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. He says, suffer the little children, forbid them not to come unto me. The whole parable of the great wedding feast, uh uh the wedding feast without a garment is based on an invitation. He tells them, go, invite them to come. He sends the message first to his people and they refuse it. So he sends out the message to the good and the and the bad. He says, if you'll come, come. You see, there was an expected response from the message that was sent forth. In the book of Revelation, chapter 22, verse number 17, Christ, the last book of the Bible. Right at the conclusion of it all is an invitation. He says in the spirit said Come, and let him that heareth say, come, and let him that is a thirst come, and whosoever will, let him take of the water of life freely. It goes out. Over and over again, three times in the New Testament, you see individuals cry out, What must we do? Oh, you remember the Philippian jailer about to fall on his own sword? They said, Do thyself no harm. And he says, What shall I do to be saved? You see, they they ask the question. A very similar story with the Ethiopian eunuch and Philip the Evangelist Ethiopian eunuch there in Acts he's he's reading and uh Philip comes of course at the direction of God and he comes by him and he says understandest what thou readest? He says, How can I except a man show me? And so you see, beloved, the invitation is not to manipulate the hearts of men It is not to try and put notches in the belt and I know there are those that would strive to do that. You know, they sing sixty-two verses of Just As I Am and They say, we're not going to close till one more person comes, you know. They they keep gone. Okay, there are obviously people that abuse it. But understand it's to bring people to a point of decision and the invitation is given. And if Jesus Christ or the Holy Spirit is convicting you in your heart and say, man, that's what I need, then we say, Would you come? So somebody could take the Bible and show you. It's still a matter of an individual personal decision between you and Christ. But somebody needs to show you. How shall I accept a man show me? Every you understand every one of us are different? And even when I appear, I preach truth and and and the light is given. But individually, coming forward and saying, listen, I need salvation, then somebody takes a Bible and deals with you on an individual basis so that you can make sure that you come you understand what is being taught. You understand the truth of the Word of God and that you're making a decision for Christ individually. It's an opportunity to be restored in fellowship with Christ. We could go on over and over, Peter preaching by Solomon's porch. He said, Repent ye therefore and be converted, that your sins be blotted out You know, we must remember although salvation is personal, it is not private. I know that a lot of people say, well that's that's you know private. That's between me and it's personal between you and God, but it's not private. All through the pages of Scripture you will see Jesus tell those, he says, confess me before men. Go and tell others what you have done. Declare this truth. He said, if you won't confess him before men, then he won't confess you before his father. You know the whole this morning we have the privilege of of of observing a baptism. Two people are coming to follow the Lord in believers baptism today. Do you know that entire practice, the first step of obedience to the believer, is literally confessing before men that you put your faith and trust in the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus? That's what it is. You're saying publicly, I believe in Jesus. So it is a personal decision that each and every person has to make, but it is not to be a private decision. It's something we do between you and God, but we confess Him before men. Do you know, beloved, the whole aspect of sowing, watering, and reaping? With regards to the harvest, we just had missions conference. You know the whole aspect of that is quite literally, uh, it demands an invitation. A farmer does not go to the field and sow and water and then just not reap. There has to be a time of harvest. The whole aspect that the Bible teaches with regards to follow me and I will make you fishers of men. Requires reeling it in. Requires drawing in the net You you you don't go out and cast your reel into the water and get a fish on the line and say, Oh, okay, pull out your scissors and cut it and get another one and throw it in there. You don't do that. No, you reel it in. That's what the invitation does. Truth has been given, light has been shared, and the invitation is an opportunity for them to respond to Christ. to come to Christ. These things are to me are so clearly display the action of people coming to Christ and making a decision and giving them an opportunity to do so. You know how many I watch entirely too much YouTube I'm confessing before men. Um but you know what they have these these uh mechanics there One of them is just rolled in and you'll have the mechanic, you know, it says customer says, and they have this car on the lift. And the rear tire, like the swing arm is broken, like it's cracked. The tire's hanging like this on the car. And they'll say the customer drove in like this. Customer denied service and drove away like that. I don't know if you guys have you guys ever seen any of those like that, like not necessarily that particular one, but It could be like the engine the mounts are broken on the engine and when they turn it when they rev it up the whole engine goes and they'll say customer denied service You know, beloved, that's what preaching truth and giving light is like if we just close and dismiss and everybody just leaves and nothing's been fixed. Nothing's been dealt with. No change has been made. The altar is the opportunity for us to get it fixed. The invitation. Yes, you can meet with God in your seat. The invitation provides that opportunity. It it brings us to a point of decision. And you, when we give the invitation, you can meet with God in your seat. But here's what I want to caution you on. If we get so comfortable that we're afraid to come and use the altar, that we're unwilling to, You mark my words, in ten years we'll have a dead church. A church without any life. I don't want Hunt Valley Baptist Church to be a church without any life. We ought to use the altar. Here's another thing. You know your children will do what they see you do. If you never Your children don't know. They see the word preached. They see the light go out. They hear it. And then you stand there and maybe God moved on your heart in a real way and God, you know, broke you and you made a decision for the Lord. Your children don't know that. But when you move, they see it. And they say, Man, I need to be tender to God. I need God to do something in my heart. And they're prepared and ready. When God moves them, they say, hey, I I need to move. I need to go and meet with God. So, yes, and you can meet with God in your seat. There's no more of God down here than there is in your seat. Listen, he is your God, praise the Lord. And he is with you no matter where you are. You can meet with God on lunch break at work in a powerful way. But the altar call is an invitation. It's just an opportunity to say, hey, let's do business with the Lord right now. We're going to pause for a minute. The truth has been preached. Let's make a decision for him. Are we going to change this or are we going to deny it? And let the Holy Spirit work. That's what the altar call is for. That's what should happen at the altar. We read here in Psalm 43, verses 3 and 4. He says, O send out the light. That's what we do when we preach. We're sending out the light. The Word of God has light. It is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path The word of God is truth. Thy word is truth. This goes forth, and he says, Let them lead me, let them bring me into the holy hill, into thy tabernacles. Then will I go into the altar of God. When God's truth reaches down into our soul and touches us and says, boy, I needed that. It's just a matter of submission and obedience to say, God, would you do something in me. Would you help me to get this right? When conviction moves the heart of man, man needs to move for God. At the altar, there might be confession of sin, there might be a surrender of the will, there might be a commitment of sacrifice, and there might be A submission for salvation. One who doesn't know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior says, man, I need Jesus. And they can be shown from the Word of God how they can know for sure their sins are forgiven by an Almighty God making that decision. Praise the Lord. We want to be a church that uses the altar. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? That's why we call for this, the invitation time in every service. It's an opportunity to do business with God. To say yes, Lord. To be obedient to His word and follow His leading. Lord, as we have the invitation here this morning, I pray that you would be honored and glorified, that people would surrender and follow you. Lord, that we just submit and be obedient to you in our lives for what you would want us to do. And we not resist or put off that decision one more day. I pray that we would trust you. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Listen as the pianos plays. If God spoke to you, you come.