Before we get into our lesson this morning, I did have a question come in from our Bible reading this week. Somebody asked about from Luke chapter 8, which was where Jesus healed uh the Gaderian maniac and um of who is possessed by the legion of devils. And if you remember from the reading there, the um When the devils were talking to Jesus and he was going to cast them out, they made a request. They said, send us not into the deep. And the question was, where is that? So if I can get a couple of my guys over here, some of you guys got Bibles free for me. Anybody who's got a Bible want to do some reading this morning? Melanie? Alright, Melanie, can you look up 2 Peter 24 and somebody else? Marley, Jude 1, verse 6. Alright. So there's a couple verses that are going to help us out with that. Well this is actually a fairly um a simple answer. I've told uh teenagers before a lot of times we're having questions These kind of things will come up about demons and angels and eternity. And what I tell them to start with is the Bible is not a handbook on demonology. Um now what we know about demonology we come from we comes from the Bible, um but that wasn't the purpose the Bible was written to give us uh glimpse uh a full understanding of the supernatural realm. So there's things in there that we don't understand and we don't have The Bible's about God's relationship with us. And now angels, demons play a part in that, so they're in there, but it's not primarily about them. So any any discussion about angels and demons is going to be limited in scope because we just don't know a lot about them. But this term, into the deep, actually carries the idea of an abyss. or something that is bottomless. And if you remember from the book of Revelation, there is a place described as the bottomless pit where the allegiance of demons are stored. So from the Bible we understand that there are some demons who are roaming the earth. They are possessing people, they are wreaking havoc, they're doing uh the devil's destruction, these principalities and powers and rulers of darkness in high places that we get from Ephesians that he has uh demons here on this earth working uh for him and create creating uh habit trying to undermine God's plan. But we also have demons that are not in this earth and are somewhere being reserved for judgment. These verses tell us about this, 2 Peter 2. 4. Go ahead and read that nice and loud for us. Alright, and Jude 1-6. And the angels which kept not referred to state but loved their own Alright, so when when Satan left heaven with a third of the angels and those uh became Came devils and demons, and we know that some of them are here on earth working for the devil. There are also some who have God has reserved in judgment Reserved in chains of darkness, everlasting chains of darkness, reserved here in the abyss. So these devils who were here on earth occupying this man were requesting of Jesus not to send them into the place of reserved judgment. That's what they were referring to. So they wanted to maintain their freedom to roam around here on earth and not to be cast into that place of reserved judgment So that's what those verses were talking about. Good question there. If you want to take your Bibles now, we'll go ahead and get into our lesson for today. And again, if you have any questions and you want me to address those in Sunday school, feel free to text me, email me, or catch me throughout the week. I'd be glad to go over that. I'm not going to take any more right now because although when we start talking about demons, people like, oh I got a question, I got a question. I know about it now. But we uh we're going to I have a bit larger of a lesson than I was thinking I would this morning, so we're going to get right into that Um Colossians chapter one. Colossians chapter one is where we're going to begin this morning We've been discussing the idea of dealing with devices. A few weeks ago we had our introductory lesson where we talked about the verse from 2 Corinthians. Where the Bible says we are not ignorant of his devices, understanding that the devil would like to get an advantage on Christians, and he has devices that he uses uh to do that. We're doing kind of a play on words there because obviously the devices in that verse is talking about his techniques. But we understand that um we when we use the term devices, we're usually thinking about the electronics that are in our life. And we have those there and and we're y looking at how the devil can use those as an avenue to trip us up as Christians His goal is to undermine Christians and to uh make our testimony of none effect. His goal is to prevent sinners from hearing the gospel, and his goal is to destroy young people's lives. And he he'll use different devices to do that and different techniques. And we looked at how he uses the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, and how each of those can play into uh the technology that he So we're understanding that we're going to set in place some Bible principles in our lives to help us know what to do about technology. God didn't lay down uh in the word of God, how mint how much screen time is okay. God didn't talk about your internet usage and he didn't put recommendations for filters in the Bible, but he gave us some Bible principles that apply to every aspect of our lives. And we've made the um made the uh we mentioned it each week how um even if you don't deal with this particular aspect of a device This principle applies to other areas of your life as well. So two weeks ago before Brother Brady was here, and he kind of his lesson, how many of you thought he was going to reteach the week before his lesson, going into that. Well, he actually did a good job of bridging between the the last lesson and what we're going to talk about today, kind of giving us an introduction there. But two weeks ago when we were teaching, we talked about the power principle. The power principle, the real realizing that the Bible tells us that there's not supposed to be anything that gets power over us. The idea of control and how these things can control our lives. And we looked at the idea of how we can serve, give, give our service over, make our choose to yield ourselves to these devices. And uh they control us. They can control our time. They can control what we watch, they control what we think about. Um even the idea of just ringing a bell and we say, yes, sir, what what do you need? That just is we're submitting to its control. So we had the power principle and realizing that we're not supposed to be yielding ourselves to be obedient to anything other than God. And that principle applies to our technology and other areas every other area of our life as well. Today we're going to get into what I've called the priority principle. The priority principle. Look at me at Colossians 1 and verse number 18. Here the Bible says, and he, speaking of Christ, is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. In all things he might have the preeminence. That word preeminence carries the idea of being the first place. That Christ in every area would have first place. So today as we talk about the priority principle, we're going to see what priorities do we put on other things in our lives as opposed to Christ. So let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word, what we can learn from it, Lord, we pray to help us today to evaluate our lives to see what kind of precedence or priority or preeminence we've put on different things in our lives that is distracting us from the relationship that we're supposed to have with you. Lord, pray you bless this time around your word. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. In Washington, D. C. , on Tuesday, March 23, 2021, Uber driver Mohammed Anwar's car was carjacked by two girls ages 13 and 15. While he was attempting to get them out of a vehicle, the girls put the car in drive and took off down the road, with the 66-year-old man half hanging half in and half out of the vehicle. Hit the driver's door twice on trees crushing his body before clipping the car over and killing Mr. Arnoir. After being helped from the car, one of the girls walked around the body of the man that she had just killed towards the car saying, But my phone is still in there. It's painfully obvious that we live in a world that has misplaced its priorities. These girls had prioritized their phones over this man's life. I could give you countless examples of people, organizations, political parties, government entities that have their priorities all messed up. We could take the whole time just to talk about, hey, we're focused on this when we should be focused on this. But as we go through lessons this morning, we're going to be teaching on what we've called the priority principle. We're going to be applying this again to our use of technology. The question is, what is most important to you? I know the answer we're all supposed to say as Christians What's most important to you? Oh, the Lord is, God is, my Bible is, my church is. We all know what the right answer is. But I wonder if our daily schedules would support that claim. I wonder if we could play back our conversation over the last week and if spiritual things would truly be revealed as our priority. Wonder if we could track all of your interactions with technology, if we could find enough evidences that your priorities are in the right place. The word priority means the state or quality of being earlier in time or occurrence, so the first thing that happens. It also means the rights to precede others in rank, order, or privilege, the press the idea of precedence It means the right to take precedence in obtaining certain supplies, uh services, or facilities, especially during times of shortage. So we don't have much what gets it first. What gets it first when there's a limited amount of something And then also something that's given special attention. When it comes to our Christian lives, there's not room for us to give lots of things first place In fact there's only room for one thing to have first place. Uh that's that why it's first place. You can't have everybody be a winner uh in your Christian life. You've got to give first place to something. So where is our priorities at? Colossians one eighteen tells us that in all things Christ might have the preeminence. This means that in every area, in every aspect of your life, Christ should have first place. What's this look like? Well it means Christ has first place in your time. It means Christ has first place in your finances. It means Christ has first place in your relationships. It means Christ has first place in your thoughts. It means Christ has first place in your plans. It means Christ has first place in every part and every aspect of your life. Just to give you, as we kind of bridge into the idea of technology, just to give you a simple uh illustration to say this, I want to give you a simple visual example. The most common thing that our family does in our living rooms is have family devotions. Now I'm not saying this because we're super spiritual family. It's because we have little kids and they don't sit down very much. So the only times that we're sitting down together in the living room is usually family devotions. We're doing devotions I do them in the morning with the boys, and we do them every evening as a family. And our living room is set up with this in mind. We do have a T B screen in our in our living room. We actually right now have two because somebody came to our house and saw how small our one was. We have about a twenty-four inch one, so Somebody gave us another one, and they're both in our living room, but there is not a piece of furniture in our living room pointed towards the TV. Because I don't want to give that the priority when our family's sitting down together. Our furniture faces each other. Um, and that's that's intentional. That we that we have that set up that way. Our living room is is for our family, and it's the place we meet together as a family, and I don't want to give a television the preeminence. So just a visual example, what gets first place? What are you putting as, hey, this is most important? What do your kids think is most important in your home and in your family? What does your spouse think is most important to you? What things do we give preeminence to? Satan and our flesh are very good at placing replacements in our lives to take Christ's place of preeminence. We've already looked at how Satan has replaced God in the lives of many people by giving them a quote omnipotent, omniscient, and on uh omnipresent device. We know that none of these things are are really are true of devices, but they come really close. If you have a question, where do you go? Hey Siri, what's what's where what is this I need to know I need knowledge. Uh and if you if you want something done, you want food, you know where to your phone. You want uh and you know what? It's always with you. It's it's never never as closer, sticks closer than your brother. Uh right there in your pocket, in your purse, in your car. You have it with you all the time. So it's a it's a s it's a substitute that Satan offers You know, and it's a better substitute than he's ever had before. Before to give them a substitute for God, he had to get them to carve something out of wood or out of stone or purchase something made out of metal. Now he can put something that seems to know everything and can get you whatever you want and will always be with you and will comfort you when you're sad and will give you uh um uh support when you need it. He'll put it right there in your pocket like He's the better than he's ever had before as far as a substitute offered for God. So our second principle here that we're dealing with today, as I've said already, we're going to be discussing the priority principle. Turn me to John chapter 21. John chapter 21. Right there, very last chapter in John. We're familiar with this story here We'll be looking at verse number 15, but to get to get the idea of the context of what's going on, Jesus has risen from the dead, and he's appeared to the disciples several times already. While they were to tarry and wait for Jesus to give them further instructions, Peter decided to go fishing. And some other disciples went with him. Now, I could empathize with Peter here. I don't like sitting around waiting. I don't like if if we have um it's a kind of a joke with uh with my family that when I have a day off, um I'm either going stir crazy or I'm gonna be working. Uh 'cause I'm not really good at sitting. Uh sitting a and waiting or sitting and doing quote nothing. Um I just I'm not I'm not that kind of and I think Peter was probably the same way. I mean he grew up a very active life and he was a he was a hardworking fisherman and Now we're gonna wait on Jesus to come back. Well, while we're waiting, why don't we go get something done? Why don't we go fishing? He takes some other sides with him with him, they fish all night and they catch nothing. Then they see a man on the shore who tells them to cast their nets on the right side of the boat. And they immediately catch more fish than their nets can hold, even though their nets didn't break. And the disciples, especially Peter, recognize this stranger as Jesus. In fact, it was under very similar circumstances in which Peter had met Christ the first time. In that instance, Jesus had called Peter to leave the trade of fishing in order to fish for men. He told them, Thou shalt no more catch fish, but I'll make you fishers of men They bring the fish to shore, they find that Jesus already had a fire prepared with a and with a meal of bread and fish there on it. As they shared the meal around the fire, Jesus Turns to Peter, and in John chapter 21, verse 15, it says, So when they had dined, Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He asked him the question, Peter, what do you love the most? What is your priority? What has preeminence in your life? Do you love me more than these? Now the question there is, well what are the these he's talking about? What what these is And we could look at a couple examples, but what I believe and what seems to be the context pointing to, Jesus was talking about the fish. Said, Peter, you you love me more than more than these? More than more than the fish? Because I gave you the opportunity once to leave fishing and follow me and you've come back to fishing again. Do you love Peter? Said, what are you talking about, Lord? You know. You know I love you. You know, yes, Pastor, my my number one in my life is the Lord. Are you sure? Are you sure? Do you love me more than these? Do you love me more than fish? What a ridiculous question, right? Peter's answer, of course I love you more than fishing. You know that. But was it true? Peter put a higher priority on fishing than on the things that Jesus had called him to do. I wonder, as we get back into our application for today, I wonder how often God looks down at our use of devices and says, Do you love me more than these? Do you love me more than these? Can we really claim to love him more when we're more f faithful to our social media than to our devotions? When we have missed more church services than episodes in the v video series. When we can quote more movie references than Bible verses, when we m know more celebrities than Bible stories, when we text more than we can pray, when our phone can get our attention on the first buzz, but we haven't heard God speak to us in years. Do you love me more than these? The priority principle. First of all, this morning we're going to look at the priority of resources As we get in this morning, let me tell you, I'm gonna start first with confessing that this is I am not the one to teach this lesson because this is this is something that is that you've got to beat me up about. Um that especially studying preparing and I'm just just I'm I'm choked up uh teaching this because this is where where I'm at and and I need to fix this in in my life. So don't say think I'm getting on to you. Uh God's God's getting on to me up here as far as dealing with where where do we put our priorities Do we really get a claim that we love God more when our actions say something different? So number one, we have the priority of resources. The first way to identify your priority is through your use of resources. You know, you will invest in in things that you value. You'll invest in things that you value. If something matters to you, you're going to invest in it. Let me give you an example. My wife is a priority in my life, so I invest in her. I invest money into getting things that she likes. I invest time into doing things that she wants. I invest effort into being with her and talking to her or listening to her. I invest in her because she's a priority for me. You know my marriage is a priority of my life. So I invest in my marriage. I read books uh on marriage and how to be. I listen to sermons on how to be a a good husband. I go to marriage retreats, uh the sweetheart um retreat that we have Um and I try to spend some time with my wife after the kids go to bed um uh several several times a week that we just get to get together and I invest in our marriage You know, my kids are a priority in my life, so I invest to make sure that I can meet their needs. I I invest time uh and energy and injuries playing with them uh and and spending time with them. I invest in instructing them and training them and disciplining them You know, I am also a priority in my life. Just like everyone else, I'm a bigger priority than I ought to be, but I invest to make sure that I stay happy I invest to make sure that I'm comfortable. I invest into getting things that I like to have. Because I'm a priority. So I invest in me. Church is also a priority in my life. I plan my personal time around the church schedule. Now yes, I have to. Um that's part of my job uh a as a pastor, but even before I was a pastor. My schedule revolved around what was going on at church. I didn't I didn't plan times to be gone when there was things happening uh at the church because the church the church was a uh priority in my life. I always consider the church schedule. I plan anything for myself or for my family. I attend faithfully and I attend early. I give generously. If I were not in the ministry, I would never consider moving my family somewhere without first finding in the church that I'd be going to. Why? Because church is a priority. Church matters to me. And I want to make sure that my family's in a good church. And so I make that a priority and I invest in that. You can tell what a person prioritizes by the way they invest in that thing. I've heard it said you always have time for the things that you do first. And you always have money for the things that you buy first. So if we want to see what your priorities are, you we see what you do first. As we look at this idea of investing, you know we all have limited resources. There are many things that we can talk about when it comes to resources, but this Monday morning we're just going to limit it to two of our resources. We have a resource called time, and we have a resource called money. There's lots of other resources that we can talk about. Today we're just going to limit it to these things for illustrating the principle today. We can b invest both our time and our treasure into things that they prioritize. And for both of these, we are all limited. Now when it comes to money, some of us are more limited than others Uh but when it comes to time, we all have the same limit, at least on a daily basis. Now some people's lives are longer than others, but when it comes to a day, you have the same amount of time to invest as I do. uh I have the same amount of time to invest as the president does or or the the richest businessman in the world. We all have the same amount of time uh to invest. And so we have these limited resources Whenever you are have a limited amount of something, how you use it reveals your priorities. How many of you have ever been to a kid's place where they play games and earn tickets? Anybody ever been to a Chuck E. Cheese or a place like that? Okay. Um how many of you ever watched a kid go spend their tickets? You get 'em up there and they have, here you go, you have spent seventy-five dollars, you've earned 125 tickets Now you need to decide, do you want a bouncy ball or do you want a couple uh Tootsie Rolls? Here's the case. They'll take you. They said you can have every anything from here over with the tickets you have. And they will agonize over that decision. Like, what am I supposed to do? I only have 175 tickets. And this one's 20, and I could get three of these. Or I this one is this one is 15. I could get four of those and some of these these Waxy Tootsie roll things. Um and I could what am I gonna do? I only have this. Now if you took a kid up to the counter and said, you know what, you can have as many tickets as you want, get whatever you want. You know what they do? Well they want one of those, one of those, one of those. No thought at all. Doesn't matter. Why? Because there's no limit When there's limited resources, you see what matters the most. And we have limited resources. We don't have unlimited money. We don't have unlimited time. So when we have our limited resources, when we invest it into something, it tells us that that's something we prioritize. And so we look at how we spend our time, we look at how we spend our money, it's going to tell us what our priorities are. When our resources are limited, we dedicate them to something, it illustrates the things that we value. First of all, we have the resource of time. You know the Bible says a lot about our time being short. James four fourteen, whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanisheth away. Psalm 39, verse 5, Behold, thou hast made my days as a handbread, and mine age as nothing before thee. Psalm 89, 47. Remember how short my time is Psalm ninety verse nine. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. Psalm ninety verse twelve. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. Ephesians 5. 16, redeeming the time because the days are evil. Every one of us have the same amount of limited time in a day. Pick the most successful person that you're aware of, uh, and they have just as much time in their day as you do. Yet they spend it making thousands of dollars a minute and we spend it uh checking status updates And so you have a limited amount of time. What are you investing it in? How do you invest your time? Wherever you invest your resource and time is what you prioritize, whether you want to admit it or not. When something gets a lot of your time, it's something that you prioritize. Now I understand there's some things that investments of time that are necessary. We have to eat, have to sleep, we have to go to work, we have things that we have to do. Just to just to kind of narrow this down a little bit, we're going to consider our investment of our free time. If you sleep eight hours a night and you work 40 hours a week, you eat for an hour every meal. You spend one and a half hours at each of our four church services. That leaves you with 45 hours of free time every week. So what do you do with the free time? If you uh line up those 45 hours of most time to least time, that is your priorities. What gets my most time? This gets eight hours. Well that's number one. This gets five hours, that's number two. Whatever you're with what we looked at uh was it last week, week before, we talked about the screen time people use. The average person in Maryland and Pennsylvania uses twenty-four to twenty-five hours a week on their personal device. So no brainer, that's number one. Uh it takes over half of their free time uh in the week. You say, no, no, no, I love God more than these. Well, it doesn't look like it. As I have said already, this is something that I'm just as guilty of and not not beating down on anybody more than myself. I've set time limits on many things on my phone. And it happens more often than I care to admit that it says you've run out of time. Like what? No, I haven't been on here that long. But time, where are you investing? What are your priorities? What is the first thing that you do with your free time? Not just looking at how much time you have. What about you get some free time? What's the first thing you're going to do? Alright, break from work. I don't even know where a phone call. There it is. Alright. Long goes off in the morning. What happened at night that I missed. Alright, it's time for bed. All right, first thing we look at, last thing we put down, first thing we go to the minute we have free time. If it's the first thing that we go to, it's the thing that we give first. Most people look at their phones first thing in the morning, it's the last thing they look at each night. When you get a break, when you get in your car, when you go in the restroom, when you get home What's the first thing you turn on? What's the first thing you turn to? What gets your priorities? Time is one of the most valuable things that you have, and because our priorities are in the wrong places, we often waste so much of it. So we have the resource of our time. We also have the resource of our treasure. So the second thing we're discussing when it comes to resources is what we prioritize our money with. How do we prioritize our money? Now, our investment of money is directly connected to our priorities When you're looking at your finances, you need to set up first your your necessities, like we talked about our time. There's some things that are necessities. Dave Ramsey recommends budgeting your four walls first. He calls this your four walls, the necessities, food, clothing, minimal, obviously, not minimal that you're wearing, but minimal in the in the amount that you have. Uh you don't need twenty five pairs of shoes to to start out with. Uh let's just make sure we have enough to to get by as far as first things First thing setting your so food, clothing, shelter, which should include your utility utilities and transportation. You get these things established, you say if you're gonna miss a payment somewhere You run out of money, you miss the the cable bill and you pay the electric bill. You miss the car payment and you and you and you buy gas and food. Alright, so we we make sure our priorities are set. But after that, you start listing your budget, what's most important to me. And that's where you spend your money. What is most important? Now, the Bible tells us where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Wherever you put your treasure shows us your priority, shows us where your heart is. Now I believe and we're going to kind of set this aside for now by understanding first in your finances should be God. Before housing, before food, before trauma, before all these first comes God. All right, but we're going to set that aside. We're going to let you count that when we look at priorities. So we'll cut we'll when we cut out things that come first, we'll we'll leave God in there so you get to count him for your other free time investment. But just looking at the idea of devices, a family with a couple phones, TV, internet, and some streaming platforms easily spends between three to four hundred dollars a month on their devices. Not counting what they pay for the devices. How much of our discretionary spending is that? How much of our investment is there This doesn't yeah, it doesn't count the amount of money spent on the devices which count for thousands of dollars every year for the average family. I've even counseled with somebody when it comes to um finances, just helping them look through the budget and ask them like so you have these games on your phone and you you buy these perks to help you get to the next level, how much do you think you spent last month? Oh, four or five dollars. It was over a hundred. Just not realizing spending money on devices, just because it's so easy, so easy to do and where our priorities are at. You know, if you're more excited about the next phone that's coming out than the next missionary the church is taking on, might have misplaced priorities. If you would buy your kid a several hundred dollar device but wouldn't buy them a nice fifty to seventy five dollar bible because they might tear it up. Um is your you know how many really nice Bibles you can get for the cost of an iPhone? For your children as far as letting them letting well he he they might mess it up. Well what's more valuable? What do you want them to think is the most important? When you spend money on a level booster for a game for your phone, but you won't give towards a special offering. We have misplaced priorities. So where are we investing our treasure? What you put spend your money on shows your priorities. Again, let's take out the necessities, food, clother, shelter, and transportation. So what gets priority for the rest? I use myself example a lot. Praise the Lord. I had a dad that gave me good instruction when it came to finances, but if you take my necessities out and say, where's the rest of the money going? I'm very thankful from the instruction, this isn't me, this is the grace of God, that the biggest category of discretionary spending is what I give, uh is my giving, because I want God to have priority. And the biggest chunk of my extra money I give to God because He's had to have the priority. You look at my second biggest category of my discretionary money goes towards my long-term retirement investing. That's the next biggest chunk. And if you go to the next biggest chunk, it is my short-term investing, saving up for a house or a car or something of those nature. And then we get into all the other things. that books and toys and balls and uh and and and uh uh tools and things of that nature you get gets further down the line. But when you look at somebody's money you can say what do you what do you value? Where does the biggest chunk of your money go? When you look at your someone's finances, you can clearly see their priorities. Christ should have the priority in our resources. Remember back to our main verse. In all things, Christ might have a preeminence. So your resource of time, your resource of treasure, Christ needs to have the preeminence. He needs to have first place. Christ should have first place in our time. Christ should have first place in our treasure. That's the priority principle. What gets first place in my resources? So the priority of our resources. Secondly this morning, we have the priority of our relationships You know, there are relationships that we're supposed to have and develop as Christians. When our priorities are in the wrong place, our relationships are damaged Devices are one of the greatest, meaning largest, not the best, destroyers of relationships. We can consider the stereotypical example of a family going out to eat and all of them being on their phones. The priority they place on their devices is destroying their relationships. So a couple of relationships that we're supposed to have as Christians, we should number one have a relationship with God. Just give some illustration examples here, illustration to get your mind going. I'm not taking a lot of time here so we've got to get through the rest of the lesson, but has your devotions ever been interrupted by a phone call or text? What'd you do when you're reading your Bible and it goes over there? What do you what what do we do Does your phone get more time than God does? Do you look on Facebook every day and yet neglect to get in God's book every day? Do you ever pray spontaneously throughout the day or or do you have something here that keeps you from ever thinking about God, just running in the background? Can you hear God's still small voice or is your music too loud? Not necessarily your bad music. We're not talking about we're gonna talk about wickedness next week that happens on devices. This is things that are okay. Is it just drowning God out Have you ever missed family devotions because the movie went too late? Have you ever slept in church because you stayed up too late on devices the night before? Our relationship with God will suffer because of the hold that these devices have on our life. So what gets the priority? Is your relationship with God a priority or do our devices get in the way? Number two, we should have relationships with our families. Kids and parents have lost the ability to have a relationship because of devices. It is easier to watch a movie together every night than it is to play a board game. It's easier for a dad to play a video game with his son than for him to sit down and talk to him about what it means to become a godly man. It's easier for a mother and daughter to go through social media than to work around the house together. It's more relaxing after the kids are in bed for mom and dad to sit in opposite couches on their phones than to sit down and talk to each other about how the day went and the spiritual future of their family and pray together for their children. If your family relationships are going to be priority, you have to get control of this in your life. This destroys homes. This destroys relationships. Not even again, there's a lot of homes that are wrecked because of stuff people do on here as well, but just the investment of time, just the priority. that I would rather go to this than talk to my wife. That I would rather do this than no, I'll play with you later, um, with with my kids. That priorities we place here ruin our relationships. You know, we should also have a relationship with our church family, brothers and sisters in Christ. There's a lot of things the Bible has to say about this with brother and dwelling together in unity, about when you come together and be exhorting one another that we as Church family are supposed to be developing relationships with one another. Yet even in church, these devices will destroy relationships. I'm going to pick on the teens here for just a minute because they're part of the reason we're doing this series. We have a rule. In the church van, not allowed to be on devices, right? Teen activities? No devices. And uh I I've been generous with you guys and I've let you let you have Keep them with you as long as you don't stay on them, but we've had to start taking them away because we're not doing very good at staying off the devices. You're not allowed to bring phones to summer camp. Now we don't have these rules at church. I don't have these rules for you because I'm afraid of what you're going to do on the phone. I'm not worried about you listening to rock music and looking at pornography in the back of the church van, although that does happen in the back of church vans And it's something that we need to be aware of as adults and be curtailing what your children are doing with their phones. But the reason we don't allow phones is because I want you guys to develop a relationship with one another And you don't do it here. Like, no, no, well we're doing it with each other right here. Well get that out of the way. Uh it's it's it's in the way there. When you're all on your phones you're not building relationships. You know what breaks my heart to see teens and adults sitting on their phones before and after church. It's preventing you from building relationships that may one day save you from grave spiritual danger. This right here, before church and after church, nobody's going to come talk to you. Nobody's going to come bother you. You're in the middle of get trying to get to the next level. Why would somebody come talk to you about spiritual things? We're supposed to be maintaining relationships and these what these get in our way. So we should have a relationship with our church family, we should have a relationship with our families, we should have a relationship with God. We should also have a relationship with the lost, and that's just for sake of I understand what the relationship that doesn't mean becoming very close and intimate friends with lost people. But we have things that we're supposed to do as Christians toward the lost. Our relationships with them should entail witnessing to them, praying for them, weeping for them, living a Christian testimony for them. But there are countless lost people who have not been witnessed to because of cell phones. and Bluetooth earbuds. Just to be blunt right there. I'll come out and confess again. There are times when I have earbuds in and I'm listening to fine things, godly things, sermons even. And I'll go through self-checkout instead of the regular line because I don't want to talk to somebody. Because it's going to interrupt what I'm doing. And I don't want the Holy Spirit to interrupt what I'm doing here. Because I I'd have to turn it off and be uncomfortable talking to someone and passing out of track and being friendly and smiling because this is more important. You know, I remember as a teenager sometimes I'd be sitting in sitting in traffic, just car stuffed everywhere, and I remember times that I would weep. in the car, just thinking, you know how many people right now are unsaved within this close to me and and nobody's here to tell 'em about the gospel. But now I've never even thought about it. Why? Because I've got devices going. I've got other things happening being a distraction. The loss are the furthest thing from my mind when I'm connected. The priority that we put on devices instead of our relationships is destroying them. And in relationships God expects us, um God the relationship God expects us to have should be our priority. Our relationship with Christ being our priority that in everything. he might have a preeminence. There's a chart that I saw just this week of of a donut shape with something in the center. And if you can imagine the center And all the ring of the donut is all of your relationships or everything that you do in your life. As a father, as a husband, as a pastor, as a church member, as a employee, as you've got all those out there. And you can make a choice with your donut hole. The center can be self-focused. Or it can be Christ-focused. Now, if it's self-focused, it's going to show up in how I be a dad, and how I be an employee, and how I spend my free time, and how I spend money. And if it's Christ-focused, it's going to show up as well. So if we look at your relationships, what does it point to being at the center? Is it all about me, or does Christ have the preeminence So when we say Christ has the preeminence in your relationship, that's not just your relationship with God, although that should be first. But if Christ has the preeminence, I'm going to have a different type of relationship with my wife than if I have the preeminence. Right. So who has first place? Where is our priority in our relationships? And quickly this morning as we end, we have the priority of our responsibilities. In every role you fill, you have responsibilities. I'm a father, a son, a husband, a pastor, a neighbor, an employee. There's a lot of roles that I fill, and in each of these roles, I have certain responsibilities. The fulfillment of our responsibilities as Christians, this should be done as unto the Lord. I answer to God for my responsibilities as these things. Fulfilling properly my responsibilities should be a priority in my life. It matters because it's part of my Christian testimony how well I fill my priorities, my responsibilities. I looked that up. Most employees waste eight hours a week on personal devices during work time. What do you make an hour? Your boss is paying you that much times eight to be on your phone? Is that what he wants from you Is that your responsibility? Is that a testimony of a good Christian? That's the average that is there. There are some businesses that have started making people lock up their phones before work starts to increase productivity. Because why? Because this This is our master. This has power and control over us and we're not fulfilling our responsibilities. When you shirk responsibilities for devices, your priorities are wrong. Think about it in your relationships. As an employee, work should be my priority, not what's happening over here. As a mom and dad, taking care of my home should come first. You know, kids are going to learn. If mom and dad will go sit down and watch a movie before the dishes are done, why should they clean the room before they watch a movie? They learn what are our priorities? Kids should school and school insurance should come before devices. There should be limits on these things Moms and dads, your children come before this. Church members, your church ministries. Christians, your obedience to the Lord. Do not go to a device before you fulfill a responsibility. What are you supposed to be doing and is this keeping you from doing it? So it's all about priorities. Go back to the question with Peter, do you love me more than these?