Be very fitting for uh tonight's message. The text we're in is Philippians chapter one, verses twelve through seventeen, and the uh title is The Gospel of Christ. As we see that being the forefront of Paul's ministry. Verses twelve through seventeen, if you look down at the Word of God, now I know that we have been reading uh the entirety of the passage uh each time I preached, but tonight for the sake of time we're not going to read the whole chapter. Uh we're just going to read here uh verses 12 through 17. But I would but I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the phallus and in all other places. And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, and some also of good will. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds. But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. What then, notwithstanding Every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And I therein do rejoice. Yea, and will rejoice. I want to tonight teach us from these verses. We're just going to walk through verse by verse here and learn what we can. First of all, I want you to see Paul's perspective here in verse number twelve. He says, But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. He has a concern here for the saints. You know, the they had sent Epaphroditus. I mean you can see them thinking about Paul. You can see the saints there of the church. writing and and sending Epaphroditus to him and you could see them coming and saying, man, Paul, we feel so bad. We're so sorry that you have to go through this. You can see their sympathy and their outpouring of grace and love to him. And Paul says, wait a minute, wait a minute. I want you to understand something. I want you to understand, beloved, the things that have happened to me, they've happened for the furtherance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. His perspective was keeping things in the right priority. He knew it was about the Savior. Paul knew that he had been told that he was going to go to Rome. He just didn't know that he was going to go as a prisoner. You see, God had told him he would end up in Rome. It was very clearly laid out in Romans chapter 1, verse 15. He wrote, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. And then in Acts chapter 19, verse 21, he said, I must also see Rome. He knew that God wanted him to go to Rome. He knew that that was God's plan. Yea, even was told, the Lord told Paul one night, said, Be of good cheer, Paul, for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also in Rome. So Paul knew that he was in Rome and this was God's plan. This was by God's design. He, you know, he was planning to go as a preacher, not as a prisoner. But it was by God's plan, and he was in prison, and he said, you know what, don't fret. Don't worry, guys. Things are going to be okay. God's still in control. Paul knew he was following and was in part of God's plan. I want you to see that the sinners had a plan. They thought they were going to bind him. They thought they were going to put him in chains and hold him That they would stop the going forth of the gospel, but God had a plan, and God's plan was going to be worked. He could have looked at his situation and said, Man, look at this defeat. Look at this discouraging. I was going to come here and I was going to turn the world upside down. I was going to come to Rome and preach the gospel and hold great crusades. And here I am, a prisoner. He could have looked at that and said, man, why is this happening to me? This I don't deserve this. I'm just trying to please the Lord. But he kept a proper perspective and he understood, beloved, that God was in control. He might have thought about the fact that You know what? I wasn't sure how I was going to get to Rome. I might have had to raise some money or get some offerings from the churches. But look at what God did. God brought me here. It didn't cost me anything God God took care of getting me here. I mean there's always another way to view the situation. And we've got to keep a proper perspective when we come into life's challenges and li life's problems. The Christian perspective to life's problems. is going to allow us to see opposition as opportunity. That's what we have to do, is see the opposition, the problem, as opportunity and Look for the Lord in that situation and ask him, Lord, what is it you're trying to teach me? What is it you uh want to show me? What is it y how in the world can you use me right here, right now? In every situation, God has an answer. God is trying to accomplish something. Our job and responsibility as Christians is to see it, to grab a hold of it, to seize it. before it passes. God has something He wants us to do. It's very fitting and and I can't help as it comes to my mind now The story of my father when he was working in the gymnasium in Lyons, New York, and he fell painting. Off of the scaffold onto a concrete floor, fell back and tried to catch himself and busted both of his wrists, broke his back in five places. We didn't know if he was going to live. He was lifelied into the hospital. He was put on a gurney out of the helicopter and was rolling, they were rolling him into the hospital. Somebody was coming out of the hospital that recognized him. Who used to go to church, but hadn't been in church in a long time and looked down and saw him and says, Pastor Batrell, what are you doing here? And my dad, in as much pain as he was in, looked up into the eyes of that church member and says, I don't know, but maybe it's to see you. Maybe God had me fall and is going to put me through this pain and I'm going to have to endure these things because you he knows that you need a witness You need somebody to call you back to him. You're running from God and you're wayward and you don't know what he's doing. You need to come back to him before it's too late. Beloved, in every opposition there's opportunity. We need to seize it. We can see that there's problems that could become promotion. God's greatest power is seen in the greatest storms. Oh, I know we don't like the storm. We don't want the storm. We would rather easy sailing in shiny days. But man, it's in the storm that we see God move so miraculously. I think in today's world it's it's Almost sad that we're so richly blessed. I recall the stories of bygone eras and Even people going to college. I'd have people come to college and they would tell stories about when they were in Bible college, they didn't have any food, and they were praying, they had to pray themselves food down. And God had blessed me, I mean, so much I I never had to do that. There was always food in the cupboard. But I think it's probably my loss that I didn't have to pray to get the food because they saw God work. They saw God meet their needs. God built their faith through those days. We don't like the storm, but it's in the storm that we see God. We have to realize, beloved, that it's not about us. Paul said, the things which have happened to me, he said, it's not about me. You've got to understand, beloved, the things that have happened to me, this happened to the furtherance of the gospel. Any successful servant of God has got to keep a proper perspective and realize that it's not about them, it's about Jesus. We've got to realize that things in our lives do not just happen. Either we believe it or we don't. We don't believe in luck. We believe in that God is in control and that the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord and that our life are directed by Him and that not one hair of your head is going to fall out except God knows about it. And we believe all those things, yet when something happens to us, we look at it and say, why'd this happen? We've got to keep a proper perspective and realize that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. You see, beloved, Paul didn't just preach that. He believed it. He practiced it. And right here when he's in prison, When he could have when he could have garnished some sympathy, when when Epaphroditus came and was saying, Man, we're so sorry that you're going through this. You could have said, I know. Isn't life hard? Man, this is so this is not right. I was just serving the Lord and look at where I am. No, he stood up and said, listen, Epaphrodis, tell the church it's not about me. Tell the church it's not about what I'm going through. Understand that what I'm going through is for the furtherance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. What was the problem he was facing in verse number 13? He says, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest. In all the palace and in all other places. The problem was that he was bound. He was made a prisoner. But again, he understood. See, he says there that my bonds in Christ. You see, they thought they were locking him up, but uh he knew who was in control. My bonds in Christ. He recognized that God was leading through this situation. That this problem that came to Paul actually was gave him the possibility to preach the gospel in Rome. They loaded him up, they transferred him, they provided him all expenses paid trip to Rome. They gave him a place to live. Phantom, here you go. And Paul was able to preach the gospel in Rome. In the palace. And in all other places. What an amazing opportunity. Paul was bound, but the gospel was set free. See, Paul was bound and he was locked in under what was like a house arrest. Now, scholars that have studied these things out say that the house arrest he was under uh would have been uh From their from their research a it's very possible that he was actually chained to a soldier. That they didn't have electronic collars and and and ankle bracelets to give people uh that that kept them so they actually would be chained to a soldier. And that those soldiers would work on six hour shifts. And so for six hours he was strapped to a sinner that needed Jesus, and he could preach the gospel to him. And then that guy went home and shared it with his family in all other places. Now the word here for palace is a word that's specific to a group of elite soldiers. Yes, it's a re recognition of a location, of a place. But it also applies to a group of soldiers that were an elite group, almost like the special forces. And they what they were is an elite group of 9,000 soldiers. They were divided into a contingent of a thousand men each. And each of these groups would be given specific responsibilities of high importance to the kingdom or to the king. Paul being able to preach the gospel to them, to all places What opportunity would he have to influence the elite of society and all the rest of society, except that God had put him there? God did what Paul could have never done. He placed them in a strategic place. So you would have access to witness to those elite guards. And their families, and ultimately even to Caesar himself. How many times have we heard the missionaries talking about how on the field Their electricity went out. They had to go buy some parts. They ended up in a store and they met some guy who was friends with the Prime Minister. And through this, they got to meet the Prime Minister. Different things like that, where God directs the steps of men. And opens the door and provides opportunities. We see the promotion in verse number 14. He says, And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Paul's response to his problem promoted the gospel, encouraged others to preach the gospel. You would think it would have the opposite effect. You would think that Paul being thrown in prison, anybody else with a half a brain would say, um, yeah, I don't want to go to jail. So I'm not doing what Paul was doing. Count me out. But that's not what happened. According to the scripture there, that's not what happened, is it? No, they they they said a whole bunch more people all of a sudden became confident and preached the gospel without fear. One commentator stated that it was the removal of Paul that encouraged others because Paul's gifts were so great that everybody else felt so inferior. That they thought, well, why should I bother to preach when Paul's preaching? Because he's so good. And I have felt that many times when I sit and listen to somebody preach. I'm like, I've never preached a message in my life. I hear these guys, I'm thinking, man, if I could wax eloquent like that, boy, that would be nice. But uh This commentator said that that gave them confidence because now Paul wasn't preaching and they could preach. I want you to know I I don't agree with that. I think what it was is Paul's response to persecution. They looked at that and they said, man, if Paul can go through that. And still praise God? If Paul can be chained to a guard in the palace and still be preaching, I can preach out here while I'm free. I can preach out here to the people where I'm not chained, I'm not persecuted, I'm not locked up. Man, if Paul can keep doing it there, then I could do it here, amen If they somebody can surrender and go across the world and and and sacrifice to preach the gospel in India or in China I could preach in Cockysville. I can hand out a track where I'm not in danger of being thrown in prison. That's what he's saying. He says, man, they were waxed confident by my bonds. They said, man, look at what Paul was going through. If Paul can do that, I can do it. Amen. Beloved, consider the impact that you have by the example that you set. You are encouraging others or discouraging others by your response to life's challenges. Man. How many of you are encouraged by Dr. Keller? I mean I praise God he can still drive. And no, stick shift. He loves it too, man. He loves driving that stick shift. I'm thinking how can you push that clutch down? But he loves it. And man, he comes in here and I tell you you stop and talk to him for a minute and somewhere in that conversation he's gonna say I'm blessed I'm blessed. God is so good and he's got a smile on his face and he'll probably pull out a a a Gideon Bible, a little New Testament, and say, Hey, I was at uh Wegmans this week and and there was a lady there and I I pointed her to this and said, Have you ever seen one of these? And and he was a witness. And you say, man, if if Dr. Keller can do it, what's my excuse? Why can't I do it? You say, well he's so old he don't care. I I don't know. I I don't I don't know if you ever get past the fear of it. It's just your love for God's gotta drive you drive you past the fear. That's what it is. And Paul, man, these people they saw what what Paul was going through and they said, Well, we can do it. We can do it. When you do right, beloved, you're going to encourage and promote the cause of Christ. Others will do right as well. I want you to see the preaching that we see in verses 15 through 17. He says, some indeed preach Christ, even of envy and strife, and some also of good will. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds, but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. We see in these verses several people involved in this preaching of the gospel, some with good motives and some with bad. Just a couple things about preaching, beloved. First of all, the message of all preaching should be Christ. He says here, some indeed preach Christ. Then he gets into the motives, and the motives of preaching should be right. I believe a motive for preaching ought to be to bring about change, but the message of preaching should be to preach Christ. Beloved, biblical preaching demands a response. Preaching is not just to tell you a story. Preaching is not just to read to you and give you some facts about the Word of God. All these things are necessary to lay a foundation. But the goal of preaching Is literally to bring you to a point of decision. You have to just decide at the end of any good message The speaker is brought to you a point where you say yes or no. Or I'm committed or I'm not committed, or I'm surrendered or I'm not surrendered, or I'll forgive or I won't forgive. I mean whatever the challenge is we see in the scriptures, the goal is to bring about change in our life. In society today, there's so much soft soaped speeches that are presented by many from their pulpits. They impart a lot of information, but they don't demand a response. And the problem with that is people come into the church and they sit down. And they enjoy it, but they get up and leave the same as they came in. And our goal, beloved, is that we would change, that we would be changed into his image. And unless any of us have reached that already, where we can say we are like Christ, then there's still things that we need to be working on. And the preaching ought to be motivating us and stirring us to make a decision for Jesus Christ. As we've seen tonight, just the idea of the fact that you go through problems in life. You face situations that you don't like. But we've got to keep a proper perspective and understand that it's not about us. It's about Jesus Christ. And we need to be surrendered to his will and the fact that all things work together for good to them that love God and them that are called according to his purpose. And whatever you're going through tonight, the challenge is for you to recognize that God is in control and for you to submit and say, okay, Lord, I'm going to respond correctly. I'm going to keep the right perspective. I'm going to keep my focus on you and praise and honor and give you glory that others may be drawn to Christ in the face of this problem I'm going through. Because the opposite response does the opposite. People look and say, well if they're a Christian and they act like that, I don't want any part of it. No. The preaching here. It ought to be about change. Let's see verse number 18 that the priority is mentioned. He says, what then? Notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And I therein do rejoice. Yea, I will rejoice. Paul was concerned for the gospel of Christ. He wasn't concerned for his own well-being. He wasn't concerned for what he was dealing with. Not what happened to him, but what was happening to the gospel. How is what we're doing affecting the gospel? How is what churches are doing affecting the gospel? You know, a whole lot of this attacking that's going on online from one church to the next or one pastor to the next. is a bunch of foolishness. And it's gonna hurt the cause of Christ. It's gonna hurt the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's not gonna help The motivation behind that kind of foolishness is somebody that's worried about their own reputation. They're trying to look good among their peers or trying to make somebody else look bad. Now beloved, we need to call out false doctrine. And we need to Paul here was very clear the gospel what's important, but even in the acceptance, he's rejoicing in the gospel. But even in that, in the previous verse that we just read, he said, there's some people preaching the gospel and they're not sincere. Their motive literally was to hurt Paul. If you look up if you look up that word that that uh the bonds in that that verse where they said to to hurt or to To add to his affliction literally means to to pierce or to to uh uh cut through the skin. That as he was chained, they were hoping to hurt him worse. They thought, you know what, if we could make these people really mad at Paul. He's in prison, he's going to get hurt. And their whole goal to go out and preach was to hurt Paul, not for the furtherance of the gospel. But Paul said, you know what? Their motive is wrong. We recognize that, but the gospel is being preached. There's a lot of churches. That we wouldn't support, that we wouldn't join up with, and there's things that we might not agree with. But we can be glad that the gospel's preached. We can be glad that they are preaching The death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Paul said that is what is important. That is what the priority is. Our response to the trials of life should be the same as Paul's. Keep our priority right. The priorities we have. Is it about us or is it about Jesus? Christian, do you have the right perspective in the face of the difficulties? Are you trusting the Lord who knows what he's doing? That he is in control and that all things will work together for good. No matter how hard the problem is that you might be facing in life. Understand that our response to that problem is going to promote or prohibit others from following Christ. No man is an island to himself. I know we like to think that we are. Nobody's watching me, nobody cares what I do. But you affect people. You affect people. Down through the ages, there have been many that have been martyred for the cause of Christ. Those who have been martyred did not shut down the gospel, did not cause others to stop sharing it It promoted it. I've had the privilege to be in Rome, walk down underground, into those tunnels that are called the catacombs. In those tunnels, there is said to be between 1. 7 million and 4 million Christians buried Because of three hundred years of persecution against Christians. But with all that persecution, the epitaph those that gave their life was the word of God is not bound. And beloved, our response to life's trials will dictate whether we further the cause of Christ or hinder the cause of Christ Whether we help the gospel move forward or decide to stop the gospel from moving forward, how will you respond today?