Ephesians number five. I apologize to those who are watching online. I uh forgot to email my notes uh last night to get them available on the website, so they are available here in class uh but not available on the website this morning. Uh those that will be available when we do put the sermon up online, but I just forgot last night in the midst of finishing up teach getting ready for science school and then preparing for a teen activity and running the store and Pastor Gus saw me this morning and said, Did you send me the notes or did I miss them? I said, No. I didn't send them, so those aren't those aren't available online this morning, but they are here in in uh class, so have to come to get those. Well welcome uh this morning. I told you last week we would be looking at the topic of the will of God this morning. uh in our series on rightly dividing the word. And you'll kind of that might sound strange on why it would fit into this sermon series. uh Sunday school series, how how do we divide when it comes to the will of God, but hopefully that will make sense as we study together. But if you found your place there in Ephesians chapter 5 We'll read verse number seventeen to begin this morning. There the Bible says, Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Let's open with a word of prayer as we begin this morning. Lord, we love you. And we ask that you'd bless your word this morning, Lord, that you would teach us something from it, that we would be better understanding when it comes to the will of God, Lord, in our lives, in your word. uh what that uh term means and uh how it should uh in affect us on a daily basis, Lord. Ask that you bless your our time around your word this morning. Ask us all in Christ's name. Amen. We hear uh the expression God's will, or the will of God, quite often uh around church and around Christianity as something that that we're interested in and and something we're striving after and want to find out um more about. There there's some people that have the habit of using the expression Lord willing. You've heard people use that expression before. And we have the will of God. It's something that we as Christians desire, but Especially young people are seen to be interested in the idea of the will of God, and that's good. Uh they're at a place in their life when they're making decisions uh about what they're going to do when it comes to college, when it comes to marriage, when it comes to uh career. So they're looking ahead in their life and they have a heart for the things of God and they say, Well I want to know What God's will is for my life where I went to college, the motto of the school is find God's will and do it And so we have this this desire that we've cultivated uh in our young people and that we should have even uh as adults. I don't you don't seem to see adults as as as fixated maybe as the young people are on the idea of the will of God. I don't know if it's just because we feel like we're at where we're at, and if we got it, we got it, we missed it, we missed it. But but that's even as adults, we should have a a concern for what God's will is. As a young person, uh myself, I spent many of the altar calls at church services praying over God's will for my life. As a youth pastor dealing with young people, I've been asked the question, how do I find God's will uh for my life? So this is something that we're very good as as pastors um uh encouraging people to do, encouraging people to to find God's will, to to pursue God's will, but but I found and in my myself personally and the people that I got counsel from as a young person We weren't so good at at explaining what that meant and saying, well, here's how you how you do that. So a couple years ago I challenged myself. I want a Bible answer. And somebody tells me, how do I find God's will? Well I want to tell point them to the Bible and say, here's what the Bible says about the will of God. And that led me into this study and it kind of opened my eyes a little bit to what the will of God is biblically, and that there's actually several aspects or categories that we could call or the Bible uses the term God's will or the the will of the Lord, that type expression, and it refers to some different things, and that's why we're putting it into our topic or our series of rightly dividing the words. Hopefully today as we kind of get a little bit more of a biblical definition we'll we'll get a better understanding in our mind of how to use this term and how we are to understand the will of the Lord. Learning to rightly divide the word on this matter really helped me understand this idea and that's what we're gonna start to look at today. I say start to because I was working through my notes last night and realized you know what we are not going to be able to get through all of this in Sunday school today. So next week is is uh um the conclusion of today's lesson and that's what most of us are interested in next week's lesson. So if if you if you can't only come this week, next week, make sure you're here next week because that's the that's the lesson that we want to hear. How do I find God's will? That's what we're going to be talking about next week to conclude this lesson. So before we get into our notes, I want to kind of go back to our verse we started with in Ephesians chapter 5, verse number 17, and notice the clarity with which the Bible describes the will of God. He says there in this verse, be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Be not unwise. Very nice way of saying don't be foolish. Alright, don't be foolish, but instead understand the will of the Lord. Now, from grammar structure, that is an imperative sentence. What does that mean? That means it's a command that we've been commanded by God to understand the will of the Lord. We've been commanded not to be foolish, but to understand his will. You see, God never intended his will to be something mysterious, something nebulous, some kind of vague idea that he's always stringing out in front of us, and we almost get to it, but we never quite figure out. But he's coming here. Understand it. God wants you to understand. His will. If God commanded us to understand it, it is something that is understandable. If it's outside of our understanding, that's not what the will of the Lord is. We can return to this here in a little bit this will actually be getting into this next week, but what this passage actually lays out some of what the will of the Lord is, because he's telling you to understand it, and here's what it is So if you want to look ahead, uh you can read the rest of this this chapter, the next couple verses, not right now, uh, but later you can look at it and say, okay, here's what the here's what he's laying out as part of what the will of the Lord is. So beginning in our notes this morning, if you have those to follow along with, we're going to start by defining the will of God. Where does the Bible use the expression the will of God the will of the Lord, uh Lord willing, uh those types of those types of expressions that we see and that we use, how does the Bible use those? Well there are three ways, three categories, three the divisions that we could say of how the Bible uses the expression, the will of God. I'm going to give you those to you those give those to you here. And then we'll talk through those a little bit more as we continue in the lesson. But the first one, I've given it the title Divine Determination. divine determination. That's something that the Bible uses the expression, the will of God. What does that mean? In other words, that's what God has decided was going to happen. When we g when the Bible uses the term the will of God, sometimes it's talking about things that God has decided were going to happen. This refers to God's sovereignty, God's control, that God has made decisions and things are going to happen because God wants them to happen. So when we talk about God's will, sometimes the Bible is talking about something that God has decided was going to happen. Another way the Bible uses the term the will of God I've called divine desire. This is what God wants to happen. So some things are going to happen because God has decided they're going to happen. Those are called the will of God. Sometimes there's things that God wants to happen, and that's called the will of God. It points to an aspect of what God wants or God desires. And a third way that we see the will of God used in the Bible is what I've called divine directions. And this is what God has instructed for us to do as believers. So some things God has decided, some things God wants to happen. And some things God has told us we should be doing. And those are the three primary ways that the Bible uses the expression, the will of God. So that's the biblical ideas of the will of God, and we're going to get more into those and explain them a little bit more and give you some examples of those here in a minute. Well then we have man's perspective. What what are you what do people think about the will of God? Or what do people think when they're when they're using this term or what do they what do they mean by that? We have some wrong interpretations, and then we'll get to what a what a right interpretation as far as our perspective on this idea. One wrong one is that of hyper-Calvinism. If you're familiar with the heresy of Calvinism that has the idea that everything that happens is something that God has decided was going to happen, that God has decided every action for every person throughout all of history. And we're just Following the script in our lives. We don't have any control. We have no free will. God has made those decisions ahead of time. Use the term that things have been predetermined by God. Man does not have a free will, but is simply following the script that God wrote before time began. So this view of God's will would have God as the author of sin. If Adam had no choice in the matter, but God just decided that's how he was going to behave, well then God decided that Adam was going to go into sin. And we know that that is not the case. This view would have God choose the people that would reject Jesus and go to hell. They teach that if God hasn't chosen you to be saved, then He's chosen you to to go to hell. You have no choice in the matter because God is controlling all of it. And that we know is not true. This view is rejected by Bible believers theologically, but is often carelessly endorsed through unbiblical expressions. I bring this out and say Here's a false view, and we understand that God hasn't decided these things and chosen how people are going to act, but we need to be careful in our in our vernacular, in our talking, in our speech, of how we throw out the expression God's will, because we sometimes can ascribe that God did something that he may not have done. And uh we need to be careful about using this term in Job. The book of Job, we understand, God kind of gives us a peek behind the curtain into some of the spiritual things that are going on in the background when we get to the question of why do bad things happen to good people. And we see in the life of Job that God allowed some pretty terrible things to come into his life as a period of testing. God was in control. God wasn't doing it to Job, but God was allowing it to happen. And in the midst of that, God commends Job. In Job chapter 1, verse 22, it says, In all this, Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. Charge God foolishly. He says it says there he wasn't blaming God for what was going on in his life. He wasn't foolishly just speaking about what God was doing without him knowing what was going on. And this is the this is what we're talking about. We're just talking about carelessly using this phrase of God's will, because we're blaming God for things that God may not have been behind. So when we have this idea of Christians, sometimes we don't believe in Calvinism, but sometimes we accidentally use our words that make it sound like this is the case. W it happens when we speak of things that happen and say it must have been God's will just because it happened. Just because it happened, we say, well, it must have been God's will. were ascribing something to God that God may not have had anything to do with. It could have been man choosing to do wrong, and if we throw out God did it, well we're charging God for something God did not do. They speak of things that I've heard lots of examples of well this happened so it must have been God's will. And then you have the other side of things where something didn't happen and they say, well, well it must not have been God's will And I'll give you kind of a silly example of this, but you have somebody maybe who says, well, I was going to come to Sunday school, but uh but my car battery was dead this morning, so it must not have been God's will. Um well no, it was God's will for me to be in Sunday school. God didn't make your car battery die to keep you out of church. Because we know God wants you to be in church. But people just throw out the expression, it must have been God's will, or this was God's will. with with saying that just because something happened, God's the one uh that did it. And that's a Calvinistic perspective. And we know that's not true according to the will of God, the Word of God. So that's one wrong view of how God's will works, is that God controls and decides every decision that man does, every exp every circumstance that happens, that we blame God for it. That is a Calvinistic view Secondly, some people have the view that God does not have a specific will. This is kind of historically what we call deism. God just doesn't care what goes on. As long as you get saved, you can live however you want. It doesn't matter to God. God's not interested in your life. as an individual and we know that's not true either. This position makes God distant and absent from our lives. God is interested in the details and the direction of your life individually We know the Bible says the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. So God is interested in your steps and which way that you go and how that you live your life. He also has the very hairs of your head um numbered. God is interested in the details of your life. So God is not uh God is not a The one who has controlled every aspect of every person's life and every circumstance, he's not controlling and dictating what happens He's also not one that doesn't care at all what happens. He's not he's not a distant God that way. So that's another another false uh understanding of the will of God. And then there there's this idea that some people have that God has a specific will in every specific area of your life, every part of your life. This goes down to what color socks you wear in the morning, what type of cereal that you eat. They say, what does God want me to do in this situation, this situation. This is where some Christians can get bogged down and confused. And we know the Bible says that God's not the author of confusion God also says that we can know and we can understand the will of God. So when it comes down to fruit loops or frosted flakes this morning, um what does God want me to do? I'm just stuck uh here in this position trying to find God's will, well that's that's not you can understand God's will, so that's not part of the equation. Whenever we're faced um faced with a choice, sometimes we're faced with a choice where neither option has a clear Bible principle for or against it. If God had a specific will and we make the wrong choice, we would go into sin because we go against God. If we ate fruit loops and we were supposed to eat frosted flakes, we would be in sin that way. What if we make a wrong choice on an important issue and we have major decisions in our life and I I make the wrong decision and we're in this state of perfection and saying, well what if I did the wrong thing and the rest of my life is messed up because I I missed what God wanted here And this is just kind of some wrong ideas people have around the will of God. When it comes to our God's interest in your life personally, I've defined it this way, and you'll see this come out as we continue our study. through what the Bible talks about, God's will or God's instructions for believers. But instead of calling it calling it um, let me just read this definition for you, that God has a plan. for the life of each individual that is subject to his word and directed by his spirit. When it comes to you individually and what's God's will for my life, what I would say from the from a from a biblical perspective is that God has a plan. for your life individually that is subject to his word and directed by his spirit. God has a will, and we'll see this that is revealed in the Bible, and that will is the same for everybody. that God's will is clearly laid out what God wants us to do. Then God has a plan for your life that's subjected to His revealed will and is directed by the Holy Spirit. in your life. This plan will be revealed over time. It can be subject to change and it will include options for you. In the plan that God has for some people, God has a calling that He places on their life for a particular area of service. So it's not that God is micromanaging every detail and deciding when you sin and deciding when you do right and you just are not in control of any choices in your life. It's not that God doesn't care at all. It's not that every decision you make is a decision for for for for right or for wrong as far as God's will. But God has is interested in you personally. He has a plan tailored for your life, and there are going to be times where you'll have options that you get to make decisions, but your life, as long as it's lived subjected to the Word of God and subjected to the Spirit of God, you can live out God's plan for your life. So these are just some views of the will of God when it comes to us personally as individuals. Again, just a misunderstanding, some confusion when it comes to the will of God as it as it's portrayed and presented sometimes. The first of these is that God's will is something that's mystical. This is the way a lot of us feel when we hear the phrase the will of God, like it's something we can't comprehend or we can't understand or it's just this uh something unattainable uh for us. And it's it's it's often it's often the fault from up here because we just say, find God's will, and it's just out there and go search uh it it's presented that way sometimes. And we don't have a clear direction, but here's what the will of God is, and here's what's laid out for us in the Word of God. But God's will is not something mysterious, it's something that we can understand. As I've talked to people and sought counsel as a young person and said, well, how do I do this? How do I find guys who have gotten a lot of different answers? One of them is you'll just know. You'll just know. Well that that keeps it kind of mysterious for me. But I'm just going to just going to know when it happens. That's some good advice Um but still kind of leaves it somewhat somewhat mysterious for me. Do you just pray about it? Well that's what I've been doing. Just just praying about it Just however the Lord Lord leads you. Well, I'm trying to get counsel, and that's what the Lord led me to do, and so I can kind of feel that it's somewhat mysterious in the same way. Make sure you have peace about it. That's a good good advice that is given when it comes to seeking God's will. Look for an open door. God's going to uh open a door for you. An example from the Bible about this in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Paul says, the Lord opened a door for me. But he didn't have peace about it. So he didn't go through the door. So wait a minute. Hold on. You got an open door from God. You have not peace about it. And so so what do you do? Go through the open door or go about not having not having peace? In Acts chapter 16, verse number seven, they had peace. But God didn't open a door. And then you have a situation with Abraham going into Egypt. Abraham had peace about it. There was an open door. What would God want him to do? Uh so we're looking at the will of God. Sometimes we get this idea that it's it's this vague and mysterious and and and it's unattainable, but that's not how the Word of God um describes it. The Bi where we start in the Bible said God wants us to understand His will. It's something that we can know, it's something that we can understand. So the first misunderstanding is that God's will is something that's mystical. Second misunderstanding, this goes back to what we're talking about with Calvinism, that God's will always happens. That's a misunderstanding. What God wants always takes place. This comes from our finite attempt to understand the sovereignty of God. It is true, God can control all of the events of all of the universe He also knows all the events that have and all the events that will take place. But he also did not choose which events would all of the events that would take place. We can't understand that. We can't explain that. That goes beyond our understanding, but that's what we see from the Word of God. We know from the Bible that God's will does not always happen. We go to the model prayer. Jesus prayed. He said, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. In heaven, God's will happens. Jesus was praying that God's will would happen on earth, and the implication there is that it doesn't always happen. When it comes to the salvation of man, the Bible says that God is not willing that any should perish. It's God's will for everybody to be saved. Does everybody get saved? No. Sin in the world. When God created the perfect world, was it his desire? Did he want sin to come in and ruin his perfect creation? No. He didn't want that to take place. So one misunderstanding is that God's will always happens, and the other misunderstanding, we referenced this again earlier, whatever happens is God's will. God's choice whether or not to intervene does not automatically equal the will of God. Just because God allowed something to happen didn't mean he wanted it. to happen. For a person to get drunk and get behind the wheel of a car and to kill a child, yes, God allowed that to take place, but that's not something God wanted to happen. because he did not want somebody to give their neighbor strong drink, because he laid that out in the Word of God. So we know that just because something happened doesn't mean God wanted it to happen. This is what James chapter 4, verse number 15 talks about. You we mentioned it earlier. Some people use the expression Lord willing or or if the Lord wills, that comes from the book of James, where he said, don't say, boast about tomorrow and say today or tomorrow I'm going to go here and do this. Instead say, if the Lord wills. And what is expression there is that God does have control, or God does have the ability to intervene or to change something. The idea of if the Lord wills is if the Lord allows me Not if it's what God wants me to do. When somebody says, are you going to be at church next week? And you say, Well, Lord willing, they're not saying, Well, if God wants me to. Um, because we know God wants you to. But they're saying if God allows me, if something doesn't doesn't pr prevent me from coming, our plan should be submitted to the will of God, and then the plan should be carried out if God allows it to transpire So these are some misunderstandings that God's will is just mysterious, that God's will always happens, that whatever happens was God's will. So we're going to get now into defining what we talked about already about the three aspects of the ways the Bible portrays. the will of God. First of all, point number two in your notes there, we have God's sovereign will. I called this divine determination. Things that God has decided were going to happen. There are certain things that God has decided would happen in history, in the past. In the future, God has decided, and nothing can change that, because God decided it was going to happen. God has a will that He laid out before the world began that nothing could change or get in the way of. Second Timothy chapter one Verse number nine references this. Says, Who hath saved us and called us with unholy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose? What God has purposed, what God has decided and grace which was given in Christ Jesus before the world began. Before the world started, God had made some decisions that through Christ He was going to offer salvation, and nothing could change that. Nothing could get in the way of that, nothing could stop and hinder that because God decided it, that God had a purpose that He decided before the world began in that um in that aspect of offering salvation to all men. There is a general global plan that God has had in place from before the foundation of the world. And nothing can get in the way of, alter, or prevent this will That's what we're calling God's divine determination, God's sovereign will, what God has just decided was going to happen. Now, certain things fit into this category biblically, and a lot of it has to do with prophecy. God has said this is going to happen. And nothing's going to change that 'cause God decided it was going to happen. The birth of Jesus and the prophecies around that, that He would be born in Bethlehem, that he would be born of a virgin, that he virgin, that he would come out of Egypt, that all these things would happen because God said that's the way it's going to happen. And they as much as Satan tried to get in and man tried to get in and change and corrupt God's plan. They couldn't do it because God decided that that was going to happen. The death of Jesus Christ and the prophecies uh surrounding that is another example. This is what Jesus was praying about when he told in Luke chapter 22, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me, nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. God, you've made a decision on how this is going to happen, and you you let it happen the way you've decided. That's what Jesus was referring to and praying about. In Galatians chapter 1, verse number 4 This is used again where it says, who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil world according to the will of God and our Father. that it was God's will for Jesus to come to earth, to live his sinless life, to die on a cross, to be raised from the dead, to pay the penalty for our sin. That was got what God had decided was going to happen, and nothing could change that. Israel's role in the world, the millennial kingdom, and eternity as God's chosen people. That's something that God's decided, and that's going to happen. No matter what man does to try to eliminate the the Jewish people, no matter what Satan's doing in the background in the in the Old Testament, he tried to intermarry them with the heathen nations and and that didn't work and then in the in after the New Testament as he tried to annihilate them with the different empires that came up, he couldn't do it because God has decided that Israel has a role to play in the end times. And we have the things like the rise and fall of nations described in Daniel, the events surrounding the rapture, the tribulation, the return of Christ. All these are going to happen because God has decided that they're going to happen. So when the Bible uses the term the will of God, sometimes it's talking about that. Things that God has decided are going to happen. Then we have what I've called God's general will. God's general will. We call this divine desire. Just the things that God wants to happen. Things that God wants to take place. This is what Jesus prayed about when he said thy will be done. What God wants to be done, we want that to take place on earth as well. God has a will, but it doesn't always that doesn't always take place because of the sin and disobedience of mankind. This general will would be things that God wants to take place in humanity, but may or may not happen in the lives of individuals. We could also call this God's moral will. Some examples of this, first of all, is that God is not willing that any should perish. Second Peter 3, verse number 9 says this: the Lord's not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That's what God wants. God wants everybody to be saved. Now that doesn't always happen because some people choose to reject Jesus Christ, but that doesn't change the fact that that's what God wants to happen. Another example is God's will. God wants A family to be made when a man leaves his father and mother, cleaves unto his wife, and the two stay married together and produce children, that's what God wants. That's what God wants to take place. Jesus referred to this in Mark chapter 10, verses 6 through 9. When the question was asked about divorce, Jesus said, well, let's look at what God wants to happen. And he said that from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female, for this cause shall man leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife. They twain shall be one flesh. So then They are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. So it's what God wants. What does God want? What's God's will for families? Is that a a man and a and a woman get married, produce children, stay married. Now that doesn't always happen. Because of the sin and disobedience of uh of mankind. Doesn't always work out that way, but that's the way that God has set up. That's what that's what God would like to take place. God wants all of humanity to live by the Ten Commandments. God's given the Ten Commandments not to Christians. That's just given to, it was given originally to the Jewish people, but it's Here's the way I want people to live. And we have thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not bear false witness. This is good for everybody. And you know if the whole world lived by that Ten Commandments, we'd be in a lot better shape. Uh the news would not have nearly much as much to to talk about and complain about. Um if people just lived according to the way that God wants people to live. Now does everybody live that way? No. But that's what God wants. God wants people to to to live according to his moral law. And when the Bible talks about the Lord's will, often it's talking about what God just wants to happen in the world. Doesn't always work out that way, but this is how God would like things. to work out. And then thirdly, we have the God's revealed will. God's revealed will. This is what we call divine direction Now most of the time in the Bible when you see the will of God, this is what it's talking about. Almost all the references, there's a couple that talk about those other things. But almost all the references in the Bible to the will of God refers to the instructions that God has given to believers. what we as Christians are supposed to do. God has a will that He has revealed in the Bible. You know, the other the moral law was written on everybody's heart. When you're just born you have God's moral law in your heart, but then God has His revealed will He's given And as Christians, when we accept Christ, we have the Word of God that we're then to follow as believers. When we get saved, God has a more specific will for you. There's things that God expects out of the Christian that He doesn't just expect out of everybody. It's to the Christian they say go into all the world and preach the gospel. Everybody's not supposed to kill each other, but Christians are supposed to go out and be a be a witness. So there's a more specific will that he's revealed in the Bible when it comes to a Christian. So again, I said this already, but this is what when the Bible uses the term the will of God, this is what it refers to, what God has written down as instructions for believers. Now this is going to help to clarify some of our confusion Because most of the time when we use the term the will of God, that's not what we're talking about. When we say the will of God, we're talking about God's plan for us as an individual as we're living subjected to His Word and subjected to His Spirit, a plan that's revealed over time, and it can include options. That's what we refer to when we say the will of God, but the biblical term, the will of God, talks about what God's written down in here. for you to do as a Christian. And so that's where we get some of this confusion is we're using a term one way and the Bible uses it another way, so we try to apply the Bible terms to to this over here. There is, and we're going to talk about this next week, what God's plan is for you individual, how do you find God's plan for you as an individual? But when the Bible uses the term will of God, it's talking about what he's written down in the Word of God for you to do as a Christian, how God wants you. To live. Is this something we can know? Can we know God's will? Well, we started out in Ephesians chapter 5, seeing that we've been commanded to understand it. Ephesians five seventeen, I'll read it again, wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. So we can understand it. And why can we understand it? Because God wrote it down and gave it to us. And so if we get into the Word of God, we sit under the preaching of the Word of God, we can understand what God wants us to do or God has instructed us to do as believers. Not only can we understand it, but we can be filled with the knowledge of it. In Colossians chapter 1, verse number 9, the Bible says, for this cause we also since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual So not as it not only is it not something that's mysterious, God says you can understand it and you can be full of the knowledge of it. So we as Christians should be striving to understand the will of God And be full of the knowledge of the will of God. And then Romans goes a step further in Romans chapter twelve and tells us the will of God is something that we can prove or we can try out, or something that we can test. Romans chapter twelve, verse number two, be not conformed to this world, but ye tr be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove, that's to try or to test What is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God? The will of God is something you can put into practice and try out in your life and see that it works out. See that is good. The word good there means beneficial. Means it's it it's beneficial to you. If you, as a Christian, live your life according to the precepts of the Word of God, that's good for you. It's going to benefit you. That's this term good. We have that word good. We have the word acceptable. We have the word acceptable carries the idea of a good fit. It's a match. Just like you go to a place and you get a shoe and you try you try some on, somebody measures you, you find that shoe that just fits right. That's the will of God that God has for you as a believer. He's written out his word of God And it's a fit for your life. A lot of times people will say, well, I don't want to be a Christian because because I I can't be what the Bible says. Well you become a Christian. You start trying it out. you find out that it fits good and what God has said for us to do. So you have that word good, it's beneficial, acceptable, it's a good fit, then you have it's perfect. Meaning it's complete and it brings you to maturity. And that's the will of God. Something that you can put into practice, that you can try out in your life, something you can understand, and something you can be filled with. With the knowledge of. So how do we know God's will when it comes to God's revealed will? What the Bible refers to. Let's go to Romans chapter 2. I want you to see this in the Bible. Romans chapter number 2. Romans chapter number two, they're talking about Jew and Gentile, and who had the law, who didn't have the law. The Gentile had the law of God written on their heart. The Jew was given the law of God. But notice what he lays out in verses 17 and verse number 18. Romans chapter 2, 17 and 18. Behold, thou art called a Jew. And restest in the law, and makest thy boast of God, and knowest his will and approvest the things that are more excellent. So hold off right there. We have this group of people. You're the Jews. You're resting in the law of God. You know God personally. You understand in the verse, he says you know his will. You have approved the things that are excellent. How did they get to that point? How do they get to the point where they knew his will? How does the verse end? Verse number 18. Being instructed out of the law How did they get to the point where they knew God personally? How did they get to the point where they knew the will of God? How do they get to the point where they could approve all things that are good They were instructed in the law. They were given the Word of God. They were instructed in the Word of God. And then they understood the will of God. Because the will of God is based in the Word of God. When it comes to the revealed will of God, the will of God is based in the Word of God. It starts with the Bible. That's where we as Christians begin. We start with the Word of God And we begin to apply the Word of God in our lives, and then we are following the will of God. You want to know what God wants you to do? Go to this book. And that's what God wants you to do. What has God instructed you to do? Go to the book. The book tells you, the book lays out for you instructions on how God wants you to live as a Christian. God's word never contradicts his will. You have the will of God say, well, God wants me to do this. Well the Bible says this. And if the Bible says this and God wants you, and you say God wants you to do something different, you're wrong. Because God wants you to do what's written down in His Word. And that's the instructions that God has given to us. It starts from the Bible. Be instructed in the Word of God. Be instructed in the law of God, and you can understand the will of God. When it comes to this couple points about the will of God, we see that God's revealed will is absolute, meaning it does not change based on circumstances or culture. No matter what's going on in the world, no matter what's going on in your life, this doesn't change. Because the word of God is forever settled in heaven. You say, well, you don't understand what's going on in my life. Well, I know what God said And God's revealed will is here. What God wants you to do is here. And that doesn't change just because things in your life are a little topsy-turvy right now. Just because things aren't going your way right now, just because culture says this is okay, God's word says no. And God's word doesn't change. So God's revealed will is absolute, so we don't get to go around and say, well, I get to do this because I think that's God's will for me if it goes against the Word of God. Because God's revealed will is here and God put it here because it's not subject to change. What does the Bible say that no scripture is of private interpretation. That God's just giving the same Bible to everybody. And it doesn't mean that you get to do one thing and I get to live another way because God put it in the Word of God and it doesn't change. It's established and it's established forever. God's revealed will is absolute. Secondly, uh the next point about this, God's revealed will is revealed. Uh kind of kind of Self-evident, right? But God has revealed his will and he put it in the Word of God so that you can know what it is. God didn't hide it. God didn't tuck it in a corner. God didn't say, well, you have to spend so much time in prayer and fasting before I show you what it is. I've only given it to preachers and they get to know, or you have to come to church to find out what no, God revealed his will. You want to know what God wants you to do, God put it here so that you could know. So you didn't have to wonder, so you didn't have to, it didn't have to be begged, so you could, as we were commanded to in Ephesians chapter 5 understand it. God revealed it so we could understand it. And it kind of kind of touched on this already, but God's revealed will is uniform. It's the same for everybody. What is God's will for believers? He laid it out in the Word of God. It's God's will for you to and name anything you want to as a command out of the out of the New Testament for us as Christians, understanding and we have an application throughout the Word of God, but what does God want you to do? He wants you to be faithful to the church. What does God want you to do? He wants you to read your Bible. What does God want you to do? He wants you to Suntire and prayer. What does God want you to do? He wants you to be a witness. We if you go on and on and on down the line, God's revealed will is uniform It's the same for me as it is for you because God put it in His Word for all of us. So this is the revealed will of God. The next point that we have in your notes there is what is God's revealed will? And that's where we're going to pick up next week on some things that God has said, obviously. It encompasses all of the Word of God. We've already hit on that already. But there's certain things God laid out in the Bible specifically, if I remember right, I think there's nine times that God talks about something being His will. And so we can take some application from those, but understand God's will covers anything that's been revealed to us as believers. So we'll look at those next week and then we're going to talk about God's applied will. And that's the first step in figuring out what God's plan is for your life, is to start taking what God wrote down here and start putting it into practice over here. That's God's applied will, and we'll talk about how that factors into things that God didn't put down in the Word of God. God didn't say thou shalt go to this church So how do I take what God said here and figure out what church to go to? How do I take what God says here and figure out what college to go to, what job to take? That's where we get into God's applied will, and then we'll conclude next week with the idea of God's plan for your life. How do I find what God wants me to do when it comes to the steps of a good man being ordered by the Lord as I'm living in subjection to his word and submitted to his spirit. So that's where we'll continue this study. next week, but I hope today we kind of laid that foundation of what's biblically discussed. We have some certain things God says this is going to happen no matter what. And that's called the will of God. And we have some things that God wants to happen and it happens and sometimes it doesn't, and that's called the will of God. But most of the time, will of God is referred to what God has put in here for me to do. And we get that understanding biblically and that's going to lead us into now the question we have, how do I find God's will for my life That's where we're going to take from the principles laid out in the Word of God and take that next step to apply it to our lives. But that's where we're going to stop for today. We'll pick that back up next week.