Alrighty, we are back in the book of Ruth in chapter number one, so you can turn in there to your Bibles, just going verse by verse and seeing what God has for us, trying to dig into this book. For the sake of time, we're not going to read the verses that we're going to be covering tonight as by way of introduction. We're just going to start getting into them and we'll read them as we go. But uh you just recall uh last week we saw the departure from the Lord uh that Limelech Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land and a certain A man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to sojourn in the country of Moab, and he and his wife and his two sons, and the name of the man was Limelech. And so Limelech uh decides to move his family, uh, departed from that place of blessing, departed from what we know to be the place or the house of bread. You see, God was chastening the nation of Israel. God had the nation of Israel had been disobedient. They didn't do what God told them to do. They didn't return his reproof. And so they ultimately were chastened. Uh God used four methods of chastening when he chastened the children of Israel through the pages of Scripture We see that he used famine more than any other method, but he used famine, but he also used pestilence, earthquakes, and war. Now those four events, those four areas where God used to judge or to uh chasten the children of Israel are also the four areas in which when you get into the looking at the end times in the book of Revelation, you'll see they are prevalent. They are on the scene. They're going to be used ultimately in the end of days to bring judgment upon all the nations. And at a time when you see those four things increasing, you know that the time of the Lord is at hand. You know that we are ever getting closer and closer. When you see them all four taking place at the same time in the same place, uh we are right there, the window uh of uh You know, opportunity for the Lord's return is right around the corner and uh certainly it cannot be that far off uh today But we see that Elimelech wanted to live by sight and not by faith. He decided, I'm just going to take my family and we're going to depart from the presence of the Lord. Beloved, you can run, uh, but you can't hide Elimelech decided I don't enjoy the chastening. I I I want to go and uh I want to be able to know that there's food on the table. I don't want to l endure this. And after all It's the nation of Israel that's being chastened, not me, and so he decides himself to depart from the presence of the Lord. The problem is, is when he does that, he moves uh his family to a place where they are enduring the chastening that God is bringing upon the nation. To a place where God is now bringing his chastening upon them as a family. Because they went and did their own thing. They departed from the presence of the Lord and weren't Adhering to what God had told them to do, of course, going to Moab, that picture of the old man, the picture of the flesh, going back to that life And uh they weren't supposed to do that. And so they his family is now under the chastening of the Lord. The the principle of chastening is found in the Word of God. It's a an established doctrine. No question tonight. I don't think I need to teach uh the principle of chastening, understanding that the Lord chastens them whom he loves, and that uh if if you're a child of God, God's going to chasten you. And so we see that they move into the discipline by the Lord in verses 3 through 5. And Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died, and she was left and her two sons. And they took them wives of the women of Moab. The name of the one was Orphan, the name of the other Ruth, and they dwelled there about ten years And Molon and Chileon died, also both of them, and the women was left of her two sons and her husband. We see here that the chastening of God is very real, that they individually, they personally begin to be disciplined by the Lord. Can you imagine the internal thoughts of Naomi? Can you imagine as she and her two daughter-in-laws were standing there over the graves, what she must have in her heart felt like, why did we ever come down here? Why did we ever leave the house of the Lord? This certainly was not worth what it cost. They wanted to find a place of bread, but what they ended up finding was bitterness You will find that later in the chapter that that's where Naomi is at. She's a bitter woman because of what has befallen her. Beloved, can I tell you that this is what the world does? You go out looking for fun, but what you end up finding is failure. You may go out and decide, boy, I want to go and I want to find some bread, but what you're going to find is bitterness. You may be looking and going to find some good times, but you're going to end up coming home with guilt. Just this week I was talking to somebody, a young person who in their twenties, when they they they're in their twenties now, but when they were younger they went out and they did what, you know, they sowed their wild oats and Now they're in the place where th they say, boy, the the guilt that I carry because of what I did in those days and and and I don't want to live that way anymore. Beloved, you'll go out and Satan's gonna sell you a bill of goods and it's all a good time. But You're going to carry the guilt. Because God is going to chase in whom He loves. She understood, beloved, that It was the hand of God that was against her. Look at verse number 13, the latter part, 13b. The Bible says, For it grieveth me much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. He said, Boy, the hand of God is against me. Look at verse number 21. I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again empty. You see, beloved, she understood that this wasn't just a string of bad luck. She understood this wasn't just that, oh, when it rains, it pours. It's not just the fact that, oh, when things come, they come in threes, and so we had to endure those three things, you know. No, she understood that it was the hand of God. And when you're running from God and from the will of God and what God wants you to do, you know when you're being chastened. You know when God is coming on the scene and when you when the hand of God is against you. At least you should know. Can I tell you that sometimes people seem as though they're completely ignorant of the fact. They seem as though they they have no knowledge of the judgment of God on their life and the chastening hand of God that is trying to get them to listen. And I tell you, before God chastens you, he calls you. He calls you. He sends the Holy Spirit. He tries to draw you back. Before the chastening of hand of God befalls onto any one of his believers, many times he sends a messenger to try and warn you. We see just we observed the Lord's Supper and uh we this last Sunday, and we saw there in that uh listen, if you would judge yourselves, you should not be judged. God is looking for and longing for his people to take care of things themselves before his chastening hand has to come. But we have all seen it. If you've been saved for very long, you've seen it where People have been running from God. And it seems like God is just busting them like one thing after another. And you're like, would you wake up? In my mind, I can picture and I could give you stories of individuals that endured it seemed like one tragedy and heartbreak after another, and you say, boy, would you just wake up? Would you see the chastening hand of God for what it is? She understood that God was chasing her. Beloved, only when we realize that the hand of God is upon us in judgment will we return. Only when that thought comes to us, you think of the prodigal son, the Bible says when he came to himself. You see the story of the prodigal for so long progressing down this trail and things getting worse and worse and worse and worse. It is a sad reality, beloved, that in when God chastens us, that most of the time he has to chasten his children to the point where there is nothing left. Where we are literally flat on our back, or we've lost everything that in this world we can hold on to so that we've got nothing else. And then We will, like the prodigal, wake up, come to ourselves and say, Oh my goodness, how did this happen How did I get so far? What is the mess that I'm in today, and why did I allow it to get to this place? When all the time God was trying to pull you back. But God's going to continue to chasten as long as you're running. Only when we reach the end of ourselves will we stop and look up. Because it seems that the nature of man is, as long as I've got enough strength to pull my own boots on and do what I gotta do, then I'm okay. When God says, no, you're not. I want to ask you tonight, beloved, what's your response to the chastening hand of God? There are three responses found in the Word of God. Would you turn to Hebrews chapter number 12? I just want you to see this. We're just going to look at these Hebrews chapter number twelve. These these are familiar verses, but powerful truths on the idea of chastening. We see in verse number five Picking up there, we'll just start there. He says, And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord. Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. We see two of the responses right here in this one verse. We see, first of all, that men have a tendency to forget The chase that it's the chasting hand of God. That's what happened to Olimelech He forgot that the nation was under the chastening hand of God and what God was trying to do, and he went and departed from that. And then he himself was under the chastening hand of God and They didn't respond to that. This word here, despise not. According to Strong's, the word despise there literally means My mind just went blank, so I need to find it. Disregard. It means to disregard. To forget. To pretend that it's not so. To act like it's not happening. And we see that many times, like a limelech, where God is chastening them, and I'm sure there's parts of this story that are not even revealed to us in the Word of God that over that 10-year period where they were living there, that God brought some things into their life that tried to get them to wake up. But they disregarded it. They forgot that it was the chastening hand of God. They didn't allow that chastening to work in their life. Like the nation of Israel that forgot it was a chastening of God, like a Limelech that forgot that God was chastening him, they disregarded it. We see secondly that some faint. He says there Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. You know, there's some that look at it and say it's too much. The chastening hand of God, it's more than I can bear. They get bitter instead of better. And we see that in this story with Naomi. That there's a bitterness that she begins to take on because the hand of the Lord is against her, she says. Now the hand of God was chasing her, trying to get them to return. But we see that some people they faint. The chastening hand of God is too much, but beloved, it's possible for some to flourish. When the chastening hand of God does its work in our life, oh look down at verse number 11. And we're not gonna, for the sake of time, we're not gonna read read all of this, but you see for whom the Lord loveth, verse number six. He chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as sons, for what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? We see that Principle being taught, but look down to verse number 11. Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous, nevertheless Afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Beloved There is the possibility to flourish with the chastening of God. When we respond correctly, that word exercise there, according to Strong's. Has the meaning of training. I saw Miss Leanne Playing the organ before church. And I heard the keys. She's up here and she's playing I said, Miss Leanne, just want to let you know there's no sound coming out. She was like, I know. That's on purpose. She's like, I'm practicing in my head. What what was she doing? She was training. She was allowing the time and the effort that she had put in and practice and training herself to be able to play the songs effectively. Beloved God wants to train us. And he brings chastening into our life. And when God exercises us, he trains us. We were downstairs in the kitchen last Sunday night, I think it was, and uh James Was of course down there running around with grandma and grandpa and John and Stephanie and uh having a good time. However, the ball went underneath the table And you know what happened? He went under there for it and he stood up. And it was doom! He starts screaming, right? And we thought, wow, John says he won't do that again. But wouldn't you know it? About three minutes later, a different table. But the same thing. We're all talking and he's over there. None of us are even looking at him. He's over there and all of a sudden you hear don't Oh he starts screaming again. I'm like, well he's gonna learn. You see he's being exercised. Sometimes in our life, God's whacking you, God's chasing you, He's trying to train you to say, listen, don't stand up there. Don't go those places. Stop communicating that way. Start doing this. God is trying to chasten us There's a great benefit to the believer that receives the chastening of God correctly. Just like a parent who correctly trains a child. We see that the discovery that God was blessing Israel again, we just turned back to the book of Ruth now. Joshua judges Ruth. If you if you're not careful you go right plastic because it's so short, you know. Um but Ruth we see in the book of Ruth, verse number six. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab, for she had heard In the country of Moab, how that the Lord had visited his people in giving them bread. So we see here a couple of things in this verse. First of all, Something that jumped out at me was just the phrase that the Lord had visited his people. Beloved, we need a visit from God We need God to come on the scene. Except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain to build it. Beloved, we need God to do his work in our midst. We need God to do his work in our lives. We see on the pages of Scripture that any time that God visited his people, miraculous things happened We see that God visited Sarah and she gave birth to a baby. We see that God visited Israel when he delivered them out of Egypt. God visited Hannah and she bare three sons and two daughters. God visited the church in the book of Acts, and thousands were saved and added to the church. When anytime God shows up, miraculous things happen. We see here that she acknowledges the fact or realizes that, man, God had visited his people. And began to bless them again with bread. And so she has a decision to return. We see, beloved, that her repentance Is real, that the idea of her returning, that's what repentance is, is leaving what was and going back to God, returning She was ready to leave Moab. We see a interesting phrase here, for she had We see that then she arose with her daughters-in-law that she might return from the country of Moab. She was going to return from that. She's going to leave that, return home. And leave behind Moab. That's what repentance is, and that's what we're supposed to do. You know, beloved, the Christian life really is a life of due beginnings. Where we return and start again. We commit again to follow Christ There are those that maybe you've heard testimony, or some have said, Well, I I began to follow Christ and haven't looked back since. Amen. But if I'm honest, can I tell you that hasn't been my testimony? If I'm honest, I I have to tell you that Even as I study the pages of Scripture, that for most people that we would call great heroes of our faith They were men who had to turn again, who had to return. They had to repent and return. I think of David, a man after God's own heart, who had to say Lord, uh create in me a clean heart and renew a right spirit within me. Beloved, the Christian life really is a a pattern of returning, a pattern of new beginnings You don't live life on the mountaintops. The only way to get to a mountaintop is to go through the valley. And sometimes in life, we've got to be ready to return to God This world beats you down, sin and the devil and the flesh gets a hold of you and it distracts us, and sometimes we're prone to wander. And beloved, don't get tired of the fact that we've got a return. That's what the house of God is for, and the Word of God is for, and the Spirit of God is for, because when we allow our mind to wander, when we allow our hearts to stray, God can pull us back. So we had the decision to return. We see in verse number six and seven here the decision that Naomi made. The decision to return to God. The Lord had visited the people and began to give them bread. I'm not sure at this point if she is really I just reading the story. I'm not sure if she's ready or completely repentant of all that's happened, or if she's just looking at the fact that, hey, there's bread over there. There's something that motivated her to return. But I question her current spirit because of the discussion of the three that we see in verses 8 through 13. Along as I read these verses. And Naomi said unto her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you as ye have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant you that ye may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voice and wept. And Naomi said unto her two daughters in law, Go, return each to her mother's house. The Lord, deal kindly with you, as ye have dealt with the dead and with me. And the Lord grant you. I'm reading verses twice, sorry. Are you there? Amen. Needed it twice tonight, I guess. The Lord grant you, and that you may find reach rest each of you in the house of her husbands. Then she kissed them and lifted up their voice and wept. And then said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto thy people. And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters. Why will you go with me? Are there not yet any more sons in my womb that they may be your husbands? Turn again, my daughters, go your way, for I'm too old to have a husband. And if I should say I have hope If I should have an husband also tonight and should bear a son, would ye tarry for them till they were grown? Would ye stay for them having husbands? Nay, my daughters For it grieveth me for your sakes that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. We see this discussion between them We see these three individuals here in the conversations, Naomi, the picture of the prodigal, which we have discussed and talked about already, the returning backslider, and we see Orpah, the professor Who's a picture of the departing sinner and Ruth the possessor? Who's a picture of the overcoming believer? You see, Naomi encourages her daughters to go back, to go home. She sent them back to the place where she only found bitterness. Why would she do that? What would be her motivation? Can I tell you, beloved, you need to be careful about getting advice from a bitter saint? A bitter saint will do a lot more damage than a lost sinner will do. The Bible tells us that very clearly, that it's by bitterness that many are defiled. And we see here her giving very bad advice to these two ladies because of her own bitter heart and her own bitter condition. There's much speculation as to why she would have encouraged them to go back to their gods and back to their land. Maybe she just wanted to give them the option. Here, do do what you want to do. Don't feel like you have to go with me. Maybe she was concerned about how they would be received. You understand that Moabites weren't well received in Israel. They didn't really have any expectation that anybody in Israel was going to You know, quite possibly they would be enduring some very great prejudice against them. Maybe she's worried about that. Maybe she wanted to hide the evidence Of her own backslidden condition. You see, had she gone home without them Whatever, but with them, oh, these are my daughters-in-law. Oh, your sons married Moabites? Oh, what? Maybe she didn't really want to have the evidence with her I recall one night when I was hanging drywall just recently this came to light when I was talking to Tim about it. I don't remember the motivation of the conversation why it came up, but I was hanging drywall. And this is back before a lot of the mechanical tools we have today and we pre-cut everything with a utility knife, cut everything out. And I I I I got paid by the sheet, so the faster I hung, the more money I made And uh it was late at night, it's one o'clock in the morning or something. I'm a college student, I'm hanging drywall, and uh I cut out a kitchen wall, which the kitchen wall always has a lot of plumbing, and it has plugs all over the place And it might have a vent for a downdraft stove or whatever. I remember this wall being all cut up, and I measured the whole thing and I cut it all out. And took it up there and I did it backwards. And with that many cuts, there's nothing you can do. It's trash. I mean, you can't. So I I got rid of it. I did it again And I reversed everything, all my numbers, all my measurements, but this time I cut it brown out. So it fit perfect, except it was brown out. Which sets the back of the drywall. For those of you who don't know, the brown side is supposed to be against the wall. The white side is supposed to be out. Another sheet that's trash. So I set that aside. I cut it again and I made the same problem I made on the first sheet. I did it backwards. That's three times in a row. Now I've been working for about an hour and a half and I haven't made a dime. And I got three sheets there and I just took my nail belt off, dropped it, went, shut the lights off, closed the door, got my truck and went on. I was so frustrated. I'm like, how in the world? I three times it's too late. My mind's not processing. It is not worth it. I'm going home. So the next day when I come on the job, I walk in. The contractor and a couple other people are standing there and they're they're actually just laughing. I'm walking in, they're looking at me laughing. And I'm like, what? And they're looking at the kitchen. They're laughing. I'm still trying to figure out what. And the contractor says, you should have at least hid the evidence. He said three times? You cut it three times? And they thought that was really humorous. Now to my defense, uh as far as hiding the evidence, I I I felt like that was dishonest because I I got paid by the sheet and if I cut those sheets up and threw 'em in the dumpster I got paid for those three sheets and I didn't hang 'em on the wall. And so for me it was like I was trying to hide I just couldn't I couldn't in good conscience throw them away, which is why I didn't. But he's he's like, Yeah, you should have hid the evidence. He's like, they're trash. There's nothing we could do with them. You're gonna have to put them in the dumpster anyway. He said, I'll pay you for them, don't worry about it But man, I was so frustrated and I wanted to hide the maybe she wanted to hide the evidence. Maybe she just didn't want them to see it. Certainly the prospect for their marriage was very poor. She's like, I don't I don't have any other boys. I can't get any boys. I don't have a mate. If I had a mate and I had a boy today, would you wait around 20 years for him? You know, it's be 20 years, 21 if you count carrying the child before they would be available for marriage, according to Jewish law. Would you wait that long? No, you're not going to wait that long. Maybe she was worried about providing for them. She was in bad state, no means to care for them. Here's what I know, whatever the cause or the purpose, we see that she appears to be focused on the physical The entire description here, ever all of her reasoning is just physical things. And I want to give you another piece of advice. When you have somebody that has given you guidance or advice for your life and It's all just physical. Let a little warning flag go up. Let a little warning. Because the physical is the least important, the spiritual is much more important. And you need to not that the physical or practical things are not part of it. We weigh those, and the prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. So there's There's not an aspect where you don't consider the physical, but listen, you need to realize if there are if there are spiritual implications that need to be made, uh, if they're not being made, it ought to be a warning to you. We see that Naomi shows whom she believed in. There's two phrases which point that out. First she says, the Lord deal kindly with thee. She said it twice, and she said it three times in the passage that I read, because I read it twice for those of you that weren't paying attention. So the Lord grants you, she says, the Lord grants you that ye may find rest. So she was, you know, she understood whom she believed in, even though she was telling them to go back to their gods You see, Naomi's wish for them in verse number nine that they would find rest in the home of their husband. I just want to point out to you that the home should be a place of rest. The home should be a place where there is peace, where there is rest, where that is an escape from the world That is one of the privileges of a godly home. That it is a place of rest. That you look forward to being there. And ultimately, husbands, you're responsible. We carry the weight. Before God, we're going to be held responsible. But can I tell you that kids and wives, you play a role? Where dad is the strength of the home, mom is the spirit of the home. I wonder, Mom, what kind of spirit are you building in the home? Is it a place of rest? Is it a refuge from the world? Her wish for her two daughters-in-law is that she would get married and that she would find rest with her husband. That the home ought to be a place of rest. We see thirdly here the departure of Orpah in verse number fourteen. And they lifted up their voice, and they wept again, and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clave unto her. And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is going back unto her people and unto her gods. Return thou after thy sister-in-law. We'll get to Ruth here in a moment, but I want you to see the Orpha. She may have loved Ruth. She may have loved her mother-in-law, but she loved her land more. She had something back there that she wanted to hold to. Matthew Henry says this. Thus Many have a value and an affection for Christ and yet come short of salvation by Him. Because they cannot find it in their hearts to forsake other things and cleave only to Him. Yes, they love him, and yet they leave him because they don't love him enough. Lockyer says, Orfa kissed her mother-in-law, but it was just a kiss from her lips, not a kiss from her heart. It was just a surface love because she loved other things. And beloved, as I thought of that, I could only think of the rich young ruler. Whom Jesus was speaking to, and Jesus said, If thou wilt be perfect, go sell that thou hast and give to the poor that thou hast treasure in heaven and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, He went away sorrowful for he had great possessions. Beloved, he had something, yes, he wanted to be with Jesus. Yes, he loved Jesus, but he had something else he wanted more. Something he was looking for more, something he was holding to more. And Orpha went back to Moab. Back. To the gods which she served, back to her old way of life, and can I tell you, back to a Christless eternity You see, there's great disaster for one who turned towards God but didn't trust God. This is what we see with Orvis. She turned towards God. She had a form of godliness, but denied the power thereof. You see, for them it wasn't real. They enjoyed the atmosphere as long as it was comfortable There are those who come to church or carry their Bibles or they begin the walk of the Christian life. They turn towards God, but they haven't trusted God for their salvation and their soul because they're still holding on to other things. They haven't put their feet complete faith and trust in Jesus They're holding on to the world. And as long as things in the church are comfortable, they're enjoying that. But when it gets uncomfortable, they're going to turn back. Beloved, it's sad, but they're as lost as they were the day they first heard. They enjoy the fellowship of the church family, but they've yet to have faith to believe in God. And they're in a bad way because they've tasted of the work of the grace of God. They've known the conviction of the Spirit of God, where God spoke to them and drew them. And yet they have rejected it. And the Bible tells us in several different passages the idea of the hardening of the heart. And each time somebody rejects The wooing of Christ, the pulling of the Holy Spirit, their heart gets a little bit harder. It's a little harder for them to ultimately repent and turn back to God. And beloved, I don't know if Ruth was brokenhearted over Orfa's decision or just that she departed and went back. But we see here that there was some emotion. It says that they wept. They wept together. And they lifted up their voices and wept again. As they said their goodbyes. Can I tell you, beloved, it's possible for somebody to have a lot of emotion and still not be saved? They can enjoy the feeling and the drawing, they can enjoy the fellowship and the camaraderie, but still not having turned to Christ. We see here the emotion, but It wasn't enough to keep her. And I don't know if Ruth was, Naomi was brokenhearted over this, but Can I tell you, beloved, every Christian should be brokenhearted when we see somebody turn back to the world And we see one who were part of the family, and for whatever reason, they they decide to quit on God, and Lord willing, hopefully they they did put their faith and trust in Christ If not, they're off to a Christeless eternity. I told you before we had a young man. Well, not so young, younger than I am now, but older than I was when I was there. He uh he was like he could quote the Bible like nobody's business. Somebody up there preaching and he would begin a verse and He could finish it all the time. Finish the verse, finish the verse. He could see all this stuff. Well one Sunday, all of a sudden, he didn't come to church. And he never came back. And he left his wife and his six kids. And he said, I never believed any of it. It was all a lie. I don't even believe in God. I don't know how that's possible. I will tell you this, for a long time She was covering up for him. Because he wasn't living right. He wasn't doing right And she was just covering up, just hiding it. You know, he would miss things and she'd be like, oh, he's not feeling good today. When that wasn't what he was doing. Gotta be careful about that. We're gonna bring this to a conclusion. We'll see the dedication of Ruth in verses 16 through 18 next week. We're going to bring this to a conclusion tonight here. I wonder if they're standing there and they're waving goodbye. I wonder if Ruth and Naomi stood on the crest of a hill and waited to watch Orfood pass off in the distance. She was not a Christian. She went to a Christless eternity. Well, it ought to break the heart of every believer when we see people that we know and care about and they turn from God and go back to the world, the flesh, and these things. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and her eyes closed