Let's let's open the word of prayer. Lord, we love you today. I'm thankful I'm saved today. I'm thankful somebody was interested enough in my soul to invite me to church. And then, Lord, open to the gospel and getting saved. I pray if there's anybody here this morning that's not 100% sure they're saved And on their way to heaven, I pray to get settled today. And I pray, as us as Christians, as we're here today, help us not to be settled with being a lukewarm Christian I pray help us to have open ears and open minds and open hearts to what the truth of God says. I pray be that the preacher and his wife that their way. I know his heart is here, and his wife's heart is here I pray you'd encourage them and strengthen them. And Lord, we'll be careful today to give the praise, the honor, and glory, for we ask it in Jesus. Jesus' name, Amen. Revelation chapter three, beginning in verse number fourteen. And unto the angel of the church of Laodiceans write, These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. I know thy works. That thou art neither cold nor hot. I would that thou wert cold nor hot So then, because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. I think it's important to understand that the first thing in a Christian's life, and I think sometimes what happens is we become settled and content in where we are in our Christian life. And I don't know if you're like this, but sometimes you can come to a place where you think that you don't need to make change. And you're so far, and I'm so far from that. I I say this all the time. If I was perfect, I would already be in heaven. Amen. That's what happened with Enoch, right? God took him. He had a perfect relationship with God and God took him. The bottom line is I need to be a kind of person who's not settled where I am in my life. I need to make changes. The first thing I want to look at is cold Christianity is like Lot sitting in Sodom Cardinal, fleshly, away from God, with no apparent difference between it and the world. Turn your Bibles if you would. We're going to do a little turning this morning. Genesis 13. Genesis 13 The first person I want to look at is I want to look at The man we all know is Lot. Lot chapter, I mean yeah, Lot chapter. Genesis chapter 13 and verse number 8. Genesis 13, verse 8. Genesis 13, verse 8. And Amram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee. Between my herdmen and thy herdmen. For we be brethren. Here's what he's saying. Watch, watch, listen. So Abram's the leader. He allows Lot to go with him. I don't know if that was a good move. It wasn't maybe of the Lord that he was supposed to take him. But he decides to take him. I really believe this is the first sign, honestly If you want to talk about it, of a little bit of a welfare system, is Lot was getting his blessings because of Abraham. I want you to think about that for a minute. There's some times in life where God blesses you in spite of you. Ever been there? And I believe that Lot is getting blessed because of who he's with. And I think we're going to see now, after Lot makes a decision, that he's going to make a decision of really where his heart is. Now we don't know sometimes, but when we come to church, we all look pretty good. Hello? But but honestly, God knows where we all are. And the bottom line is God doesn't want us to become settled, but the bottom line is if you're cold here today, there needs to be some changes made. And you listen, you get no brownie points, it's a good thing, but you get no brownie points just for coming to church. There's a lot of people who just come to church. Well before I got saved, I went to the Roman Catholic Church and I went to Catholic Church. I mean they taught me about God in my head, but it wasn't until I got God from my head to my heart that it changed my life. And it was just, you're not ready? It was just like, you ready? It was just like some kind of obligation for me to do. God help us As individual fundamental Baptist Christians, that we just come, come on, because we feel like we have to go to church. And we listen, we come into church and we leave the same way we came in with no change. Listen, listen, listen to me. That's what's happening in the liberal churches. They did they just want to have itching ears. Come on now. They don't want conviction. They just want to be settled where they are. God help us. God help it if I'm ever that kind of way. So here's Lot. He's about ready to make a decision. Abram says, Hey, look, you go here, I'll go there. Here you go. Here's the story. Is not the whole now let me just pause here for a second. So so could not Abram and Lot got along? Can God provide land when you need it? Watch, watch, let me stop here. Let me stop just one second. Do you think God can provide a building for you when you need it? Come on, we're sitting in it. Hello? A lot of people in the storefront never thought probably Hunt Valley Baptist Church be in a building. That's getting quiet right now, but that's a fact. There's a lot of people when you have a little vision and a pastor has a little vision, sometimes people want to throw water on your vision. But you need to keep having vision and you need to keep going forwards. Come on now. Because we I talked about it in the Sunday school this morning. You have no idea what God could do with your life until you give your life to God. So we're sitting in it today. I remember over there when we were cutting that wall in between that building, Lord have mercy. Good night. And the steel work and the welding and jackhammering in the middle of the night when you're trying to go to sleep, amen? Wanting to kill somebody, amen? But I think sometimes we just listen, I don't think sometimes we have enough faith what God can do in our lives. And I think sometimes we limit God on what he can do. Listen, I said it in my Sunday school message, and let me just pause here for a second. Can you imagine if everybody In Hunt Valley Baptist Church was on fire for God. Do you know what kind of church this would be? Oh, it's getting real quiet now. That's because not all of us are on fire. Sometimes we have seasons. So here we go. Alright, here we go. I don't want to get ahead of myself. Verse 9: Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If thou will take the left hand, then I will go to the right. If thou will depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left. So look what Lot does. And Lot lifted up his eyes, and behold, all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere. Before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest unto Zoar. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan, and Lot journeyed east, and they separated themselves the one from the other. And Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent towards Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. And we eventually see Lot in Sodom. Now that's what happens when you get to be a cold Christian. And sometimes in life we get to a point in our life, you ready? Where we just don't even care. And the bottom line is we become so cold that the Holy Spirit of God can't speak to us And we wonder sometimes why we make bad decisions and why we do the wrong things. It's because sometimes we're not interested in what God has to say. We're just interested in what we want to do. That's the cold Christian. Number two, the lukewarm Christian has a form of godliness. Second Timothy, chapter number three. Second Timothy chapter three Second Timothy chapter three and we'll read one to five 1 to 5. Start in verse number 1. Second Timothy 3, 1 through 5. This know also that in The last days perilous times shall come. Can I ask a question? Do you think we're in the last days? Are things bad right now? Hello Alright, watch it. Here's what happens. For men shall be lovers of their own selves. Woo! Come on now. We live in there now. I I think about this professional sports. I love watching some of it, but I don't I try to watch college more than I watch professional sports. Because professionals think they're all that in a bag of chips. Come on now. Like listen, like LeBron James. You know why I don't like LeBron James? Because he claims himself to be King. The only king I know is King Jesus. Amen? I'm just saying it's not King James, okay? I know he's an athlete in the whole nine yards, but he's not King, alright? King Jesus is King, alright? I'm just saying. Now let's think for a minute. Before he dribbles a basketball, I think he was at 160 million. He's probably at 190 million dollars. Before you even dribble the basketball. How many think that's a lot of money? How many think I'd like to have just one million? I'm thinking like some of them need to go to church somewhere and give a bunch of money. Amen. Come on now. We take a million here in Hunt Valley. Amen. Sod Rock take a few million of that. Amen. Come on now. But here you go, ready? In the Christian life, it's supposed to be all about Jesus. Yes, sir. In the lukewarm Christianity, it's all about them. Because they love themselves, come on, more than they love anybody else. Can I ask the question? Who do you love? And what do you love? And that will show you where your heart is, because that's where you put most of the time into. Alright, here we go. Let's keep going. You're holding me up. Here we go. Covetous, boasters, there you go, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents Unthankful and unholy. Wait, wait a second, wait a second. I don't know. Maybe I'm just going back to old school. When I was growing up, if you did not obey, you got hit with a backhand Or a belt or whatever else was in their hand. Amen? You were going to obey how quickly? Like right now. Like kids today. Like like they don't want to obey right now. You know, you know what I'm looking at right now Do you do you know what kind of game I'm playing right now? Do you want me to answer when? Hello I mean, come on now. I'm talking about people who are obedient. When I was growing up Imma, I lived in I lived in a in a row home and uh there was fifty houses on one side and fifty houses on the other side together. It was a hundred houses on one block. On my block there's there's at least five hundred people. If you did something outside in the street The neighbor would call your parent and you'd get beat for that. Amen? I'm thinking this is wrong, amen. Come on now. I mean you couldn't get away with nothing. Hello? And then my dad taught me a couple things. He taught me this. He said, You ready? You're always respectful to somebody. You hold the door for people. The Bronson and I were out last night, we were eating eating dinner, and we were over at the Texas Roadhouse, and there was a kid there, and I I don't know why I didn't give him money. But but he was he was probably about, I'm gonna say ten or eleven, and he's holding the door for everybody coming in. I'm thinking, that boy's been taught right. Amen? Come on now I mean holding the door. Now watch. Here you go. Ready? Unthankful. Listen, I got a grandson, he's four years old. If he sees something on TV, he says, uh, I want that. Yeah, I want I I want that. He has no idea what he's saying. The world is polluting his mind. He doesn't need that. But they want you to think you need that. I just remember, I just remember, right when my kids were really little. And you buy them these nice presents. And the baby plays with the box and the wrapping paper. I'm thinking, how dumb are we here? Amen? Come on now. Seriously. But my dad taught me: always have manners Always say please and always say thank you. My dad, if you didn't say thank you, he'd take what he gave you back. Hello, you learned real quick, amen. Verse 3. Without natural affection, good night. We there today, huh? Can I help you today? The Bible says Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve. It doesn't matter what they're peddling. Do you hear me? It's against the Bible. That's where it is. It doesn't matter what they say. Come on. It matters what the Bible says. Come on, we need to take some stands on some things we believe in. Come on now. Without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fears, despivers of those that are good. Woo! We're there today, right? Was a day when when good was here and evil was here. That's changed. How's that working out? Is America any kind of resemblance to what it was when it was founded? Lord have mercy We got some stuff left, but not all of it. It's crazy. It's really nuts Despise of them as verse 4, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God. Wow, that's where we're at today, man. You watch the kid go into a restaurant? What do they usually have in their hands? Come on, they got a tablet, they got a phone, they got something to occupy them. My dad's occupy occupation was a belt. Amen. And you would sit in your little seat and pay attention and you would not scream or holler or you'd have to go visit in the bathroom. Hello? Some of you young kids know what I'm talking about. Amen. Come on now. Act crazy. Alright, here's what I do. Sometimes I'll be in the store and a kid will act up. And I'll find out which aisle it is, and I'll go there and I'll give them a look. And the kids stop trying. Do you know do you know when you check out why they have candy and all that at the checkout counter? Do you think they just thought about that clearly like that just happened that way? No. It's so the did you ever have kids like, you know, like fall out and the mom is so embarrassed she gives it to them, amen? Come on now. I'm ready to beat the parent, amen. That's what I'm ready to do. Hello. I'm not beating the kid, I'm beating the parent, amen. Verse 9. Having the form of godliness. But the tie denying the power there for such turning away. Listen, that's what it was when I was a Roman Catholic. It was the power. Come on. But but it wasn't you ready? It was the form, but not the right power. It's something to follow, but it's not something to believe in. And it wasn't until I was 25 years old, so I trusted Christ as my personal Savior and heard for the first time in a Baptist church it was Jesus plus nothing to get to heaven. And I said, you know what, that can't be right. That's not what I was taught. So they taught me a lie? I went to twelve years of Catholic school and they taught me a lie? Listen, I was in eighth grade, I w I I I was pretty much into religion a little bit, and I was thinking, I was contemplating on being a priest When I was in eighth grade, then I started liking girls and that was the end of the story, amen? I wasn't going there. Hello. It's normal guys if you like a girl, okay? Hello. Don't pursue that any farther than that. But anyway, amen. I always thought now I got a granddaughter, ain't nobody getting close to her, amen. I'll have a cage around her, amen. I'm just saying. But here's the problem with somebody who's lukewarm. Sometimes what we call well-balanced, God calls vomit. Why would God tell this church he would rather have them be cold? And why would Jesus choose an S student cold over a C student lukewarm? Why wouldn't he have said a nominal Christian over an inadequate condition? And here's the reason why. You ready? Watch. I believe the cold Christian nowhere's where he is. The lukewarm Christian just thinks he's okay. I'm okay, you're okay. Can I help you here? Except for the grace of God, I would not be here today. It's only by his grace, come on now, that he saved me and I'm here today. Hello. If it was my choice, come on, and I wasn't saved today, I wouldn't be here. But by the grace of God. So let me give you three points, maybe this morning, and we'll get it out. The first problem we have with somebody who's a lukewarm Christian is number one, he is in spiritual danger. And he doesn't even know it. Go back to Revelation chapter three. Revelation chapter three. He's in spiritual danger. 317. Revelation three, verse seventeen. Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. I was thinking about this and I thought about some people in the Bible. Sometimes cold, you become you ready? You understand when somebody's the cold Christian the need they have. Sometimes a lukewarm Christian thinks he's doing fine. He says, I'm not doing stuff too bad like Lot was. He said, I'm not overboard like a hot Christian, but I'm not wicked like a cold Christian. I have need of nothing. Lukewarm was the position that David was in when he sinned with Bathsheba. That was when Moses was in a lukewarm strait when he smoked the rock when he was supposed to speak to it. Peter was in the same condition when he denied Christ when he never thought he'd do that. When we keep a safe distance from the world and from the Savior, we are in danger. Turn your Bibles to 1 John chapter number 2. 1 John chapter 2. Back to the Bible. Three Johns, Jude, and Revelation. First John two fifteen through seventeen says this. First John two fifteen through seventeen. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. I don't know if you could be any clearer than that. Right. Listen, we are in this world, but we are not of this world. This is not your home if you are a Christian today. We're just sojourning. Amen. We're here for a short period of time. Come on. Our home is in eternity with God. Amen? That's forever. But listen, the world Where's Caleb at? Caleb. Come here for a second, would you please? Come here for a minute. Is this Caleb? No. Why did I? Caleb left. Timothy, come here, Tim. I'm sorry, Tim. I usually use Tim. Sorry, Tim. I'm getting old, Tim. Tim look man looks sharp. Looks sharp. That's a sharp-looking suit, man. And now listen to me. Kim is going to represent the world. Okay? I'm the Christian. Do you know how close I want to be to the world? Come on, come on. I want to be as close as I possibly can. Come on. So I can just say it's not really affecting me, but I'm really enjoying the world. Do you know how far I should be away from the world? As far as I possibly can get. Most people like both. You ready? One foot in the world, one foot with the Lord. But you can't serve two masters. You're either going to love the world or you're going to love God. There's no in-between. You think you can do it. Have you tried it? It doesn't work. You can't serve two masters. You'll love the one and hate the other. The question is, what's your choice? Well you say, well, you know, I I I no watch, watch, watch. The way you live already tells us how you chose. That's you. Is that worth it? What do you say when somebody gives you something? Thank you. You're welcome. Sammy, here. Tim, this is put this in the offering. Don't you spend this cabble. Just take you out, bro. That dollar goes in the offering plate. Alright, I'm gonna check you out, bro. I know how you I know how you are, amen. Timmy hold on every six dollars of that thing, amen. Alright, look at the next part of the verse. Verse 16. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth for how long? Forever. Do you know how I can have the blessing of the Lord in my life and how you can have it in your life? Just do what God wants you to do. You say, Well that's easy. Yeah. Hello? That's not as easy as I just said. There's battles, there's trials, there's temptations, there's struggles, there's pulls. Come on now. And the bottom line is, you have to make a decision that you're going to love God more than you love the world. And what you love is what you're going to put into. Hello? If you love the Lord and you love the church, you ready? Watch. You'll give to the church. Oh, it's getting real quiet. Because when you start talking about money, everybody gets nervous. Hello? And you it's been preached to you, you know it, but why don't we do it? Ten belongs to God. It doesn't even belong in your pocket. That's God's I'm not even talking about your other funny money you have, amen. I'm just talking about 10% that belongs to God. He's in spiritual danger and the bottom line is he doesn't even know it. Did you ever listen, I'll tell you what happened to me. I had my big sprinter van. Most people saw my sprinter van I had here when I was working. I was coming from Williamsport, Pennsylvania, and there was a snowstorm. And so the preacher told me there's a different way you can go. But what he didn't tell me was that that it's back roads and it sloped. And like like like like only two vehicles can fit on this road. I'm thinking I got the other guy Ed with me who came here and worked at the building. I'm thinking We might not get home alive. I'm thinking, good night, couldn't you tell me? I should have stayed on the highway? Hello? I didn't even know I was in danger. Hello? And when you push the detour button, there was no other way to go. No other way to go. It's just Did you ever do stuff where your your knuckles are like you're like Yeah, that's where I was, amen. I'm crying. For God's help the whole way down. I got the emergency break. I'm holding on to that. I'm turning sideways a little bit. What I'm trying to say to you is sometimes we're in spiritual danger and we don't even recognize it. And sometimes in life, you ready? We we just pull away from God and we just think everything is okay. Now watch, watch. Then when something happens, all of a sudden God gets our attention. Can I ask your question? When that happens, how quick do you want God to answer your prayer? But you're in spiritual danger and you don't even know it. Yet you want God to show up. Thank God for the grace grace and the mercy of God. Go back to Revelation chapter number three again. And the second point is he's in spiritual poverty. He's in spiritual danger. He's in spiritual poverty. Verse eighteen and verse nineteen. Eighteen and nineteen, I'm sorry. Revelation 3, 18 and 19. I cancel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich, and white raiment that thou mayest be clothed. That the shame of thy nakedness do not appear, and anoint thy eyes with eyes that thou mayest see. As many as thy love I rebuke, and chasting. Be zealous therefore and what? Now let me just hear something with you When I come to church, I'm out a lot preaching, but when I'm sitting in the pew where you're sitting right now, I just I just want God to speak to me. Like like like like I want God to do something in my life. Like like like I need help. And and I like like when God says something to me, and this is what is scaring me all across In my case, just the Northeast. We have become, come on, accustomed with not making decisions for the Lord And sometimes what we do is we just say, I can do this in my pew. Like like what do we have the altar for? Well the the altar is a part of sacrifice. Come on, come on. It is submission. We have a hard time with that. Because we like control. Can I help you this morning? And I'm this way. When God speaks to me, I just go. Listen, I don't even care if the whole world sees me going. You understand what I'm talking about? But we're losing it on this altar. We're losing it. I'm telling you. And you you listen to me. Now you could be older, and maybe you can't come down here, but you could come down here and stand. You could sit, but there's just something about getting out of your seat and recognizing where you are with God. Now it's getting really quiet today. But I'm telling the truth here. Listen to me, I preach a lot. I'm at a lot. I don't want to ever get to the point where I'm settled where I am. I like like I'm in spiritual danger. I don't even recognize it. I'm in spiritual poverty. Can I ask you a question? When's the last time you read your Bible and you got something from God? Not because you did it out of duty, but because the Holy Spirit of God spoke to you. Come on, man. If it's been that long, something's gotta change. Listen, if things aren't working, you've got to change. But here's what we do. We become accustomed to what we're doing, and we just keep doing the same routine over and over. Do you know that's insanity? So what is it going to take for us to wake up? I always pray that God, listen to me, every morning I say, God, I I have a schedule, God. Here's my plan today. But would you direct my plans to be your plans? And if there's a divine appointment, if there's somebody I'm supposed to talk to today, help me to recognize it And not be too busy to listen to somebody. I'm the kind of guy who's always talking, and sometimes it's hard for me to just be quiet. Hello? So when I when I get alone with God, I I just I just want to get alone and be still. And I want to say, God, God, what do you want from my life? What do you want me to do? I don't want to become a person who's cold hearted. I don't want to be somebody who's lukewarm so that I'm in spiritual danger and I don't even recognize it. And I got poverty in my life. Help me to be somebody who cares. I said a story in Sunday school. I I had prostate cancer and we had a fellow who was a pastor was coming Supposed to come to the summit and he canceled out the summit. I called him up. I said, I said, preacher, can I help you with maybe getting here or finances or whatever? He said, no, I have prostate cancer. I said, okay, I have it. I said, where are you at the beginning stages? He said, uh, just go to the doctors. I said, you know, maybe the devil doesn't want you to come. Maybe God wants you to come. So he came. Do you know why he came? He listened to a guy who already was going through that cancer. Come on now. Now listen very carefully. Whatever you're going through in life. Understand that God wants to use it in your life to help somebody else. That doesn't make it easier when you're going through it. And I know there's a lot of people going through things. Today in this church. But God wants you to help somebody else with it. Give them a little more encouragement. Hello. Listen, listen, if we ever believe today that God is in control or he's not. So did God know that I was going to get prostate cancer? It didn't take God by surprise, right? So God allowed it, right? Sometimes we say, like, oh, I can't no, stop. Stop. God is in control. We either believe it and live like that, or just throw the whole thing out. Come on now. But we don't believe it sometimes. Listen, we believe it as long as everything's going well When problems happen, like, oh god, why is this happening? Stop. Why not happening to you? Listen, they didn't treat the Lord right when he was here. So should you be treated right too? Come on now. We represent Christ. We're Christians. Supposed to be Christ-like. There's going to be problems. How many of you have problems? Raise your hand. If you didn't raise your hand, you got problems, amen. Yeah, you're the person I'm talking to today, amen. Hello. You don't even know you got problems, amen We're in spiritual poverty. We got hobbies. Sports, fishing, Xbox, hunting. How doesn't that go on and on? What we want to do, good, clean, comfortable, living, blind, true spiritual conviction. Our condition gets blinded. Living in America, good night. How many here at Thanksgiving? Good night. I try to eat myself sick. Desserts? Are you kidding me? I'm carving the turkey. I want to, I'm like trying to sample it as I go. Amen? Hello. Blessed beyond measure. I haven't missed a meal. I could lose a couple meals. Amen? Come on now. What I'm trying to say to you tonight today is sometimes because of us being so Well fed and well-blessed, we missed the whole spiritual part. Because we're feeding from the world. And listen to me. You hear me and hear me good. I'm serving God and I'm going around the Northeast because I'm looking to get the next generation. I'm looking to reach young people. That's what God's called me to do. I'm preaching to people, older people, that's fine. But I reach them kids. They got more of a life to serve God. Hello? I mean they get on fire for God. One of them kids get on fire for God, they can leave a whole youth group. Come on now But I don't I don't want to be somebody who's just satisfied. Listen, I'm not What I used to be. Praise God for that. Woo! It's only the grace of God is standing today. 17 years old, pretty close to being an alcoholic, lose your dad at 14. Who knows? I mean, God Got involved in my life. Listen, I'm not what I used to be. You ready? But I'm not what I should be God's still working on me, man. Woo! I'm construction inside. I'm a big project. Amen? Hello. So is brother Gus. Amen. And the last point, and we're through, he's in spiritual separation. Separation from the Savior, not to the Savior. Let me say that again. Separation from the Savior, not to the Savior. Revelation 3. 20. We'll look a couple places and we'll close. Behold, I stand at the door and Listen, he's knocking somebody today. He's knocking at your heart today The question is, are you gonna answer? Listen, did you did you ever like when somebody knocks on your door you don't answer it? Like a Jehovah's False Witness. Come on now. What do you usually do that you act like nobody's home? Some of us don't have to act that way. We're normally that way. Amen. I fit into that build, amen. But here's the Lord. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and Open the door. I will come in unto him, and I will sup with him, and he with me. Woo! You know what I'm glad? Woo! I'm glad for the mercy of God. Woo! And no matter how far I get from God, God still loves me. It's hard to comprehend. You ready? I love you if you love me. If you don't love me, I don't love you. That ain't the way it's supposed to be, but that's normally how it is. Jesus said we're supposed to love our enemies. How many of you have ever had a bad neighbor? Lord have mercy. I got one right now. All his trees and all his leaves come on my property. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He doesn't cut his trees. What I want to do is like there's fifty bags of leaves. I want to take them, I want to fill the bag up, and I want to dump it over the fence in Jesus' name. Amen. Now that's not a good testimony, but that's what I want to do in the flesh. But that ain't going to win them to Jesus. Hello? So I can excuse it, right? No, you. Ah. Such a slick come on. Loser. Come on now. Depending on where your framework is. And what you believe in. All right, turn to one other verse. James chapter 4. And I'll close with an ending thing and we're Oh the history nothing but a mystery, all right? James four eight It's a tough one to swallow right here. Four eight. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. That really sounds deep, doesn't it? You know what that means? That means today you're as close to God as you choose to be. That's what that means. You're as spiritual today as you choose to be spiritual. You chose it, right? Salvation cannot be changed, because that's eternal. That is a relationship. That depends upon Jesus, not you. So once saved, always saved. Eternal security. But the other word is fellowship. Because you are as close to God as you choose to be. Listen to me, I'm as close to my wife as I choose to be. Just got mad, we're just married 43 years. What I'm trying to say to you, to have a right marriage, to have the right fellowship, you have to spend time with them And do you know I still don't understand my wife in 43 years? Can I get a witness right there? Amen? Hallelujah. Because I don't think like her. Do you know that women think differently? Huh. Like, don't you understand what? No, I don't. I have no idea. Forty-three years I still don't have it. Amen. Hello. Look at the rest of the verse. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. So you know what that means? Ready? Ready? Watch. So here's what it means. So when I get closer to God, I'm going to really see where I am. Most of us don't know where we are, because we're not close to God enough. So how in the world are you gonna know unless you get close? Hello? Do you know how you get close? I'm gonna help you. Come into church. Well that happens, but here you go, ready? Right here. The Bible. It's a mirror. Sometimes I don't like what it says. Matter of fact, sometimes I disagree. That doesn't change the word of God. Hello? The person that's got to change is me. God doesn't have to change. I got to change Listen, how many of you have ever told somebody your mind? I ain't got much of a mind, so I can't tell too many somebody a lot of stuff. Amen. Hello? Did you ever you ready did you ever get ready to say something and you knew it was wrong and you didn't want it to come out, but it came out anyway? And as it's coming out, you wish you could grab it back and put it back in there? Because you done messed up? The problem is your focus is wrong, and if you were close to God, you wouldn't do that. Watch it. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. There we are. We're back to here again. We're back to where the world is. You can't serve God in mammon because you're going to love the one and hate the other. I remember my wife and I were going first time we're going to full-time evangelism 12 years ago. And the natural thing is, like like, what's gonna happen with no paycheck? Well listen, either God is in control or not, right? So here, I'll give you illustration. So here was I was. Alrighty? So July of July 6th of 1980, I got saved. So July of 1982, and I probably told this testimony, but it's good right now, I'm going to say it again. I was sitting on the second pew, and the Holy Spirit of God said, I want you to surrender. I said, if I surrender, you're going to call me to be a missionary. And you're probably going to call me to Africa. Lions, tigers, snakes. I hate snakes. Uh don't don't even tell me what kind of snake. I just hate snakes. Okay, that's just just like women. Like my wife hates spiders. She sees a spider, she goes, Ah, what's a spider? But I hate snakes. Okay So I'm sitting there and I'm I'm I'm just saying the Lord's invitation. The Lord said, Well, if you don't surrender, you're disobedient. I said, What? Why you gotta go there? Couldn't you have been a little more easier with that? No, sometimes you don't need it easy. What he's telling me is if I'm not willing to surrender And really, I'm not listening to God. I'm 27 years old. I didn't get saved until I was 25. Whew. Do you know what I did? Whew. I got up out of that seat and I came down to this old fashioned altar. I said, God, today I'm going to make myself available. And whatever you want me to do, I'll be willing to do. And I'm not perfect and I got a lot of problems. I'm gonna tell you something. I tried, I tried. And I'm trying. And I surrender my life every day because I have to. But that day, July of nineteen eighty-two, whew, what God has done for me and my family and my ministry has been unbelievable. And I relate it back. Listen to me. I relate it back to there. So can I ask you a question? What are you holding on to today? What do you have in your secret place that God can't have? And you're not willing to give it up. So God can do something. Bigger and greater. And I say this all the time: without opposition, I wonder sometimes if I'm really doing the right thing. When I have opposition I understand the devil's fighting. It's okay. I mean I we I guess I don't know. It's it's crazy. I I I This is all testimony of God. I mean, we did 10 vacation Bible schools. 199 kids got saved and 35 people assurance and 50 called to the ministry. That is all God. Do you hear me? Listen to me. I related all the way back. To July of 1982. Could you imagine if I never surrendered the souls that never would have been reached had I not surrendered? Whew! So what is it in your life that you're not willing because you're lukewarm and you're not just you're not willing for God to take over? You still want to have control. Maybe God just wants you to just die to yourself today. I close with this. If you're going to be somebody who's not a lukewarm Christian, there's three things I have in here. You have to recognize, like we said, that you're in spiritual danger. Ask God for help. Can you remember when you were on fire? Go back to Bethel. You can return to God. You're still alive today. Woo! I got this written down here. I picked it up from somewhere. What is your excuse? You ready? Listen to this. Jacob was a cheater. Peter had a temper. David had an affair. Noah got drunk. Jonah ran from God. Paul was a murderer. Gideon was insecure. Miriam was a gossip. Mary was a warrior. Thomas was a doubter. Sarah was impatient Zacchaeus was short. A lot of people say that, amen. Abraham was old, and Lazarus was dead. Now, what's your excuse? So what's your excuse? Are you gonna live just the same way you are now? And you're going to continue to be the same way till you die. God help us. It's never too late. Now is the time. God has a plan. Seize the moment. Heads down, eyes closed. I'm through. I'm finished.