All right, you should be in Philippians chapter number four. Um I've enjoyed this study. Uh we are getting down to the end of it. Uh I'm looking at um two more weeks probably and then we will be basically we have tonight and two more weeks and we will have uh uh then we'll have Roundup Sunday. So my goal is to be done with this before Roundup Sunday. So uh basically that we have got two more weeks. I'm gonna try and finish the book up uh between tonight and those two more weeks and then we'll have a short break. And uh I believe I know what the Lord wants for the next uh course of study here for a little bit of time uh and looking forward to that. But uh we're gonna Wrapped us up some great powerful truths here in the book of Philippians. Uh tonight we're going to be looking at Philippians chapter 4 verses 10 through 13. It's kind of fun, you know, when you're reviewing and looking at things that are are very familiar, as long as you don't put your mind in neutral and think, oh well, yeah, we know all these things and and so therefore we don't need it, you know. Um Let's let the Word of God speak to our hearts and and take what we know and and apply it and and refresh our memory with it. So these verses, familiar verses here in Philippians chapter four, verse ten, follow along as I read down to thirteen. He says, But I rejoice in the Lord greatly. That now at the last your care of me hath flourished again, wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere, in all things, I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. I've entitled tonight's message The Glee of the Christian, the Glee, the point in the Christian life where real joy is seen. We see this text opened up with I rejoice. And that is what the heart of a Christian should be, to be a heart have a heart of rejoicing. But I was speaking with somebody this last week and describing to them the Christian life and trying to explain to them the fact that really, for the Christian Real joy and real satisfaction is found in the second mile. There's too many Christians that are living, that are existing in the first mile. Just doing that which is what ex is expected of them, and they feel like, well, I'm doing what's expected. I mean, I I after all, isn't that enough? But if you read through the parables and you see what Jesus said about the servant who just did what was expected. He was unprofitable. And we want to be more than that. And for the Christian, real joy takes place when we get into the second mile. Real joy takes place, beloved, for someone when they get to the place where they are, where Paul was in this text, content with what God has brought into their life. Happy, content with where they're at, with what God has done. And this is not a complacency and uh uh you know just a laissez de uh idea of well whatever comes comes whatever doesn't doesn't it's not there it's not that you don't have any passion or drive. It's a contentment with what God has brought in your life and with where you're at in your life and what God is doing in your life. And and really in particular with the situations and circumstances that you're facing with regards to this text anyway. This book is a powerful and a practical book. This book of Philippians brought to a climax here in this chapter where the author brings the truths As they impact us and how our relationship with Christ is brought from the ether down to earth. From something that we think about is out there, and my Christianity is this this larger uh spiritual realm that Doesn't really impact me on a day-to-day basis, but Paul gets down to the nitty-gritty, and he talks about and deals with things that do impact us on a day-to-day basis. He brings and talks to us about the power of God as it's seen, not just in the universe, for we certainly behold God's power in creation As we behold his power from the rising of the sun, from the strength of the storm, from the stillness of the small, still quiet spring morning. We see and we have to acknowledge God's power in all these things. But, oh beloved, imagine with me the joy of seeing God's power demonstrated in your life. Yes, we think about God and the magnificent, I mean you just stand in front of an ocean and watch the waves come in and you're just like They never stop. This is just amazing. Just think about what God did. Or you get a privilege to go out west or somewhere and just behold the mountains. And you're looking at all this and you see God's power. But man, to see God's power in a real way in your life. That's where this glee comes from. One might look at Paul's current circumstances and say, Man, how can he say he sees God's power in that? For you know, of course, that Here he is in prison. He's being persecuted for his faith in Christ. His public ministry has been shut down, his personal relationships cut off. Yet Still, very clearly, he describes God's power working effectively in his situation. Although Paul was captive, he was not captivated by his circumstances. He was captain of them. Although many today would look at his circumstances and say, boy, Paul was the victim. Paul looked at it and said he was the victor. Real satisfaction, beloved, does not come from having everything you want, but from wanting only that which you have. So let's look here at Paul's admonitions about how to find this joy, the glee of the Christian. I want you to look at Paul's statements in each of these verses. He says, I something. And we're going to try and learn from those. Paul says here, first of all, but I rejoice in the Lord greatly. That now At the last, your care of me hath flourished again, wherein you were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. He says, I rejoice. He's come to the place where he as a Christian can rejoice in Christ. Through any circumstance. Regardless of what it is, he's come to the place where he can rejoice, his I rejoice in He, of course, is thanking the church of Philippi for their love and concern for him. He says, man, I rejoice greatly in the Lord. I rejoiced in the Lord because of your care for me, because the opportunity was there, and you seized it, and you came and provided for me. God is good, where at one time their care for him might have dried up. But here he says it's flourishing again. That is to grow and to flourish. There is a time that your ability to do for others might be limited There's times, as we'll see in a few minutes, that Paul talks about where you know he he uh abounded, and there's times when he wasn't abased. And there's times in our lives where your ability to do something might have been limited. And then other times God is blessed, and your ability to bless others flourishes. And God uses you greatly. And Paul was saying, I rejoice that God had blessed you so that this opportunity was there. I rejoice that That you are listening to God and following God and providing or meeting this need. I don't think Paul's consideration was chiefly for the fact that they were doing something for him. I think Paul was rejoicing that God had blessed them. You know, any Christian that has the right spirit, they just look at, you know, Brother Armando gets a new car. We rejoice with him. Praise God. No, he didn't get it, I mean he did at some point, but not in the last few weeks. I mean, you know, just praise God, man. That we're excited for you. We rejoice That God has blessed him. That God has met his needs to a point where he was able to get that car and and meet the needs of his family and get to enjoy it. Hey, that's awesome. Praise God. We're happy for you. We rejoice to see God blessing our brothers and sisters in Christ. Man, isn't God good? And Paul said, I rejoice greatly because of the goodness of my God and because you are seizing the opportunity and taking what God has blessed you with and blessing others. And you know what? You're gonna reap what you sow. That's one thing I I can't help but just you know what's amazing? I was at a restaurant sometime in the last week. And there was one of our church members over in the other part of the restaurant. So we're eating our meal, and uh I just told the waiter, I said, Hey You see that table over there with that real ugly guy? Yeah, I know. I said you see I said, uh, hey Bring me their bill, I'll take care of it, whatever it is, and uh when whenever they get ready for their bill, just tell them it's been taken care of Well they obviously saw that I was in a restaurant, so when they heard their bill was taken care of, they deduced That I was the one that took care of it. And uh they sent me a text and says, You won't believe this. Just a week ago, I was in a restaurant and I saw one of our church members And I took care of their bill. And just to see you do that is just it's just like God, just like, here you go. Wow, praise God, you reap what you sow. And that's exciting to see God do that. And Paul was excited, and I get excited when I see God's people being generous Because I know it's not just a matter of what they gave to somebody, but God is going to give again unto them, in good measure, pressed down and running over That's the way God is. He is debtor to no man. And Paul was excited about what was going to happen in their life because they took the time and energy to do that for them. Man, he rejoiced and linked it to the fact that God is always faithful. God could and God did meet his needs Even in prison, God found a way to reach into the cell and provide for him what he needed. He says, wow, God has better me than I deserve. And beloved, I want you to understand that this is a matter of the heart. It's not a matter of your happenings. For as we see in the next verse, that Paul's heart was resting in God. He says, not only do I rejoice, but he says in verse number 11, not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned. I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. He was just resting in God. He was in prison, but he was content there in that circumstance, in that situation, because he knew who was in control of his circumstances. He knew who was in control of his life. He knew that it wasn't just perchance or just bad luck that ended him up there. This God's directive in his life. He knew God knew and could understand and was with him there in the prison. He clearly states that he was not just sitting here in in prison bemoan b bemoaning his bad luck. He says, it's not that I speak in respect of want Paul's in prison, he's he he was talking to them. He says, Man, I rejoice for how good you guys have been and what you've done for me. He said, understand I'm not speaking from a respective want, that I was sitting here wanting something, that I was sitting here wishing that this wasn't this way or whatever. I wasn't speaking from that situation. He said, because I've learned in whatsoever state I am there with to be content. You know, Winston Churchill used to love to tell the story about a family who's out having a picnic at the lake. And they were at the lake and one of the younger children got too close to the water and got kind of slipped in, fell in, and was getting carried away and wasn't a very uh proficient swimmer And a passerby happened to see this boy drifting in into the lake and or into the river, and he this passerby, fully dressed all of his clothes, saw this child in in harm's way and jumped in and saved the boy's life. Brought him to his mom and dad, dripping wet, his clothes all soaked, and says, hey, here this is your son. And mom looked at her son and said, Where's his hat? You let his hat get away? The amazing thing is there are some people who the circumstance doesn't matter. It doesn't matter how much they have to be thankful for. They're still discontent. They haven't learned the art of contentment And beloved, it really doesn't matter how much you've got to be thankful for that produces the art, the heart of contentment. It's not about how much you oh, I would be content if I had this and this and this. No, you wouldn't. Because it's not about how much you've got. Contentment happens in your heart. You learn how to be content with where you're at. And if God blesses you, you're content there. And if you and if you things change and you you don't have all that you had, you're content there. It's a heart condition. He said, I've learned to accept all things. I've learned that God is in control and what He wills, I'm okay with. In good times and bad, and when I'm in the lap of luxury or in the pit of lacking. It didn't matter for Paul. You better learn, beloved, to accept what God brings into your life. A covetous spirit is the opposite of contentment. In Luke chapter 12, verse 15, he says, take heed and beware of covetousness. For a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things he possesseth. That's not what's most important in life. What we covet or desire or want or go after. And that's something that I mean I think we ought to have preaching on contentment a lot more often here in America. As we this this is something that we have to fight all the time In our visually oriented and uh fast-paced market-driven uh world You know, everything's about the new and the latest and the next. And there's nothing wrong, beloved, with God blessing you. There are some people who think that they're more spiritual because they're poor. They have a problem. It's it Paul said, I know both how to abound and to be abase God can bless if by God's measure or by God's means he decides to bless you, you've got to learn how to live in that place. And be content. And be content. When you don't have much. We've got a guard against covetousness. Covetousness in our heart corrupts our view of God It corrupts our view of God. Because then we begin to think that God is not giving me all that I deserve. Or all that I want. Oh, I know he said he'll meet all my needs, but boy, that sure would be nice to have this, or to have that, or to gain this. It corrupts our view of God. It contaminates our values. Makes it so our value system is wrong. Sometimes a heart of covetousness will drive somebody to steal, to get something that they shouldn't have. There's no other way for me to have that. And after all, I I I deserve it, so I'm going to just take it. It corrupts your values. It chokes your faith. Because you begin to look and think that God is not meeting all your needs. And what it is is we haven't learned, as Paul did, to be content. Contentment is something we learn. We've got to work to cultivate a content spirit. It's not something that you get at salvation. It's not something that you just have or don't. Oh, he's a very contented person. She's not a very contented person. It's just that's who they are. No. Paul said I learned. We can learn how to be content. No amount of material gain will satisfy You know Rockefeller? You know when they asked him how much is enough? He said just a little more. Just a little It's it's not a mat it's not about how much you have. It's about being content with what you have. First Timothy six verse eight says, and having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. Having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. So real satisfaction doesn't come from having everything you want. It comes from wanting only that which you have. I'm not going to take time tonight to go into it, but I have here in my notes some thoughts about Joseph. As you consider Joseph as a man, it's an example of contentment. In every stage of his life. Just just seems like you look and you think, man, nothing went right for Joseph. But in every stage of his life he was content and he did what God wanted. You get all the way to the end and we hear Joseph say, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. I know that God was in control through all these steps. I saw God's hand. I see his hand still. I trust him. And I'm content with what he's brought me through. You're content with being sold into slavery? And what are we discontent with? Life, beloved. Brother Gambrel, he's the director of Fundamental Baptist Worldwide Mission. He said this. Life is not a series of accidents. Life is a series of arrangements. Do we know that? That ultimately God's in control? You know, when Joe broke his leg, it kind of put a little bit of damper on our little fun fun time, you know. We were we were all just kind of crushed our our last night together. We're literally ten minutes from calling it quits. And here Job busts his leg. And in our mind, I was just talking to the kids and I said, you know, this is where your faith comes through. Do you trust God or not? Ultimately is God in control. And we say you look at this and you say, well, why, Lord? Well, we don't maybe don't understand why, but faith says, I know that he knows, and there's a reason. We don't know what it is and uh in hindsight when we get to glory we'll we'll be able to look back and see that, you know, Joe, if Joe could have walked fine this semester and he would have maybe gotten involved in some sports and Maybe that would have taken him away from God and he would have lived a life of sin. But now, because he's been slowed down, he's going to spend time with God that he needs to. And he's going to walk with God and he'll be what God wants him to be. We don't know, but we have to trust God with whatever God brings into our life. It's not a series of accidents, it's a series of arrangements. And a mature godliness always has contentment as a component I want you to see in verse number 12. Not only does he say that I rejoice, and he says, I have learned, but in verse number 12, he says, I know. He says, I know both how to be a base and I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and suffer need. This is kind of a recap or even driving the point home. He's saying the same thing he said in verse number 11. He's just saying it stronger and with more detail. He said, there's some things that I know. I've learned how to abound. Paul spent time on the top At one point he was respected. He had power. He was renowned. He was recognized. He was a mover and a shaker in the community. He was on the top. And then he went all the way to the bottom. But the community stoned them and left them for dead. He knows how to abound and how to be abased. The fact is, as many people can handle poverty, it's prosperity they can't handle. You've got to learn both. Know how to abound. Know how to let God bless you and not be puffed up in pride. You know, self sufficiency chokes your Christianity. And a lot of times If God blesses us and He's the one, what hast thou that thou hast not received? God gives us and gives us and gives us, and then we start to think, oh look what I look what I've created, look what I've done. And God might have to say, wait a minute. And pull us back from that. Hey, so I learned how to be abased. Abased is to be made low, to be humiliated. There was times that this powerful and influential man had no friends. It seemed as though no one cared for him. But he lived and walked by faith. He learned how to be full and he learned how to be hungry. He says here, beloved, he says, I am instructed. I'm instructed. If we put that with the I have learned, the question is, is are you learning from your instructors? Are you learning from what God wants to teach you? You know, sometimes God brings us through something and he wants us to learn something from it. from it. That's the goal. Like we went through this because he he had an agenda, an objective. And we go through the whole thing. And We didn't gain anything from that instruction. We didn't learn anything from that. And God might have to take us through something like that again or something similar again. Because God wants us to learn from his instruction. As he's teaching us and as he's uh taking us through things, there's purpose and there's reasons for it, and we need to look up And let him instruct us, and we need to be learning from that. Are you learning from the master teacher? And we see in verse number 13 these very familiar and powerful words. He said, I can. I can. I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. You know, beloved, we need to, as Christians, we need to have a positive I can attitude. It's uh we oughta just be full up to here with the letting Satan win. And the defeatist spirit that I can't be victorious, I can't do this, or I can't, or I don't have the hey, I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. It's a mindset that a Christian ought to have. That we can. Faith in Christ gives the Christian a I can. spirit instead of what Satan wants us to have. And that is an I can't. Because you can be victorious. Paul knew where his strength came from If you look back at verse number three, we see this phrase here, and look at verse number three, down to the end of verse number three, I think it is, but in this phrase he says, I can do, I can. We think, man, Paul thought a lot of himself. He said, I can do all things. Look at Paul. Boy, he's getting a little boisterous, isn't he? But we know that's not his spirit. Because in verse number three, at the end of verse number three, he says he has no what does it say? Confidence in the flesh. His confidence was not in his flesh. He was not saying, I can do all things. He was saying I can through Christ. Because it's through Christ and His power in me, the strength that God gives me, I can learn to be content I can go through whatever I have to go through. I can endure. I can learn how to be a base and I can learn how to be abound. Paul could stand dependent of his circumstances because of Christ You know, it is a supernatural strength that comes from Christ that allows us or enables us to do what God wants us to do. There's a story of a little boy that was trying to move a a stone. You know, sometimes kids get something in their mind and they just they just want to do something And his kid just this stone was here and he just wanted to move this stone and he's he's working and grunting and and doing everything he could do just there and his dad was sitting on the porch reading and watching him. And his son's just sweating and working so hard and just going, just wanting to get so frustrated and upset he can't move this stone. He's he's he's getting all mad. And uh dad said, hey son What are you so upset about? He says, I want to move this stone and I can't do it. He said, well, did you do everything that you could possibly do And he said, yeah, I did everything. He said, you did everything. You used all the power that you have available to you. And his boy says, I did everything I could. He said, You ask your father? I'm right here. I'm available to you. Hit his son, well, no. I didn't do that. Of course Dad came down and picked up the stone and moved it out of the way That's the I can do all things through Christ. Through Christ, which strengthens me. Using that power that's available to us. You might think about it like this Christ could do all things through me. I want you to think about this. That if the truth that I can do all things through Christ is true And it is, then it's equally true that I can do nothing without Christ. We need to keep that in mind. So the glee of a Christian, the joy comes when we learn to be content. When we, as Paul said, I rejoice. Why? Because I've learned. whatsoever state I am there with to be content, because I know how to be abased, because I know how to abound. I know how to be full. I know how to be hungry. And I can do all things through Christ. That makes a joyful Christian. And that's available to all of us if we want it.