You can turn your Bibles this morning to Jeremiah chapter number twenty three. Get past Psalms and keep going a little bit further. Get through Isaiah, you'll get to Jeremiah. Jeremiah, Jeremiah twenty-three. In this book of Jeremiah, we learn of the history. Of the divided kingdom of Judah and Israel. Israel has been in captivity for over a hundred years already. their rejection of God and His plan and His will and desire to do their own thing. Israel as a nation As the northern kingdoms, they they they never really pursued God or did what was right in the eyes of God. And so God put them into captivity a hundred years before Judah But the fact of the matter is Judah wasn't too far behind at this point where we get to the book of Jeremiah. Jeremiah is placed in the nation of Judah and told to preach. the truth to prophesy unto them what God was going to do in judgment if they did not return. Jeremiah, you know, is called the weeping prophet because his heart was broken over the what seemed to be hopeless situation that the children of Judah faced. Judah not having learned from the destruction and the captivity of their brothers up north continued their own treacherous moral downward spiral. They they continued to disregard the warnings and the heedings that God had given them and They had seen the northern kingdoms go into captivity already. They knew that ultimately there's no other path but destruction if they continued down this road, and yet they continue to go. We hear about King Josiah who brought revival. A young man, and He preached and brought truth and many reforms to the nation of Judah, turned many hearts back to God, but for a very short time He had an untimely death as he unadvisedly went out into battle against Pharaoh, and one of Pharaoh's archers took him out. With Josiah gone, that godly influence having been removed from the scene, there was a vacuum. And it was filled once again with wicked men. They turned the tide, as it were, and progressed towards their moral decline. And all the reforms that Josiah had brought were swept away like the flowing waters of a monsoon, as if there was nothing left, as if they had never been And as a nation, they went headlong after sin and wickedness. I ask you this morning: why do men abhor that which is righteous? I mean, by and large, as as a rule regarding society It seems as though some of you may even have faced this in your own families where you started going to church and trying to do what's right, and all of a sudden your family's giving you a hard time All of a sudden your family's on your case. It's okay if you were going to the bar and getting drunk. It's fine if you're out carousing around. It's all it's okay if you're living a morally corrupt lifestyle, that was all fine and nobody said anything, but now that you're desirous to do what God wants you to do, to live a morally clean and pure life, all of a sudden they're on your case Why are you always going to church? Boy, you're too good for us now. Oh, you won't have anything to do with us because you're just religious. Oh, oh, he's got religion. Don't talk to him. You can't tell him that joke because he's got religion and they want to continually be on your case. That's The way it is, many times in society, by and large, they abhor that which is righteous. It is a sad state, but Leaders cut down those things that are righteous. Society as a whole mocked the prophets. Every man did only evil continually, the Bible says. And beloved, without Jehovah Makedesh, their sanctifier, they became more and more wicked. The long suffering of God had suffered long enough, and He was preparing Babylon to come in, and the Babylonians were going to take this rebellious nation captive. Dearly beloved, God wanted to be Jehovah Jireh unto them. He wanted to be the God that provided. He wanted to meet their needs and be there for them and continue to do so, but they rejected that God. They turned their back on him. Instead, they pursued the gods of pleasure. And wealth. So it was not long, and they lost Jehovah Rapha, the God who heals. No longer could he bring healing to their land because they had turned too far, they had rejected too long, the healing was no longer a possibility and They lost that relationship with Jehovah Rafa, and can I tell you that with that gone, they soon found themselves without Jehovah Shalom. The God of peace. They had no peace. They had no peace in their homes. They had no peace in their communities. They had no peace in their nation. And beloved, it is a sad reality, but God was preparing Babylon To come in and take them captive, and so can I tell you that they no longer had at their hand Jehovah's Sabbath The God who would fight for them. Instead of God fighting for them, God was going to send in a nation to take them captive. And there was nothing that they could do about it. What I'm saying to you, beloved, is that this stands as a picture and a testimony to you and I, all that God wants to be for us. All that God longs to have in a relationship with us. One by one, you will lose those when you turn your back on him. When you reject his way and his desire. Jeremiah not only warned Judah of their impending punishment, but he prophesied concerning the return of righteousness. This is what I would like to speak to you of this morning as we introduce to you another name. Jehovah Sideku, the God of righteousness. Look in Jeremiah chapter 23 and verse number one. Woe be unto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, saith the Lord. Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, against the pastors that feed my people, ye have scattered my flock and driven them away. And have not visited them, behold, I will visit upon you the evil of your doings, saith the Lord. And I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all countries whether I have driven them. And will bring them again to their fold, and they shall be fruitful in increase. And I will set up shepherds over them, which shall feed them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, Neither shall they be lacking, saith the Lord. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David. A righteous branch. Beloved, can I tell you this morning that the righteous branch that was raised unto David was Jesus Christ That is what is being prophesied here. That is what he's discussing. That far off in the future Event that was going to take place, that there would be a righteous branch raised up for the nation of Israel. He says A king shall reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and justice in all the earth. In his day Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safe. Safely, and this is his name, whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. Jehovah Sidkunu, the team is not for for whatever reason it's silent. Those of you the Hebrew callers, you can tell me why. But it's Sid S-I-D-K K actually phonetically is K O O U. So this is the name which means Righteous, righteousness, the Lord, our righteousness. Jeremiah's preaching here in this passage, which we rest read against those That neglect the flock of God, those that cared more about themselves than the saints. He is teaching them that they failed to minister to God's people, to those that were in need, and that God was going to to at his time raise up a righteous king, a righteous branch, which would be Jesus Christ. One that would love and lead in a righteous way. And his name is going to be called the Lord Our Righteous. And we can talk to you bringing this down to us now in our lives, drawing from the example given to us in In the book of Jeremiah and looking at Judah. But I'm going to talk about us. First of all, I would have you see the reality of our situation. The reality of our situation, beloved, is that we are under the curse of sin. That is a fact. I know that it is not popular today, and it's very unlikely that we will build a a large gathering or a large congregation here. it as long as the pastor stands up and tells the people that they're sinners. But it it's not about popularity, it's not about how many people we have. This is the facts of the Word of God. The God's Word Unequivocally and unashamedly communicates to the heart of men that men are born under the curse of sin. That we are sinners. This is not debatable. The Bible says there is none righteous, no, not one. This is a situation that every man, woman, boy, and girl ever born on the face of the earth was born under the curse of sin. Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, that one man was Adam. Adam sinned, Adam sinned, and therefore all men have sinned. Death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. Every man, woman, boy, and girl is a sinner. This is not just old-fashioned preaching. This is not just something from a bygone day that people would call hellfire and brimstone kind of preaching that's a whole lot less popular today. But I want you to understand that it is Bible. It's what God's Word says, and I know that we like to think more highly of ourselves than we ought to, and that's what the Scripture says, that that's the habit and the pattern of man. But the fact of the matter is, is we are all under sin. And if we would stop putting our heads in the sand and stop pretending that everything's okay, if we would get honest with ourselves and honest with God, we would have to admit that we are sinners. We would wonder how in the world are we possibly going to deal with our own unrighteousness Even as the prophet said, Woe is me, for I am undone, I am a man of unclean lips. Even as a prophet of God, beloved the psalmist knew it. In Psalms 14, verses 2 and 3, he said, The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men, God, looking down at earth. He was looking to observe and to see who might be righteous among them. He says, to see if there were any that did understand and seek God. Verse number three, they are all gone aside, they are altogether become filthy. There is none that doeth good, no not one The psalmist said God looked over the portals of heaven and observed the entirety of the face of the earth and every heart of man, and he said, Is there one that understands the truth of this. Is there one that is seeking after me? And he looked and he found none. There was none that doeth good. No, not one. Isaiah understood it. Isaiah 53, verse number 6. He says, All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity. Of us all. Beloved, it is a fact of life that men are born under the curse of sin. But I would have you know that because we are born under the curse of sin, that we are also have to deal with the consequences of sin. There is consequences of sin. The reality, the sobering reality that we must face is that there is a consequence for sin. I read or I listened this week to a uh testimony of a 28-year-old lady who had committed a crime against a minor. She was without question guilty of this crime against a minor. She was a woman of status in her community. She had a husband. She had a family. She had position. And yet when she was put in handcuffs and taken into the room, she began to weep and she was not weeping over the Wretchedness of the sin that she'd committed, she began to just say, I'm so ashamed. What are my friends going to think of me? What is the community going to say about me? I'm so ashamed, I'm so ashamed, and it was just a matter of her ultimately having to face the consequences of her sin Of what she did that was wrong, and she was sentenced to 20 years in prison. Beloved, there is a consequence for sin. God says in Ezekiel 18:20, the soul that sinneth it shall die. And that famous passage of Scripture, which I quote so much, for the wages of sin is death. A wage is what we earn. What we've earned because we are all sinners is death. Death is separation. The second death that is spoken of in the book of Revelation is an eternal separation from God Where one remains in eternal damnation or punishment for his sin. There's a consequence for sin. This is the reality of our situation. So, what are we going to do? Is there any possibility of righteousness? Is there any means of dealing with our own wickedness? Men have been searching since the beginning of time. What is the results of their search? Man has from the beginning of time tried to find something to fill the God-sized hole in their heart. They thought, well, if I just do a better job. If I turn over a new leaf, if I try a little harder, if I endeavor to be a little bit better of man, if I observe the golden rule with everybody I come in contact with There's been many who've tried that turnover new leaf to achieve some kind of righteousness. Can I tell you there's hundreds of thousands, yeah, I'd say even millions that that have turned to religion for their righteousness, to try and find some means of righteousness to get something that makes them feel as though they are doing what they need to to fill that God-sized hole The Jews looked to the law. The Jews, this group that thought themselves to be righteous and thought all others unable of righteousness. Listen to this in Romans chapter nine. If you if you you know why don't you turn there if you have the wherewithal Romans chapter nine Verse number 30 and 31 and 32. He says, What shall we say then? That the Gentiles which followed not after righteousness? Have attained to righteousness? He says the Gentile nations that don't even try and do right somehow they've attained righteousness How do they get righteous? He says they've attained unto right, even the righteousness which is of faith. But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, Hath not attained to the law of righteousness. Wherefore, because they sought it not by faith, but as it were the works of the law, for they stumbled. at that stumbling. I tell you they they thought their c means or way of righteousness was this strict adherence to the law. If they if they tried to observe the law, if they could just do exactly what the law said, they would have at least a measure of righteousness, probably in direct proportion to how well they followed the law. And they could get their own righteousness and somehow the question was posed, well how is it that the Gentiles who don't follow the law of righteousness, how is it that They attained righteousness when we the Jews who have strictly followed this law have not got any righteousness You see, every single man and woman ever born has the reality of being born under the curse of sin and facing the consequence of sin, so we're searching for how to resolve that situation and what can we do about it. And many have turned to religion and some have tried to do better and observe their golden rule and some have tried to follow the law, even looking at the Word of God and saying, Boy, I'm gonna be I'm going to stick right to exactly what this says. I'm going to observe every single law. There were 613 laws the Jews had established and said, you need to observe these laws in order to be righteous. But the Bible says that was just a stumbling block for them. Because Romans 3, verse number 20 says, Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be judged. Justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin You see, God gave us the law so we would know when we crossed it. It's just a little rabbit here. Parents, your kids need to know what the law is. You need to establish the rule. Now if you let your kids throw food in the kitchen, that's up to you. If that's what you want to do, that's fine. But if you have said, as a parent, we don't throw our food. Then you have established the law. There needs to be consequence for transgressing the law. You're shooting yourself in the foot. If there is no law It doesn't matter. You you know, y you let the kids jump on the furniture in the kitchen or li kit you got furniture in the kitchen in your living room. They jump on the couch or whatever. That's fine. If that's what you it you know It's your house, do what you want. But if you said we don't jump on the furniture, then that's the law. You need to observe the law. You need to follow the law. Beloved, the law is how we know we've broken God's commands. And can I tell you that it's God's law? It's not man's law. It's not what Hunt Valley Baptist Church thinks. It's not what Pastor Caleb thinks. It's not what any other religion or group out there thinks. What we're talking about is a law that God established, that God said, this is the law, and when you transgress that, you sinned. The only way you know you're speeding when you're going down the road is because there's a sign posted that said, This is the law, this is the speed limit, this is if you if you go faster than this You are in danger of getting a ticket. That's why you hit your brakes when you see a car on the side of the road. And you find out it's a broken down Malibu and you're like, okay, you can go. Why? Because you know the law. It's God's law. You know, beloved, if we could observe the law to achieve righteousness, can I ask you what exactly when would I know I made it? I mean if I could keep the law, what law Or which observance would I know, okay, I've made it. I'm righteous now. At what point would I be able to say, I've I've I've done it, I've made it, I've I'm here, I'm I'm now I'm righteous. Beloved, the Bible is very clear that you cannot achieve righteousness via the law. The law is just a taskmaster that shows us that we've transgressed the law, that we've broken the law, that there is Something that must be done. No matter how much you do, you will come up short The Bible tells us, for all have sinned and come short. Come short of the glory of God. Beloved, you know, if if I wanted to climb up to heaven today and I took the tallest ladder that we have here at the church, which I think is probably somewhere around 40 feet, And I was able to brace it up in the parking lot, and I could climb to the tallest ladder, I mean I would be short of heaven You say, well, obviously, Pastor Caleb, take the ladder and go on top of the verse caliph and set the ladder there And I could get on top of the Birzkali, the tallest building in the world, and climb the 40-foot ladder, and I would still be short of heaven. And you know what I could do? I could take the ladder all the way to the moon, and I could get on the moon, and I could climb the ladder, and I would still be short of heaven. And beloved, if we could draw that picture, what I want you to understand is men trying to achieve their own righteousness is like somebody in the parking lot climbing a ladder trying to reach heaven. And you say, you are so far from the mark, it's laughable. And yet men think somehow they're going to achieve righteousness. By following a set of rules or guidelines, they are so far from the mark that it's laughable We cannot achieve righteousness on our own. But we see in the passage we read in Romans chapter 9 that the Gentiles were made righteous. What? By faith. Faith in the work of Jehovah Sidekun, the God of righteousness. They could not do it by themselves, but we know the qualifying aspect is that they believed. Romans 3. 22 says, even the righteousness of God, which is by faith in Jesus Christ, the righteousness of God is by faith in Jesus. Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. That no difference there is there's no all them that believe. There's no difference between race or nationality. They were asking or posing the question, how is it that the Jews couldn't achieve righteousness, but the Gentiles could and these different people or classes or races or whatever? God says there is no difference. Any man that desires to be righteous must do so by faith in Jesus Christ. That's how you are made righteous. The God of righteousness. So I'd have you see, lastly, this morning, the source of righteousness. The righteous source. Where do we get righteousness? He is the God of righteousness. The Hebrew word here means right, that which is altogether just. It comes from a root word that means to be made right. We cannot be able to do enough good to be made right on our own. But praise the Lord, we don't have to. made right by simply believing on God who is the God of righteousness Psalms 129 verse 4 and number 4 says the Lord is righteousness He is righteousness. Psalms 119, verse 142 says, thy righteousness is everlasting righteousness. It is an everlasting righteousness. He is the person of righteousness. Jesus is the source, beloved, not just theology, not something cold and empty, but the person of Jesus Christ. That is why you've heard it said over and over again that it's not religion, it's a relationship, and and that's a acute saying, and people probably get tired of hearing it, but it's a factor of the matter is religion has never saved anyone. Religion has never made anybody righteous. Oh, I believe the good deeds that they have done, the humanitarian efforts that have been I think the observing of the golden rule. These are all good things, but you are not made righteous in the eyes of a thrice-holy God. By observing or following those things, you're only made righteous when you put your faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross for you. That's it. That's why Paul said in Philippians chapter 3 and verse number 7, But what things were gained to me, I count loss for Christ. He doesn't say what gain what things were gained for me, I count loss for the church, or I count loss for my religion. Or I count as lost for the good things that I do or I have done. No, he said all of those things that were gained, I count them all lost for Christ. The relationship that he had by putting his trust in the God of righteousness, not religion or theology, not righteous activities that made him feel good. But a relationship with the God of righteousness. Turn your Bibles to Philippians, if you would. Philippians chapter number three. I want you to see this Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians. If you get to Colossians, you went too far. Turn to Philippians chapter 3 and verse number 8. I just read to you verse number 7. He said, I count all things for loss but for Christ. He says, in verse number eight, he says, Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ And be found in him, not having my own righteousness Which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. Well, it can't be any clearer than that. That's Bible. That's as direct as it gets. There is a God who is the God of righteousness and the only. Yes, we have a problem of sin The reality of our situation is we were born under the curse of sin and we're facing the consequence of sin, but Jesus came to deliver us from that. And the joyous message of the gospel, which means the good news, is that, beloved, righteousness is possible But not by the ways which we thought it was. It's not about how good I am or all the good things that I do, but I can be made righteous through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. We're made righteous through him, by him, and in him. In 12 Corinthians 5. 21, it says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. You see, your righteousness is only found in him, in the person, Jehovah Sayku. Lord our righteousness. Can I ask you this morning, do you know him? Does he know you Matthew chapter 7 tells us that there's a lot of people that are going to come up into heaven and they're going to look at God and they're going to say, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name? He's gonna look at them and say, Depart from me, I never knew you. I'm asking you, does he know you? The difference is not just do you know about God that sent his son Jesus who was born and we celebrated Christmas and that we think about and and rejoice about his resurrection at Easter. Not just do you know about him, but have you at some point in your life Life, put your faith and trust in him. Denied your own works of righteousness, for by grace are we saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. You're made righteous through Jesus Christ, the God Of righteousness. Beloved, that is joyous news. Because we, in our own selves, in all of our best efforts On my best day, I'm a good enough husband that she doesn't leave me. I mean on my best day, I'm an okay dad. On my best day, I'm an okay Acceptable pastor. On my best day, what I'm saying is I know this person that's in front of you. I know who I am and what I am, and I say I don't deserve to stand here and preach the glorious message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm just a sinner who's been saved by grace, and on my best day, I'm not righteous, but I have been made righteous because of Jesus Christ and what he did for me. And in that I have hope, and in that I can rejoice, because there was a Savior who died on a cross and gave himself for me, and I am made righteous through him, the God, the Lord Jehovah. Who is the God of righteousness? In Whitlaw's book called Jehovah Jesus on page 102, he wrote this. I was a stranger to grace and to God. I knew not my danger And felt not my load. Though friends spoke in rapture of Christ on a tree, Jehovah said I knew was nothing to me. When free grace awoke me by light from on high, the legal fear shook me. I trembled to die. No refuge, no safety, no self could I see. But Jehovah, my Savior. Must be. My terrors all vanished before the sweet name, my guilty fears banished, with boldness I came to drink at the fountain. Life-giving and free, Jehovah Sideku, is all things to me. He is Where we're made righteous. And I hope this morning you know the God of righteousness. Not just about Him, but that He knows you. And that you have been made righteous through that relationship with Him, would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?