Turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter number 25, Matthew 25. We're going to be looking at a parable of the ten virgins this morning. And there's a lot here. A lot we can uh learn and and glean from. No matter how long we've been in church or how much uh Bible study we've done, the uh Truly the unsearchable riches of of God's Word. I mean you just can't ever exhaust what can be found or what can be learned. as you study and dig into God's Word. These parables have been a great challenge to me, uh, both in study and and learning and And what I've enjoyed tremendously is getting the context of the parable, studying out to find out what is it that motivated this teaching. What is it that brought about this? What what caused? And sometimes you gotta read a little bit extra and and uh that kind of puts things into perspective for you, and it's been enjoyable for me to be able to see that. But let's read the parable first here in Matthew chapter number twenty-five. And verses one through thirteen is the parable itself. So let's read that. The Bible says in chapter number twenty-five, verse number one. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. That they were foolish, they that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh. Go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose, trimmed their lamps, and the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for us and you. But go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves And when they went to buy the bridegroom came, and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut. Afterward came also the other versions, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. Watch therefore, for ye neither ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man Coming. This uh parable here, uh there's things that we can learn from it, but it's not one that is quite as uh I would say elusive in its definition or explanation as some of the others might be. Uh for certainly we, if you've been in c in church for any length of time, understand the teaching of the parable and what it is, uh summed up really in the verse number thirteen there, uh in is in its whole is we need to watch. And be ready because the room is coming. And uh, you know, we need to be ready for that that time. So this starts out, then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened to sin virgins. The opening sentence here of this parable gives us the strong contrast between the wise and the foolish virgins those who had wisely prepared and those who had foolishly forgot. Here in the middle of this Olivet Discourse Is a divis is the division of all those who profess Christianity. And all who have ever lived or will live are represented here This, again, you see that division put forth consistently and continually throughout the scriptures, Christ divides people into two groups. And everyone that's ever lived falls into one of those two groups. Here in this parable, it's those that were ready and those that weren't. those that had prepared and those that had not. And they were defined as being wise or being foolish. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. A very fitting definition for what these wise and foolish versions had done Now the all of that discourse here starts in chapter number twenty-four. Turn back to the beginning of chapter number twenty-four. And he says here in verse 24, we'll read the first couple of verses, and Jesus went out, departed from the temple, and his disciples came to him for to show him the buildings. of the temple. You see in verse in chapter 23 he was talking about like look at verse number thirty thirty-eight. Behold your house is left unto you desolate. So Jesus is talking about the destruction of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, he's talking about uh the their lives and how they're left desolate and so on, and the the the uh disciples came to him and they wanted to show him the temple. They said, well our our houses are left desolate and whatever, but look at this. Jesus, look at the temple. Look at how this beautiful, magnificent edifice, this what has been built here. And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things. Verily I say unto you, these shall not be left here, one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? What shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? So in the middle of this Olivet discourse, we have this description. Which was an answer to that question that the disciples had asked at the beginning of chapter number 24. Jesus teaches through chapter number 24 and chapters number 25 giving them an answer to their question. If you're interested, the Olivet Discourse can be found in Mark chapter 13, verses 1 through 37. Also in Luke chapter 21, 5 through 36, not obviously the exact words that are that are here, but recorded by the other authors, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. So Let's look here at the telling of the parable. This is gaining the context of it. We talked about the greater context. We're opening up here for us. The question was motivated, what motivated this teaching was asked by the disciples. That question was asked by the disciples in verse number 3 of 24. They asked this question in three parts, and you saw it right there in the text. They said, When shall these things be? You see, he was teaching, he was talking about the destruction of the temple, and he said, Hey, not one of these stones is going to remain. They're all going to be overturned And the disciples, I mean you can imagine they're thinking, we just got we just built this thing. We just got this done. What do you mean that's gonna went and and they said, Lord, after they got away from the crowd, they got away privately? He's like what When is this going to happen? When shall these things be? The things that you're telling us about, when is this going to happen? And what shall the signs of thy coming? Okay, when is this going to be and how are we going to know it's coming? What are we going to see? What are the signs of thy coming? And what shall the signs of the end of the world be? Lord, give us some kind of indication as to what this is going to be like. And so Jesus sat down there on the Mount of Olives with them and began to teach and give them some explanation. The answers to those questions are given in chapter 24 through chapter 25, verse number 46. Jesus is dealing with Israel in chapter 24. If you read chapter 24, you have to understand The people that he was talking to here is the disciples. And although I believe the church started with Jesus and the disciples and was uh uh growing. And the in the book of Acts, chapter two, where many would say the start of the church uh took place, and I don't know that it's really going to matter that much, but in Acts chapter two it says they added unto the church. And you can't add to something that's not already that hasn't been existing yet. Um so I believe that Jesus and the disciples started the church and this was going, but the doctrine of the church hadn't been fully revealed yet. The entire church age hadn't been revealed yet. You remember they believed that Jesus was going to set up his kingdom right there. Right then. That's what they thought. That's what they wanted And so the church age hadn't been revealed yet. They didn't understand that Jesus was going to tarry his coming And so in light of that, Jesus is talking to or speaking about Israel in chapter number 24. And if you see, he was talking about this, that the church age was a mystery unto them. The rapture had not been revealed that we see in 1 Thessalonians. Uh that hadn't been revealed yet, and what was going to take take place. In 1 Thessalonians, uh, I think it's verse number 14, it talks about how when the the bridegroom is going to come, And it says he's going to bring with him. Now the wedding ceremony and how these things took place is very well known in Jewish history and how they would per do their weddings. And And the bride would be at home, the groom would come with his friends to get the bride from the home. And he would take the bride and they would go into the marriage feast. And it's a very well-known story to them. They would be able to see this and picture it and understand it. And so he was illustrating for them inside of their context of what they understood. Some very familiar verses in chapter number two. 24. For the sake of time, we're not going to read all those, but it deals with the tribulation, uh, the beginning, the middle, the end of the tribulation. In verses 24, I'm chapter 24, verses 36 to 42, it talks about that familiar passage of scripture about in the days of Noah. We all know, and we use that reference. Boy, it's going to be, we're there. Like it was in the days of Noah. I mean, we're in those days. Uh every man is doing that which is right in his own eyes, every man's living unto himself. Uh nobody's adhering to or thinking about God or acknowledging that God even exists. And we're in those days. And those are signs of the times. Those are signs that Jesus was saying, hey, when you see this happening, you know the end is near. And we perceive the end is near. Now, uh they're gonna announce it. Many of you already know, today's my birthday. I'm one year older. And uh I I I believe that I have about twenty years of good active service for the Lord. I think, you know, between now and the time that I'm sixty two and I mean, maybe the Lord will give me good health after that and so on, but I think reasonably, hopefully, I could expect to have about twenty years of strong, you know, uh my best years of service for God. And uh I'm looking forward to that. Uh brother Wayne and I were talking and I was telling him that and he said, No you don't. I said, What? You know something I don't know? He said he he's he's not gonna tarry that long The end is near. The end is near. Time time is coming down and and our Lord is coming back. And uh that would be uh uh what a thrill to be taken up into heaven and to see his his glorious face and not experience the the shadow of death. But uh there is a group of Christians that will be gathered together with him That will be here on earth at that time. And maybe that will be in our day, but we certainly know that the time is near. You know, he is coming. The Bible says that he's uh here he's tarried his coming. And uh some would think he's tarried too long, you know, but when he comes, it'll be the right time. In our mind's eye we think, oh, you know, surely he's coming now, he can't wait any longer. But we know that when he comes the time will be right. It will be the the fulfillment of all that he wants to accomplish here on earth. Those that can be. See, he's not willing that any should perish. He wants all to come to repentance. He wants man to come to him. And if he could tarry just a little bit longer, maybe a few more would come to him. You can see that illustrated very strongly in the story of Jonah, when he had in his heart to destroy Nineveh. To destroy all of those people. And he says, Well, I'll send one last messenger. And, you know, he sent Jonah down there to Nineveh. And the Bible says that the people of Nineveh repented And they prayed and they fasted, and it says that God repented of that which he had in his heart. To destroy them. Now repented means to change your mind. He changed his mind. He was going to destroy those people. But he tarried. He said, I'll send a messenger. Because he doesn't, he's not this this mean God who doesn't love, but he is just and he is holy and he is gonna judge sin. And uh but he'll he'll tarry as long as he can. And uh till that day. So he's doing this. Then we have in verses twenty four in chapter twenty-four, verse forty-two to forty-four, the talking about the thief in the night, when Jesus Jesus is going to come as a thief in the night. He's going to come. Again, stuff that we're familiar with. Then in chapter 25 that we're dealing with today, Jesus is dealing with the church. There's kind of a change in how he's talking and what he's saying. Look in verse number 48. In verse number 48 of chapter number 24. Verse number 48. You see this kind of Jesus is starting to reveal to them that he's going to tarry. See in verse number 48 he says, but And if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming. The Lord delayeth his coming. Now look in verse number five. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered. Look in verse number 19. After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. After a long time the Lord's servants The Lord of the servants came. Now that's getting into the next parable there. But the idea of the fact that, hey, disciples, do you realize there's going to be a time We're I'm gonna I'm gonna tarry. I'm not gonna come. The Lord's not gonna come right now. There's gonna be an age, there's gonna be a period of time that we're gonna wait. And he's starting to teach that to them. So you see that change of thought. Now the immediate context of what Jesus is talking about leads into our text here in verses forty-two to forty-six of chapter twenty-four. So let's just uh look at that so we can put it into context. Chapter four chapter twenty-four, verse number forty-two. Everybody on the same page? Alright, he says verse number forty-two, he says, Watch therefore, for ye know not the hour your Lord doth come. But know this that a good man of the house that knoweth in Therefore be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of Man cometh. Who then is faithful and a wise servant, whom his Lord hath made ruler of his household, to give them meat in due season? Blessed is the servant who ha his Lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Verily I say unto you, that he shall make him ruler over all his goods. But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming and shall begin to smite his fellow servants, and to eat, and to drink, and be drunk, then the Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him. And in an hour that he is not aware of, and he shall cut him asunder and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. He's leading into this idea here, and it's very clear he's talking about the coming of the Lord. He's talking about the day when he comes as a thief in the night. And then that again is encapsulated or summed up with verse number 13 on the other side of that. So you have the characters of this parable that we'll just give you very quickly. First of all, the ten virgins They are ten professing Christians. Ten professing Christians. This is people that are carrying the lamp under their arm. They have a lamp. They're professing Christians. But the Bible is very clear here and other places that everybody that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. But here we have ten professing Christians that are coming to see the bridegroom. Then you have the bridegroom, which we know is Jesus Christ. By definition and explanation of our parable here, this is talking about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, the day when he comes to receive his bride. Now you'll notice here that there's no mention of the church. We know that the church is the bride of Christ. The church is made up of individual believers who have trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. But again, the doctrine of the church hasn't been established yet. That is still coming. We're very early in the New Testament here. So that is still coming. Then you have the lamps or the vessels. They're referred to two things here, the lamps or the vessels, is our bodies. Our bodies several times. are referred to in the New Testament as vessels, vessels to honor or dishonor. So here the the lamp is a picture or a type of our our bodies. And the Holy Spirit is what the oil represents. All through the scriptures, the oil repres is representative of the Holy Spirit Being anointed with oil, represented of being anointed with the Holy Spirit. Throughout the scriptures, that's very clearly taught. It's a type of the Holy Spirit. So the Then the truth of the parable, again, is very easily summed up in the very last verse, verse number 13 of the parable. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour when the Son of Man cometh. No one can know the time of his coming. So be wise and prepare now. Then remain watchful for that day. You might write down under the truth of the parable this reference, Luke 12, verse 35 and 36. Luke 12, 35, and 36. Let me read it to you The Bible says there, let your loins be girt about, and your lights burning, and ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their Lord. When he will return from the wedding, that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him a immediately. The idea is watch and waiting. We have people come to our house quite often. Most of the time we know they're coming. It doesn't actually doesn't happen very often that people people just stop by. But most of the time we know they're coming. And my kids love having people over. They ask there's not a Sunday goes by that they aren't asking about You know, hey can we have Joan Kim over? Hey can we have uh this person over? Hey, can we have this person over? They're always asking about somebody to come over. And I I think it's great And uh I I appreciate that they're given to hospitality and they love having people over. But when somebody's coming to the house You know, we've got to do what you guys do. We've got to go around and pick everything up. Somebody's coming to the house, get all this, get it cleaned up, you know Quick, throw it in there. Close the door. I know none of you have ever done that, and I'm just telling on myself right now, we gotta get the house cleaned up, you know, open the drawer. Hello. Throw it all in. Well, we're cleaning the house and my kids will will say, Dad, we got the living room done. Can we go outside and watch? For when they come. And my kid they'll always want to do that and they'll go and they'll try and hide around the side of the house or they'll climb they'll they'll climb a tree and And then and then when somebody comes they'll they'll get out of the car and and then my kids will drop out of the tree. Hello, you know. But But they want to watch for 'em. And if I say no, we still got too much stuff to do, you guys we gotta let's pick this stuff up, let's clean these things, you know, and they'll be inside cleaning, but in their ear they're listening. And they'll hear a car pull in and they're like, They're here, they're here. They're watching. They're able to, you know, the person comes up to the door to knock and the door opens. Magic. That's what this is talking about here. That verse that I read to you, he says, That, and you yourselves like unto them that wait for their Lord, when he will return from the wedding. And when he cometh and knocketh, they may open it unto him immediately. That's in Luke 12, 35 and 36. The idea of just waiting for when the Lord is going to come, so that when he comes to knock You're opening the door. You've been watching. You've been waiting. You've been looking for him and are excited about him coming That's the truth of this parable. In the translation of the parable, as it is told, you have the ten bridesmaids in verse number one. The use of the number ten is significant for Jewish people. Because ten people were necessary for any type of a ceremony. They would not marry a couple unless there was at least ten people present to witness it. They couldn't get married. They wouldn't perform any type of ritual or ceremony unless there was at least ten people present. They couldn't hold synagogue. Unless at least ten people were there. So the use of Jesus here using ten virgins is significant to the Jewish people, understanding that. In Ruth chapter 4, verse number 2, the Bible says, And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit ye down here. And they sat down. When they when uh Ruth was gonna marry Boaz, he said, I need you ten guys, come here. Okay, you guys sit right here. All right, we're gonna get married. He had to get ten witnesses in order to perform the ceremony. And that was very significant to the Jewish people. Then you see that they took their lamps to meet the groom, verse number one. Some wise men, some foolish, uh the foolish ones took no oil. The wise uh have oil in verse number four. Then you see that all slept. Um the cry at midnight comes, um the midnight hour, whenever that day is gonna be, we don't know. But the foolish asked for help, the wise could not help. You know, it's not that they didn't want to help. is that they could not help. They couldn't help. And we'll get into that a little bit more. They go to buy and they miss the groom. You know, when the day comes, it'll be too late. You can't prepare after the fact. You can't get ready. After Jesus comes it'll be too late. And these these uh you know Tim Lahaye's done a lot of good things. He's written a lot of really good books. But he's off on his doctrine in all of these left behind series. His doctrine's off. If you're watching that and and reading those books, In the doctrine he's teaching in those books that people that have been here, that rejected Christ, they were in church, and they said no. Then after the rapture, they realize and they trust Jesus Christ and they become part of the family and everybody's excited. That is not going to happen The Bible says that they will believe a lie if there's somebody before the rapture that has heard or or uh rejected Jesus Christ, they're going to be deceived by the Antichrist. They will not believe it. They won't believe it. No matter who teaches or preaches or what prophet comes on the scene, they're not going to believe it. Their opportunity is past. It's too late. Very clearly taught here in this parable. They couldn't get help. Even when they came to the door and they said, Lord, let us in. We believe now. Hey, what happened in in uh Noah's day? 120 years he preached to them, people And they laughed and mocked and scorned and said, what is water's gonna fall from the sky? You're crazy. And they they mocked and laughed. And then all these animals, I mean Can you imagine the miracle of seeing animals usher themselves into a boat? People had to be standing there like saying, Well, how is he doing this? He's got like some kind of spell over these animals or something. I'm sure that they had some group news program that was explaining scientifically how Noah was able to get these animals to proceed two by two into the ark. They had some very logical scientific explanation that everybody believed. And then God told Noah and his family to get in the ark. And for seven days. People still had a choice. They still had an option to come to the Ark and say, you know what, Noah, I'm not real sure about all this, but I'm going to join you. And by getting in the Ark, they'd be putting their faith and trust. in Jesus, in the ark, to save them from whatever was coming. Even if they didn't know exactly what, but they just said, you know what, I don't know, but I'm gonna I'm gonna get in the boat But once Jesus shut the door, that's it. A lot of talking out there. I thought we were done. We got ten minutes. So that's it. Time time's up. Time's gone. So the choice is gone. And they could not once the rain started falling, once the storm came, it was too late And that same doctrine is taught right here, once the rapture comes, it's too late. Once the bridegroom comes, it's too late. They're not going to be able to repent after that time. Then they appeal to be let in in verse number 11, and the Lord refuses them. Then the truth is given to us in verse number 13. Now, in contrast, I want you to see just a few things. about these both wise and foolish verses versions. First of all, they were both invited. They were both invited. They were both informed. They were both interested enough to be involved, to be part of it, to go, hey, I want to see what's happening. I want to go see the bride uh groom. I want to go. They both intended to be a part of it. They both were carrying lamps, but only one was ready. Only one was ready. Or one was not ready according to your notes there. So you have one that was ready and one that was not. Even though their intentions were good. And you have here, of course, the fixture of a of a virgin is somebody that's pure and clean, and we understand that. So I want you to see here we have ten virgins. Ten clean, ten pure, ten well intended. But we don't get to heaven on our own purity We don't get to heaven on our own works. Our well intentions don't get us there. We need Jesus Christ. And the picture of the Holy Spirit coming and dwelling them is like the picture of putting the oil into the lamp. When you fill that lamp, you're putting the oil into the lamp. And us as believers, when we trust Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, the Bible says the Holy Spirit comes and dwells in us. That picture of having the lamp, the vessel, filled with the Holy Spirit. You you can't see it. You know the lamps in those days our lamps today, a lot of times are made out of glass, and you can see the oil that's in there The lamps in those days were made out of clay. And you couldn't see whether a lamp had oil or not. You know, nobody can see your heart. Nobody can see whether you have oil or not, whether you have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you or not. That's between you and God. If you've trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, then you have been indwelt by the Holy Spirit. The oil is in you. And when that day comes, you'll be ready. But just carrying around a lamp doesn't get you ready. You see that division once again through the scriptures. You see Jesus dividing people into two classifications, those that are ready and those that are not. In other stories he gives us the comparison between sheep and goat. between the lost and the saved, between the wheat and the terrors. That division. Now Let's see the teaching of the parable. First of all, one's character is revealed by crisis. One's character is revealed by crisis. You could not tell that these people didn't have any lamp and oil in their lamp. Until it came time they got up, they woke up at midnight, they trimmed their lamps. Oh, we don't have any oil. And in crisis, what's in the lamp is going to be revealed What you what you see in in a person comes out in crisis. What you are uh and what is in you is gonna come out in crisis. Character is a personal thing. Uh you cannot give You know, heights don't really bother me. Who in here is afraid of heights? So let's say yeah, I remember I worked with Brother Don a lot and he's like, no, I don't do ladders. I'll help you down here Uh but you know what I can't give Brother Don my absence of fear for heights so that he could go do that job on the roof. I can't just say here No, that's something he has to deal with. And you can't just give somebody your integrity and say, oh, you know what? Here, let me just give you my integrity so you will be an honest person. No, that's personal character We have to develop that ourselves, work on those things ourselves, and that's part of the Christian life. Developing personal character Um Proverbs chapter nine, verse number twelve says, If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself, but if thou scornest Thou alone shall bear it. It's a personal thing. Then one's salvation is a personal decision. One's salvation is a personal decision. Psalms 49, 7. None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. In the scriptures, we see people that were so concerned about the loss, they even asked God, Lord, would you take me to hell and let them go to heaven? Lord, take me. But we can't give our salvation away. We can't for a lost loved one or a brother or a sister say, okay, I'm going to give my salvation to you so that you can go. It's not like a ticket on a plane or a boat. You can say, well, I'm going to stay back here. You take my ticket, you go. No, it's a personal decision. These ladies that had their lamps and had oil, the fact is they could not say, oh, okay, here, let me give to you. God was teaching that That's why they had not the option to give away their oil, because it's a personal decision. They had to say, No, you have to take care of that yourself. And they missed because they weren't they weren't ready. They weren't ready. Many will have lamps, but no oil. They have an outward display of Christianity. They have uh they're carrying around the lamp. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. Many have lamps Many have an interest in Christianity. They sit in the church house, but they have no oil. No man knows the day or the hour, so we must be ready. Be careful not to let this world preoccupy you. Be steadfast in prayer and be diligent. There's scriptures there for you. There will be no time left when the end comes. It'll be too late. Jesus said, I know you not. If any man love God, the same is known of him. God knows you If you love God, if you trust in Jesus Christ, your Lord and Savior, He knows you. He's not going to say, I know you not. So He knows you if you're His. Many that say unto me, Lord, Lord, Matthew 7, 22. Many that say unto me, Lord, Lord, Have and have not prophesied in thy have have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have we cast out devils, and in thy name have we done many works But he says, I never knew you. So it's not just what you're doing. This parable teaches that the great day is coming, a day in which those in the kingdom today will find themselves in two different groups. Those that have prepared themselves faithfully and watched for his coming, and those that were not prepared, if the Lord were to come today, would he find you watching? Would he find you prepared? Would he even know You. That's the challenge of this parable