Well we're going to be looking at the book of Ezra, if you would turn your Bibles there as well as your notes getting ready. So you get to the first Second Chronicles, you know it's Ezra, right after that. That's what we're going to be looking at. Uh as we began this era, this era of the return uh talking about this, uh we We're right in here where the first thing that we we mentioned is the idea that 1st and 2nd Chronicles were written as a reminder for those that did follow the God's call or say, hey, I want to go back to the promised land. I want to go back to my homeland to our heritage that God had given us and so it was a reminder written to them, first and second chronicles to say, hey, here's what happened under the kingdoms and the kings, and this is what took place. But no the most important thing is your covenant relationship with God. And then it reminded them of their physical heritage that was given to them by God, so told them what their land allotment was and where they were supposed to be. So we looked at that last week and then we got into the book of Esther. Now the book of Esther is uh tells us what's happening in the land of the Medes and the Persians. It tells us what's taking place with that group of people. that were still back there. That even though uh Cyrus came up and said, hey, uh you guys can return. If you're willing and want to, you can return to your homeland A few people did, but a large group, the majority of the people, stayed there. And so Esther tells us what's happening back in Susan the palace. And that area, uh, those Jews that were going to be killed uh because of a wicked plot against them, but God's protection. So God was still divinely protecting his people even in this foreign land, even after he had opened the door and made a way for them to be able to return home, so God was protecting them. Then we're looking now at God's people under divine direction where God is directing the people that are heading back and going to where uh to re-establish that land. What's happening in the book of Ezra and in Nehemiah is what's happening in Jerusalem. Esther is what's happening in the land of the Medes and the Persians there in Shushan the palace. Well at the same time that Esther is taking place there in Jerusalem with God's people, this Ezra and Nehemiah describes for us what's taking place with the remnant that returned. And uh so we see that. First of all, God's people under divine direction. This is the the focus here that God is directing these people. They go back and Uh he opens the door for them, he provides the way, even using a heathen king to uh provide and to pay for and to provide protection and so many things that uh because this is ultimately what God wanted, he opened the door for this to happen. So they were under divine direction. The book of Ezra was written by Ezra himself. His name means helper And we see that he was a scribe. Now you have to turn to begin to read about Ezra, you have to turn to chapter number seven Because the first six chapters deal with Zerebbabel. Zerebbabel was the one that took the first, so the Ezra picks up and it opens up with the first group that are going back, and that's a group under Zerebbabel. So we're going to back up to chapter one in just a second But I just want to talk to you about this man, Ezra, who was leading God's people back. We see that he was a scribe in Ezra chapter seven and verse number six. The Bible says that this Ezra went up from Babylon as he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses. which the Lord God of Israel had given. And the king granted him all his requests, according to the hand of the Lord his God, upon him So Ezra was a scribe. As a scribe, he would have been a very uh astute student of the Word of God, of the law of Moses. He studied the Word of God, he wrote the Word of God He was a trustworthy man. In verse number 13, he was sent back with a large group of people and with provision given to him by the king. And the king said, Hey, I trust this man. Those of you that want to, you can go back with him. So he was trusted by others. He was a man of prayer several places through the book of Ezra. You'll see him bowing on his knees. and praying. The work of God is accomplished through prayer. And he was broken over the sin of the people. This was his heart So we're going to get to Ezra in just a moment, talking about him. We're going to look at Zerebel first. But Zerebel goes back and builds the temple. Ezra goes back and builds the people. Nehemiah goes back and builds the wall. So they each had a particular area of emphasis or focus and Zerebabel was going back in his his heart and his burden and God had had just Said man we need to get the temple built and and he went back with that on his heart. But Ezra went back and he says, Boy the people, the temple's there but are they using it? The opportunity to serve God is there, but are they doing it? And he says, boy, what we need to do is we need to give back to the Word of God. Uh Ezra has been called the second Moses because he brought the law back to the people. He he connected them together. He He opened that for them and gave them a fervency and a desire to know the law of God. And so he was called the second Moses, referred to as that often. So the outlook of the book, kind of what does it focus on, what does it deal with? Well, it deals with the ecclesiastical history where they rebuild the temple and the people's heart is turned back towards God. So ecclesiastical church, the the the the religious aspect of it. Ezra's focuses on that where Nehemiah uh deals more with the political aspect. We're going to get to that in a little bit, but deals with rebuilding the walls and re-establishing some organization and such. So the outlook of Ezra is ecclesiastical. Isaiah prophesied that Cyrus would end the exile and allow the people to return. It's amazing that not only did Isaiah beforehand, but of course, by the by the divine direction of God, did he say that, hey, it's going to be 70 years and they're going to be released But he also named in his prophecy the king that was going to be ruling and that the king would re release them. That's in Isaiah forty-four twenty-eight. If it's not in your notes there, you can make a note of that. It says this, Isaiah forty-four twenty-eight. That saith of Cyrus, he is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure, even saying to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be built, and to the temple thy foundation shall be laid. So he was prophesying to say, hey, Cyrus is going to do what the pleasure and the will of God is. And Cyrus is going to allow the people to go back and rebuild the temple and lay the foundations thereof. Now, only a small remnant went back. For some reason, you know, I think it's traditional human nature, right? But the majority wanted to stay. We see back now in Ezra chapter number one, back up there with me if you would. We the the story opens up where Cyrus, we've read this last week, the con the connection between the end of 2 Chronicles and the beginning of the book of Ezra. Those first three verses are almost an exact quote out of the back of the end of Chronicles there. But we see in verse number three that he says, Who is there among you of all his people? Everybody had the opportunity that they could go back. His God be with him and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judea, and build the house of the Lord God of Israel. He is the God which is in Jerusalem. So the king says, hey, who's that who wants to go? Anybody can go. If you've got a mind too and you want to go, you can go back. But there's just a small remnant That goes back. There is always in God's work a remnant, a group of people. It's not typically the mass movements It's not typically the great uh events that you see taking place because God speaks to the, uh, he speaks in a quiet voice. to the heart of man and for some reason uh very few respond. That's just the nature of it And you'll see that all through the pages of Scripture as well as history that uh you know broad is the way, uh, but few there be that find it. Narrow is the way. And that's what happens. Very few people determine or decide to go and follow God, but there was a remnant that decided to go back. And so we see this, the story of Ezra pick up here, and God is sending his people back to Jerusalem. Now I have that little handout that I gave you. Um that we have here and that kind of shows you the three different focuses, the three returns. We come to the end of the seventy years of captivity, and God says, Okay, want you to go back. And Zerabbabel is the first one to go back here. And in Nehemiah chapters 1 through 6, he I'm sorry, Ezra chapter 1 through 6, he deals he's the one that goes back and his story is recorded there. Then there's a 57-year gap between chapter 6 and chapter 7 period where work is done, whatever ultimately Ezra gets burdened to go back and he goes and re- and rebuilds the people. Well this is happening here. You have Haggai, Zechariah, as well as Esther. Those books take place. Those prophets are ministering during that time. Then you have a 12-year gap before we get to Nehemiah Then Nehemiah goes back to rebuild the wall and uh Nehemiah takes a second trip. He has to go back and report and then return and that's recorded for us, but uh he comes back uh roughly around 430 uh BC. So then Malachi, uh we get to Malachi the very last uh book in the old testament. And so that just kind of puts it into perspective for you. The story, this is the stuff that takes place during uh the return here, uh the into captivity and the return, Ezra, Nehemiah, Ezra, Hagai, Zachariah, and Malachi. So I wanted to put it in order for you. So we see That this Ezra is divided into two different returns. It starts with his rebel in uh chapters one and two here. Uh Cyrus, the king of Persia, decrees that they can go home. He announces that, hey, it's time. The Persian Empire had defeated the Babylonian Empire and uh took over, and they began to rule maybe with a little bit looser hand, a more relaxed hand, and God was preparing the way for them to be able to return. Ga uh many historians, uh Josephus and others like him, believe that Daniel was very instrumental in helping to coordinate or to uh convince the king. to allow uh the people to return because this was God's plan, but the Jews were allowed to return. It is amazing how God uses even men who would not follow God. You know, he says, you guys can go home and worship your God, for he is the God that's in Jerusalem. Uh but God provides the way through them. God can use them. And uh a lot of times we get discouraged about what's happening in the world, but we need to understand that God is still on the throne. And God can still guide and direct. Hey, the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. That's what Proverbs tells us. So we understand that. Zerebabel leads 50,000 people back home. 50,000 uh go back. They decide to follow him and head back. Um can you Gus, can you give me the map of uh Nehemiah or Ezra's journey? It was 520 miles if you were going to go directly across, straight across horizontal in that image there. That's about a 520 mile trip Uh but following what would be the Fertile Crescent, it's kind of interesting if you look on a uh even Google Earth uh it this region you can see the fertile crescent. It's not pictured here, but this region that comes right up here is very green because of the water. All these there's four rivers that flow right here And because all those rivers are right there, that area is very green and fertile land, and it comes up a little higher up here and then comes back down This is barren, Arabian Desert. I mean this is barren land, nothing in there. So 520 miles of nothing with 5,000 people, including women and children. grandma and grandpa, uh, you know, that's th they're gonna stay close to the water. So it was a nine hundred and excess nine hundred mile trip, uh pushing a thousand miles And so it believed to have taken about four months with fifty thousand people, about four months to make that trip, to travel that way. I mean, you t you take a bathroom stop with uh four you know, ten teenagers and a van And that takes you thirty minutes, you know. Uh can you imagine trying to stop and set up camp with fifty thousand people, like okay, it's time to set up camp and in the morning you say, time to break camp and we're gonna move Uh I'll bet you the first group heads out and it's four hours later before the last group is is heading out. And so they can't make a whole lot of progress every day, but that's uh what is believed generally to be about the time frames of what it would take uh for them to travel um is uh that n about 900-900 and plus miles there. Uh so the the return is recorded for us really in chapter two here Uh God is keeping a list of everyone. We see in chapter two. Now these are the children of the province that went up of the captivity of those which had been carried away from Nebuchadnezzar. So you list here. There's a list, a lot of names in this chapter. You know, God's keeping a record. God wrote it down and said, these are the families and the groups that went back. And God knows what you do. God is keeping a record. And a lot of times other people might not see what you give or see what work you accomplished or see your sacrifice for the Lord, but God sees it and God is keeping a record And he I I think one of the reasons why he records so many details for us like this is so that we would be reminded or realize that he is keeping a record. He knows who is doing uh his will and following following him. So he records for us here everybody. And then God sees every willing gift. Look at verse numbers sixty-eight and sixty-nine. So not only here's all the people that went back But of those people that went back, we see that uh and some of the chief of the fathers, when they came to the house of the Lord, which is in Jerusalem, offered freely for the house of God to set it up in his place. They gave after their ability unto the treasury of the work. They gave. So God is recording as well not not what they did, but also how they participated, what they gave, and uh every gift was recorded there. He is saying, hey, here's the men that came and this is what God did Then the restoration of the temple under Zerebabel, that was his focus, was to build the temple. So we see that in chapters 3 through 6. He rebuilt the temple. The foundation of the altar was laid. For God's people, look look at chapter, what are we, chapter three here in verse number one. And when the seventh month was come and the children of Israel were in the cities. The people gathered themselves together as one man to Jerusalem The people gathered together to do this work, and they did so as one man. It is vitally important if the work of God is going to move forward, it takes unity. Unity in the family and the house of God is so key to accomplishing the work. You y you want everybody on your side of the rope playing tug-of-war? You want everybody on your side of the rope pulling? the right direction. It's sure certainly going to disrupt the program if you've got ten people and four of them aren't pulling at all. And two of them are pulling the opposite direction. They're pulling for the other team. And and the the other uh what is that? 604 people are working as hard as they can, but boy, it sure would be a lot easier if everybody was pulling together, right? They it the Bible says here that they gathered together in Jerusalem as one man. That's a unified group, a unified team to rebuild the temple here. They were together on it. That focus. But uh we see that they sacrificed together. In verse number two there that they they began to sacrifice the priests got up, said, Hey, let's honor the Lord. They built the altar to the God. Look at verse number nine. In verse number nine he says, Then stood Joshua with the son and his brethren, Camille and his sons, and the sons of Judah together to set forward the workmen in the house of God. So they worked together. They did it together. They worked all the workmen in the house of God, each fulfilling their their skills, their abilities, what task that they could do it. And then they sang together. Look at verse number 11. And they sang together by chorus in praising and giving thanks unto the Lord. 'Cause he is good and his mercy endureth forever. So so they sacrifice together, they Served together, they sang together, and that's a group that's headed in the right direction, accomplishing great things for God. And uh so the foundation of the altar was laid, and the foundation of the temple was laid And as they got busy for God, don't you know it, that uh Satan began to bring some opposition You look at chapter number four, and we see the opposition comes in. Now, when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the adversaries came, when When w any time uh God's people begin to build, Satan goes to battle. That's just the fact of the matter is when you start taking steps forward for God, Satan's gonna start start working to try and to stop you. And uh that's what happened here. The opposition arose in chapter number four, and uh they did so first through deception. And then through disruption. Notice verse number two. Then came to Zer they can they came to Then they came to Zerebel and to the chief of the fathers and said unto them Let us build with you, for we seek your God as ye do, and we do sacrifice unto him Since the days of Ashar had had on king of Ashur, which brought us up hither He says, hey, we've been worshiping your God. Now if you go all the way back to 2 Kings, I think it's chapter number 17, there was a group of people, if you remember, the Assyrians conquered the land and took a whole bunch of people captive. Now, what group of people are currently in Jerusalem? What are they called? That group of people that the Assyrians said, hey, we want you to stay there. And uh we want you to occupy that land. We want you to stay and control that land. And so for the 70 years that they were the Israelites were in captivity, there's a group that stayed there. Now Nobody's jumping out and giving me any offers, but they were Assyrians, but they became known as the Samaritans, uh because the capital was Samaria. And so they became known as the Samaritans. So what happened in 2 Kings when they went back there, things were not going well for them. And because they were uh polytheistic, they were people that believed in many gods. What they thought was, well, the problem is, is we're not worshiping the God of these people, and we're living in their land, and so We're having a hard time probably because we're not worshiping their gods. You can go back in 2 Kings and read this. This all takes place there. And what they do is they send for some Israelites and say, hey, tell us about your God because we need to be worshiping him as well. And so they do actually begin to worship the God of Israel, but what they did is they kind of combined him together with all of their other gods, basically in an effort to try and appease the God of Jerusalem. so that they would have peace and be able to live there. So that group that was occupying that land that became known as Samaritans They did not worship the God of Jehovah solely. They knew about him because of the Israelites that had taught them what they were doing. And uh So they in halfway telling the truth here, hey, since the land since the day we came to the land, we've been worshiping your God. Let us do this. Let's build this altar together. But understand they're the adversary And this is just deception. Then the deception doesn't work and they say, hey, nope, we we have nothing to do with the Uh it's not God's will or God's plan that we join up with you in this. We're going to do this, this is what God called us to do, and they didn't like that. And so They begin to try and stop them through disruption, to stop them as much as they can. In chapter 5, we have Haggai and Zechariah mentioned, the prophets that are serving and working during this time. So after four years of conflict and continual construction, the temple is finally finished. We get to chapter 6. The temple is finished. Then we get to, we've got to move a little faster through this. We get to the return of Ezra in chapter 7. So 7 through the end of the book is Ezra's return. Uh and remember we have that 57 year gap in between here. Uh but Ezra chapter 7, verse number 1 starts up and says, Now after these things, so that's after Zarebubel finish the temple after the 57-year break. Uh now Ezra is going to return with his group. Um and uh he we we see here the kings that allowed them to return. First there was Cyrus the Great. Uh Cambius, the son of Cyrus, Cermidius, Darius the Great, and then Xerxes. Uh Xerxes uh is Xerxes the first, and he is the son of Darius the Great. He also is a Hasuerus of the book of Esther. So that would be the same the same person when you read about him in the book of Exeter Esther, uh Xerxes the first. Then Arta Xerxes uh mentioned, these are the kings that are mentioned during this time or are functioning during these these years. He was the son and he was on the throne during the time of Ezra and Nehemiah. Just a little bit of history for you to have in reference. Moving quickly here. Uh Ezra brings some reforms. Obviously I I had mentioned his goal was to rebuild the people. The temple was established, but the heart of the people needed to be turned back to God. Revival needs to take place. And so Ezra begins to restore a focus on the Word of God, the law of God, and and he puts points people's hearts back towards him. Look at Ezra's response to sin in uh Ezra chapter nine. And uh we're gonna see here in verses three 6 and 8. We see Ezra's response to sin as he came and and was serving the Lord and doing what God wanted him to do. Sin had to be dealt with. So first of all, we see in verse number three that he was astonished. And when I heard this, I rent my garment and my mantle and plucked off the hair from my head. and my beard and sat down astonished, that is amazed, that is astonished. He was astonished. He says, Wow, things are bad. This is worse than I thought. He was shocked at the condition that was there. He was ashamed of it in uh verse number six. He says in verse number six, and said, Oh my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee. My God, for our iniquities are increased over our head and our trespass has grown up unto the heavens. Lord, the the the this is so bad. He he was astonished by how bad it was, but he was also ashamed by how bad it was. I wonder how ashamed we are of the condition of the wickedness around us. And in this wicked day. We we get so used to it that maybe it doesn't affect us like it should. Uh but he was burdened for revival because he allowed the condition around him to be uh recognized. But then also he was appreciative in verse number eight. He was appreciative for the space of grace that God had offered. And we see in verse number eight a very powerful verse. He says, now For a little space of grace hath been showed from the Lord our God. God had allowed his grace, and we right now are living in a space of grace. We're living in a little time where God's grace is available to any who would turn to Him. They could repent and come back and and uh just we could spend A lot of time here, but that little space of grace is there. It's available to us. And uh he was appreciative for that that God was allowing them to return to him, not just to Jerusalem. So Israel repents and returns in chapter number 10. The Word of God is has a focus. And uh he really points the hearts of the people uh towards the Word of God. Let me uh show you here No, we we are running out of time. Let's move on. We're going to move right to the book of Nehemiah now. Uh you can move right to the book of Nehemiah. We're going to see. Here, Nehemiah III return, third group of people that are heading back, and uh Nehemiah, written by Nehemiah, name means consolation of God. Nehemiah was born in captivity. You talk about somebody that should have been content just to stay right there where he was. Uh everybody stayed there. Large numbers of his family and friends were all around there. He also was given a position in in the government and was Notable uh probably was pretty comfortable as far as the society goes, probably had his needs met and taken care of and would be in the upper crust of society, he probably could live pretty comfortably, and yet uh he was not content with that. He was an official in the Persian court, he was a cupbearer for the king. You guys know the cupbearer, a a close personal butler uh would be kind of what that would be, somebody that was there at the beck and call. of the king, uh tasted his food ahead of him to make sure nothing was poisoned or there was nothing wrong there. Uh but really a close relationship with the king himself In today's world it might be somebody like a chief of staff, somebody that is their right hand, their chief of staff. They're the ones that if something, you know, I need him, that's who we're going to call. And that's the first person that's going to hear about it or deal with it. So the cupbearer uh functioned in that role. Uh Nehemiah here, as I mentioned earlier, deals with the civil history as they rebuild the walls. So the civil history, the the political history, what's going on in that realm uh is the focus And it covers about 12 to 15 years of history as given to us in the book of Nehemiah. So that's all it is. So it's a quick brief wit look in the window. The book gives us the fulfillment of the prophecy that was written by Zechariah and Daniel as well concerning the building of the walls of Jerusalem. Both Zachariah and Daniel had prophesied that the walls were going to be rebuilt. And uh so this tells the the story of that finally coming to pass. So the story of the book of Nehemiah, what takes place here. Now I have uh my my outline I wrote a number of years ago uh when I taught I taught through the book of Ezra Ezra and Nehemiah brother uh Uh Bob and Carol might remember this, but it actually was in the other building when we were in the storefront. So many, many years ago, but I taught through these books. And so I've just given you basically if we're talking about the story, this is my outline going down through here. We see, first of all, that Nehemiah prays for the work in chapter number one I've just given you eat one point for each of the chapters and we kind of break down that. He's moved to pray for the work. The the greatest movements of God have often or are most likely originated from one person willing to get on his knees and pray. Somebody praying for the work, being moved of God to pray and have a burden. And not only is he moved to pray for the work, but that takes him to where he participates in the work. Then Nehemiah prepares to do the work in chapter number two. He requests of the king. And uh his request of the king is only after he requests of God. So he goes to God first, and then God gives him peace and direction to go and request of the king. And it's pretty amazing. He says, hey, King um I want to leave your service. I want to go back home. Not only that, I want you to pay for it. And we're going to rebuild the walls. And was really hoping you could provide the materials. Uh and also we might need some protection. Um and so uh it is amazing you can read the story there, but the king does provide all of that for him So he goes back with a letter to those in the region saying, hey, you guys are supposed to help pay to get this done. We want to get this accomplished. So Nehemiah prepares for the work. In in Nehemiah chapter 2, verse number 13, he gets a picture of the damage. He finally gets back there. He had heard about the broken down walls. He was burdened about it. But in Nehemiah chapter two, verse number thirteen, now he's in his home, and uh he says, And I arose in the night and some few men with me, neither told I any man what God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem, neither was there any beast with me. save the beast that I rode upon. And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, even before and he goes through and around the city, and he sees the gates, and he gets a picture of what needs to be done. And uh this is so vivid for me because I remember as a young man right out of Bible college I said that I would go work in Lawrence, Kansas, a Heritage Baptist Church, and they needed to uh build some buildings and and establish a school and they they wanted to start a a new bus route and I was going there to do that and we moved and uh you know we we got there at like let's say nine o'clock at night or something. I don't remember exact arrival time, but a bunch of people from the church came and helped us unload everything and we unloaded all of our stuff, our our entire life's belongings, you know, uh fat and fit into a little bitty trailer. Uh but we had everything we unloaded, got moved in And uh then uh I said, okay, everybody left. It's just Mary and I and it was quiet and still and I said, I'm gonna I'm gonna go uh I'll I'll be back and I went out of the house and uh I walked around the property. And I walked around the building and they had started the construction of this building that I was supposed to oversee and the magnitude of the work that needed to be done. I almost went back in the house and told Mary, let's load the truck and go. Let's get out of here. This what in the world did I sign up for? Oh my goodness, it was so much work in my mind. I'm like, this is gonna take forever And uh in hindsight looking back it was a very small project in comparison to what God has done and I've been able to be a part of since then. But as a young man and now all of a sudden this is all on my shoulders and I'm the one that's supposed to make this happen and now overwhelmed And that's what happened to Nehemiah. He walked around the city and he says, Man, look at this work that needs to be done. There is so much to do here. He gets a picture of it and he calls on God to help accomplish it. So Nehemiah protects the work in uh I'm sorry, he prospers in the work, Nehemiah prospers in the work in chapter number three. A record, again, of all those that were involved is recorded for us there. uh a as uh it's notable that a spiritual leader is also a strong laborer. And not only did Nehemiah just say, oh hey, here's what you need to do, this is what you need to do, but Nehemiah was out there He was working with them. He was accomplishing the task. And so he was laboring as well. And a spiritual leader is going to be leading by example and laboring with the people. And we see that Nehemiah protects the work. in chapter number four. I I wish we had time to read all of these texts, uh very powerful truths, but you know if order for us to finish we're gonna have to keep moving. Uh he the the people had a mind to work in Nehemiah chapter four and verse number six. The people had a heart to pray for verse nine. They had an eye to watch and for verse ten. You remember the story, the enemy were coming, and Nehemiah says, Hey, we've got to keep working, but you're going to have to put a sword in one hand So you've got to have a sword in one hand and a trowel in the other. You're going to have to keep that sword ready at at hand to protect the work and and they had a mind to get it done, but they also were watching. They they were watching for the enemy coming and attacking to stop the work And uh the people had an ear to hear what was being said. They were listening and following. Nehemiah perpetuates the work. The the work goes forward as Nehemiah stops the oppression of the poor. Uh the current leadership that was there. Again, Nehemiah was high up, but when he went back to Jerusalem There was already people ruling, there was already people in charge, and those people were oppressing the poor. They were excessively taxing them, and these people didn't they were happening to put second mortgages on their house to pay taxes and fees and and and Nehemai says, This is not good. We c we can't be doing this and he stops the oppression of the poor. Um then God reminds them of the work that they're doing, the good work that they're accomplishing, and Nehemiah persisted in the work in chapter number six. We have the enemies come to sidetrack him. You remember Sam uh Ballot and Tobiah, the the enemies of God, the enemies of the work of God. They came and tried to sidetrack him in uh Chapter six and verse number four one through four we see that if you're Now it came to pass when Sambalat and Tobiah the Geshem and Arabian and the rest of their enemies heard that I had built the wall and there was no breach left therein, thought at that time I had not set up the doors upon the gates That Sambalat the Geshemite set unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together, and some of the villages in the plain of Odo. Uh but they thought to do me mischief. He had wisdom to know they were saying, Hey, come on, let's meet. Let's go down here. Uh let's meet over there in the village of Onoh. And Nehemiah said, Oh no, we're not doing that Not happening. Uh I can see that you are you you've got mis mischievous eyes about you. You ever look at some kid and you That's what Nehemiah said. There's a pro these boy these boys are not they don't their intentions are not good. So he says, Nope, I'm gonna persist in the work. And they said, Oh come on, come on down And he says, how can I come down when the work that I'm doing is great? It is a great work, and any work that we're doing for God is a great work. And uh we we need to be cautious, beloved, any time that you see Satan smile Okay, what I'm saying is these two guys came with a smile on their face and all, hey, let's get together, let's let's go eat, uh, let's sit down and talk about this great work that you're doing. And Nehemiah realized, oh no I I'm not gonna do that. And so he persisted in the work. He didn't allow them to sidetrack him, but then his enemies tried to slander him. They they lied to him, saying he was setting up his own kingdom against the king, against the rulers. They sent letters back to try and stop the work. And uh then his enemies tried to slay him. We don't have time to read all those verses, but that was their plan. It didn't happen. Nehemiah polishes off the work In uh chapter number seven, uh the wall is done. Chapter seven, verse number one, they finished the wall, they got the uh The doors in, they accomplished the work, and uh we see that he relied heavily on one man who was a faithful a faithful uh servant, the Bible tells us there in chapter seven, verse number two Nehemiah proclaims the word in chapter 8. Now he actually had Ezra come. You know, Ezra was the scribe, the priest, and he had Ezra come and proclaim the word. So they point heavenward and point back to God again. We accomplished this work, but we need to get back to the Word. And uh so they proclaimed the Word of God, the reading of the Word and God's in in their presence and the reviving of the willing servants took place. Nehemiah praises God in chapter number nine, praises God for his greatness, for his goodness, and for his grace. Powerful chapters you can read these books These books, Ezra and Nehemiah, are so powerful and rich with uh stories and truths that the Lord shares with us. Chapter ten, Nehemiah promises God. Um and says, here's what we're going to do. He makes a vow to God. You know, sometimes we might need to just give back to making a real promise to God Just here's what I'm going to commit to. Not just here's an idea or this would be nice, but Lord, this is what you want. I'm going to vow. I'm going to make a covenant with you. I'm going to promise that this is what I'm going to do for you. I'm going to follow you or serve you or read the Word of God or memorize the scripture or commit to not Not follow that after this sin anymore, just promising to God. This is what Nehiah does. He makes a covenant, he promises with God, and he committed their families to God, he committed their time to God, he committed their money to God Then Nehemiah populates the city. They said, Hey, the walls are up, but now we need some more people. And uh maybe there's a bunch of people that weren't really ready or willing to come back to rebuild the walls, but Maybe there'd be some people willing to come back and live here to help us occupy this land. And so they recruit the people and they they they basically they say, hey, can every family go find a family Go get a family to come and be here and let's occupy this. And that would be a good thing for a church to do if every family went and found a family. And we found somebody that we could reach and they could be a part of what God is doing. And that's what Nehemiah does there as they repopulate the city. Nehemiah proclaims the victory. In chapter number twelve, the victory celebration is held. Great sacrifices are made. They honor God. They give praise to God. And then Nehemiah promises the people that if they'll look to the Lord, the Lord will look to them, that they need to lean on the scriptures. and that they need to keep uh their commitments that they had made. And uh so that is the book of Ezra and Nehemiah. Next week we will begin looking at the uh prophets, Hagai, Zechariah, and Malachi, and that'll bring us right to the end. We made it. My plan would be to cover those three books next week. And uh we do not have Sunday school on what is the 22nd I think, uh the Sunday before Christmas. Uh that Sunday we have a special service in here. All the kids are in here. We do it all together. And so there is no Sunday school on that Sunday and I'm pretty sure it's the 22nd. Is that correct? Anybody want to is the 22nd? Okay. All right, very good. So remember that. Then we will begin in the new year. We're going to look briefly at the intertestament period. uh that time frame between the two testaments. There's four hundred silent years there. And then we'll get into the New Testament uh next year. But that's kind of where we're at right now. Alright, let's close in prayer