Take your Bibles to the book of Romans, Romans chapter number twelve. Romans chapter number twelve. You guys could probably have a head start on me on that one because you know that's where we're going. Uh that's where we've been conducting our study on spiritual gifts. continuing to delve into this chapter and see what it says for us regarding our spiritual gifts that we have within the church. Romans chapter 12, we'll be looking at verse number 7 here in just a moment. Today we're going to be looking at the third gift that's mentioned in Romans chapter 12. Can someone tell me what the first one we looked at was? Ministry, that was last week. We had one before that. Prophecy. Alright, so we looked at prophecy, we've looked at ministry, and now we're going to go into the gift of teaching. Before we go into this week's lesson, I want to go back to last week just briefly and make two comments, one based on a question. I had a very good question. after um the Sunday school hour uh based on the lesson. So I wanted to uh reiterate that here and answer that question in case anybody else was wondering the same. The question was that if any gift can be used in any administration, so that would be a position within the church. How does someone with the gift of ministry serve in leadership because I said last week that their tendency is to be in the background. So how does that all work together? Very good question that is there. A great question. The answer stems from something that I mentioned during the lesson on prophecy, but I did not mention last week. So when we're talking about what does this gift look like, that's the point in your notes called the point discussed. And that's What are some characteristics, what are some attributes, the positive, the negative, some cautions regarding those? And in the lesson on prophecy, I mentioned that the This section of notes is not something we have in the Bible as a list, that if you have the gift of ministry, it's going to look like this, this, this, and this. That section of notes comes from from my personal experience, uh from reading uh after other men who've been in ministry a long time, describing people that have these gifts, also looking at the examples we have in the Bible of these characters and seeing some Some traits that come to the surface. So these are not a hard-fast rules. These are just general attributes that pop up in a person's life who has this gift. Not everybody is going to exude all of these, but these will be the tendencies of those with that gift. So as it as in that section we have some positive characteristics and some negative characteristics, and we have some that can kind of go either way. And uh being in the background is one of those that kind of goes either way. It's nice that people that are willing to serve in ministry or are doing it in the background or they don't need to be brought up for praise and adulation. But that doesn't mean that if God wants them serving somewhere else, that it they can just say, well that's just not me. God, you can't use me that way because m because I like being in the background. When God calls us to use our gift in a new capacity, we need to make it work in that capacity. And so when we get to this section on the gift discussed, that's what's going to kind of come up is These are just general guiding principles that you can kind of relate to and say, okay, that that kind of seems like me, or that doesn't seem like me, or that seems like so-and-so, but not hard, fast rules that don't vary or change person to person or even position to position. They may want to serve in the background, it may be natural for them to serve in the background, but if God wants them to serve in leadership, they have to get past what they want and serve God. What's going to come out, that desire to be in the background, comes from humility. And they're going to carry that humility into their service of leadership. It's not going to look the same as being in the background, uh, vacuum in the floors, but it will look a little bit differently because they'll have that humility they'll carry over with them. as well. So that was one of the questions. Very good question after the lesson last week. And feel free to approach me if you have any questions about the things we discussed. I'd be glad to discuss it a little bit more or even bring it out in the next lesson to kind of address those questions that come up. The other point that I was going to address, I came out in my study And in my notes, but I didn't make it into my teaching notes, one other caution regarding the gift of ministry is that people with the gift of ministry have a very hard time saying no. And that is a that can be a good thing, but it can also be a negative thing as you can extend yourself too far because you agree to take on every responsibility. and uh don't understand your own limitations. Uh I heard it said one time that God's not going to give you more than you can bear, but you can give yourself more than you can bear. Um, so it's something else to be cautious about with the gift of ministry. So with those two points out of the way, let's go into the gift of teaching. As I said last week, contrary to what some people may have thought as we're coming into this gift. I do not have the gift of teaching. It's something that I feel that I'm gifted at, and I have a skill and a responsibility in it. And as we see, it's part of my administration. As a pastor, it has a requirement to be able to teach. But as I was thinking about last week, with the different gifts that people may think that I have, I knew that teaching would be on the list. The main reason for that is that part as part of my administration, being a pastor, but it also that's going to give us a good opportunity to talk about faithfulness to church services. And you say, well, how do we get to faithfulness in church services from you not having the gift of teaching? Well, hang with me and we'll we'll see if we can get to it and make it clear. Most of what you have heard me do here at church from the pulpit is teach. The reason for that, whether that be Sunday school classes or Thursday night classes I taught several years ago, at our church, most of the time we do treat the different services very differently. This goes for me even down to the study, preparation, and material layout. I write my sermons and my lessons differently based on which service of the week that I'm speaking for. I prepare a Sunday school lesson completely different than I do a Sunday morning sermon, different than a Sunday evening service, different than a Thursday night sermon or lesson Each of these services has a different purpose and a different sermon type to match it. That's not to say that it can never vary, but most of the time the services are all very different. That means if you only come to one, two, or three of the four services, you're going to miss something. So generally, I don't preach during Sunday school. The people in our church that have heard me preach the most are the team and the juniors, because I preach in the other services. In Sunday school I teach, so those that would have heard me most often of the adults would say, well, he's a teacher, because that's almost all we hear him do, because teaching. But it's the way that I approach the service That's why we don't have an invitation after Sunday school, because it's a lesson. That's why sometimes you leave Sunday school without having a direct challenge of what you need to do. In Sunday school, I teach, and hence some some might have assumed that it was my gift. But that gives us gives an illustration there of why support to come to all the services. Because Sunday school's different than Sunday morning And Sunday school and Sunday morning is different than Sunday night. And Sunday school, Sunday morning, and Sunday night is different than Thursday night. And there There's a different purpose for it, there's a different group that's in the sanctuary, and if you're only coming to one or two of the services, or three of the services, even You're missing something that God has in store for you. So I'd encourage you to come try out some other services. I know many of our church family do come to all the services, but I encourage you to come come try it and see if God can give you something in those other services as well. So coming back to the idea of gifts, let me give you another illustration of how gifts may interact with an issue that arises within the church. We gave the example of trash being on the floor. We gave the example last week of snowy being on the floor upset after a service. Another common example of an issue that comes up within the church would be a church member's car being broken down and they may struggle to pay the cost of the vehicle to get it fixed of the of the repair. So here's a problem that arises in the church. How would the different gifts tend to respond to that situation? Well, someone with the gift of prophecy will tend to look at what brought the person to the point. and feel that if they hadn't have gone on vacation they would have the money to fix their car. Just a a hard look on the facts, looking at, hey, you messed up here, that's why you're in the situation there. That's just how consequences work. That's what life that's very cut and dry g gift of prophecy kind of a tendency. That's there. Someone with the gift of ministry would like to go over and see if they can help get the vehicle working. Someone with the gift of teaching would want to offer to help teach the family how to budget and plan for these types of emergencies. Someone with the gift of exhortation will offer to give them rides while their car is being fixed. Someone with the gift of giving will want to help them pay for repairs and maybe even offer to loan them a vehicle. Someone with the gift of ruling would be glad to offer advice on what they should do. Someone with the gift of mercy will be checking in on them to see how it's going, reach out at church and even during the week to make sure they're okay and they have what they need. As I was preparing that example of the different gifts and how they interact in that situation, I was reminded of how important it is for all the gifts to be at work in the church. If a church member had this issue, any one of those would be a blessing to them. But imagine all the gifts that work in that church member's life. That not only did they have somebody loan them a vehicle and give them rides and call during the week and give them advice on what they what they could make the best step and say, hey look, you've made some bad decisions that's put you in this situation. and somebody to come alongside and say, hey, can I help get you somewhere? All the gifts that work in a person's life is just going to overwhelm them with the love of their church family. So it's so important for us. There's every situation that comes up, there's not just a one, okay, that's so-and-so's job. We all have a role to play, we all have a gift to use when it comes to ministry. And it encourages encourage me through that example just to think of that all the gifts at work in the life of the church, it really shows the love of Christ. So today we're going to move on in our study to the gift of teaching. In Romans chapter 12, we'll read verse number seven. This is the verse we read last week for ministry, but we'll read it again this morning. The Bible says, of ministry, let us wait on our ministering, or he that teacheth on teaching. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for this day. We thank you for this opportunity we have to be in your house to study your word this morning. We ask that you put your hand of blessing on today, Father, that you be with our special guest Lord, that they would see the love of Christ through our church family. Lord, as the message of the gospel goes forth, that you would work on people's hearts, Lord, that you would confront them with the truth regarding eternity. Lord, and that we would see souls saved today. Lord, that we would see that um that we'd be able to show the police department here that there's a church and a people behind them. That support them, that are thankful for what they do, uh Lord, and again that they would see the love of Christ through us. Father, I pray that you would be with the uh weather this today. Lord, we'd love to be able to have our time of fellowship outside. Lord, but we're going to need you to move off the rain if that's going to take place. We ask that you do that. Lord, but regardless, whether we have the w uh the food outside or inside, we ask you to bless our time of fellowship that we have today. Lord, as a church family, and just showing your love to others. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so we get to the gifts of teaching. We're going to start in your notes there with the idea of the gift defined. What is teaching? How does teaching reveal itself in the Bible? How does it reveal itself in the church? This is one that we kind of have a pretty good grasp on. We understand what it means to to be taught or to teach um and have all had if you've been in church any number of t years, you've had different Sunday school teachers. If you've You've grown up in church. You had Sunday school teachers and junior church teachers and master clubs teachers and whatever other programs, VBS teachers were familiar with the idea of teaching. So, teaching the Bible, just like with prophecy as well as with ministry, it is both an administration, a position within the church, and it is a gift that's given to individuals. So we see it first of all as an administration. A teacher is one of the gifted men that God gave to the church in Ephesians 4, verse 11. As you remember, that verse says, then he gave some apostles and some prophets. And some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. Each of these gifted men that were given to the church is part of the church's verbal ministry uh the preaching, the teaching, the the bringing of the gospel, uh the bringing of the word of God is done by these men, and each each of these men that were given just kind of carries a different way that the Word of God is presented. We don't have time to go through all of that, but you can kind of see from the titles that are given to these men how they're presenting the Word of God. And all those are necessary parts of the church. And the church's verbal ministry. A teacher is one type of leader that God gives to churches. It's also a position within the church. As I said, we have Sunday school teachers, we have master club teachers, we have BBS teachers. We have music teachers at the church. We have a lot of people that are involved in the teaching ministry at different levels here within our church. So it's a position within the church. It's also a requirement for pastors. Where I said, I feel that I'm gifted in the area of teaching. Part of it is because as a pastor it's something that's required of me. It's in the qualifications of a pastor in 1 Timothy chapter 3, verse number 2. It says a bishop must then be blameless. the husband of one wife, vis vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach. Apt to teach. That's one of the requirements of a pastor. So teaching is part of the pastoral ministry. as well. So we see teaching not only is it a gift within the church, but it's also this position. A position given by Christ to the church, a position held by many people within the church, and also a requirement for the pastor of the church. So that's teaching as an administration or a position within the church. We also have teaching as a gift. The gifts that we're discussing, gifts proper. The teaching is an ability that God has given to individuals within the church to use in service to him and one another. This is one that again is not limited to a position. is not necessary for a position and is not entitling to a position. As we've stressed throughout this, just because you have the gift of teaching doesn't mean you deserve to be a teacher. Just because you are a teacher doesn't mean you're going to have the gift of teaching. Just because you are a teacher or a pastor doesn't mean you have to have the gift of teaching. This is a gift that functions within the body of Christ in different ways in different individuals. So the teaching, we see it in the Bible as an administration, we see it as a gift. Then we get to the definition of teaching itself. How is it defined? The most common word used for teaching in the New Testament is the word didn't go. Didasco means to teach. It's actually the verb form. It means I teach. That's the word. And there's a lot of variations. There's four Greek variations of this word. uh right there stemming from it. There's some other words in the Bible that are compound words using this word, Didasco. But it carries the idea, if you go down into its root word, not only is it teaching, the idea is to cause to learn to cause to learn. It goes beyond the the spewing of knowledge and information. It engages the listeners causes them to come along with the teacher on a journey of discovery in the Word of God. That's this word teaching. It's to taught to cause somebody to learn something. Some of the other forms that we see this word dunasco, it also means to give instruction, means to be instructed, it refers to an instructor or to be instructed. So we get very standard definition across the board to teach, to instruct, to cause somebody to learn, whether that's you're the one being instructed or the one giving instruction. That's this word teaching in the Bible As we look at this idea of defining this gift for us, there are some confusion, or a confusion that I was aware of coming into this study, and that really relates to this idea of teaching versus preaching. Sometimes it it is discussed, bantered around. I've had discussions with other pastors. What about teaching? What about preaching? How much of one? How much of the other? I said at the beginning of the lesson. I teach in Sunday school. I preach in the morning service. There's a distinction there. So what is that? What is the difference? What is the distinction? Can we clear up the difference there? The simplest way to define this distinction that I'm aware of is to say that teaching imparts information and instruction. Teaching gives you information. Teaching gives you knowledge. Teaching causes you to learn something. Preaching makes application with the information. So to preach you have to teach. You have to tell people what's right, but then you say, okay, now here's what you need to do. That's teaching. It's the application part of the instruction. We see that in 2 Timothy 4, verse number 2, where Paul tells Timothy, preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering. uh and doctrine. So reprove, giving correction, rebuke, telling somebody when they're wrong, e exhort, telling somebody what they need to do. That's all tied into this idea of preaching. So preaching is the here's what you need to do with the information I gave you. Teaching is here's the information, kind of a distinction that we have there. And any preaching ministry is going to find a balance of those two. I know even during Sunday school. that as much as I'm teaching, there's still, hey, here's what we need to be doing with this information. But teaching stress is the giving of information, preaching stress is the application of information. Teaching, however, can sometimes get a bad reputation based on the next verse in 2 Timothy 4. That's verse number 3. And this is the verse we're familiar with. It says, For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall they heap themselves teachers having itching ears. What Paul's saying is this time's going to come where people don't want to hear preaching. They just want to hear teaching. So that's what we usually hear applied here, and sometimes that can give teaching a bad rap. Well, preaching. You need to preach the word because people don't want it, they just want teachers, they don't want preachers. That is true, but we understand from the verse there it says the time will come when they will not endure, not that they're going to not endure preaching, it says they're not going to endure sound doctrine So the teaching that they're heaping themselves is not teaching that includes sound doctrine. So the sound doctrine is the important part of that. They need to have biblical teaching that includes sound doctrine and preaching as well. As I look at this passage in 1 or 2 Timothy, I kind of see Paul's gift coming to the surface. You remember Paul's gift was the gift of prophecy. So when when Paul saw somebody that didn't want to hear preaching, He wanted they wanted to hear some teaching that wasn't doctrinally based. Paul's answer was rebuke them, exhort them, uh reprove them. Let's just give it to them That's his gift of prophecy coming to the surface there. That you got somebody that doesn't want preaching, let's just nail them to the wall. That's the best way to handle that. And so kind of see Paul's gifts come to the surface there. But pastors are required both to teach and to preach. As I said already, that is part of our qualifications of pastors is to be apt to teach They need to be able to do both. But there's a caution that needs to be seen when a pastor sees that they're beginning to fail to preach. I've seen pastors that their ministry has shifted much more so to teaching, and it's still doctrinal teaching, but they're not confronting their people with things that need to be done. And that's an important necessary item in a church's growth. They need to be confronted with what's what are we supposed to do with the information? you're giving. And I I've seen this with some young men that even that I've talked to as I've gone out and preached for other churches, I'll always ask the pastor, how do you want me to handle the invitation? And it's happened more than once that the pastor said, well, you can do whatever you want. We don't generally have an invitation on that service. And what that means is that they're shying away from confronting people with decisions. They're giving people information but not confronting people with the need to make a decision. So it's an important thing to be aware of that yes, teaching and preaching is necessary, but we need to be careful as pastors. speaking to myself and other pastors that we don't we don't shy away from the preaching ministry. That is what pastors have been called to do. We have teaching as an aspect of that and part of that and a requirement of it, but we need to beware when we shift away from doctrinal preaching. So that's the gift defined, some understanding regarding that. Now let's look at the gifts described. How did Paul talk about the gift of teaching here in Romans chapter 12? We see, first of all, in verse number 7, We see, or he that teacheth on teaching, there's an assumed uh part of that verse that comes from the beginning, or ministry let us wait on our ministering. or teaching, let us wait on our teaching. He gave to those with the gift of ministering to wait on their ministering, he gives to the teachers as well. He says, You that teach you need to learn to wait on your teaching. What does this mean? Well, first of all, we can write this will sound very familiar from last week because it was the same admonition, but it is an admonition to faithfulness. Waiting on your ministering carries the idea of being in your place. Be where you're supposed to be. Every time you're supposed to be there, you be faithful, you'll have an opportunity to use your gift of teaching. You will not have an opportunity to teach if someone if someone else if you are absent. Now, this is not just referring to formal teaching. There's people that have the gift of ministry that may not be serving in a formal position of teaching. But teaching, again, remember it goes back to its root, is to cause someone to learn. And you have an opportunity to do that spiritually all the time. Talking to a young person, talking in the foyer, spending time with somebody else, going to a church family's house for dinner. There's an opportunity you have to cause someone to learn something about God. You can teach one-on-one right there in the in the foyer. Somebody could bring up, hey, this happened at at work this week and I wasn't sure what to say. And a teacher could jump in and say, hey, well you know what? In the life of Paul, something's similar happen in Acts chapter 17, and this is how he handled that situation. What did you do? You taught somebody. So but you wouldn't have been able to teach them if you hadn't been here. So you need to be in your place. That's the admonition he gives, an admonition to faithfulness. Secondly, we see this is also this idea of waiting as an admonition to readiness. You remember that word wait carries the idea of an attendant. And you think of an attendant, there's somebody that's in their position and they're ready to serve, ready to jump in and do what needs to be done. So they're not sitting on their phone. They're not distracted. They're not talking to someone else. They're in their position and they're ready to serve when that opportunity arises. So this idea of waiting is an idea of being ready. You need to be ready. If you want to be able to use your gift in the church, you need to be ready to use it. What does that mean? You need to know the Word of God. Y how are you going to teach them in the Word of God if you don't know it for yourself? A teacher needs to be spending time in the Word of God studying it for themselves so that they're ready to leap into action. You need to know you need to know your Bible if you're going to be ready, if you're going to be that attendant waiting on your opportunity. It's also not only an admonition to faithfulness and readiness, it's an admonition to willingness. There are a lot of faithful people who really know their Bibles. who if they were asked to teach would say something like, Oh, I could never do that. They have the ability, they ha they may have the gift, they have the knowledge, but when it comes to t time to oh I can't do that I I can't I can't get up and teach. I I can't deal with a class of kids at at that age. I I couldn't bring up God to somebody else in the in the foyer. They're they're they're older than me. How am I going to be able to teach them There's a hesitancy to be w being willing to use your gift. We will see that teaching is a responsibility that we all have as believers. So whether it is your gift or not, you should be willing to do it. You should be willing to teach others, to instruct others in the Word of God, especially if it's your gift. So this first admonition he gives to those with the gift of teaching is wait on your wait on your ministry, wait on your opportunity to teach. His expanded teaching we jump down later in the chapter, we see, is in verse number eleven. Verse number 11, we saw the verse number nine kind of dealt with the gift of prophecy. Verse number 10 was related to that ministry. Verse number 11 is where we get to the gifts of teaching. It says they're not slaughter in business. Fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. Not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. So the first admonition he gives here is to not be slothful in your business. It's this kind of an interesting, uh fun way that Paul kind of makes a pun here with these words. He says not slothful, and that word slothful really carries the idea of being tardy or being tiresome or being weary So he said, don't be tardy in your business. This word for business means something that needs to be done quickly. He said, don't be tardy when you should be moving quickly, is what he's he's saying here in this verse. So w what's the idea here? What is he trying to convey? It really speaks to the idea of procrastination. So don't don't be tardy, don't be wearisome in in what you're supposed to be doing when you're supposed to be getting it done. Go ahead and get done with your business. Don't be tardy, don't procrastinate. With this gift in particular, the gift of teaching, it's easy to rely on ability instead of preparation. Someone who is a gifted teacher can get up and just teach. They don't need to necessarily put in the work front-loaded to be able to give the information. They could just fill time. They could just talk. As I said, even though this is not my spiritual gift, it's something I am gifted in. And I can get up and talk. It's not hard for me to do. I can get up and talk on any subject anytime. In fact, when I was in high school, I remember going into speech class And we had a day where we were doing impromptu speaking where they just give you a topic and ask you to come speak on it. And I went home and my parents were asking me how school was that day. I said, oh we had the easiest day ever in drama class. Uh they just asked us to do these impromptu speeches and it was man, it was it was a breeze. And my dad was said not not he's like, well that's not easy for most people, that's kind of hard to do I said, well it's easy for me. He says, okay. Why don't you just talk for five minutes on uh on uh so he doesn't have the gift of impromptu speaking. Um and he tells me uh I believe he said something along the lines of why lizards have eyelids, um eyelashes or something along those lines. Um and so right then I spoke for five minutes on why lizards have eyelashes completely 100% made up, but I can just talk and I can talk coherently about something because I'm gifted in this ability to remember things and deliver information. So I could get up here on a Sunday, next week, for example, and I could talk for several hours on the idea of spiritual gifts with taking no time to study. Uh that's partially because I've already done a lot of study on this topic, but also because I'm gifted in this area. I could also not just get up and talk. I could I could spend some time, maybe maybe an hour or two, uh studying and writing a lesson and jotting some notes down, and then get up and teach in Sunday school, do that on Saturday night, just throw that together. I could also, as I did yesterday and throughout this week, spend six to eight hours studying, meditating, and preparing today's lesson. Paul warns teachers, don't rely on your spiritual gift. Put in the work that you need to do. Don't put it off. Because this is one that's easy to get up and just wing it. And that's not what that's not the way your gift is supposed to be used. It's supposed to be used intentionally. So he warns them about this idea of procrastination. Put in the work necessary to give someone a doctrinal lesson from the Word of God. So not slothful a business. Don't procrastinate. Number two, be fervent in spirit. This carries the idea of being spiritually hot. This idea that we see other places regarding the gifts is to be to stir up the gift that's in you, for it to be alive, for it to be real for you. You know, it's easy for a teacher to get bogged down in the information and forget the spiritual aspects of um what you're teaching. How many of you had a boring professor in high school or college? You had that guy that was just regurgitating information. It didn't mean anything to him, just get in the class, give the information, get done, make sure kids can pass the class, that's all there is to it it it can be that way for teachers is to to kind of let the information overwhelm you and you just get to the point where you regurgitate information and you forget the fact that you're handling the precious living word of God. That this is something that can change someone's life And not just a set of notes that I'm giving out, not just a lecture that I'm delivering. I'm presenting people with the eternal truths of the Word of God. That should stir something within me. That should mean something to me. Not just getting up and delivering a set of notes or f following an outline and handing out handouts. This is the word of God that we're handling. And there should be a fervency to it. So he warns them to be fervent in spirit. Don't just be regurgitating information. Let the word of God captivate you as you share it to others. That's this idea. Don't become a boring professor that instructs out of habit. Let the material be real to you before you teach it to others. So fervent in spirit Thirdly, he tells them to serve the Lord. The focus of a teacher tends to either be on the pupil or on the material Teachers, you have one or the other. Either they're all about the people that are learning from them or they're all about the material that they're giving. That's that one science teacher that knew way too much and he was so excited about science and you had no idea what he's talking about, he was in love with the material And you got some that just just d pour themselves into kids and sometimes the kids don't learn very much because there's they're focused on one or the other. Paul says when you're teaching, your focus is on the Lord. I'm not teaching because I love information. I am teaching, I'm teaching for people and things like that, but my primary focus in teaching is that I'm serving God. When I'm up here delivering the Word of God, when I'm in the four year talking to somebody and sharing something from the Word of God, what I'm doing is I'm serving the Lord. I need to remember that. I need to remember that I'm teaching the Word of God in the service to the Lord. This will influence what I teach. I'll be prayerfully seeking what is needed and what God wants me to teach. This will influence how I teach. When I teach the Word of God, I can teach it with authority. That's what was said of Jesus. It's that he's different than the rabbi describes because he teaches with authority. And I'll be teaching for God and not for men. And it will influence the reason why I teach. My purpose of teaching is not simply the pursuit of knowledge Not just to have the smartest church in the world. My reason for teaching is to bring people closer to the Lord because my teaching is in service to Him. So Paul gives these admonitions. He tells them to wait on their ministry. He tells them to not be slothful in their business, tells them to be fervent in their spirit, and reminds them that they're serving the Lord. We see the pictures of this gift in the Bible, the gift depicted. First of all, we have the depiction of Christ, the ultimate teacher, the ultimate example for teachers. Christ is seen teaching throughout his ministry. He taught the multitudes. He taught the disciples. Remember, the disciples came to Christ and said, Lord, teach us to pray. They wanted instruction from the Savior. He's the ultimate example of a teacher. Another possibility in the Bible for someone who may have had the gift of teaching is uh is Luke. When we look at Luke as an author, he wrote the books of Luke as well as the book of Acts. He said, I recorded for you the things you did, but I recorded for you the things that you Jesus taught. His focus was on the teaching ministry of Christ. He also was somebody who loved information. The books of Acts and Luke are the two longest, by word count, books in the New Testament. He had a lot that he had to write down. In fact, if you include Hebrews as the book that Paul wrote, there's some discussion about that, but if you lump Peter in with all the or sorry Hebrews in with all the things that Paul wrote. He only squeaked out a 300 word count lead over Luke just writing two books. All the books in the New Testament that Paul wrote, Luke almost caught up to in word count with just the two that he wrote. So Luke was someone who loved information. loved recording and conveying information. So he is someone who may have had the gift of teaching. This brings us to the point on the gift discussed. This is where we look to the um So the idea of what does this look like in a person's life, and as we said at the beginning of the lesson, not something hard, fast rules, but just general characteristics of someone who has the gift of teaching. Those with this gift will desire to carefully study the scriptures and give instructions to others. They will have this desire, they will have a love of learning, a love of knowledge, a love of the Word of God, a love of studying. and that will impart to them having a desire to share that love of the Word of God with others as well. Some positive characteristics that are associated with this gift is those that with this gift are often diligent. in their study. They have a, as I said already, a strong love for the Word of God. They have a strong desire to be accurate and precise, uh very detailed. They they they pay attention to details. They they know their Bibles really well. And if something's misquoted or there's a r the wrong reference somewhere, they notice it and they pick up on it because they they care about the details. They're disciplined and methodical. They also have an ability to orderly present truth. Some ways that this gift could negatively portray itself. Sometimes we are warned in the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 8 that knowledge can puff someone up with pride. Knowledge puffeth up. So as they grow in their knowledge, as they grow in understanding, uh they can be cuff puffed up with pride They can tend to judge other people's spirituality based on their Bible knowledge. They'll they'll they'll look at somebody if somebody misquotes the verse, they're like, Oh well that person They must not be walking with God. Something they just tend to tend to be critical of people based on their knowledge because knowledge is so important to them. This person can become too involved in the pursuit of knowledge to the point that they may neglect the application of knowledge They become focused on information to the point that they forget to take action. There's also a warning in the Bible for teachers, especially, that they have a tendency towards false doctrine and self-promotion. When we look at the warnings given to the church, you're often warned about false teachers arising within you. People that are gifted in teaching and gifted in knowledge and in study, that they can tend towards false doctrine as they get deeper and deeper into their study They also have the idea of self-promotion where these false teachers would rise up and draw away disciples after them. They want people to come and follow them because of how well they know the Word of God. I know several pastors that I I knew growing up that had a great knowledge and understanding of the Word of God and great gifted Bible teachers that um that That varied off into false doctrine based on their um based on their study that they went into false doctrine, just as is warned in the book of in the in the Bible. So something to be warned about with the gift of teaching. There is a tendency towards false doctrine self-promotion. Some cautions related to this gift. It can be task-oriented over people-oriented as well. Focus more on the information than on the application for people. And then as I've said already, this idea that knowledge puff is up. Gotta be aware of pride. How do you develop this gift? If you have it, this gift developed, we need to be faithful, as we were seen by Paul. Be in your place, be willing to be consistent. We also need to be ready. We need to know our Bible. We need to study our Bible. And we need to be willing. We're willing to volunteer or be willing to serve if we're asked to do so. Also be willing to speak up for God. You know, it should never be weird to bring up spiritual things uh in with other believers. Where in the foyer we're talking about something that happens the work. It shouldn't be weird to say, well the Bible says this about that. Um that that shouldn't but we feel kinda like hesitant. They're like, they're gonna think I'm What what, weird as a Christian, talking about the Bible? No. It shouldn't be strange to bring up the things of God. So be willing to talk and to speak up to the Lord. Develop your gifts by being faithful, being ready, being willing. And lastly, the gift desired. We're going to close this out, and we're out of time for this morning to really go into this. But as we've said with all the gifts, they are gifts given to individuals, but they're responsibilities for all believers. We see the gift of teaching is the responsibility of all believers in the Great Commission in Matthew 28. Go ye therefore teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. So it's a responsibility we have in relation to the Great Commission, teaching others. We also see it's a responsibility we have in the church in Colossians 3, verse number 16. Let the Word of God dwell within you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. In the church house, God says to be teaching one another. This isn't just for teachers, this is for all of us. Teaching one another, instructing, causing others to learn about Christ through your example. And finally, we see a warning given to the to the uh in the book of Hebrews about how we should be teachers. In chapter 5, verse number 12, the Bible says there, for For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God, and become as such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. What Paul is saying here is, I've invested in you, I've taught you the Word of God, you should be a teacher. We see that also with Timothy, where it says, The things you've heard of me commit unto faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. As you come to church, as you hear the Word of God, you should grow to the point where you can teach somebody else. If not, you've remained a babe in Christ. Paul says you need to get past that. You need to get past where somebody needs to teach you and get to the point where you can teach somebody else So it's an admonition for all of us a responsibility we have to be teachers. Causing others to learn the Word of God