Well, we are moving into Philippians chapter number three. Uh We're halfway done. I don't know if that's that's good or or bad from your standpoint. Um He does give us a conclusion concluding remark here. He says finally, so I guess that means uh this is the last thing, so we just have two chapters left though. But uh He does say finally as he opens this up. Um Philip Philippians chapter three and verse number one, if you would follow along as I read that verse tonight, he says, Finally, my brethren Rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed, is not grievous, but for you is safe. So he gives us in this one verse two thoughts, and the last time we were together looking at this, uh I was able to put eleven verses into one message and we we covered eleven verses and and uh they kind of went together and fit together and as I was studying for this next chapter here and the direction that we should go. I couldn't get out of verse number one. I I wanted to at least get to verse number three. There is a nice outline that flows between verse one and three and these things together, but we might have to get into that next week, adding verse number two and three to it, because we're going to be just in verse number one tonight. As he says here, what I've entitled the grievous truth stated. The grievous truth stated. And obviously, truth is not grievous He says here that listen for me to write the same things to you indeed is not grievous, but for you is safe. And so Truth should never be grievous to us, but there can be come a time in our life where it does get grievous. There can come a situation where we allow it to reach that point. So I hope tonight as we look at these truths that they they wouldn't be grievous and that we as God's people would never let them reach that place in our heart. I uh we're going to look just at this one verse, so don't expect to be too long this evening, uh, but want us to le to learn and glean from this what we can. First of all, I want you to see here that rejoicing is suggested. Rejoicing is suggested. And of course you know that God's wish is our command. Amen? That God's wish is our command. And although there is this statement here that He says, given to the Christian. He says, finally, my brethren, we know that this is a statement to God's people. And if there's anybody in the world that should have cause or motivation or the uh ability to rejoice, It should be God's people. God's people should be the happiest people on the earth. They should have the joy of the Lord in their hearts at all times. That is something that should be present. And as this is stated in my outline as a suggestion, we know that really this is a command given to us by God. that we are to have a rejoicing heart in every situation. And if ever there's anybody that has cause or reason to rejoice, the Christian does And so as we look at this, I began to ponder and think about what is it that would cause somebody who should have the joy of the Lord, somebody that should uh just be on top and not be under the circumstances, but should be praising and and thanking God for His blessings? What is it that would cause a Christian to not rejoice? And there's a couple I would like to give you tonight as we hopefully are encouraged to be to have a rejoicing heart and to rejoice in the Lord in all things. But the first thing I see that causes somebody to fail to rejoice when God wants us to is that our focus is on the wrong thing. Our focus is on the wrong thing. Now, sometimes even in a blessing, we can be focused on the wrong thing. I this truth was really amazing to me as I saw it in our text, and I may get into this once we get there in chapter number four, but look in chapter number four and verse number ten. This book, of course, you know, this entire book here is is the theme of it is joy. And that we are to be rejoicing. And so this is a theme that's repeated throughout the entire four chapters here. But in chapter four and verse number ten, he says, But I rejoice in the Lord greatly That now at the last your care of me hath flourished again, wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity So the Apostle Paul here is saying, hey, I rejoice at your newfound fervor to take care of me I rejoiced in how you guys have you've taken, you've seized the opportunity, could be a blessing to me. You've determined that this is necessary and with a new new fervency, with great Efforts. You guys have decided to minister to me, and boy, I rejoice in that. But here's the question, beloved. What was the focus of his rejoicing? Was it that he was getting his needs met? Well, look down at verse number 17. This is familiar passage of scripture to us, but he says here, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. So you see, even in a matter of a blessing coming to him, the focus of his joy was not on what he was receiving. But the focus of his joy was on the blessing that it was going to be to those that were giving. He's saying, listen, church, I'm thrilled that you guys are sending me this. Because for me, that's meeting my need. Yes, but I understand that as you do this, this is going to be fruit added to your account. This is going to be God blessing you because of that That's one of the reasons that I never have a hard time preaching on giving. I don't mind encouraging God's people to give to God. Because I know that as we give to God, as you give to God, God is a debtor to no man And God's going to bless you. And I've seen it over and over again where somebody determines in their heart to start to give to God and God blesses them and they come in and they say, Man, Pastor, you won't believe that happened Look at what God provided. Look at how God did this. And man, I just rejoiced with them. Because where their focus is, even in blessing, our focus can be in the wrong places sometimes. But in hardship, that point where obviously we would be most likely to not be focused in the right place, like Peter of old walking on the water, he took his eyes off Jesus Looked at the storm, looked at the hardship, and of course was discouraged. But he tells us Rejoice What's the next three words? In the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. You see, some people say, Pastor, I hear you say we ought to have joy and that it shouldn't matter, but You don't understand my car and and the problems I'm having with my car and the stupid thing won't even run. He didn't say rejoice in your car. He said, rejoice in the Lord. He said, you know, somebody might say, well, Pastor, I know we're supposed to rejoice, but you don't understand the problems I'm having in my family. You don't understand the hardship I'm dealing with and the struggle that he didn't say, rejoice in your family. He said, Rejoice in the Lord. And in every situation, no matter how bad it is, if our focus is on the Lord, we can still have joy. Because he is never going to fail you. Because we still have salvation, beloved. No matter how bad things get here on earth, we still are on our way to heaven. We are going to one day be out of this place. One day all the pain and suffering is going to be gone. The tears are going to be wiped away. And regardless, I mean, however bad it gets, we still can look and say, hey, the Lord saved my soul. And I can rejoice in him. Consider with me if you would, where is your joy invested? Where is your joy invested? Some would say uh not maybe in this room, maybe not outright But some, and I've heard expressions along these lines of, you know, well, my mate is my joy And praise God you've got a mate that you brings you joy. I mean that's a lot better than the alternative, amen. You got a mate that you love and that you're thrilled to be with and and that joy that's in your relationship. But if your if your joy, beloved, is is invested in them and them alone, and you have seen it, and I have seen it, what happens when God determines that that individual, it's time for them to be called home? Even a Christian who professed to love God, who walked down the aisle and carried his Bible into church. Their joy of living was invested in their mate, and when God calls their mate home, they get mad at God. They say, How can he take her away from me? Or how can he take him away from me? He was my life. But we ought to have joy in the Lord. In trusting him. Some might have their joy invested in their career. Or another very popular one is joy invested in their kids. And these things can bring you joy, but beloved, the foundation of it, the root of it, ought to be in the Lord. Joy for the Christian is not a matter of manipulating your emotions to experience a feeling of euphoria, to experience some measure of happiness for a moment You know, maybe you could do something that would bring you joy for a little bit or would distract you from the reality of life's problem I mean that's the world's mentality. That's the temporal way of dealing with things. Because it's temporary It's only going to remove the problem for a moment. That's the whole idea behind, thank God it's Friday. For the weekend I can escape life. I can get away. Drinking and alcohol and drugs and all that is is just a moment to to try and mask the problem, but you and I both know it doesn't fix it, does it? It doesn't fix the problem. It just masks it for a few minutes It doesn't bring true joy. They can be happy as long as they're under the influence. But as soon as they come out of the influence, That problem is facing them right l like where it was before. And they have no joy. The joy should come from our Lord, from God. Brother David Brady, when we were out at the Minneboys camp out one morning for a devotional thought, he asked this question. He said, here we are at the camp, kind of a little retreat away from society This kind of uh a fun time to just get away and enjoy ourselves. And he says, I wonder if you could pick wherever you wanted to go, where would you pick for a retreat? He said, Where is your retreat? And then he began to develop that thought. And when life gets hard, what do you do to escape? Where do you retreat to? Some retreat to many different things, and we could list all we could list all those things tonight. But beloved, the heart of the message is we should retreat to God. He should be our retreat. He should be that one that brings us joy. When your focus is in the wrong place, you'll find it hard to have joy, even In the storm. Beloved, when your faith is weak, you'll find it hard to have joy. When your faith is weak. You know the truths of God's Word, but your faith is weak. You can't Just trust God to carry you through. You know, back in chapter number two, verses seventeen and eighteen, we we learned about this when we were going through that chapter, but the Apostle Paul Describes and says, hey, if I be offered as a drink offering for you, he said, I don't know what's going to happen here. They the I'm I'm under trial right now and they might kill me. And if I'm killed For the cause of Christ, that's okay. Because he was trusting God. Because he had faith that God's will was going to be done and it would be worked regardless How many of you understand that you and I can have joy at the same time that we have heartache? You see, it's not that we don't face problems as Christians, it's not that we don't endure hardship I mean on the way to church last Thursday night. Pastor Derrick called me at about 6. 15 and said the drive shaft just fell out of the church truck on Shawan Road. I need to get pulled off the road. Uh can you come and get me? And I said, sure. So I jumped in the car and rode down there and we we actually pushed him into the uh into the uh Um Ag Center. Kinda right there off of the road for I said we'll pull it home after church. Uh he had his boys with him, we're all dressed in suits and everything. I said we'll we'll crawl under there and hook onto it and pull it home after church right now, just park it in the Ag Center. I mean everybody has problems. Everybody has things that don't go as planned, you know. But we can have joy at the same time of heartache. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 6 10, as sorrowing, yet always rejoicing. You see, beloved, because we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. You might be experiencing the pain of loss and suffering through something, but you can still have joy because we have hope in what's to come. hope in what God is going to do. If we properly understand this command, then we realize that joy is a choice. And we know that if God commanded it, then he will enable it. We discussed this when we talked about the idea of working out your own salvation and the fact that it is Him that worketh in you. both to will and to do. That God will give you the will, the desire to do right, and then God also gives you the ability to do right. And joy for the Christian is something that God has commanded us to do, and therefore it is a choice. And He also, if we'll choose it, He'll give us the ability to have joy. The fruit of the Spirit is love. What? Joy. Joy. That's a fruit of the Spirit. As Christians, if we are walking with God, we can have joy. Even in the face of great sorrow, even in the face of things not going how we want it to go, we can have joy because it is a fruit of the Spirit, which should be evident and part of our life. God will give you joy even if it's raining. Last Sunday morning, several of us were outside talking about the cicadas. And how annoying they are. How you know frustrating it is that they land on everything and and they crawl on your neck and And uh you know these cicadas, I mean they're just annoying and and oh I'm so glad they're almost done and we're they're just talking about it. And I think it was the Ashburns who were sitting in their car there, they were loading up and Brother Ashburn he says, you know, uh I'm just so glad that they are not like like a locust plague. He's like, have you seen a locust plague? They just eat everything in their plague. I mean just just consume everything in their path. He says it's nothing like that. And then his wife from across the seat, I think she says, I'm just glad that it's only every uh seventeen years. You know that and I said, Amen. At least there's things we can be joyful about, even though we don't enjoy the Takadas, right? There's always a way to look at it that we can have joy. And we're just talking there. We're all Describing how we don't like these cicadas, you know, and and uh the ashburns put me under conviction. Uh just by being positive about it. And I said, Yeah, you're right. We oughta be more uh look on the bright side, amen. The possibility for Christians to have joy is there because it's what God's commanded us to do. It's not just a matter of a feeling that we're subject to, that we have no control over. You understand? It's not just a feeling that happens because, you know, if I knocked on your door and say sit tonight and said, hey, I'm from publishing clearinghouse and you have won a million dollars. You know, I don't even know if they do that anymore. Um but uh you know, I mean you would be like, Oh, a million dollars, man, and and those types of things come, but you you understand that that is not what he's talking about here. It's not a feeling that that you have no control over. You and I can have joy, and it's a choice that we make. We choose to have joy. Faith says, regardless of my circumstances, I can have joy. Psalms 85, 6 says, Wilt thou not revive us again? That thy people may what? Rejoice. There's a very strong correlation between revival and God's people rejoicing. Because it's a fruit of the Spirit, and we ought to rejoice. So sometimes we don't rejoice because our focus is wrong, sometimes because our faith is weak. I want you to see also because familiarity has made you weary. Familiarity has made you weary. He says here the same thing to you. He says, for me to write the same thing to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. You see, familiarity Breeds contempt. I mean I know you've heard me say that. Familiarity breeds contempt. And we can get too familiar with something or someone that we lose respect for them. You know, we get to the point where you get so familiar with your boss, your boss tries tries to be kind of buddy buddy with you, and you get so close to him that at some point they cease to be the boss and you begin to communicate and treat them like a peer. They're not really a peer. There's still supposed to be a level of respect there. You can get familiar f too familiar with the location. For instance, at the church house here And I would encourage all the parents to help with this, especially those whose children are around a lot You know, like our kids are here all the time and and they're at every event and all that. You can get so familiar with a facility, you know, for instance Somebody that comes into church the first week or two or three, they would never ever think of coming in here and going through that door. They wouldn't do that. Because they don't have the right to go in there. This is not their their building. This is not theirs. They they they well sometimes because kids are around a lot. They they lose all that respect for the location and like, oh well, this is my church and and I can go wherever and and they just get into everything. That shouldn't be. Well I'm talking about it. Let me just throw this out because you know Mary and I we like to have an open house. We we invite a lot of people over, we bring people to our house all the time. And I would encourage you or ask you to keep in mind, although you've been there many times, And we try and be very open, hey, Mikasa, Sukasa, come on in. There should still be a level of respect that you have for our space. And it's a real balance for us to try and be that open but also deal with when we come into the house and there's somebody going through the cupboards, like, can I help you find something? Oh, well, I just needed this. And we try and be open. But you see, familiarity makes it where they're they they just lose all that respect for someone else's space. And I am going somewhere with this. I want you to see that when we get familiar with something, too familiar with it, whether that's a home, a church. An individual, areas that were off-limits are no longer off-limits to us. The specialness that once was there is no longer there. And what happens, beloved, is we hear the truths of God's word so much, we are so familiar with them that they've lost their preciousness to us. We've got tired of hearing them. We hear things like, Oh yeah, I've heard that before. Oh yeah, how many messages on Samson have I heard? You know, how many times have I heard a message on this? Well listen, beloved, there's only one book. And Paul says, For me to write the same things unto you is not grievous. But it's safe for you. We've got to be careful. that we don't get too used to hearing the truths of God's word that become wearisome to us. You see, that's when they become grievous. Right here in this in this book, in this letter written to the church there at Philippi They say at least 18 times in this passage there is a reference made to the joy that a Christian should have. Repetition. You know repetition is the key to learning. As you hear this truth, even tonight, I know. I know we're supposed to have joy. How many messages have I heard on joy? The joy of the Lord is my strength. How many times have I sat through teaching on this thought? You see, we get that way. Why? Because familiarity breeds contempt. At one point, the truths of God's word were so fresh and new to us, they were so precious. We heard this truth, how Jesus is a friend That's just closer than a brother, and in our hour of need we can call on him. And we thought, wow, God of heaven will hear my prayer and walk with me in the cool of the day But now we've been in church for a long time and the pastor says that we're seeing be done It's no longer precious. Because we've gotten too familiar with it. Our familiarity will cause you to leave your first love. It'll cause you to leave your first love. I know it seems counterintuitive. Like it seems like familiarity should uh cause us to be closer to our love, right? Well if that just happens, then why do so many couples say they fell out of love? No, you see what happens is familiarity breeds contempt. They get so close, they start to see some flaws. They start to see, they no longer even appreciate the things they used to appreciate They no longer value the things they used to value. And they start looking at the little inconsistencies that that their mate has and let them grow on them, and pretty soon it's driving them nuts. You know, Christ said, I have somewhat against thee, because you've left your first love. It's something that we have to pursue actively. And we can't let it grow old. We can't let it become contemptible. They got so familiar they no longer had anything to discover. about that individual and became bored with them. Have you got so familiar with the things of God that you're bored with it? Oh man. This leads us to our second and last point, and that is repetition is safe. He says, To write the same thing to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you is safe. This word here, grievous. in the the Greek has two definitions that I want to explain to you. The first is erxim. It it means erksum, the Greek word there that's translated grievous. Beloved, don't let the repetition of the things of God get irksome to you. The fact of the matter is, if you continue to go to church for any length of time, you're going to hear some of the same messages. Maybe not the exact same title or presented the exact same way, but the truths are the same. That's the facts of life. That's the way it is. It's the truths of God's Word, and they should not grow irksome to us. A preacher is told in Homiletic class to keep a good record of every message that he preaches and the location because you would never want to be guilty of preaching the same message twice in the same place. I mean that, God forbid that should ever happen. Well that sounds good for homiletics, but actually according to Paul, uh he says, hey, I'm gonna write the same thing. I'm going to write the same thing. And beloved, the longer you're here and the longer I'm here, I want you to understand that at some point you're going to hear a message that you've heard before. It's going to happen. You say, well, Pastor, you already preached that one. I know, but there's new people. There's new people coming in. There's new Christians that need to hear that. That message that helped you ten years ago There's there's young families starting. The message that helped you as a young family, now there's new young families And they need some of those truths. I can't just leave that off. There's some truths that I might repeat because it's time to be repeated. It's inevitable that a pastor is going to repeat sometimes. And Apostle Paul said, this is good for you. This is good. Now, this is one of the reasons why I'm very careful or try to have other good men preach here in the pulpit. Uh that's why I have like Pastor Derek right now teaching Sunday school. You know, I understand this. I I'm not so narcissistic. that I think that I have everything that Hunt Valley Baptist Church needs. And that what I have is all you guys need and and if I don't have it, you don't need it. Okay, I don't think that. I believe God has given wisdom and insight to from the scriptures and from life to other men. In the coming weeks, we're going to have some of the men of our church teaching adult Sunday school. We're going to get them involved in teaching adult Sunday school, sharing some things that God has taught them. And here's what I know. If I was to preach four times every week What that means for the next ten, fifteen years, is you're going to get more and more re uh repetition. And I don't want it to get irksome to you. You cannot help but speak the things that thou hast seen and heard. I can't help but preach the things that are part of my life and what I've learned. And I praise God for the privilege to do it, but what I'm saying is I try and have other people here so that you do get a fresh voice. so that you don't just get repetition from Pastor Caleb. And I work hard to try and keep it fresh and to build the messages and to make them new. But every pastor is different. In my dad's day They preach Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, every week, forever. And I'm happy for him, but I'm not my dad. I'm me. And I have to do what I believe God wants me to do. And so I want the church to give me liberty to do that, but also to understand why I'm doing it. is I don't want to just be up here repeating things over and over again. And so I look, let me use this word, I look at the sustainability. of long-term ministry in the same place. The sustainability of long-term ministry in the same place. And by having somebody else teach Sunday school for a little while, that I believe prolongs the sustainability. Because I I can only give so much. I can only share so much. Does that make sense to you? That's my thought process behind this. Now I prayerfully consider who should preach and when And there's times that men come and you've heard me say it. Listen, they were scheduled to preach tonight, but I believe that God has a message for this and this is what I'm supposed to be preaching this evening. So I prayerfully consider who should come to the pulpit and when they should preach and who it should be. But I want you to understand my thought process behind why I do it. Some repetition is necessary. Now another definition of this word here, grievous, it's it's amazing. You can look it up in Strong's. It means slothful. Slothful. It's actually translated, the same Greek word is translated, slothful, in the parable of the talents. In Matthew 25, 26, he says, Lord, answer. And said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant is actually translated slothful I don't know. I believe in the context that you're really talking more about that first definition of irksome, that he's saying, listen, it shouldn't be irksome. But I think it certainly could be applied to this. That the Apostle Paul is saying, hey, for me to write the same thing unto you is not me just being lazy. I'm not just being lazy. I'm not just writing this to you because I don't have anything else to write. And I need to have four chapters. He's not just saying, I'm just writing this to you because I didn't have time to study this week and I didn't know what else to say, so I'm just going to say something that I already said Now I know we believe in a verbal, plenary, inspired word of God. And every word of God is inspired. And there's a purpose and there's a reason for every word in the Word of God. I believe that. And I don't think anything in the Word of God was repeated without purpose. And so we we we understand that But I'm also trying to do a little bit of teaching here tonight. Understand that just because somebody preaches the same message that they might have preached sometime in the past is not because they're lazy. I mean it could be, but that it should not be. It should be the same that it's because they believe this is the message God has for the hour. And there's somebody there that has or needs that truth that time. And the longer that I get the privilege of serving here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, There's bound to be a message, especially if you keep notes in your Bible, like some of you keep pretty at pretty you keep good notes. You're going to say, Pastor Caleb, you preached that one before. I say, I know, I know. Because I do keep records. Every message I preach, where I preached it, what the occasion was and why, and so on. All that's I keep records on all that. So I know I preached it before. I could give you the date. But I felt it was necessary. It's what God wanted. And so it's not grievous. Repetition is safe. He says it's safe for you because it's needed. Every word is inspired. I'm not going to take time to go into it tonight, but it might be a useful study for somebody to look in the book of Philippians, just this book, and find the topics that he repeated. I believe there's six of them that he repeated. Things that he repeated. Now one of them obviously we know is the topic of Joy. That's one of the six. Because that's the theme, and we know that's repeated over and over and over again. But there's others that you can find, topics that he that he repeated, and it might be a useful study for you. This, beloved, we don't want to let the things of God become grievous, irksome to us. We want to keep them fresh. We want to rejoice as we've been commanded to rejoice. And we want to realize that repetition is safe. It's good for us. To hear the same truths. You ever get tired of the old, old story? I hope not. That precious story of things above