Just by way of kind of kind of introduction and getting our minds on the topic here, how many of you have ever heard a sermon or sermon series on the idea of spiritual gifts kind of dedicated to it? I know we bring it up uh occasionally good. Uh so we all have kinda kind of a background uh in this idea. Let me go ahead and turn while I'm talking here as well. Spiritual gifts, it's it's a very interesting study. Uh it's an important study. Uh we're actually commanded to uh know know our gifts. So you need to know what that is in order to be able to use it in service to the house of God. Looking at the layout for this lesson, I kind of had a lot of material as I tend to tend to have uh and try to figure out where where we're going to be going with this series specifically and I've laid out a plan for the next ten lessons, not necessarily ten weeks. We'll have A week or two here there, where their schedule uh differs uh slightly. But the next ten lessons we're gonna take and we're really gonna go into this idea of spiritual gifts So looking at the material I had together, we're kind of going to take three lessons and use those as an introduction to the topic here because spiritual gifts is something that is misunderstood, that is misapplied in a lot of instances. And to kind of get a background for that, we're going to start really wide and talk about that today the gifts that are given not specifically and you'll see this as we go along the individual gifts given to individuals Because there's a lot of spiritual things that we've been given by God and that are called the gifts of God in the Bible. And in some of these they get confused and people apply them or claim them as a spiritual gift When that's not what God's talking about in context. We're going to go real wide today and look at spiritual gifts that we've been given as Christians, who's given them to us, and what have we been given them for. We'll go into the actual spiritual gifts that are described in the Bible. We'll talk about how many there are, how many we get, and things of that nature, what they are. And then we'll go into the third lesson. I've entitled it the gifts, but that's in quotation marks, that are gone. And you'll understand that as we as we move into it. Because there's some things that get claimed to be gifts that God has done away with that was only for the first century prior to the Bible being completed. So we'll talk about those and then we'll look at the individual gifts on a week by week basis going into those in detail. It's an important study, spiritual gifts, in the Word of God, but it's also a study, the area of study that's been very clouded by men's opinions. And I'll say this that there are we like to know a lot of details, and God doesn't always give us all the details. So then this this gets where we get into some some disagreement between good men on well I think this is true and I think this is true and and that's okay because there's things that the Bible hasn't clearly revealed to us. One One area of discussion I was actually talking to another pastor about was, do you have a spiritual gift when you're born and it becomes alive at salvation, or is it given to you at salvation? And just something the Bible doesn't tell us specifically. And pastors fall either way on that uh idea. So it's just there's there are areas in there where this become clouded with men's opinions. And to kind of give you an inner and an idea, because I'm going to be teaching you what I believe the Bible says about it. And as I go into what the Bible says about it, it's going to have areas where it differs with other godly men. And uh that's okay. It passed out a few weeks ago. It's okay, we can still be friends if we have some sort of disagreement. So here's some of the material that I've been going over uh in preparation for this study. I'll introduce it. see here. This is the book called Having Then Gifts, a little booklet written by Dr. Thomas Strauss. He was one of the men that I studied under in getting my master's degree. So that's the book that he has put together We have a book here, not one I necessarily would recommend. It's by Kenneth O. Gangle, Unwrap Your Spiritual Gifts, Christian, kind of evangelical author, written about 50 books. He has a book on gifts. We have here The Tragedy in the Church, The Missing Gifts, by A. W. Tozer. It's one of Brother Taylor's favorite authors here, well-known uh preacher from uh some decades ago. And so he wrote an I uh some material here on spiritual gifts. We have this is from the Understanding the Bible series by Dr. Sorensen. He wrote a through the Bible commentary, so this obviously deals with the topic because you dealt with every verse in the Bible in his commentary that it wrote over the course of 11 years. So he has material there. Somebody we know very well, Dr. uh Randy Starr, um close friend of the church here, he has a book here on spiritual gifts. Someone you many of you will be familiar with, uh David Cloud, uh this is from his commentary on 1 Corinthians as well as Romans on what he teaches regarding the spiritual gifts. And this one you wouldn't know. A close friend of mine, a young man that I had an opportunity to help bring into the ministry, he wrote a book on the chapter Roman chapter 12 of Romans. and has it here. So I give that boil illustration that there's a lot of material available on spiritual gifts, but none of these men Agree completely. There's areas where they all differ, and when I add my set of notes to the top of this, there'll be some disagreement there as well. So I'm going to say some things during the study that you may have heard differently. And that's okay. I'm giving you what I think the Bible teaches about the subject. So all of these men, they they have areas where they disagree with each other, they have areas they disagree. With me, they're all good men as well. My goal for this study is to simplify this study and stick as close as I can to a clear interpretation of the Word of God. Because with everyone disagreeing, there's only one person that's right. That's God. Not me. That's God. So we're going to go with what God says and try to figure that out for us today. Not that these men are not. I'm not trying to throw them under the bus at all in that that. in that way. So if you uh if you disagree with me, uh you're in good company. Um but also I'm in good company too, because they probably disagree with you too. But we're going to look at the look at this idea of study it out in the Word of God To kind of give you an overview of what I believe the Bible teaches regarding spiritual gifts, I believe that every Christian has been given one spiritual gift of seven that God has described for us in the Bible Dr. Strauss gave a illustration of how gifts are used in the church, kind of a parable of sorts, and I copied that into my notes here too. So this is copied from his book here on the bottom, having then gifts. He says the series is or this scenario is an attempt to illustrate the responses of the seven gifts to a common problem occurring in a local church. Since the local church is likened to a physical body, the body will respond to any challenge with the appropriate analysis and solutions for self-preservation. If the local church has a common problem, the gifts are going to respond according to the respective gift motivation. So here's the illustration. A Christian is driving a church bus loaded with seven other people, who each in turn has one of the different gifts that are described in Romans chapter 12, verses 6-8. Then the church bus, as they tend to do, has a flat tire. So, uh this gives a common problem, a difficulty that will arise for the seven gifts to which they must respond. The gift of prophecy only seeing uh good and evil and being somewhat confrontational, they will likely reprove the driver for risking everyone's well-being by driving with bad tires. One with the gift of service would volunteer to get down and dirty and fix the tire. Someone with the gift of teaching would likely pull out from the glove box the instruction manual on how to change a flat tire and give teaching tips for the proper technique. The gift of exhortation would then encourage the driver and the passenger while the tires uh being fixed. The one with the gift of giving would likely happen to know where to buy a used tire and would volunteer to take an offering to go get it. The one with the gift of ruling would organize and oversee the tire repair crew, and the one with the gift of mercy would sympathize with the driver's calamity until the tire is fixed. They rejoice with everyone over the success of the of successfully changing a tire. So when a problem arises in the church, God has put people in there and given them gifts to help meet that need in a different way. Um and this is one reason, we're gonna talk more about this next week, getting ahead of myself, but one reason why I believe we each have one gift, because if I had all the gifts, I wouldn't need you guys. And if you had all the gifts, you wouldn't need me. And so because God has given us an area where we're good at serving, He's given other people other areas that they can serve. That's why we need each other. We're a body. We work together to get done things of the Word of God. So the point of this case study was to show that gifts respond to church problems, and all of them working together can give a biblical solution. Furthermore, each gift needs the other six gifts to complement the efficient ministry of the body of Christ So as you turn to Ephesians chapter 4, and this does not have to do specifically with the spiritual gifts, the seven that we're going to talk about of course of the study, but today we're not dealing specifically with those seven. We're dealing with the idea that God has given us spiritual things as gifts and what those are and how God wants us to use them. So Ephesians chapter four, verse number eight says, Wherefore when he saith or wherefore he saith When he ascendeth up on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts unto men. This passage is talking about Jesus Christ and his resurrection. It says when he ascended to heaven, one of the things that he did was give gifts unto unto men. I'm very thankful for the gifts that we've been given from God and we're going to discuss those today. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you Lord, we thank you for the time we have to gather around to study your word. Lord, today's lesson will be very much a review for your people, Lord, who know your word. I pray that they would enjoy the topic of discussing the things that we We've been given, Lord, that we leave today with a greater appreciation for the gifts, uh the sacrifices that you've made, uh, so that we can enjoy spiritual blessings. We ask that you bless this hour this morning and ask in Christ's name. Amen. So number one on your outline there is what is a spiritual gift? What is a spiritual gift? And I've kind of broken it into two categories because There, as I've said, there are lots of things that could be called a spiritual gift. And then there are these spiritual gifts that have been given to individuals. So number one, a spiritual gift is something of a spiritual nature that you have been given. First Corinthians chapter four, verse number seven says, For who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Now if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou had not received it? He says, What do you got? What do you have that you wasn't given to you? We've been given spirit everything we have spiritually is a gift from God. We didn't manufacture our own, we didn't we didn't Get it out there on our own. We didn't strive for it on our own. It's a gift from God. Nothing we have uh is something that we didn't receive, and he's challenging the church here not to be boastful of the things that We don't come away saying, wow, look how great I am. Look at all the things God's given to me. No, it's humbling that God would do that much for us and that God would give that to us. Secondly, we have the idea that spiritual gifts can refer to God-given ability to be used in service to Him. This is just one category of a broad idea of a spiritual gifts, and these are the things we're going to be looking at in our study that God has given to every believer. God has given each one of us, every believer, a spiritual gift that is to be used in service to Him. This gift will relate to an area and a manner of ministry that you are especially suited for. As we said in the introduction, there are seven of these, and you have been given one to use in the ministry of the local church. We'll be looking today at some examples of spiritual gifts that have been given to us as we narrow down our study. And I said it at the beginning again, the this is important for us to take this overarching view because we're going to look at some things and say, Oh, that's a spiritual gift But that wasn't given to you for service in the church. That was given to you because you got saved. And we're going to kind of differentiate that a little bit in our study. So I've broken it down the gifts that we've been given, that the spiritual gifts that are available or out there for people into three categories. There's things that God has given to the whole world. There's gifts that he's given to everyone. There's also gifts that he's given to believers. And then there's also gifts that are given to the church Spiritual things that God has given are given to us from Himself as a gift. First of all, the gifts that are given to mankind as a whole, I've listed here. We could go through some other things, but I kind of was looking for the idea of God giving, God gave, or God was This was a gift of God in the Bible. Things are specifically listed that way. And we have the idea of inalienable rights. We're familiar with the idea of inalienable rights from what document, high schoolers? Declaration of independence, all right? Declaration of independence. That's where we're familiar with this idea. It says in the Declaration of Independence we hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal and they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. As the founding of our country, our founding fathers recognized and acknowledged that these rights were gifts from God. These are gifts that God has given to all of mankind They're not given by governments. The goal of governments is to protect those God-given rights. And that's going back to another study that we've done. If you want to hear that, you can go back on Sermon Auto Biblical Civics. So these gifts God has given to everyone. First of all, life. In Acts chapter 17, verses 24 and 25, the Bible says, God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that He is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands. Neither is worship with men's hands as though he needed anything, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things. All life comes from God. The life that you have today, the life you had yesterday, the life you had when you were conceived, the life you had all the way until you were born, the life you have until the day that you die is a gift from God. It's been given by God. Whether you realize it or not, whether you acknowledge it or not, your life is a gift from God. And this goes for everybody in the world. The life that they have is because of God's grace, because of God's goodness. It is a gift that they have been given. No matter the length, no matter the brevity, even your next breath is a gift from God. It's amazing that with all of man's combined wisdom that is available They cannot give life. They've been trying since the since the 50s to produce life in a lab, and they can't do it because the only one that gives life is God. All life comes from God. We can do a lot in medical uh in the medical ways to extend life and we're getting better every year uh at extending life. But ultimately when God decides to take that life away, all the best doctors in the world cannot do anything. Because God is the giver of life. It's a gift that God has given to all mankind. If you're alive today, you can rejoice because God gave you that as a gift. It was a gift from God. Also in these inalienable rights that are listed for us in the Constitu or in the Declaration of Independence, he says life, liberty. Liberty is also a gift from God. And I'd love to do a whole study because I was working on this a little bit more yesterday, this idea of liberty It's amazing to me this idea that God gave liberty as a gift, freedom as a gift. And we're going to get this idea from the beginning. In Roman or Genesis chapter two, the beginning of the Bible, it lays the foundation for a lot of things in the Bible. In Genesis chapter two, verses fifteen through seventeen, the Bible says, The Lord God took man and put him into the Garden of Eden to dress and to keep it And the Lord commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat thereof, for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. So in this idea, in this command, this couple verses, a couple sentences spoken from God to man, we have God's gift of liberty. You say, well, I didn't see it there. What's the gift of liberty? God gave Adam the freedom to choose. The ability to think, to reason, to see consequences, and to make a choice is the foundation of liberty. You have to be able to look and decide and think in order to have liberty. Those that can't Make the decisions, they lose their liberty. Uh that's those who are are in prison. Uh there's some who who mentally don't have that because of disease, don't have that ability. They don't have the same amount of liberty The ability to make choices is the foundation for liberty, for freedom. God has given every person the freedom of conscience. He's given them the ability to make choices. Your ability to reason, understand, and choose things for yourself is a gift from God. And this is what was amazing to me as I was thinking about this idea. God could have created man without that ability. God could have created man without the ability to choose. The ability to choose wrong is the basis of the gift of liberty. Without the ability to choose against God's command, that's the only way for a man to have freedom if he can make a choice to reject God. Without that choice available, mankind would have been the mindless slaves of God. This is amazing. Liberty was so important to God that he gave it as a gift to mankind, knowing it would cost the life of his son. If I give these people freedom, it's gonna kill my son. And God said, Liberty is that important to me. I'm gonna give it to them. I'm gonna give them this liberty, even though I know it's gonna cost life for my son. There's a lot of things that go into Christ on the cross, and we don't have time to go into all that, but there's a verse in the Bible that says, Jesus is the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. Before the world was founded, God knew Jesus was going to die. And he could have changed all of that by taking away man's freedom. But freedom is so important to God that he was willing to give it to you, even though it was going to cost his son his life. It's an amazing thing that God cared so much about this gift to make it available to you that he made it even with those consequences in mind. So liberty is a gift from God. Also we have thirdly in the idea of the Declaration of Independence and Alienable Rights. I'm going to change it here and we'll explain it in a second. We have property. And the reason I use property is because that's the idea in the Word of God where it talks about the gift in Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse number 13. And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor. It is the gift of God. Your ability to enjoy the fruit of your labor, to enjoy the things that you have, that's a gift from God. That's a benefit that God has given to you. I said I changed this from the wording of the Declaration of Independence. The actual person that Thomas Jefferson was quoting used the phrase life, liberty, and estate, or life, liberty, and property. Thomas Jefferson changed it. He changed it to term property or from estate to um pursuit of happiness. Does anybody know why See if I know why. Alright, a little bit of history of trivia for you. Thomas Jefferson was very against slavery, and slaves were called property. And he didn't want to in in encapsulate the idea of property in the Constitution. He was the one that put in there all men are created equal. So he changed the word property to something else so nobody could say, hey, you said I could keep my property So he changed the word to undermine the idea of slavery all the way at the foundation of the country. So just kind of a side note there. But property, it is a gift from God. The ability to own things, the ability to have things, the ability to use things, to enjoy the fruit of your labor, that's the gift that you you've been given by God. Your right to your own labor is to give from God. Your ability to enjoy the fruit of your labor is a gift from God. So that's something that God has given to everybody. Everybody has the right to uh life, liberty, and property given to them by God. Now some forego those rights, some people steal those rights from others, but those are gifts that God has given to mankind. Secondly, we also have the gift of Jesus Christ When Jesus was talking to the woman at the well, he told her in John chapter 4, verse number 10, If thou knewest the gift of God and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him. Jesus describes himself there. He says, I am the gift of God. Jesus, if you'd have known the gift of God and who I am, that's talking to you, he's saying there, I'm the gift of God. Jesus says, God's gift to mankind. A present, a gift, something that we didn't earn, something we didn't deserve. That was Jesus Christ being given to man by God as a gift. Outside of those natural rights, there's some spiritual gifts. These all have a spirit are spiritual in nature that God has given mankind, and that first is his son, Jesus Christ. Jesus was the gift of God. Man can choose to accept or reject that gift, but that doesn't change the fact that Jesus is the gift of God to mankind. He was the gift to this woman at the well, a sinful, immoral woman who didn't deserve it. And so are we. Sinful immoral people that don't deserve this. That's why it's called a gift. Something we couldn't earn, something we couldn't achieve on our own, something we couldn't purchase. It's something that's been given to us by God. Jesus Christ is the gift of God. We are undeserving as she was, and God still gave us that wonderful gift. Thirdly, for mankind, a gift that has been given is the opportunity for salvation. In John 1, verse number 12, a very familiar verse, the Bible says, But as many as received them, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. Along with the gift of the Son, God gave mankind the gift of the opportunity for salvation. He said, you receive my son, I got a gift for you. You can become the sons of God. You can come into my family. You can have all that salvation entails. That's available to you if you receive my son. It's a gift. He gave them the power to become the sons of God. Every person in the world today has the power to become the son of God. They simply must receive the Son of God. They have the power to become a Son of God. They must receive the Son of God. That's a gi It's available to everyone. That's why we go to John and Romans, because we say, hey, God's gift to you, and you can have it today. A free gift that God has made available to you. So those are gifts that God's given, spiritual things that God's given to everyone. We also have spiritual gifts that God's given specifically to us as Christians. And starting right from that, what we were just talking about is salvation. Salvation is a gift of God. For by grace are you saved through faith and not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. It's the gift of God. Salvation. Salvation is not earned or purchased, it is a gift from God. It's not a gift from the church. False doctrine that is taught by the Catholic Church is that they're the ones who give salvation to mankind. No, God says it comes from me. I'm the one who gives the gift. It doesn't come from your parents. It doesn't come from your church. It doesn't come from just being around spiritual things. It's a gift that God's given to you that you choose to accept or reject. You choose to accept or reject the w the gifts of God. It can only be come from God and can only be received by receiving his son. But when you do, God will give you his gift of salvation. After salvation, there's another spiritual gift we're given, and that is the gift of the Holy Spirit. In John chapter 14, verses 16-17, the Bible says, I'll pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter. Acts 2. 38, it says at the end of that verse, after you're saved, and it says there ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. It's the gift, a gift that God has given to us. It's amazing that these just compound God's given us everything. Everything we have has come from God. It is a gift from God. God didn't stop giving us the Son. He we have become He gave us the ability to become a Son of God, and then we're given the gift of the Holy Spirit Just a few things about the Holy Spirit. You know, He's our comforter. He is our prayer partner. He is our Paraclete. He is our friend. He is our corrector. He is our teacher. He is our guide. He's our constant companion And that was a gift from God. Say, hey, you get this as well. On your spiritual birthday, I got a present for you. Holy Spirit given to you is a gift from God Now this is the first of the ones we've talked about that gets really confused when it comes to the series we're going to do on the spiritual gifts. Some people think that the Holy Spirit is a gift that's given to certain people at certain times when they do certain things, and then They have the Holy Spirit. Well, no, the Holy Spirit is given to every believer. It's given to us as uh Christians It's given to all Christians at the moment of salation. He's not given it at a later date in some special service to some special people just because they start babbling nonsensically That's not when God's Spirit is given. God's Spirit is given at salvation. It's the gift of God. Also, at salvation, we have another gift, and that's the gift of eternal life. Romans six twenty three, many of you could quote the verse, the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. Eternal life is a gift that we have from God. Not only did God give us life, our physical life, that's a gift from God But your spiritual life and your eternal life is a gift from God as well. It's given to you as a Christian. One day we will get to live soul, spirit, with a new body forever with the Lord. And that was God's gift to us for believing. One other spiritual gift that's listed in the Bible as being given to Christians is God's grace. Also in Ephesians chapter in ch chapter three it says in verse number seven, Wherefore I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God. And in verse chapter 4, verse number 7, it says, unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. God's grace is a gift from him. Just the fact that God does not um gives us the things that we don't deserve. We talked about with the woman well, she didn't deserve the gift of God We don't deserve the gifts of God. And beyond all these gifts that God's given us that we've just listed, and many more could go into this study, God says, I've given you the gift of my grace. You get that on top of everything else. That's you get you get my grace right along with it. God's grace is Him giving us things that we don't deserve. We don't deserve His blessings, His love, His forgiveness, His favor, His peace. His goodness. Just let's go on and on. We don't deserve any of that. Yet God has given it to us as a gift. Nothing that we have is something that we deserve. My pastor used to say growing up he would say if I got what I deserved, um I'd be in hell with my neck broke. That was his response to anybody saying that life wasn't fair. He said if I got what I deserve, I'd be in hell with my neck broke But we didn't get what we deserve. God gave us a gift instead, and that was the gift of his grace. All the good things that we enjoy are the gifts of the grace of God. So we have gifts given to everyone. We have gifts given to Christians, and then we have gifts that are given to the church. Number one, gifts that God gave to the church is gifted men. In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 8 and down verse number 11, the Bible says, Wherefore he saith, when he ascendeth on high, he captivity captive and gave gifts unto men. If you jump down and verse look at verse number eleven, it says, And he gave, what are those gifts? And he gave some apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers. So this is another area that gets confused with spiritual gifts to say, well these are gifts from God, spiritual gifts used in the church. That must be talking about what God gives to certain people No, the context is clearly talking about individuals. God gave these individuals to the church. They were a gift to the church, referencing gifted men that God gave to the church for service in the ministry. These gifts refer to people and positions, not spiritual capacities that are given for individuals. For example, Paul was an apostle He, according to this passage, was a gift to the church. Now, Paul's spiritual gift was the gift of prophecy. So that was his gift he had, but he was using it in his office or his capacity as an apostle. His apostleship or him as an apostle was a gift that God gave to the church. That was a gift that was given to the church, a person. The church has been gifted, been given gifted men as a gift from God. Pastor Caleb is God's gift to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Alright, good. I was waiting for the amens there. Gift of God. It's a gift. Uh a gift that was given. These gifted men were given to the church to help meet the needs of the church. And that goes on in that passage. We'll look at that a little bit more another week. So God's given gifted men to the church, and He's also given spiritual gifts. These spiritual gifts are given to individuals, but we'll look as we study, they're given for you to use in the context of the local church. Whatever your spiritual gift is, the seven that we're going to talk about that was given to you for you to use within the context of a local church. Romans 12, verses 4 through 5 says, For as we have many members in one body, And all members have not the same office, so we being many are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another. Then it goes on from there to talk about the spiritual gifts that has been given to us as Christians. These gifts to the churches, this gift does include those spiritual gifts given to individuals. And they are the seven gifts that are listed in Romans chapter 12, and each Christian is given one to use in service to God. Every member has a role to fill, and every gift is needed in the church. If you're here today and you're a Christian, God has given you a spiritual gift. He's given you that gift for you to use here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Your spiritual gift is not for you. It's for us. And when you don't know what your spiritual gift is, you're not using your spiritual gift, you're depriving the rest of the body of that one one part of the body that needs to do something. Um just if you have an injury, if you've ever broken a bone or something like that, part of your body is useless for a while. And you don't you really miss it because it's not doing the things that it was gifted to do. And so as a Christian, you need to know what your spiritual gift is so that you can use it in the local church because if you're not doing it, you're leaving a hole. A hole that needs to be filled. The spiritual gift is you. Uh it is given to you, but it's given to you to use in the church. So those are just a broad overview of spiritual gifts that have been given. They're given to all mankind. They're given to Christians, and they're given to the church different gifts at different times Secondly, this morning I want to just just briefly look at where do these gifts come from? We've obviously said it's it's the gift of God, but I want to highlight something about these gifts that we've been given, spiritual things that are given to us from God, and the fact is that the whole of the Trinity that is involved. God gives gifts, Jesus gives gifts, the Holy Spirit gives gifts, and that theme is going to come up again when we talk about your individual gift. That the Trinity is involved with that as well. First of all, we see that there are gifts that we've received from the Father. In James chapter 1, verse 17, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights. With whom is no bearableness, neither shadow of turning. Every good, every perfect gift, have we licked it some good and some perfect gifts this morning? We have They are given by God the Father. That's where they come from. Every good gift, every perfect gift cometh down from the Father of lights. It's from above. So there's gifts that the Father gives. We also see that there are gifts which we have received from the Son. The text that we opened with this morning in Ephesians chapter 4 says, when he ascended, he gave gifts to men. When Christ went to heaven, he gave us gifts. So these spiritual gifts, some come from the Father, some come from the Son. We also see that there are gifts we re we have received from the Holy Spirit. In first Corinthians chapter twelve it says, but all these working that one and the selfsame spirit, dividing to So that's talking in the context of gifts. He says these have been given out by the Holy Spirit, and he's given them to who he wanted to give them to, and that's the gifts that have been given from the Holy Spirit. So God the Father, he gives us gifts. God the Son, He gives us gifts. God the Holy Spirit, He gives us gifts. We're pretty blessed, aren't we? We're just just spoiled rotten as Christians, aren't we? Because we get all these gifts. It's like taking the kids to the the the the new grandkids to grandma's house, right? Just everything. You leave with the car twice as full as when you came. Uh but it's because they want to just shower those things on. It comes from the uncles, it comes from the aunts, it comes from the grandparents, it comes from the great grandparents, just piling it on, piling it on. That's how we are as Christians. Everything we have, every good thing we enjoy, is a gift from God. Just piling and piling them on, we've been given these spiritual gifts. So we have them. They've been given to us. What are they for? What are these gifts for? And this is again broadly these spiritual gifts. First of all, we have spiritual gifts for the glory and pleasure of God. We won't take time to read it, but in 1 Corinthians, or sorry, in Colossians chapter 1, as well as Revelation chapter 4, all things were created for the glory and the pleasure of God. Everything was created, everything that we have, we have for us to bring glory to God. So whatever your gift that you have, your gift of salvation, your gift of the Holy Spirit, your gift of God's grace, your individual gift to use in the church, God gave you that to bring honor to God and to bring pleasure to God. Your job is to make God happy with the gifts that you've been given. Going back to the illustration of grandparents. You know, they get a new toy. It's loud. It's got batteries that you need to take out before you go home. But they get it. What do grandma and grandpa want to do? They want to play with it Because they got it for 'em. And God's given us these gifts, not for us to sit in the corner and say, Okay, well I get to go to heaven, I guess it's all taken care of. No, use them. Use the gifts that God's given you. Use use the get develop a relationship with the Holy Spirit. Be thankful and prepared for your eternal life that you God's given these gifts for us to bring glory and pleasure to Him. Secondly, we have been given spiritual gifts to profit us as individuals. First Corinthians chapter 12, verse number seven says, the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all. You know, you're blessed by the gifts that God's given you. That's good for you. You get benefit from that. And you also are going to get benefit from using your gift. But you are have been given these gifts of God just because God loves you. God wants to take care of you. God wants to support you. God wants to help you. God wants to meet your needs. These gifts are for your profit. Though for his glory, they're for your prophet, we also see they have been given to us to minister to other believers. In first Corinthians chapter fourteen, Romans chapter one, first Peter Peter chapter four. Um that's a that's a good verse to look at, first Peter four ten. It says, As every man hath received a gift, even so men are the same to one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. He said, You've got these gifts, and he specifically mentions one in here, the grace of God. He said, You steward that. You take care of it. You've been given this gift, you take care of it, you use it properly, and you use it for what? Um to minister the same one to another You've got a gift, minister to somebody else. God's blessed you, go bless somebody else. God's taking care of you, you go take care of somebody else. God's encouraged you, go encourage somebody else. God gave you these gifts, all of them for you to use towards others. And we'll get more specifically, again, kind of teasing it out here. We're going to look at all these individual gifts and we're going to see how you can use that to help others. But these gifts have been given to us to minister to other believers. We've been given spiritual gifts also to do the work of God in the midst of the church. Ephesians chapter 4 discusses that as well. We talked about the idea of gift men from that chapter. It says that those gifted men were given for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. And it goes on from there, we're not going to take time to read the whole passage. But God has given these gifts for you to use in the context of the local church. Spiritual gifts. Overall, God has given you spiritual things. They're gifts from God, and they're given for His glory. They're given for your benefit. They're given for you to serve others, and they're given for you to use within the context of the local church. So God has given spiritual gifts. And these are given to us undeserving, unmerited. I didn't do anything to earn it. I didn't do anything to uh to to get get it on my own. It's not something that I could purchase That's dealt with in the book of Acts where the sorcerer tries to buy the Holy Spirit and he can't do that. That doesn't come from money. We can't buy it, we can't earn it. It's a gift. It's a gift from God. A gift that God's made available to us, and there's gifts that God's made available to everyone. And we need to make sure we're sharing that gift. God's giving you salvation, go share it with somebody else. Tell them how they can receive God's gift as well. God's given us these spiritual gifts and He's given them to us for a reason. God didn't save you just so you could go to heaven. God saved you so that you could serve Him. And spiritual gifts is one way to do that. So next week we're going to go into the topic of the spiritual gifts, the seven that are there in the Bible for us, a little bit of what they mean. how many there there are, how many um how many we've been given and some more topics along that those lines. But next week we'll actually start getting into the actual spiritual gifts and we'll get to look ahead at what God's given me to be able to use it in the local church. Because it's very important. God said to know your gift. And I want you by the end of this series to know your gift and know how you serve and know know why you serve. It's going to be a little bit of a You have you ever taken a personality test and you say, Oh, that's why you act that way. Spiritual gifts is kind of like that. You're gonna find out that what spiritual gifts So-and-so has like, oh, that makes sense now, uh, the way that they act, because that's the way God's God's decided to use them in ministry. And it's not that they're worse than we are, they're just different. And that's okay because God's given us the gift to use and he didn't give everybody the same gift and he didn't give us all the gifts because we need each other. And we need each other to help serve one another. Let's go ahead and close in order of prayer. We'll get back into this study again next week to look at the spiritual gifts that we have gotten. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word, what it teaches us, Lord God.