Well, we're going to get into the Word of God now. I've got a lot of ground to cover. I've been working hard to try and include the class in the study because I tend to get running. and d don't engage with the class as much as I should. So I'm trying to do that. Now today I've got a lot of ground to cover, so I'm not sure how much I'm going to be able to do that, but we're going to try Missions, the great cost. Okay, this is what we're dealing with here today. There is of course a cost that men have to be willing to pay. They have to be willing to. give up their jobs sometimes here in America. They have to be willing to surrender as a family. Uh their wife has to be willing to to go to a foreign country. Uh their kids It doesn't matter if they're willing or not. They got nowhere else to go, so the kids get to go to the foreign country. Uh, you know, but th they have to be willing to do that. And we think about the cost for them and what their they have to maybe give up or or some would say pay in order to go to the field. But uh it's sad when you have somebody willing to to pay that cost, but then there's not people willing to help uh provide or or the means to get them to the field. And uh that's what the church is about is providing that means, giving so that they can get to the field to help them carry the gospel to the unreached people groups that we talked about last week. Now We know that there's been over the years many, many men and women that have been willing to give and pay the ultimate price, maybe even their own life. to uh reach foreign nations or people groups with the gospel of Jesus Christ and uh those groups Uh, you know, people even s like Jim Elliott and others that have all paid the ultimate sa sacrifice of giving their life to reach other nations Now, there is no debate that the work of missions, both here and abroad, uh is expensive. It takes funds. That's just the fact of the matter is, is whether you're trying to provide the needs for an orphanage in India or feed uh families in Mimar. or get scriptures to uh China, whatever it is, whatever ministry opportunity there is out there, a lot of times the limiting factor is the funds. We c we could get out a hundred thousand scriptures if we could get them here, but we got to be able to get them there. And there's obviously cost in printing, there's cost in shipping, there's cost in in getting the gospel to these to these uh nations. And so somebody's got to be willing to do that. And here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, we participate in or practice what's called faith promise missions giving. And uh That's the program that we use. There's other churches that do other means or methods of funding or supplying uh needs to their missionaries. Sometimes some churches have people in the church that adopt a missionary and they that person for that year is funding and giving towards that missionary and whatever that person gives is what that missionary gets. It's just kind of up in the air and Whatever they want to give, they adopt a missionary, they give towards that. Some people do some churches do it from their general fund. They just give a portion of whatever comes in. Okay, ten percent of our budget is going to go to foreign missions. And so they give that portion to missions and that's how they set their missions budget. I don't know that there's necessarily a right or wrong way as far as uh one way that would be sin or or incorrect. Any way you can get the gospel out, amen. Any way that you can help do that. But we here practice faith, promise, missions, giving. This morning is going to be a systematic look at faith promise giving and hopefully give each of us an understanding of what it is as well as the biblical principles behind it. So first of all, um I want you to know that faith promise giving is spiritual. It is a matter of giving to world evangelism through faith promise And the question that has risen over the years is, is it even biblical? Should churches be doing faith, promise, missions, giving? And although the term faith-promise giving Is not found in the scriptures. That term is not found in the scriptures. I believe the biblical principles are very clearly taught in the scriptures. First of all, we know that faith is biblical. Faith is biblical. I don't know that you could find or get anything that's more biblical than faith, than exercising and using faith. Let me ask you. What are some clear, we're going to get some audience participation here, some class feedback, what are some clear principles that are taught in the scriptures regarding the faith of a believer? Uh something scripture should be coming to your mind. What what are some clear principles that the Bible teaches regarding faith? No one has seen it. Believing, yes. So we're we are to pray when we pray, we're to pray in faith. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. We know that it takes faith to please God. We are to live by faith. I mean you can't get any more direct than that. We're to live by faith. Our whole journey as a Christian begins because we're saved through faith. We come to Christ through faith, and then we're to live by faith, and then we're to pray by faith. And Did I mean did I mention yours already? What what did wh which one did you say, Mrs. Green? Whatever is not faith is sin. Whatever is not of faith is sin. Amen. Whatever is not of faith is sent yet. Hearing by the word of God. Faith comes by hearing, hearing by the word of God. This is where we grow. The Bible also says that we are to walk By faith, right? We're to walk by faith. Different in your mind just right away. Verses come to heart and mind that That's uh as a Christian, we're to be living by faith, we're to be walking by faith, we're to please God through faith. We know these things to be true. Also, we know that giving is biblical. Giving is big biblical. There's no question there. Now I want to just explain briefly there are three types of offerings that are shown or illustrated for us in the Scriptures. There's a prescribed offering. That is an offering that is established and set by God. It was prescribed. It was said, here's what you need to do. A doctor prescribes a particular medicine to use and says, if you want to get better, you need to take this. There's a prescribed offering that God has, and it's called the tithe. It's very clearly taught in the scriptures. I believe in the tithe. I believe God's people should be tithing. The tithe was seen all the way back in Genesis 14. 20 when Abraham paid his tithe. In 1420 he says, And blessed be the most high God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand, and he gave him tithes So Abraham was blessed of God. He was able to conquer the enemies that would uh want to do him in And then all of that he got from taking over his enemies, he said, Hey, I'm going to give a tithe, a ten percent of everything that God gave me, I'm going to dedicate and give holy to the Lord. We talked about that briefly last week in the idea of the conquering of Jericho. That that city was to be the tithe. That city was to be the first of their increase. That was to be wholly dedicated to God when they came into the new land. We know that Malachi 3, 10 and 11 tells us, Will a man rub God? Yet wherein have ye robbed me? But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and in offerings. He says, And you are cursed for the curse, for ye have robbed me even this whole nation. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in my house, and prove me now therewith, saith the Lord of hosts. If I will not open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing, there shall not be room enough to receive it. So he says here that he says you've robbed God in two areas. What are the two areas that are mentioned in this passage? Tithes and offerings. So both are mentioned there. So the tithe is the prescribed offering, but there's also what we would say is a preferred offering. That is an offering that's a free will offering, an offering that we give out of love. I mean Brother uh Glover here, he does not have to be told, listen, brother, you need you need to give your wife something every once in a while. You know. And somehow you need to at least, you know, I mean buy her a ham sandwich or something. You know, you gotta just show her that you love her, right? He nobody has to tell him that. Why? Because he loves her Because it's out of expression of love. She has to say, wait, no, don't do any more. It's too much. Honey, you're you're you're you're just showering me with with abundance of blessings I can't take it, you know? And uh so she has to stop him because his love is just so overflowing. And love does that. And and so that's a that's a preferred offering. An offering that we give, not because somebody says, Bless God do it or you're gonna No, hey, it's because we love God. It's an expression of love. It's a display of our love that we give. It's a preferred offering. And God didn't prescribe this amount. He didn't set this amount. The preferred offering is the set that you decide. Oh, I wanna give this much. I wanna I wanna let the Lord know that I love him this much The children of Israel gave offerings willingly. In Exodus 35, 29, the children of Israel brought a willing offering unto the Lord, every man and woman whose heart made them. Willing to bring for all manner of work. Everyone, their heart made them willing. God's work needs to move forward. I want to be able to give to this. I want to help with this. I want to do what I can to see God's work. And they willingly brought these offerings in. Amen? A bullock or a lamb could be given for a free will offering. Leviticus 2223 says, either a bullock or a lamb that hath anything suplurious or lacking in his parts, thou mayest, that thou mayest offer as a free will offering. He says, listen, you can offer that as a free will offering if you would like to. But then we also see in the scripture a promised offering. Something that somebody received and they said, hey, I'm going to give this. And we're going to look in more detail at this. You can turn your Bibles to Acts chapter number 11. We're going to be looking at that passage of Scripture, and if you can, put your fingers there. uh and then turn also over to 2 Corinthians. We're going to be looking at that. But first in Acts chapter 11 and verse number 29. So Carol, how do you how do you put your finger in Axe 11 on your device there and then and then flip flip over the footmark? Okay, yeah I thought that might be di not might be difficult. So flipping back and forth is arduous for you, huh? Relatively. Okay, yeah, you can do it. All right. I was just wondering how bad I had to feel for doing this to you this morning. Okay. She's coming back to the water, wasn't she? Yeah, she's okay. So we see in Acts here, Acts chapter number eleven, verse number twenty-nine, he says, Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, notice this word, determined That is set in his mind, he determined to send relief unto the brethren. They had uh they had thought, you know what, here's something that needs to be done. I'm going to do this. I'm going to Give this. And we're going to dig into that a little bit more, but I want you to understand that not only is faith biblical, not only is giving biblical, but making promises is biblical. We know that making a promise is biblical. It's something that's expected. We are told in Psalm 76, 11, he says, vow and pay unto the Lord your God. He he he says hey if you're gonna vow you need to pay but he he says here he he tells us literally he says vow And then follow through. Vow and pay unto the Lord your God. Let all be round about him bring presence unto him that ought to be feared. He says, hey, vow unto the Lord. Promise unto God that you're going to do it. We know that Hannah promised God that she would give him her son if God would give her a son. And uh Hannah said, Hey God, if you give me a son, I'll give him back to you in 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse number 11. It says, And she vowed a vow and said, O Lord of hosts If thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thine handmaid, but wilt give unto thine handmaid a man-child, then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life. She committed to giving back to God. She said, God, if you'll give me a child, I'm going to give that child to you. A great example for any parent to understand that children are a gift from God. And that they are ultimately God's and that we should give and dedicate our children back to God for his use and pleasure. And he they're just on loan from him, and we're raising him for his honor and glory. And uh what what a challenge that is. But she vowed a vow. You know, here's a clear example of somebody asking of God for something that they intend to give back to him. Asking of God, God could would you do this for me? I want to be able to give this to you. There's a clear example of it there. A mature Christian learns that often God will give through you what he will not give to you. God will give through you what he will not give to you. If he understands and knows that you are willing to be a conduit and that you are going to follow through with that. Then he'll be willing to give through you what he wouldn't necessarily give to you. But he has to know that you're trustworthy. We enjoy the middle part of Luke 6. 38 without maybe concentrating enough on the other parts. Luke 6. 38 says, and it shall be given unto you. good measure pressed down and shaken together and running over shoving give unto your bosom and and we enjoy that part but sometimes we forget the beginning and the end which says give For with the same major that ye meet with all, it shall be major to you again. So that portion is first, give, and then it shall be given unto you. Hannah desired a son from God so that she could give him back to God. Now sometimes we might need to check our motives for why we're asking of God. What is it we're asking and why are we asking of God? Now Lord, you know I've been asking you for a million dollars. I've been asking my wife and God for a million dollars for for twenty-seven years. Uh even since we were very first married, Mary Mary would look at me and she says, You need anything? And she'll say, Can I get you anything? I said, A million dollars. Now she says, Can I get you anything besides a million bucks? And and you know, I've been asking that of God, Lord, give me a million dollars. And and Lord, if you give it to me, you know I'll give you some of it. I I'm not gonna tell him how much 'cause what if I don't follow through, you know? So God knows that I can't be trusted with a million dollars. That's why he's not giving me a million dollars. You know, what what is your goal? What is your objective? Why are we asking of God something? You know, uh Hannah said, Lord, if you will if you will bless me with a son, man, it would be my privilege just to give him back to you. And God knew that was her heart, and God said, Oh, I'll I'll I'll answer that prayer. I'll do that for you. God will often give through us what he wouldn't give to us. This is a systematic, organized approach towards reaching the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ, this faith, promise, missions giving. I think the the principles that underline it are biblical. I would like to ask those that are critics of this method of giving, what scriptural purpose is achieved by attacking those who practice faith promise? What scriptural purpose is achieved? What advantage is there to hindering the gospel? What advantage is brought by saying you really shouldn't be giving towards that that way? Again, there are different other methods, but what what is gained By attacking somebody who is trying to do more for God. I I don't know what's gained by that, biblically. Um, besides somebody wanting to puff themselves up and think more highly of themselves than they ought to think and try and, you know, uh be involved in foolish and unlearned questions and and those things which the Bible tells us clearly to avoid. But so I want you to understand that the idea here behind faith, promise, missions, giving is scriptural. It is spiritual I want you to see secondly here that it is systematic. Faith promise is systematic, and that allows us to be, for things to be done decently in an order. It allows for there to be a system in place. It allows for consistency and for our missionaries to know exactly what they're going to receive. Instead of us saying, hey, the cranes are going to support uh you know, the Brother Brian Pratt this year and whatever you guys have, you guys are gonna send it to Brother Brian and and he'll be happy with whatever he gets. And some months it might be thirty dollars, some months it may it be five hundred dollars. And when you win the lottery it's gonna be a million, amen. Uh no, they don't play the lottery, just kidding. Um but you know what I'm saying is it's gonna be up and down and the missionaries don't know what to depend on. And so this way we can be consistent in what we're doing as a church for our missionaries. and we can establish a set budget for our missions program for a year. So we note the pattern that's given to us in Acts. You should be there in Acts, chapter number 11. The Bible says here, then departed in verse number 11, verse number 20, I'm sorry, chapter 11, verse number 25, he says, Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus to seek Saul. And when they had found him he brought him unto Antioch, and it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves within the church and taught much people. So we see a time frame mentioned there. Then the disciples were called Christians first at Antioch. And in these days came prophets from Jerusalem unto Anap, and they stood up one of them named Agavas, and uh signified by the Spirit that they should be a great dearth throughout all the world, which came to pass in the days of Claudius Caesar Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to send relief unto the brethren. So there was a need there And they determined. I want you to see that in this passage of Scripture we see the Christians were involved. The Christians gave. That's the disciples. That's the people the followers of Christ. The Christians gave to the need. There was a cooperation with everybody. We see that every man, according to his ability, right? Every man got involved. Everybody can do something, but we also see that it the capacity was dictated by their ability. We don't have to say, okay, Bob, how much to does everybody need to give to Faith Promise this year? And then Bob gets to decide. No, he doesn't set it. The amount is set by you. And we're going to talk about that a little bit more, but it's the capacity for you to give is really given by how much God gives to you. That's what your capacity is. A woman that had two mites and gave two mites, God says, hey, she gave more than the rest of you guys. Because it's not about what she put in. It's about what she had left. And she gave it all. So our capacity to give to God is really set and established by God, not by anybody else. Then we see their commitment there. They determined to send relief unto their brethren. Now there's five truths that I want you to see. If you would turn to 2 Corinthians, in 2 Corinthians chapter number 9 and chapter number 8, we see five principles with regards to faith promise that I feel are very clearly taught. uh in the scriptures. And I do not know where our time is going. We have got you know t we got a fly here. So I want you to see it's personalized giving. First of all, 2 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse number 7. Uh somebody have it want to read it for me? Uh Brother Glover? Every man according as he purposes. Alright. So notice the personal pronouns there. Notice how many times he says, every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth the cheerful given. You see, it's personalized giving. This is something that's personal. It's something that's between you and God. It's something that you establish based on God's touching of your heart and what He's done for you and your desire to reach the world. Nobody here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is going to ever set or establish what you should be doing for faith promise. Nobody's going to ask you for your faith promise. Nobody's going to say you should be doing more for faith promise. It's a personal thing between you and God. It's personalized giving. You don't have to turn there, but if it's you can flip one page over, 2 Corinthians 8, verse number 12, he says, for there be first a willing mind. It is accepted according to that a man hath, not according to that he hath not. So your giving, it's personalized giving, and the capacity is set according to what a man has. So faith promise, there is a misconception with regards to faith promise that faith promise is I'm going to trust God for $1,000 a week and I'm going to give $1,000 a week and God's going to give it through me. No, that's not how faith promise works. Faith promise is based off of and established off what you already have. According as a man hath, so let him give. So you look at what you have and say, okay, here's what I can do. I can give this amount And I'm gonna give I'm gonna give that amount each week because this is money that I have. I stop every week at Starbucks. Now you know I don't because I don't drink coffee, but you can say that's I spend $5 a week on coffee, whatever it is. And uh you can say, you know what? For this year, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to take that money that I have. It's being used for Starbucks right now, but I'm going to take it and give it to wind souls. That's what I'm going to do. So you have it's it's based, it's personal, it's off of what you have, not what you don't have Then I want you to see it's purposeful giving. Not only is it personal, but it's purposeful. You do it on purpose. Look at uh 2 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse number 7. It says, every man according to What's the next three words? As he purposeth in his heart. As he purposeth in his heart. It's giving that's done on purpose. This is planned. It's like we saw in the book of Acts that they determined in their heart that they were going to give And so it's purposeful giving. It's planned giving. It's a set amount on set on purpose that you're going to give. We might have to adjust what we're giving to other areas. Many years ago, um you guys know my affliction is Mountain Dew. And uh I don't know exactly what I spend on Mountain Dew in a month, but I know if I if I knew, and I told you, I probably would be embarrassed at what I spend on Mountain Dew in a month But many years ago I decided, you know what? What I spend on Mountain Dew, I'm going to give to missions. And this was my budget many years ago, but I said, okay, we're going to look at this. And I took the amount that I normally would spend on Mountain Dew and we started giving it to missions. You know what? I still drank Mountain Dew. I didn't I somehow God still I still had enough money to drink the Mountain Dew that I wanted to drink and was still given to missions. And that's what faith promise does. You look at it and say, okay, I can trust God. Here's where the faith comes in. You say, okay, I can trust God. to meet whatever need I might have over here. This is money I have that I might normally use for don't give to missions money that you use to pay your light bill. Okay. Uh you you have some money that you use to go out to eat or that you use to it's it's your your slush fund and and you take that for just fun stuff or whatever you say, you know what, this is this is money that God's blessed me with. I'm going to give it to missions this year. And you know what I've seen over and over again and every year we we uh up our missions and been doing it for years and years. I see over and over again is God still puts money in this fund. And we're still able to do what we what we would like to do, and you look at it and say, how is that possible? I thought we took all that money out of there and gave it to missions. How is there still money in there? That's what God does when we give to faith promise. I wish we had time this morning to take some testimonies, but we do not have time. I'm already way behind. Many Christians give incidentally to God, that is, by casual, well if I happen to have ten bucks, you know, the missionaries here, oh Oh no, I don't have any money today. I mean if I had it, I would give it. I mean I'm a cheerful giver, but I just don't have anything. But see, it's on purpose giving. It's purposeful giving. When we travel, I like to be a blessing to other pastors' kids because I grew up in a pastor's home and I know the burdens that pastors' kids carry And so I on purpose when I travel I carry cash in my pocket and when I meet a pastor's kid, I come up to him, you know, just a year ago or whenever it was, uh, when Timothy graduated, we went down to Pensacola Christian College for him to walk. And we sat in this auditorium. I don't know, how many people does it hold? Two thousand, three thousand? I mean it's a massive auditorium. We sat down and I happened to sit down to a past next to a pastor and his family from Missouri. Never met him before in my life. I'm just talking to him, talking about his church. getting an idea of what kind of a ch pastor he is, what kind of a church seemed like a good work, desirous to please God. So when we stood up, he had two boys sitting there and their older sibling was graduating and they were there to see the older sibling graduate and I stood up and I said, hey boys I want you to know something. Being a pastor's kid, there's a lot of burdens. But there's also a lot of blessings. And I want to give this to you to encourage you to remember the blessings, not the burdens. And I handed each one fifty dollars. Hey man, hey why. You think those boys are gonna remember that? Yeah. And I do that all the time. I do it on purpose. I planned to have that. I could not have seized that opportunity if I didn't have money there planned, ready to be able to give. It's purposeful giving. That's how we establish our budget for the year because we have set, we've determined in our mind what we're going to give. I want you to see it's persistent giving. Um we ask for a commitment from you so that we know what's coming in. Uh when you when you give incidentally, when you give casually like here and there. Hey, listen, anything's a blessing. But when we can count on what's coming in, when there's a persistent, a consistent giving, hey, I'm going to give $10 a week I'm going to give $100 a month. It allows us as a church to establish a budget. It allows us to know, okay, here's what God's people said they were going to give, and then we can say, here's what we can do for missions this coming year. And it allows us to set that up They gave consistently over a period of year. If you look in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verses 10 and 11, we see here that principle, that time frame. We saw it in Acts where they mentioned that it was a year that had transpired, and we see it again here. in 2 Corinthians 8. He says, and herein I give verse number 10, chapter 8, verse number 10, I give my advice, for this is expectant for you, who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forewarned a year ago, now they're perform the doing of it. He said, okay, you uh a year ago determined, a year ago you saw this need and you said, okay, here we're going to do this. And the a year transpired. Now this is not hardline facts or biblical principle that we as a church need to follow. Again, we don't have to do it this way. But we see that kind of a an annual renewing, a viewing of where you're at, and say, okay, for the next year, here's what I believe that I can do. And they made a commitment and then they were asked to fulfill it. And we follow that pattern. I want you to see also that it's productive, it's productive giving. In 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verses 6 through 10. He says, But this I say, he which soweth sparingly shall also reap sparingly, and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Every man according to his purpose in his heart So let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth the cheerful giver. And verse number eight, and God is able Beloved, when you begin to give consistently towards God, just like I gave you the example about Mountain Dew, and I could give you many more examples from our own life about changes that we made, and where we we you begin to learn how able your God is. It's one of the most direct ways in which you can see God work in your life when you consistently say, okay, I'm going to trust God to meet this need over here, and I'm going to take this and I'm going to give this to God. And you do so consistently, you do so faithfully, then over a period of time you come back and you say, wow, look at what God did You see that your God is able. He's able. And he says here, He's able to make all grace abound towards you, that ye always, having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work. You'll you learn that God is able. Now I want you to see I have a whole nother point here. We've got four minutes. It's praise-inspiring giving. When you begin to see God do these miraculous things in your life, you stand back in awe and you say, wow, look at what God did. We see that in verse 11 through 13 here in 2 Corinthians chapter 9. He says, being enriched in everything to all bountifulness which causeth through us thanksgiving to God. And he says, For the administration of the service not only supplieth the want of the saints, so their giving supplied the want of the saints, the needs that they had, but in abundance also by many thanksgivings unto God. And so by their liberal distribution, verse number 13 says, they were praising God. It provoked praise. Not only did it supply the wants or the needs that they had, that the missionaries had Paul and others serving the Lord, but it it provoked praise in them and the other people that were there. And we'll get to see that. Now I want you to see that it's supplied. Faith promises supplied giving. And I'm kind of trying to move quick here so we can get done, but um This supplied giving and God supplies uh and where do where does where does your faith promise come from? Okay, and we've talked about this a little bit. We don't we don't pray God I believe you're going to give me $1,000 a week. I'm going to commit to $1,000 a week, and you're making $100 a week. Okay, that's just foolishness. That that's not faith. Okay, it's I according to the man hath, he purposeth in his heart to give. So you give you have $100 a week, you say, you know what, I can give five dollars a week. And I can trust God that either I'll go without my mountain dew or God will supply money from somewhere else for a mountain dew. Uh however that works. So we see I want you to see several ways in which your faith promised to supply it, and this is where we could have testimony after testimony from people at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and what God has done for them. And I've heard a lot of them over the years, but I don't have time to give them this morning. But it's supplied through our abundance. First of all, it's supplied through our abundance. Can anybody here say that God has not been good to you? No, we can't. God has been good to us. We are blessed abundantly above all that we could ask or think. God has has given us an abundance. We have You know what? I have a rule now that if somebody gives me a shirt or if I buy a shirt, then a shirt from my closet has to go to Goodwill. I don't put another one in my closet unless one of them comes out because we have got so much junk. How is it you can have a closet, you know, that's so big and there is no more room to hang another thing up I mean I could not you gotta like push and shove it in well it was ironed That was I heard before we got it in there. I mean God has been so good to us, you know, and we've got uh we've got to spend money to buy storage containers to store the junk that we spent money on to buy in the first place. And we we've got so much abundance. So our we you know we give out of our abundance. God supplies and we have an abundance that we can give and we say Lord I love you and I see what you've done for me and Lord, I know the world is lost and dying and on their way to hell, and I want to be a part of reaching them, so I'm going to give this amount for every week for the next year. That's what it is Psalm 68 and verse 19 says, Bless the Lord who daily loadeth us with benefits. Amen. He loads us. So it comes out of our abundance. Not only that, it is supplied through our sacrifice. Sometimes we have to be willing to sacrifice. Just like I said, you know, I might give up my Mountain Dew or you might give up your coffee or you know what you might take that money that you're spending on Netflix. and say, I'm going to cancel my Netflix subscription for the year, which you probably don't need anyway, and then you can give that money to reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. You can fix something in your life and say, I can do without that. And I'll give that money to God. Whatever it is. It's supplied through your sacrifice. It's supplied through wise management of what you have. Proverbs 2120 says, There is a treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the wise, but a foolish man spendeth it up. The wise man has treasure. The wise man has an accumulation, an abundance of things. Why? Because he's been wise with what God has given him. So it's supplied through wise management of what God has given you, not being wasteful. It's supplied through our creativity. I would love to tell you different ways. Proverbs 21, verse 5 says, the thoughts of the diligent tendeth only to pluntiness, but every one that is hasty only to want. So it's applied through your creativity. The thoughts of the diligent tendeth only to plenty. The thoughts of somebody that's taking some time and being creative. And I could tell you about my own children who have been given to faith promise since they were tiny. Uh they they commit uh a good amount of money and many times a lot more m they don't have jobs. So, you know, they'll start when they're five years old and say, Dad, you think I can give three dollars a week to missions? I say, I bet you can. You know, sometimes they have to take their offering, their their their birthday money And they save their birthday money and they'll give they'll break their ten dollars they got from grandma and that'll th they're they'll get that and they're excited. They say, look at what God gave me my faith promise for the next three months. Look how God did that for me. And they'll take their their but God gives them abundantly above beyond that. Then the next year they come and they say, Dad, you think I could give Ten dollars a week to missions? They don't have any they don't get allowance. They aren't getting their ten dollars a week from me. But I'll say I think God would do that for you. And and they see God provided it. Do you think I can give twenty dollars a week to missions? And and God'll do it. And they get creative. They know they've got to get $20 a week somewhere. And so they think, well, how could I do that? And they come up with ways to earn some money so that they have what they need to give the faith promise. Sometimes you might have to think, oh I could sell that. If I sold that, I could give that money to faith promise. If I I could I could do this, I could get rid of that, or I could change this. So we've got ways that we can be creative that our faith promise can come And then it's supplied through unexpected means. You know, God can and will do the unexpected for you. I've seen many, many things over the years. I've seen people get blessed by a car wreck. Amen. I mean you think, how can a car wreck be a blessing? You know, th they had a car wreck and and the insurance comes and the insurance is like, Man, that's a lot of damage. That's worth seven thousand dollars and the and the insurance gives them a seven thousand dollar check and they take it to the body shop and the body shop fixes it for five. Yeah. And they're like, look at that. God just gave me my faith promise for a month. You guys are like, three years of faith promise, yes. Yeah, God supplies. It's amazing how God does that. Unexpected means I I've seen from the other way where somebody had doctor bills that were supposed to be ten thousand dollars and they went into the doctor and they're planning to have to pay this ten thousand dollars and for whatever reason the doctor says, Well, we looked at this We saw this, whatever, and we found out we overcharged you, and this is only going to cost six thousand dollars. God supplies through unexpected means. Those unexpected means, and when you're living by faith, In this area of our finances, you see God do things like that for you, and you see it as a direct answer to prayer, as an expression and a building of your faith Now you can continue to give incidentally towards missions and anything is a help. But I'll tell you what, if you want to see your faith grow, get consistent with it and say, I'm going to do this and I'm going to trust God. And you'll see God do some things throughout this next year that are truly amazing, and you'll be praising Him for it. This is been referred to as grace giving. And there's a whole nother lesson I could teach just on the idea of grace giving. If you look in this passage of scripture in Corinthians, you'll see I think it's seven times or maybe eleven times the word grace is mentioned. And God, through his grace, sent his son, the greatest sacrifice and the greatest gift that was ever given. And the Bible says there that he wants to make us abound in this grace also What is that grace? The grace of being able to give to God. Because we know it is more blessed to give than to receive. That is faith promised missions giving. And I hope I was able to draw a good picture for you where you understand the biblical principles and what we do.