We want you to turn your Bibles to the book of Deuteronomy this morning, Deuteronomy chapter number four. On the screen in front of you is our verse of the month. I'm going to be preaching from that verse as we try and take at least one service throughout the month and and kind of just point our hearts towards that and and maybe get a deeper grasp of the truths that are present in it. As we memorize that verse and commit it to memory, uh we want to also be able to hear the heartbeat of it and what is it that God the truth that God wants us to have. And The theme for the month is the pursuit of prayer. And our verse of the month, you can look at the screens or you can look at your Bible there in front of you at Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse number 29. It reads like this: But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him. If thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him, if thou seek him with all thy heart, with all thy soul. You're looking at it there. Would you read it with me? But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him if thou seekest him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. I hope throughout this month you aspire to commit that verse to memory and that it's not just a verse that you have in your mind, but that indeed you have something that it prodds you to. We are seeking God with all of our heart, with all of our soul, as we contemplate and try and give scope and meaning to the statement and the pursuit of prayer this morning. Let's ask God to help us through this. Lord, we come to you today and I'm grateful, Lord, for the opportunity that's mine to preach the Word of God. Lord, you know my heart, and you know that in all sincerity, that on my best day I feel as an unworthy vessel to preach your word. Lord, these are your people. There's people here this morning that have broken hearts. There's people here this morning that are carrying burdens that I could never hope to minister to or meet. There's some that are that are doing okay and and they're in God's house today, but they need a word from you today. And I pray, God, as we take a few minutes and Point our hearts towards heaven and our minds and eyes towards your word. We pray, God, that you would speak to us, that you would stir us, that you would fill this place with your presence, and that each and every soul here At the close of the service today, we would say heartily it's been good to have been in the house of the Lord, to be in your presence. For you to do a work in our lives. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. uh don't feel as though uh I could give a better introduction to this message than the Sunday school hour. If you did not have opportunity to hear the message brought in the Sunday school hour, it will be up on sermon audio this week. Let me encourage you to go listen to it. Setting priorities in your life. What is it that is most valuable to you? What is it that you go to when you have a moment of free time? What is it that you are seeking after? But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him. If thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. There are so many who express a desire to know God. As pastor, I get to talk to people about serious matters. I get to engage over matters of the heart and concerns in the lives of people and uh sometimes that the burden and a weight that I carry. But I count it also a joy and a blessing to be able to be there with and for people in those hours of need and to hear their hearts cry. But people say, I want to know God. What does God want for me? What direction should I go in my life? Oh, that if I could just hear God's voice, boy, I want God to be real to me and speak to me and answer my prayers. Could I exhort you this morning to grab a hold of and seize the promise that's found in this verse? You can know God. God can be real to you in powerful action and move in your life It's not something that you just have to listen to and read books about that some God did something for some bygone era or some previous generation. Or you get to stand in church and hear God doing some magnificent thing for somebody else in the church house. God can and He wants to do it for you. I want to try and develop this thought this morning, the pursuit of prayer, and I hope that as we go through this, you'll you'll see the direction that my heart is turning. But first of all, I want you to see and notice that there is the day of prayer. The day of prayer. What is the day of prayer? You know, this says here in this verse, but if from thence But if from thence thou shalt seek him. That word thence there, of course, is a word we're not used to using that often. But if from thence, that word could actually mean several things. But if from thence, it could mean a location. But if from thence. Have you ever found yourself in a place where you felt you needed prayer? I remember when Harry and I went to India. The first night we were in India, the missionary picked us up and he took us to a hotel and we got checked in and he said, We'll see you in the morning. Now this was the national missionary. Brother Brian Pratt was still traveling. He he didn't know where we were. We just trusted the missionary. I was not the least bit concerned. I just trusted the missionary that we were in a safe location. But I have to tell you, it was a pretty rough area. It was pretty rough. And in the morning when Brian came to pick us up, he was like, are you still here? I mean like Daniel Like the like the uh king calling down to the lions and Daniel are you still alive? You know. He he came to check on us and and he got so mad at the National Missionary, he says, Why did you put these two white people? In in this place, I mean this is not a safe neighborhood. They could have been killed. I mean, good thing I didn't go for a walk I mean I didn't know w I mean I was just ignorant, you know, like hey this just I just trusted I didn't know that I was in a place that I needed prayer But have you ever found yourself in a place like that? You know, you're walking down the street of a dark, dark night, or you and you see somebody, you're like, Lord help me. Uh you've been in a place where you needed prayer. Hey listen, when you're in that place, call on God. The place, you got a place, it could be a location, but you know, it it also could be a time. A time in your life. There's times in your life where where you need God. And but if from fence, if you find yourself at a certain time in your life where things are going on, where situations are arising that uh you need God, call on God What I would like to apply this to this morning is it's not just a place or a time, and these things all intersect, but I believe, as we look at the text here, that it's really a condition. Look down in the text. We're going to back up a couple verses and get some context here. In Deuteronomy chapter 4, look at verse number 25. Follow along as I read through 28, and I want you to see the condition that they were in. He says, When thou shalt beget children. and children's children, and ye shall have remained long in the land, and shall corrupt yourselves And make a graven image, or a likeness of anything, and shall do evil in the sight of the Lord, thy God, to provoke him to anger. I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that ye shall soon utterly perish from off the land whereunto ye go over Jordan to possess it. Ye shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall utterly be destroyed. And the Lord shall scatter you among the nations And ye shall be left few in number among the heathen, whither the Lord shall lead you, and there ye shall serve God's the work of men's hands. Wood and stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell We see here, I think, could you describe their condition as in a pretty bad place? They are here, this is a prophetic statement of those that are walking away from God, and God ultimately judging them Saying this is what's going to happen if you don't turn back to God. It's a place where they found themselves unable to call on God. Where he says you're going to be at a place where you are calling on a piece of wood That has no ears to hear and no hands to help. You're going to find yourself in a place where there is no longer aid when you need aid. Their condition was bad, wasn't it? You know, the day of prayer, can I tell you, beloved, the day of prayer is now. It's now. It's safe to say that their condition was bad, the situation they're in was rough. But the time to pray is now. Don't wait. This was a prophetic statement of what was to come if they didn't turn. And he was imploring them and asking them, please turn back to God before you reach that state, before you find yourself in such a mess. But do you know, beloved, it's God is there in the mess. The time to turn to God is now. There are some who say, oh, I've made such a mess of my life. It's too bad. I have literally had them tell me I've gone too far. I've made too big of a mess of my life. God can't help me. But God can help you. We have a promise here, beloved, that if thou wilt seek him But if from thence, maybe you're in a time of tribulation, maybe you're in a time of trial, maybe you're in a uh a place where you need god in a very real and powerful way can i implore you and encourage you today to seek god Call on God. Turn to God because He is there in your hour of need. And it doesn't matter how low you've gotten, there's no place too low that God cannot reach It doesn't matter how far away from God you've drifted, God can and wants to come and rescue you from that place. Just turn to God. Turn to him. Beloved, it was when Manasseh was sore afflicted that he sought Jehovah's face It was only after the prodigal son finally came to himself there in that terrible pit with the pigs that he said, Oh, I must go unto my father. I don't know where you're at today, but if you found yourself this hour in a pit, you found yourself in the pit of despair, in the sloth of discouragement, if you found yourself in a situation in your life where things are bad. Now is the time to turn to God. Now is the hour. You can't wait till you try and fix it all up and say, hey, when I get all clean, I'm going to turn to God. No, you turn to Him right away Turn to him now. Now is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. Don't wait. Wherever you are at in your life, now is the day to turn to God. Now is the time. Beloved, do you hear the Savior calling? Turn to Him when He calls. He says, seek the Lord, thy God. Can I ask you this morning, is he your God? Do you have any question in your heart as to whether he's your God or not? There should be no question. You should know in your heart that he is your God and that he wants to help you in your hour of need. Look at verse number 30. In verse number 30, he says, When thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come upon you. You know, there's something precious. Let me let me say it this way. God has a extra measure of compassion. for a broken and contrite heart. He says, if you find yourself in tribulation, call on him. Call on him. Do you find yourself sick today? Call on him. Amen, Brother Aaron. Call on him. Do you find yourself lonely today? Call on him. Do you find yourself weak? Call on him. Do you find yourself short on provision? Call on God Do you have needs that you cannot meet today? Call on God. He says that all these things are come upon thee. You know, in the context here, when he's talking about all these things that have come upon them, in the context, he's talking about judgment that God brought in their life. When all these things have come upon you. Do you understand, beloved, that God is not judging you just because he wants to knock your block off? That's not the motivation. You're you may be you today are enduring or going through some judgment, and the reason is is God wants you to call on him. He wants you to seek him. With all your heart. To turn back to him. To seek God. And when all these things, have you seen God's judgment? Have you seen God's hand in your life and God trying to do something and and you've continued down the wrong way and you continued down the wrong way and God's judgment comes and you keep going the wrong way and God's judgment comes It wasn't long ago I was talking to a family and they're describing to me the things that happened in their life, one after the other, one after the other, one after the other, and I said to them, Can't you see the hand of God in that? What God is doing, would you turn back to Him now? Or would you continue down that way? He says, when all these things befall thee, and beloved, if you feel today that all these things have befallen you. I mean the list. You know, you just got them coming one after the other. God says, call on him. Seek him. The day of prayer. The day of prayer, beloved. is now. The day of prayer also is when he is near. When he is near. Isaiah 55, verse number 6 says, Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. There's a couple of truths in that verse One precious joyful truth is that God is near. I hope you hear the calling of God. And that God is near, that He is there. Maybe you're really going through it, but God is near. The time to call on Him is when He's near. The Bible says, draw nigh unto me, and I will draw nigh unto you. You call on God and He's there. But there's also a truth here that is stated, and that is while He is near. The Bible says that the Holy Spirit, God's Spirit, will not always strive with men. There will come a time if we do not respond to the prodding and the heeding of God, he will no longer be near. He will no longer be wooing and calling you. Do you hear the Spirit calling you today? Can I ask you, do you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior? Have you confessed your sin to Him and trusted Him as your Lord and Savior today? If God is stirring your heart saying, I don't understand all of what this preacher is saying, but I I hear truth in his voice and and God is speaking to you right now. God is moving you. I want you to know in a few minutes we're going to give you opportunity. and you can come and put your saving your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and experience salvation, His saving grace. The time is now. Well he is near. Because God will not always strive with men. If we continue to go our own way, we quench the Holy Spirit, the Bible says. That is to put it out like you quench a fire. The Holy Spirit is stirring your heart and you quench it, you put it down, you push it away and say, no, no, no, I don't want to do that yet because I love my sin too much. And God will not always strive with us. Could I implore you to seek God while he is near? Do you hear him calling you today? You know, God does not remove himself from us. We say there's a time where he will not be near, but do you know why that is? It's not because God removes himself from us. It's because we Remove ourselves from God. God has not moved. God has not changed. God is there, but we remove ourselves. The Bible talks about hardening your heart against God. Don't harden your heart today. Seek God in the day the day of prayer. Could we look for a moment at the desire of prayer? He says, But if thou from thence shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him. If thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. The desire of prayer. As I contemplated and mused over this thought, the pursuit of prayer, there might be a question: well, Pastor, isn't that what our theme is? On bended knee? Haven't we been pursuing prayer all year long? Haven't we one topic after another, every month by month, been memorizing verses and talking about different aspects of prayer and pursuing that. So I began to ponder and think about this word, the pursuit of prayer. And is it as much the pursuit of prayer or what is the pursuit of our prayer? In our prayer, what are we pursuing? What is it we are going after when you bow your head and you pray, is all that you're seeking deliverance from your current problem? Is all that you're pursuing is that need to be met? Is it all that you desire from that time in prayer is just to have another answer? What does our verse say? If thou seek him with all thy heart. Dearly beloved, this should be the pursuit of our prayer. To seek Him. To seek him. Oh, we have the privilege of asking. Ask and ye shall receive. Knock and ye shall find. Ye have not because you ask not. And God wants us to bring those knees in our petitions to Him. But beloved in all of our asking, let us not forget that the pursuit of our prayer is that cry of Paul that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. That should be the pursuit of our prayer. And as we bow our heads and seek His face, it's not just, Lord, would you pay this bill for me? But God, may I know your power. May I see your presence. May I understand your truth. May you do something real and powerful in my life that I may know you, God. I think one of the things is lacking in good churches is that personal, intimate relationship with God People talk about God and they walk into church and they carry their Bibles, but how many can say without a question, Oh, yes, he is my friend? He is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. And I know him. I walk with him in the cool of the day. He is my God. What is the pursuit of your prayer? What is that desire? That rooted heart's desire as you bow your head in prayer. Yes, we have needs, and most of the time it is our need that drives us to our knees. But as we are on our knees, beloved, could we please Call on God to see his face, to seek him and know him and the glory of his resurrection The motivating factor, beloved, the reason one would seek God is because they have grown dissatisfied with their current state. Without that dissatisfaction, there is no motivation. Are you satisfied in your current state? Zippity doo-dah, zippity day. My oh my, what a wonderful day. Plenty of sunshine. Everything's going fine. You have no motivation. When you become dissatisfied with your current state, that's when you say, God, I need to know you. It's not just about it's not just about having this need met. Lord, I'm asking for this, but Lord, I want to know you I want to be your friend. I want to commune with you. I want you to speak to my heart. I want you to stir me. I want to know that I have a God in heaven that hears me when I pray. I don't want to be praying to a piece of metal or to a chunk of wood. I've got a God in heaven and He's real and He's powerful. And if somebody else can say God spoke to them, then I want to say God spoke to me. Lord, would you be real to me? And we have a promise from God that if you'll seek him with all your heart and with all your soul, that you will find him. You can this morning. I know Satan right now is telling you, oh, that's good for him down the road, or yes, this person could do that, or that person can do that, but not me. Yes, you. Nobody in this room has a corner on God. God is there from the youngest person to the oldest. From the person that would hold themselves up as the most spiritual to the one that in your heart and mind you would say, I'm the most wretched sinner here. God is there for you. We need to be like the psalmist who said, O God, thou art my God. Early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee. My flesh longeth for thee in a dry and a thirsty land where no water is. Have you ever been thirsty? I don't know that I have ever been this kind of thirsty. There's been times when I've been parched. There's been times where I really wanted a drink. I mean there's been it just but I I picture like somebody in in a desert gone to the place where their tongue starts to swell because they don't have any moisture. That desire for something to drink that is overriding and more powerful than any other desire. That's what the psalmist says. I desire to know thee like that. If you have that kind of a passion and a desire to know God, I want to tell you there is nothing that will stop you from knowing Him. He says, seek him with all your heart. Can I ask you this morning, what do you do with all your heart? What do you do with all your heart? I mean, there's things that I enjoy doing, and there's some that I can say I do with all my heart. What do you do with all your heart? There's some people who love bowling. I enjoy bully I enjoy bowling, but not that much because my wife usually beats me. So I don't like bowling that much, but You know, if she's not there, I do okay. Um But bowling is fun, but there's some people, man, their life's about bowling. They do the bowling, they do it with all their heart. Put everything into that What is it that you do with all your heart? God should be in that place. God should be in that place. Do we seek him with all our heart? Many times, I believe, beloved, we have replaced spiritual things. With worldly things that we do with all our heart. We have lots of pursuits and things that we're interested in, and we do those with great vigor. But the things of God we do half-hearted. We do casually. Our pursuit of God, there should be no trifling, there should be no half-hearted effort, but a real and intention. Hence pursuit after God. I think of it kind of like a young man whose heart is consumed with the passion of a young Young lady. You teenage you teenagers awake? Talking about passions. Talking about love. Amen. That that passion to pursue her This consuming desire to call and text and Instagram and Snapchat and Facebook and you know continual conversation, right? You just hung up but you want to call back. Is it that way with God? Or is it, oh I saw God on Sunday morning. Lord, we'll see you next Sunday. That passion to pursue her, to know her. Boy, I I I want to know her. I want to call her. I want to write her. I want to do things for her. In your mind, you're you're dreaming up ways to to win her heart and you're thinking about how you could surprise her and something exciting you could do for her and and it's a pursuit that is ever present. Are you seeking God that way? That should be the pursuit of our prayer, beloved. To know God. Many times life gets so busy We may be even doing good things, but we're allowing the good things to crowd out the best thing. And that's to know him. Martin Luther, I believe it was, that remarked, I've got so much to do today that I must first spend three hours in prayer. You see, we do the opposite. Oh, I don't have anything to do today, so I can spend a few minutes in prayer. Oh, I've got so much to do today, I don't have time for prayer. But what is our pursuit? Can I encourage you this morning with this last thought and we'll be done The deliverance that comes through prayer. The deliverance that comes through prayer. Look in verse number 30 and 31 here of our text. He says, when thou art in tribulation, when you're going through it, when there's a trial, when there's a struggle, when all these things have come upon thee, even in the latter days He's saying, even if you have been going through this for a long time, even if the latter days, if you've been enduring for just continually, seems like forever, he says, if thou turn to the Lord thy God And shall be obedient unto his voice. For the Lord thy God is merciful God. He will not forsake thee Neither destroy thee, nor forget the covenant of thy father which he swear unto them. Beloved, God is not hiding from you. God hears your cry. He hears the cry of every heart from the prodigal who's wandered far from God. To the zealot who has drifted into apostasy, when the heart turns to God, God hears. And he answers. You see, beloved, prayer is not overcoming the reluctance of God, but taking hold of God's desire to help. Prayer is not overcoming the reluctance of God, but taking hold of God's desire to help Sometimes in our home, my kids will go to the soft, tender-hearted, generous one of us. You know that it's not me. They will approach mom and say, Mom, could I do this? And mom will say those most hated words. Ask your dad. Oh no, stink. Ask dad. Forget it. It's done. It's just hopeless. Mom, I can't tell you how many times mom and I have already talked about it. Mom already knows what my answer is going to be. She knows that I'm gonna say yes, but she'll she'll say ask your dad and the kids will give up. They'll say it's hopeless. Dad is so hard-hearted. Dad has no compassion in his soul. We're not asking dad. And mom will try and encourage them. You ought to ask them. You never know. She's even trying to hint to them, hey, go talk to dad. I'll come through and she'll say, did you talk to dad yet? And they're like, no, and sometimes they don't ever ask me because they think I'm gonna say no. Because they think I don't want them to do that. But I want to and I have a desire for them to do that and all they gotta do is ask. All they gotta do is ask. Beloved, our Heavenly Father wants to meet our needs. He wants to help us. He wants to do a miraculous thing in our life. Sometimes our free our fear and our, you know, you know what, as I opened my prayer today, I said, God, on my best day, I'm an unworthy vessel to preach. You know, beloved, on our best day we're not worthy to come to God and say, Lord, help me. So why is it on some days we feel like we deserve it and on other days we don't? We never deserve it. But God wants to help us. He says you have not because you ask not. And if we would just put that fear aside and and say, Get thee behind me, Satan. And get away from me and go to our Heavenly Father. He's not hiding from us and He's not reluctant to try and help us. Prayer is grabbing hold of that hand that desires to meet our need. If you seek him, you'll find him. That's all you've got to do today. Beloved, his mercy is for all. His mercy is for all. You think about this no innocent man has ever experienced the mercy of God. No innocent man has ever experienced the mercy of God because it It takes a guilty man to know his mercy. But every guilty man who's ever called has experienced God's mercy. That is there for us. Hmm. Have you long ago walked away from God? Turn back to him today. Have you yet to turn to God? You know, let's look back at this verse. I want you to see this powerful word here. He says in verse number 30, he says, When thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come upon thee, even in the latter days, if thou what's the next word? Turn. Turn. You know, it takes a turning to experience God's mercy. Right. Um Melissa, why don't you come here? Where's Caleb? He's downstairs. Alright, Josh. You're a half brother. Come on up here. Okay. So we're gonna illustrate this. Alright. You stand here. Now, Josh, y you stand here. What I want you to do is I want you to aggravate your sister. Just take your finger and poke her. Poke her in the arm. or you know, poker in the shoulder. Just just poker, right? Just aggravate like you do, just like you do all the time. Aggravate your sister, right? Now I want you to say would you quit that? You you keep doing that. Do you say, Oh yeah. No, you gotta say yeah, yeah, yeah. Keep doing it, keep doing it though. You're messing up my illustration. Keep poking her Now now you say man that really hurts. Stop that. That really hurts. Stop. Don't stop. Keep doing it. I want you to say I am so sorry. I'm so sorry. I feel really bad about this. I feel really bad. I'm gonna stop. I'm gonna stop. But you know, you keep doing it. You're messing up my illustrations. Sometimes this is what we do to God. God speaks to our heart and he says, Child, that bothers me. Could you stop that? And we say, yeah, Lord, I'll I'll quit. Oh, I'm so sorry. You're gonna have a bruise. You guys can be seized You see, it takes a turning. There is no repentance as long as we're still poking, right? It takes a turning. Repentance is literally a turning away. We've got to stop going that direction. He says, if you turn and obey his voice, so what is it to seek the Lord? It's obeying him. It's following after him, seeking him. The deliverance that's there for any and all of us. Wow. Turn to the Lord. Have you been pursuing other things? Let's pursue God. Amen. Let's pursue God with all of our heart and grab a hold of that promise. Don't just make it a wish. Don't just make it a dream. Oh, I would love to know God. Because God God has promised us that we can know Him. We just got to seek Him with all our heart and with all our soul. What's the pursuit of your prayer today?