The two debtors. It is the entire context is verses thirty-six through fifty, although the parable itself, like many of the parables, is very short. Sometimes the parable is just a couple of verses. This one is 40 or 41 through 44, the actual parable itself, but the whole context starts in verse number 36. And you know, when I'm teaching this, I have this habit is I s uh we get to the passage and then I take off running. And I by the time I get up here to teach this, I've read through this parable many times and I forget. You guys haven't read it yet. And I get up and start teaching and Sometimes I'll get halfway through the lesson before I'll realize we haven't even read that parable. I mean that we haven't even looked at it. I'm explaining it and we haven't even seen it. So let's start out this morning. Let's look at the the parable. We'll read the whole context of it. Verse uh thirty-six through fifty. So, and one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with them. And he went unto the Pharisees' house and sat down to meet. And behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat at the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment. And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet. and anointed them with ointment. Now when the Pharisee which had bid him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus answered, said unto him, answering, said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he said, Master, say on There was a certain creditor who which which had two debtors. The one owed 500 pence and the other fifty. And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love the most. Simon answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. And he turned to the woman and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, and thou gavest me no water for my feet But she hath washed my feet with tears and wiped them with the hairs of her head. Thou gavest me no kiss, but this woman, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head with oil thou didst not anoint, but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment. Wherefore I say unto thee, her sins, which are many, are forgiven For she loved much, but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little. And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. And they that sat at meet with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? And he said to the woman, Thy faith has saved thee. Go in peace. So the parable here, uh I tell you, Jesus had a lot of run-ins with these uh Pharisees, didn't he? Uh I think men that thought more highly of themselves than they ought to think. But the question I have for you this morning is do you appreciate what God has done for you? Do you value that? Does your service and devotion to the Lord reflect the extent of your appreciation? Now, in light of the parable we just read, and you hear the questions, if you're slack in your service for God, what does that indicate? If you have a desire or wish you could be more diligent in your service, what would it be that would help you motive would help motivate you to do that? So this parable here this morning, uh Christ forgiving this sinner uh who obviously was well known as such. Forgiveness means to pardon, to remit as an offense or of a debt, to overlook an offense, and treat the offender as not guilty This parable illustrates for us the forgiveness and what should be our response for receiving it. So we've seen how Jesus responded to sinners and and And the joy that He has in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, and what our spirit should be when other people repent What our spirit should we should be excited about that. That's what we looked at in our last parable, that uh there's joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. And when somebody comes back to Christ or when somebody uh repents of their sin or somebody gets saved for the you know they come to Christ and they decide to trust in him. We should have we should be rejoicing in that But here we see what our spirit should be about our decision to trust Christ and what Jesus has already done for us personally. Simon, the Pharisee, was comparing himself with what he called a sinner. He did not see himself for the sinner he was because of measuring himself by himself, instead of measuring himself to Christ. Jesus helped make this comparison between Simon and the sinner by giving him this parable. So, first of all, we see the telling of the parable. This is the context. This is one of the parables that the parable, the context, the explanation, all of it is given to us in the scriptures. It's very clearly spelled out. God didn't leave uh a lot to interpretation beyond what he has given us here. But Jesus accepts an invitation to go eat at this Pharisee's house. What is the Pharisee's house that he went to eat at? Simon. So he went to eat at Simon's house. Now in the beginning it just says verse number thirty-six, and one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. That Jesus tells us who it is he was talking to. So we know he's going to Simon's house. And then there was a woman who was a sinner, enters the home. A sinner's a woman that was a sinner. Now uh A sinner, uh, by the biblical interpretation, when somebody or the Pharisees or uh those group would talk about somebody that was a sinner, we know by application that we're all sinners. But what they're talking about is somebody that had the reputation publicly of being a sinner. Somebody that was known for their actions And quite possibly, when dealing in this situation where this this woman may have been a harlot, a woman of the night That is not given to us specifically, but that type of lifestyle is what people in the city would look at and say, oh, she's a sinner. and we can't associate with them, we can't do anything with them. And uh so this woman that was a sinner entered uh and began to weep. behind Jesus. Then she washes his feet with her tears and wipes them with her hair. Finally she kisses his feet and anoints them with oil. She anoints his feet with oil in verse uh thirty eight. Simon, of course, gave uh Christ my notes are all out of order, sorry. Um So Simon wondered when he saw Jesus with this sinner, wondered, could this truly be a prophet? Because he would know who it is he's dealing with. If this man was a prophet, he would know. He wondered within himself. But knowing what was in the Pharisees' heart, Jesus offered this parable. Jesus knew what was in the Pharisee's heart. The Pharisee said here in the text, he said, uh Is it verse number thirty nine? Now when the Pharisee which had bid him saw it, he spake within himself, saying So uh I don't think he he said it out loud. He spake within himself, thinking, man, did this guy be a prophet? I mean if he was he would know this woman was a sinner that he's talking to here. Uh but Jesus heard it. Jesus knew. And he says, Simon, I have somewhat to say to thee. Uh he had something that was important he wanted Simon to get. And uh he offered him this parable. Then the characters in the parable are quite uh straightforward and simple as well. Simon the Pharisee, who had thought he had no sin, He thought he had no sin. Uh he was he was there. And then you have the sinner who knew her sin abounded. Now we know that they were both sinners, but the contrast is given to us in this parable between these two people, one who thought that they had no sin, or at least were uh in context here felt that they were on equal footing with Jesus Christ. You see that in in the parable as we walk through it, but uh you know Simon had somebody come to his house and you know if you have an honored guest, you break out the fine china. You don't serve them on the plastic uh or the paper. Uh you break out the fine china if you have an honored guest. But when your kids friends come over from down the street You pull out the paper, say, hey, there's a hot dog in the fridge. You guys don't, you know, cook it in the microwave. I mean, you don't go any extra mile because of the level of importance of that person Sim here had Jesus in his presence and treated him like a common man. He felt he was equal with Christ. Then you have the creditor who was owed money. We of course know that the creditor, every one of us, has a debt that cannot be paid. And accept by Jesus Christ. And we all stand guilty before an Almighty God. We all all hold the debt, and He is the creditor. In uh interpretation of this passage a creditor is God and by illustration you see some that have a great debt and some that have a little debt. Many times the perception is the only difference between those two deaths. Uh and that's how somebody might view their sin. And we do that, don't we? We think, oh well what I do is not that bad. The sin that I have is not that bad. Uh I'm not like other people. I'm not like those sinners because I I only do this. uh and weigh our sin by our own interpretation instead of against Christ like Simon did here, then you have the two debtors with different levels of debt. One owed five hundred uh denarii or pence and one owed fifty denarii. Now a a denarii was equivalent to about a day's wage. Uh so uh even the fifty was a substantial debt, uh but the five hundred was an exorbitant debt. Uh and one, you know, said A they would have been filing chapter thirteen and said, you know what, I can't pay this. Uh but we are all in light of this interpretation of this passage, we're all in a situation where we can't pay. We don't have enough to pay the debt. Regardless of our interpretation of how much sin we have We can't pay the debt on our own. So that doesn't make any difference. So the truth of this parable, the main truth that's being taught, is those that are faced with the scope of their sin at salvation are more likely to appreciate their salvation than those who believe they have been forgiven of only a little sin. This is one of the things that we have to be sure and help young people that grow up in the church environment to understand that they were still a sinner and they still need forgiven of that sin. and that they couldn't pay for their sin on their own. It took the death, burial of Jesus Christ and his resurrection to forgive them of that. Sometimes you have those that have gone out and lived a life of sin. They're out in the world and they've lived that and And God saves them out of that. And they they they change their life and God transforms their life. And they stand in awe at God's goodness. And wow what God could do for me. I mean my life was at the bottom and I had nothing left and and and I was a a uh you know an accident waiting to happen. I was totally destroying everything good in my life and then God saved me. And they come out of that and they just are just overflowing with love for God because of what God saved them from. But a lot of times you get kids, young people that grow up in the church. They're just as much a sinner, it's still at a have a debt they cannot pay, but when they get saved at a young age, and this is what we want We don't want them to go sow their wild oats. We don't want them to have to live through that mess. We don't want them to have to bear the scars in their body from those things. But when they get saved at a young age What do they do tomorrow? They do the same things they did yesterday. There's not a dramatic change. They don't see God saving them from all that sin. Although their heart was full of sin, God is still saving them, God is still forgiving them. But, you know, they still they went to church like they did last week. They, you know, had family devotions like they did last week. They tried to obey their mom and dad like they did last week. There's not a dramatic change and sometimes kids that grow up in a Christian family and around a good church don't have that same appreciation, the same value, uh and love for Christ because they don't realize what all of God did save them from. So we've got to be sure and help them to see that and visualize that uh and it will be instrumental in keeping them uh from going down that path. So the translation of the parable God gives to us very clearly. He challenges Simon with a question in verses 42 and 43. He says That and when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Then he says, Tell me therefore which of them will love the most. Jesus challenges him with that question, which of them, the debtor, will love the creditor more? Simon's response, I suppose the one whom he forgave more. I suppose the one who he forgave more. I think on Simon's part here that little hesitancy. Uh I suppose Yeah, you can almost hear like Simon's getting hit with the truth of what's being said. And he's kind of in his mind he doesn't want to answer. Doesn't want because he knows by answering he's implicating himself. You know, he's kinda like, Well, I suppose the one who is forgiven more, you know. Uh hey, it it kinda like when you're asking a child a question that he realizes if affects him directly and uh you know, you say, well, who who dropped this off the counter and and broke it? And oh I did. You know, they kind of get quiet and and I I sense that out of Simon here. He kind of realized he was uh being called on the carpet, that he was being caught in the act of not loving And uh he says, I suppose the one that had been forgiven more then uh Jesus makes this contrast very clearly between Simon and the woman. He made this contrast between the two. Uh he didn't pull any punches. He didn't, you know, uh once he began to explain to Simon, he told him exactly, hey, I came into your house and you didn't give you didn't anoint my head with oil. You didn't give me any water to wash my feet. You didn't do anything for me. But this woman, who is a sinner, has hasn't ceased to do these things. A very clear contrast that he gives and really points out to Simon where he was at. All of these things Simon should have done as a normal host of somebody. But he didn't even do them for the most important guests that he had ever had. And that's because Simon felt he was on par or on equal with the one that he had. He was a Pharisee. He was religious. He was ceremonial. And he had those things down. So he brought in Jesus as another leader, another religious leader, another prophet, as it were, another man that he would be an equal with and well let's sit down not realizing who it was that he had and the debt that he had been forgiven of and that what had Jesus had done for him. So Jesus drives this point home in verse number 47. He says, Her sins which are many are forgiven, for she loved much. Now there are some who would take this phrase right here. Many times when you see something in the Bible that doesn't quite line up with what maybe you've been taught doctrinally, The explanation can be found in the context most of the time. Some would look at this and say It was loving much that forgave her of her sins. If you read that verse it by itself, verse number 47. Wherefore I say unto thee, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. So you could look at that and say, Oh, it was the measure of love which she showed that allowed her sins to be forgiven. And you could take that and try and teach a works salvation, try and teach that your love has got to be displayed, your love has got to be evident, you've got to work like this lady who washed Jesus' feet. These things are necessary. It was the expressions of her love that allowed her to have her sins forgiven. But that's not true. Look at verse number 50. In this context, we see the definition that lines up with the rest of the Bible. In verse number 50. And he said unto the woman, Thy faith. has saved thee. So even right here in this passage, just a couple of verses later, you see that What he is saying in verse number 47 is that you you're this is proof of the fact that your sins are forgiven. She loved much because her sins were forgiven, not to get her sins forgiven. And he steals it in verse number 50 when he says, he doesn't say your love hath save thee. He says your faith has saved thee. And many times in the scriptures when you see something that might be a little different than what you've been taught about a doctrine or a principle. If you just get into the rest of the context of that passage, you will see where it lines up with the rest of scriptures. And so we've got to be very careful about taking or hearing truth being taught from just one one verse. Jesus saying to her that her love is proof of the that she had been forgiven. Faith equals forgiveness. Forgiveness equals love. When we realize what it is that Christ has done for us, we are motivated to love. Even in a husband-wife relationship, um when Your mate, whether it be your husband or your wife, goes above and beyond for you When they do for you, when they show their love, when they have an understanding heart, when they have a forgiving spirit, when the expressions of their love abound. You, in your own self, unless you are just so full of yourself and so selfish, your heart ought to be, man, I don't deserve a mate like this. I I I just why did God bless me with such a wonderful wife or such a wonderful husband? I I can't I need to go above and beyond. I need to work a little harder. I need to love a little more Because all that she has done for me, or all that he has done for me, I surely can do a little better for her. When you see that expression of love played out on a day-to-day basis in your home. It motivates you to love each other. And it is a perpetual motion The problem is, and this is not on the home this morning, but the problem is sometimes it's going the other way. And it is just as much a perpetual motion, the wrong direction. When you are not expressing love or appreciation or gratitude and that is reciprocated the other direction And now instead of growing closer and being motivated to love each other more, day by day and week by week you're growing further and further apart because you're having less and less expressions of love. And less and less motivated to do for the other. Somebody's got to stop that. Somebody's got to step up and say, Lord, help me to love like Christ loved. He loved us in while we were yet sinners Christ loved us. You say, well, she doesn't deserve my love. Did we deserve God's love? No, and while we were yet sinners, And if you, sir, or you, ma'am, will turn that around and start loving regardless and showing that God can use that to turn your mate around and start that mode of mo that progression going in the right direction instead of the wrong direction. So the teachings of the parable. Um, the latter part of this verse, the last thing there tells us that this love is a result of her forgiveness, which we've covered adequately. So the teachings of the parable Um what you say in your heart, Jesus still hears. What you say in your heart, Jesus still hears. And I think we all know that and understand that, but it might be good to be reminded once in a while that uh Just because nobody else sees it, nobody else hears it, Jesus still hears. Simon said it in his heart. Even uh the rest later in this passage, what did he say? Um And they that were in meat with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? They were saying that within themselves. They're like, who is this that forgives sins? So Jesus just sealed it He he came back and he said, Well everybody else is wondering, I just want I just want you to know for sure that your faith has forgiven you, has saved you. And uh so Jesus hears the thoughts and the intents of your heart, uh whether anybody else does or not. God is ready to forgive no matter the debt, whether great or small. In your eyes or someone else's eyes, it doesn't make any difference. God is ready to forgive no matter the debt. And He wants to forgive. In Psalms 86. 5, for thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive, and plentious in mercy Unto all them that call upon thee. God is ready to forgive, just like He did here with this debt That quick, ready to forgive. We must remember Jesus had just as much to forgive with you as he did with the, or he does, with the vilest of men The idea is that for all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. We know that verse, and we know what it means. I might be able to jump and land on that first pew. I'm not going to try, but I might be able to. But I would question whether Rich could uh with his cane and uh you know um you know it it's probably so if him and I were gonna have a contest and try and jump to that first few I might make it right to the edge. And he might just step off of here and say you won. You know. Um but the fact is we both came short, didn't we? It's and that's the principle that we need to understand with being forgiven of our debt before Jesus Christ. We can't get there on our own, whether the debt is great or small. We still can't get there on our own. And we need the forgiveness of Jesus Christ. We better not be guilty of thinking that God did not have that much to forgive for us. God forgave us for Christ's sake. God didn't forgive you because you deserved it. God didn't forgive you because you earned it. He forgave you for Christ's sake. In Ephesians 4. 32 And be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even if God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you He did it because his son loved you enough to die on the cross, so that you would have forgiveness. Not because we deserve that forgiveness. God forgave you for Christ's sake. So value the forgiveness that we have in Jesus Christ. Some quick truths about forgiveness and we'll be done. It should be forthcoming. This is our forgiveness. Christ's forgiveness for us is always forthcoming. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. His forgiveness is forthcoming. It's immediate. Look in our verse here, verse number in our text here, verse number 42. And when they had nothing to pay, he what? What does it say? Frankly, forgave. They came up and said, hey, I've got nothing to forg I've got nothing to pay. And he's like, okay, don't worry about it. He just forgave them. Ready to forgive. Just at a moment's notice, when it's necessary, when somebody asks, and we should have forgiveness that's ready to forgive. It should be full. It was complete and sufficient for both, no matter the amount that was owed. It should be full forgiveness. Forgiveness is not conditional. Forgiveness is not, uh, if you do this and this and this, I'll feel like you're worthy of my forgiveness. Forgiveness is a decision you make and you it you ask for that when somebody asks for it, you give it, forthcoming and full. And then it should be found. I use the word found because it had an F and I I needed them all to match, you know Um but the the idea is that it should be seen, it should be evident. People should be able to see uh that forgiveness. In verse number uh forty-four And he turned to the woman and said unto Simon, Seeest this Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, for thou gavest me no water for my feet. But she hath washed my feet with tears and wiped them with the hairs of her head. The idea is that the forgiveness she re sh that she received was on display. It motivated her to worship God. It motivated her to love the Lord. So when we receive forgiveness from somebody or from the Lord, there ought to be an expression of gratitude and thankfulness. and an appreciation for that forgiveness. Not, well, you should have forgave me because I've forgiven you before, so now we're just called even. That's not the right kind of a spirit. There ought to be some appreciation for the forgiveness that we received. The problem is we think we deserve it, right? We think we're owed that forgiveness, whether it's from our mate or for some from somebody else. And that's why we don't appreciate it when it comes. When we realize that we don't deserve it, and somebody gives it to us anyway. How many of you have been caught red handed speeding? You don't have to raise your hand. You probably most of you in here could raise your hand. I mean the police officer pulls you over and he says, You know how fast you're going? you're like I suppose uh sixty. Uh I was stopped one time right down here on uh Worthington Heights and the officer pulled me over and he says, Do you know how fast you're going? And I said, Yeah Probably about forty. He's like forty one. He said, Do you know what the speed limit is? I said, Yes, sir. Thirty. He's like, that's a little fast, isn't it? I said, Yes, sir. He said, Okay, let me have your license and registration. So I gave it to him. He came back in a couple minutes and he said Listen, I w I want you to know I appreciate your honesty. And I've given you a warning and encourage you to slow it down. And I was like, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Let me shake your hand. Uh you know, there was I was caught red-handed and I was guilty and I deserved a ticket. There's no way around it And when he came back and said, I just want to give you a warning, I was like, Yes, thank you so much. Thank you, Lord, thank you everybody, thank you kids, okay, let's go, you know. Uh what because I knew I didn't deserve any of that. I knew what I deserved. was to get a ticket, but I didn't get it. And when we have that kind of a spirit, it will be on display. Look what has been done for me. Jesus, He forgave my sins, and He set me free.