Be on a little bit more of a serious topic for this being the Sunday before Christmas, turn your Bibles to Proverbs chapter three. Proverbs chapter number three. Um we have sufficiently dealt with and looked at the Christmas. We've dealt with it in Sunday school. We've studied it uh several weeks in a row there dealing with the characters of Christmas and I'll be able to continue that study in coming years. because there's many characters that we didn't get to yet. But then we've talked a couple times on Sunday morning with regards to that. And we'll be dealing, of course, again on Tuesday night, Christmas Eve, our service together, our candlelight service will be a very short service, but we'll be dealing with that again. So tonight I wanted to go a little bit dire different direction, but rooted in the Christmas story. I told you in Sunday school that there's four times in And I gave you what those were, the four times that we're told to fear not in the Christmas story, and I talked about those in in Sunday school, but Jesus Christ we know was the Son of God. And he was God in the flesh and he came to earth. And uh He was all man, but he also was all God. And tonight I want to talk to you for just a few minutes here on the fear of the Lord. Although in the Christmas story we're supposed to we're told to fear not, there's certainly things in this world that we're not supposed to fear. And we shouldn't fear the working of God, which is what God, what the angel was coming and telling them, hey, you don't have to be afraid of what God is doing in your life. But beloved, we should fear God. There is a lack of the fear of God in America and in our churches in the lives of us as Christians today. In Proverbs chapter 3, follow with me as I read verse 1 through 7, familiar passages of scriptures Scripture, but he says, My son, forget not my law, but let thine heart keep my commandments. For length of days and long life and peace shall be added to thee. Let not mercy and truth forsake thee, bind them about thy neck, write them upon the table of thine heart, so shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not to thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Be not wise in thine own eyes Fear the Lord and depart from evil. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you tonight, and I pray God you wouldn't hold my voice up for the balance of the message. Allow me to Get the point across and uh not have to cough too much. I pray, Lord, that you would uh take the thought from the pages of Scripture tonight and the seriousness of this message. And with the power of the Holy Ghost, we ask you, God, that you drive it home to our hearts as believers. And as we approach this time of joy and of love and of compassion and concern for one another that surrounds this Christmas season. May we remember that Lord, we should fear you There should be a soberness, a reverence, a respect for God Almighty in everything we do I ask you to speak to our hearts tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. Certainly there's much in life for us to fear today. There's many things that uh we uh in our society, in our world today that uh, you know, even uh just the situations, I mean think about our culture and how uh uh just diametrically opposed it is from the the division in our country and and the the problems that are arising up on on every front with between the police and and the people and the the you know the secret state and uh the left and the right and y you know you just wonder at any time there could be a great eruption in our country uh at a scale that's never been seen before. And There's that apprehension there by many uh about that situation and it and it could happen. And uh we should not as a country be divided like that. But It you know, it's the way things are and there's a fear about those things. There's fear uh for physical concerns, you know, physically uh the body not holding up and not being able to do what we need to do and get out and and And uh the thing starting to deteriorate on us and you know, of course, different types of diseases and cancers and things that uh we have had loved ones and friends go through and and you wonder, Lord, please protect me from that. And uh, you know, there's that fear of that thing coming. There's fear of not being accepted, not being accepted by others. We all want to be accepted, we all want to be loved and and and And uh for who we are and what we are and and you know we we deal with other people and you're we're always balancing that fear of of being accepted or not accepted or uh can I do this and they'll be okay or you know dealing with that fear we have inside. We all deal with different types of fear. Uh one lady was about to fly with her infant daughter and and her husband and and she had to grab something and the kick it kick ticket counter and she was holding the baby in her hand and she had the pacifier uh in wrapped around her finger and so she handed the baby off to her husband to go back to the ticket counter to get something And she went back to the ticket ticket counter and she was waiting in line there to go up to the ticket counter and get what she needed. There's one person in front of her, and and when that person stepped away, she walked up and She noticed that the tenant beh the worker behind the counter was looking at her and then looked at the pacifier and looked at her and she said, Is this your first time flying? Some people have a fear of flying. And you know, um there's there's lots of fears that we have, but Christ told them in the story of Christmas, fear not. And somebody said this: the reason that we feel fear other things so much is because we fear God so little. And as we go through this tonight, you're going to see that truth taught a couple of times in that if you fear God correctly It'll give you what you need to not fear other things. So what does it mean to fear God? What is the fear of the Lord? There is a real misconception today, this uh uh uh idea of this mean, hateful God up in heaven just waiting for an opportunity to bash you over the head when you don't do what he wants you to do. Uh this misconception that, you know, the hellfire and brimstone type preaching, uh which wouldn't hurt for us to have more of. That type of preaching is is frowned on today because it's it portrays God as this mean mean God that and God's a God of love. But you know what? God's a God of of justice as well. And God is a holy God. And the thing about God is that His justice and His chastisement is always correct. God does not come and bunk you over the head because he didn't have anything else to do this afternoon. You know, there's been times when dealing with my kids that my kids might have done something and I may have incorrectly assessed the situation and maybe punished them unjustly. But that doesn't happen with God. God knows what's going on in your life, and many times you know in your heart what's going on in your life. And you know when the judgment of God comes, I can't tell you the times over my life of growing up in a pastor's home and going to the hospital visits with dad and myself now, many times visiting people in different situations and having people themselves tell me or standing there listening as they tell my father, well, I know why I'm in the hospital. I know why God did this to me. I've been running from God. I've been going my own way, and God had to do this to wake me up In 2 Timothy 1 and verse number 7, he says, For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of sound mind. So if God hasn't given us the spirit of fear, then what does it mean to fear the Lord? The fact is, to fear the Lord is to have a respect and a reverence that is rooted in an understanding of His greatness and His power. It is a respect and a reverence that is rooted in an understanding of His greatness and His power. Knowing who God is, having that knowledge, having that understanding gives us a respect for God, a reverence for God that guides and affects our day-to-day life. The fear of the Lord is not an irrational emotion. When you understand and know who God is, as your creator, The one who created you. And then the one who saved you as your Savior. When we have that knowledge and that understanding It is not irrational to also have a deep-rooted fear of God, for who God is. It is a continual awareness that God is present and God is watching and weighing every one of our actions and attitudes. All that we do. It's a healthy fear. It means we respect him. Means we are concerned about what he thinks. We want to know that God is pleased with us. And we're disappointed if God's not happy with us. It means we hold him in awe. We hold him in the highest regard. We recognize him as absolute. And it honors him. The right kind of fear drives us to God, not away from God. That's the problem with the fear that's being portrayed in this false way is men want to run away from God. But the right kind of fear causes you to go to the God. And to be in his presence. Understanding God. You know everyone in the world today fears the atomic bomb? Do you know why? Because on August the 6th, 1945, Little Boy was dropped on Hiroshima. And the world saw and understood the power and the magnitude that that little bomb had. The entire world fears an atomic war. Why? Because they have knowledge of that power The problem today is the world does not have knowledge of the power of God. This is another message for another time, but sadly the reason The world doesn't have knowledge of the power of God is because our churches are not seeing the power of God move in great mighty ways that portray that testimony that puts fear in their heart. That's why. It's because we don't have the fear of God either. Almost no one today respects or reverences God in any way. It's made ever more evident by the secularization of our society and the complete removal of Jesus Christ from everything. And from the way that this world mocks and makes fun of Christ. It's hard to imagine that this world could so blatantly disregard and have such a empty reverence for Christ. I don't know how many of you have seen or heard of the Netflix movie that's being released this Christmas called The Christmas Special. It's a movie that depicts Jesus Christ as a homosexual. And the Virgin Mary as an adulteress. According to the very conservative Washington Post The Washington Post said this. The movie's evil content goes even further. The Netflix film tells the story of Jesus returning from the desert. For his 30th birthday party, in a highly satirical format, Mary and God are portrayed as illicit lovers. Joseph is a bumbling carpenter who can't build a table, and the three kings try to pass ham off as a free range soy. It's wickedness. It's mind-boggling how the world today has no fear of God. How they could put something like that out and accept it. And let me just say to you, if you have a Netflix account, I would encourage you to get rid of it. You can go to the American Family Association. A little over 300,000 people have signed a petition against Netflix telling them to remove that, and I would encourage you to do that. What do you think this world would do if they uh if they made a movie about Muhammad and made him a homosexual? What do you think would happen? Oh, this world would be ripped apart upside down. But for some reason we can make fun of the Son of God. Turn him into a a a wicked and vile homosexual. And it's okay. It's not okay. At this time of year where we celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, and we want to accept it. That we're supposed to say it's okay. And it's not okay. We need to fear God. And the fear of the Lord is never going to hit the hearts of the man out there until it is evident in the life of the Christian in here. When we can go through our lives and live our lives ill regardless of what God wants, when the preaching of the Word of God no longer changes us. When we hear the testimonies of the Lord brought forth and it makes no difference in how we act and what we do and what we say and what we listen to and what we watch, our life is still the same. We have no fear of God. And until that changes in here, it's never gonna change out there. The fear of the Lord is a choice. Proverbs chapter 1, verse number 29. He says, For they that hated knowledge, do you hear that? They that hated knowledge and did not choose The fear of the Lord. So what I was saying here at the beginning, why did they fear the atomic bomb? Because they had knowledge of the atomic bomb, because they understood the power of it. Well, the world hates knowledge of God. They don't want to know about God. They don't want to know what God can do or what God would do. They reject every kind of knowledge about God. And they choose not to fear God. It's a choice. We make a choice whether we're going to look into the scriptures, whether we're going to apply the scriptures into our hearts, and whether we're going to fear God or not. You decide. You make the determination. You can ignore it or you can follow it. There is some great benefits for the Christian who would choose to fear the Lord. I don't have time tonight to give them all to you, but let me just give you some of them. What are the benefits to fearing God? First of all, you have victory over sin. In Proverbs chapter 16 and verse number 6, he says, By mercy and truth iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. I think if I asked everybody tonight, would you want to have victory over sin in your life? I think everybody here would say yes. Amen. I want to have victory over sin. I've been struggling with this, I've been dealing with this, and I want to get victory over that. Hey, by the fear of the Lord, men depart from evil. You know, Job, the Bible says that he was an upright man, that he eschewed evil. He got away from it, but he feared God, that verse says He feared God. And then in verse 22 of the same chapter, chapter 1, I believe it is, he says that Job had a right heart before God. Why? Because he feared God. He was kept from sin because he feared God. You want to have victory over sin? Get back to fearing God. Renew your fear of the Lord. When you have fear of the Lord, you live longer. Proverbs 10, verse number 27 says, The fear of the Lord prolongeth days, but the years of the wicked shall be shortened. The fear of the Lord prolongeth days. If you fear God, you'll live longer. I mean, how many of you have been around? Maybe you've got family, maybe you've got extended relatives or some friends who've just lived a life of sin. No fear of God. They may be only, I mean they're really young, like 45 or something. Maybe, but their body is like a 70-year-old. Because of the toll that wickedness has played on their life. That's what happens. to destroy this body which is supposed to be the temple of the Holy Spirit, which we're supposed to take care of. You'll live longer if you fear God You know there's nothing else you can do outside of honoring your mother and father that gives you that promise. I mean you can die it You can eat all kinds of ridiculous health food. You can take all kinds of supplements. You can go walk a certain amount of miles every single day. You can go and do all of these things. But none of them guarantee that you'll live longer. They're good for you, and I think you ought to do as many of those as you can, and I and I'm all for them. I'm not making fun of them. Well I was a little bit. But but uh uh they're good for you. Bodily exercise does profit a little and and we oughta take care of the body. And you ought to try and eat healthy. Amen, Miss Rebecca. She she encourages me to eat more healthy. She's real pleased that I gave up Mountain Dew. We ought to try and eat more healthy. But listen, here's a promise from God you'll live longer if you Fear God. If you have the fear of the Lord, you'll live longer. In Ecclesiastes 8, 12 and 13, he says, though a sinner do evil a hundred times and and his days be prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him. But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow, because he feareth not before God. He's saying, hey, sometimes you look at somebody, they're out in the world, and they're living however they want and they're living it up and they're living in sin. You think, oh, they're all okay and everything's fine. Hey, your perception of that's not quite right because what does God say? He says, hey, it's not going to be well with them. It's not going to be well with them. That's a definite But he that fears the Lord, he's got a promise. It's going to be well with you because you fear God. God will provide for you. Proverbs chapter 19 and verse number 23. The fear of the Lord tendeth to life, and he that hath it shall abide steadfast. He shall not be visited with evil. God's going to provide for you. In Psalms 34, 9 and 10, he says, Oh, fear the Lord, ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear him. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. Fearing the Lord, God's going to provide for you Having the fear of the Lord. So these things, there's many benefits. It's not just, oh, we're walking around in fear of God and God's going to punish us and He's going to He's going to jump down our throats that any chance he gets living a life of fear of God brings great blessing. It brings provision to your life. It brings protection to your life. It brings long days of prolonged life. Because you fear the Lord. Not only does it provide for you, he protects you. Psalms 34, verse 7 says, The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him. and delivereth them. The angel of the Lord is encamped around those that fear him and delivereth him. You know you don't have to fear the boogeyman if you fear God. God said he'll encamp himself around you. He's put up a hedge around you. He's protected you. And man, you think about Job and how he had prospered and how he had been blessed. And and and of course you know the story. The devil came and said, oh well that's because he's been he's got so much and he's so blessed. Obviously he he loves you because of that. And so God allowed him Satan to come and to touch Job. But you see, before God allowed that, God had protected Job. And Satan couldn't do anything without God allowing it to happen. God had set up a hedge around Job. God had protected him. And nothing could befall him because Job feared God. And when you and I fear God, we don't have to be afraid of the things in this world. But when we disregard God and we're out here on our own, we're outside the hedge. We're outside the protective hand of God. We're doing our own thing, and many times things in this world come upon us. Well you get back to fearing God. Then he says he'll protect you. Right now I'm working on a message about how our church can continue in this wicked day. How can we as a church possibly continue to exist and stand where we stand? Against a society that's so diametrically opposed to Christianity. How can we do that? Fear God. In Acts chapter 9 and verse number 31, he says, Then had the churches rest throughout all Judah and Galilee and Samaria. And were edified, and walking in the fear of the Lord and in comfort of the Holy Ghost were multiplied They were in a day there when the church was being persecuted. But the believers were walking in the joy of the Lord, and the church was multiplying. Because they had fear of God. These are some benefits to fearing God. Would you turn to Proverbs chapter number two? I'm going to give you some closing thoughts here. On how do we renew our fear in the Lord? How do we renew our fear in the Lord? And I want you to see this in the scriptures tonight. In Proverbs chapter 2, verses 1 through 5. The steps are given to us very clearly on how we renew our fear in the Lord. He says, My son, if thou wilt receive my word and hide my commandments with thee, So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thy heart to understand. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hid treasure, Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. There is eight action words given to us in these first four verses. First of all, in verse number one, he says you need to accept the Word of God. He says, My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee, you need to accept the Word of God, the teaching of the Word of God, the preaching of the Word of God, this your own study as you get into the Word of God and you see principles taught. You see truths in the Word of God that you need to accept those as truth and as from the Lord and say, This is God's word, and I need to do what it says. God said it, and that settles it. Accept the Word of God. Receive my words and hide my commandments with thee. You need to apply the word of God. Verse number two, he says, so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thy heart. To understanding. You see, there's that word again, understanding. All through this, the idea of understanding and knowing God. When we understand and know God, we have fear of Him. A healthy fear, a respectful fear, a fear that is right and that is good. How do you renew your fear in the Lord? You accept the Word of God, then you apply the Word of God to your life Far too long have Christians sat in churches like ours and heard the truths of the Word of God preached and made no changes in their lives. We come and we leave as we were. How long has it been since you've made a significant change in your life for Jesus Christ Whether that's some something that you were doing that you said, you know what, this is not helping me. Or you know what, this is sin and I need to stop it. I need to quit doing I need to give that up. Or something that you weren't doing that you said, you know what, I need to be doing this. I mean if you come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church week after week after week and after week and you look back over the last year and in Miss Alansi's testimony, she said she could quantify her growth. She could look and say, okay, these are steps that I've taken. What I'm asking you tonight, can you quantify the decisions that you've made? Can you look at your life and say, this is a step of growth. This is where I applied the my knowledge and understanding of God to my heart. This is where it was not just head knowledge, it became part of my life, and it changed who I am as a person because I am a Christian. This is real to me and it brought about change in my life. This is what the Spirit of God and the Word of God is supposed to do. And none of us ever arrive, none of us ever get to the place where we no longer have anything else that we can work on, or no longer have any other area of growth that we need. So how long has it been since you've truly applied something from the Word of God to your heart and to your life? Apply thy heart to understand And then he says, ask God for it. Verse number three. He says, yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding. Ask God, Lord, would you give me an understanding of how holy you are? Lord, would you give me a knowledge, an understanding of your power, of your working in my life? Lord, would you allow me to see you do something magnificent that would move me to the place of awe of your strength? Lord, I long to know your power. I long to know who you are. I long to know how holy you are. I long to be in your presence in a real and a powerful way. I'm tired of just play in Christianity. God, I want something more from you. Would you please bring me into your presence, God? He said, cry after it. Cry after it. Ask God for it. Is it something that you want? Do you want an understanding? Or have you, like much of the world, rejected it and said, I don't want knowledge of God? Because when we have knowledge of God, we fear him. You ask God for it. You actively seek it. In verse number four, he says, If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hidden treasure, You seek understanding of God, you seek wisdom, you seek knowledge of God. By getting in the Word, by listening to good preaching, by listening to God honoring music, that feeds your spirit Seeking God in his presence. What's the first verse of a first word of verse number five? Then. So if you do these things, then thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord. Then thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of God. If we want to renew our fear of God, God's given us very clearly a path to see that hate happen in our lives. So it's your choice, as we saw in the beginning of the message. It's a choice. You get to decide. Are you going to do it or no? Do you desire it or not? I believe, Christians, this is important. As we close out this year and embark upon a new one, we ought to enter it with a holy reverence for who God is.