First laid out this uh series a couple months ago. Just wow, it's gonna take us a while to get through there, and we're already down to just the last two lessons um in our series on spiritual gifts. We have dealt with the gifts that we are that have been given. We've dealt with the gifts that we've gotten. We've dealt with the gifts that are gone. And we've gone through systematically and looked at each of the different spiritual gifts that are listed for us in Romans chapter 12. So working our way through those, can anybody just, by stake of review, remember some of the gifts we've already talked about? Ministry, teaching. Mercy. We haven't talked about that one yet. That's that's in two weeks. Exhortation. Prophecy. Alright, I think we got through all of them there so far. Alright, good. Looking forward to uh continuing this lesson. We have two weeks left this week and Next week, you know, a few weeks ago somebody told me, saying, you know, we could call this series the gifts that Pastor Derrick doesn't have. Uh I told you when we started that um that uh I was gonna let you know when we got to my gift and we kept saying, Well this isn't it, well this isn't it, well this isn't it, well say well. I guess you don't you don't have 'em yet. Well my comes later down here um in the list. So we only have two left, so we got a fifty-fifty shot if you guys want to take a guess. So if we were going to have a vote today and look at the two that remain, is Pastor Derek more likely to end up as a dictator or calling crying with you on the phone when you're having a bad day? Like which one is uh dictator. Alright, right there. You guys had it figured out. Uh today's gift of the gift of ruling is uh is my spiritual gift, so you can enjoy studying it. Different gifts that we've studied here, some have been Very easy to study because there's a lot of content about them in the Bible. Some are more difficult because there's a little bit less teaching here in the passage or in other places in the Bible about them. This one was one that was difficult for me because uh it's mine and uh I know a lot about it and uh know some of the problems that come with it. So trying to condense it into one lesson. I was about halfway through the lesson and I reached my page count for a normal lesson trying to deal with this. So trying to get through what we have for us today. So this gifts, the gift of ruling. Kind of some background for myself personally, since this is my my gift. I started to discover this when I was in high school I'd never really heard much about spiritual gifts. Um and then the thing that started helping me understand this didn't even have to do with spiritual gifts. Uh in my senior year of high school I took a trip uh to DC senior trip, and something that was a tradition with the chaperone on that trip was to give all the students a personality test. So you know the four personalities. I'd never heard of it before. personality test. So they gave out this personality test, passed it all out, had all these questions we had to answer something just to kill time on the eight-hour bus ride up to DC. So as we're going, we're taking this test, we turn in our papers and she's going through them and getting the answers out. So then she lets us know uh what everybody has. And just some examples I don't remember exactly, but somebody like Jason, she's like, I think Based on your test, you're you're a you're a sanguine choleric and you scored in about a thirty-five on sanguine and a ten on cleric. And then Holly, you're a melancholy phlegmatic. You got a twenty-eight on melancholy And uh 14 phlegmatic. And Stephen, you're a phlegmatic sanguine. You scored a 24 on phlegmatic and a 20 on sanguine. And Derek, you're choleric. I was like, I'm cla I'm cleric what? She says, you're just cleric. So what do you what do you mean? She said you scored 48 on cleric and one on phlegmatic and one on sanguine. So I said, well I've got a I've got a kind of a unique personality here, um fairly strong in the in this area. So that kind of got me to understand that this is this is something of the way I am uh and the way I interact with others. So That kind of started me on this understanding. As I began to understand that God has given each Christian a spiritual gift, I began to learn what my gift was and why I operate the way that I do. Those that know me well uh can tell you that I can take over anything and I can tell anybody what to do. Uh as it is in my nature. There will be there there's a time about a year and a half ago we were on vacation and we were in a church and it was uh uh Just kind of a background on the church. The pastor was there, I think it was his first Sunday. He never been in a led a church before. It was just a very weird background how he ended up there and uh in that situation as piano player was gone So he was leading music. He'd never led music before. He was leading it off CD. And things were just really rough. My wife reached over, pat me on the leg and says, okay. Because she knew I wanted to jump up and be like, all right, here, let me get you started, and then we'll let you turn it over when it's time for preaching. Um because that's that's in my nature. My my mom is the same way. She'll she'll kinda warn me if I'm coming home to visit and there's something going on at church and she says, I know I know that just it'll be okay. Don't don't worry about it. You can just sit and enjoy. You don't have to come in and things that have happened that you know Derek would be happy to to run that for you guys if you need somebody to do something. That just is my nature uh that because that is my spiritual um gift I like uh when I see things run poorly, my first impulse is to straighten it out. My first impulse when I see something that needs to be done is to get other people involved. I feel like things are done best when everything is perfectly under control. I may have told you before that I have one phobia. You teens remember what probably what's my one phobia? You don't remember what it is? I've told you before It's uh traffic. Uh I have a phobia of driving in traffic. Uh that is one fear that I have and it boils down to I'm not in control. Uh that is that is because that's part of my spiritual gift here of this idea of control. My fear of traffic has to do with uh um a lack of control that I have in this situation. I've been more afraid in traffic in Chicago than when I was surf surfing in Sh California and saw a shark fin. I've tied a ladder to a rope and hung it off the side of the building just to save some time. I've driven several hours out of the way to avoid driving through Atlanta, Georgia. So that is uh my phobia of traffic is just because I'm not in control of the situation. I'm most comfortable when I'm in control. And that ties back to this gift that I have. And as I've said with all the gifts, there's right ways and wrong ways to manifest that gift. I am getting better with this fear of traffic as I learn to trust God with things that are outside of my control. But all this does tie back to my spiritual gift, used properly and used improperly. So we're looking here today at the gift of ruling. So before we begin the lesson on ruling, I'd like to give you another illustration of the different gifts and actions And I'm trying to get several different ways to look at this from different perspectives. So what I thought of today is kind of when it comes to preaching that a different gift enjoys. Now we all enjoy the preaching, all different topics that we enjoy listening to to and we're edified by it, but really the because of your gift, there's certain topics that are really going to resonate with you, they're going to challenge you in a different way based on your gift. So Maybe just kind of consider the favorite types of preaching or what really speaks to the heart of somebody with the different gifts. So those with the gift of prophecy would really enjoy preaching on standing for truth and standing against sin. Their theme song might be something like The Bible stands like a rock undaunted. That would be the gift of prophecy. Those with the gift of ministry really enjoy preaching. That reminds us of the need to serve God. Their theme song could be something like Work for the Night is Coming uh because they enjoy getting to work. Those with the gift of teaching are really going to enjoy b doctrinal Bible studies. They like to hear the definitions, the Hebrew and the Greek behind things, the historical context. And they might enjoy a song like Break Thou the Bread of Life, Lord unto me. Those are the gift of exhortation that are really good. Enjoy preaching on discipleship. They would like the song Throw Out the Lifeline. There's a brother who needs somebody out there is the is an idea for that. Someone with the gift of giving is going to enjoy preaching on giving. Missions giving, tithing, giving offerings. What hast thou given for me? I gave my life for thee. What hast thou given for me? That's really going to resonate with them Those with the gift of ruling enjoy preaching on leadership and being an example. A song they would enjoy was I have decided to follow Jesus. Those with the gift of mercy will enjoy preaching on having compassion, things like sowing in tears and loving people and would enjoy a song like Lord lay some soul upon my heart. So just different different aspects with different gifts of things that they would enjoy and different ways that they would react to different um situations as we've looked at those examples So today we're going into the study on the gift of ruling. We see that in Romans chapter 12, verse number eight. If you found your place there, we'll look at that verse. It says there, or he that exhorteth on exhortation. He that giveth, let him do it with simplicity, he that ruleth with diligence, he that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. Let's open with a word of prayer this morning Lord, we love you. Lord, we thank you for this day and this opportunity we have to gather in your house. Lord, we thank you for the wonderful building that we have, the heat that's here, that we can all be comfortable. Lord, as we gather around your word, I pray that it would speak to our hearts that we would be challenged through the example of this gift and how it should work in each of our lives, Lord, as well as those who may have this gift individually, Father. Lord, pray you bless this time around your word, and we ask it through Christ's name. Amen. So we look at ruling in the Bible. We always start with the definition. What does ruling look like when it comes to the Bible overall? And we see this word for ruling in Romans chapter 12, verse number 8, that word for ruling shows up eight times in the Bible. Now four of these eight relate to the pastor and the authority of the pastor within the church, the one that has obey them and have the rule over you. That's the same word here. Them that rule their own house as well. So four of the uses of this word rule relates to the pastor. One relates to the deacons, because in the qualification of the deacons that they rule their house well is another um listing of this. One relates here in Romans chapter twelve to the idea of spiritual gifts, and two of these are applied to all believers. So that's this word ruling throughout the Bible When we look at ruling in the idea of leadership, we understand a couple principles from the Bible about leadership. The first of these is that biblical leadership is servant leadership. That's the way that Christ set it up, that he organized, this is how you're supposed to lead. You lead by serving others. Matthew 23, verses 10 through 11 says, Neither be ye called masters, for one is your master, even Christ. But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant. He contrasted this type of leadership with that which was promoted by the world. He said, You know that the gent Gentiles they exercise lordship over one another. They use their authority to make others serve them. Christ said, use your authority to serve other people. He was contrasting or teaching a new way of doing leadership. So biblical leadership is serving others. Not using your authority to make people serve you. Use your authority to serve other people. Biblical leadership also is always tied to responsibility. Always tied to responsibility. James chapter 3, verse 1 says, My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. Whenever you assume a role of authority or influence, you immediately purchase to yourself a greater degree of responsibility. Whenever you have authority, with that authority comes responsibility. And God is going to judge you harsher or stronger or more severe or more strictly based on the amount of authority that you take. Why is this? Because if you lead people, you'll be responsible for where you lead them. If you teach people, you'll be responsible for what you teach them. If people follow your example, you are responsible for how you influence them. This is seen clearly in the role of a pastor in Hebrews thirteen, verse seventeen. Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves, for they wash for your soul souls as they that must give account. that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. Now we understand that everyone's going to give an account of himself to God. When you stand before God, you're going to answer to God for what you have done in your life and the way that you handled your stewardship as a believer, you're answerable to God too. You must give an account of yourself to God. When you stand before God, you can't say, well, Pastor Caleb did this, and that's why it turned out the way that I did. You don't get a point at anybody and make those accusations. You give an account of yourself to God. But when Pastor Caleb or myself stand before God, he's going to say, well, why did Josh end up like that? He was under your authority. So there's a responsibility we carry. Josh can't point at us and blame us before he stands for God, but God can point at us and say, What happened? What how did you use the authority that you gave? And we have a responsibility that we answer to God for in that regard. So we will you answer for yourself, but you um also will answer for those under your authority because you carry a greater degree of responsibility. So authority is always tied back to responsibility. We sometimes look at the idea of a position. Oh, I would love to have that position. Well, do you want the weight that comes with that position? Do you want the authority and the responsibility that comes along with it So in the Bible, authority is always tied to responsibility. And another principle we see about ruling in the Bible, it goes back to the first mention. When you're studying something in the Bible, you can go back to the first time that it appears in the Word of God, and it kind of gives you an idea of how that word or topic will be used throughout the Bible. And the first use of ruling comes back from creation. Anybody remember where in creation a ruling shows up? Man. Give it man give a minion. Man, give me a minion. It was even earlier than that. The sun shall rule the day, and the moon shall rule the night. This is the first mention of the word ruling, and it sets the stage for this word throughout the Bible. It says that he made two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light So when you see the sun and the moon ruling over the day and ruling over the night, these are not positions of self-promotion. The sun wasn't up there saying, hey, look at how great I am. I am in charge. You guys would be nothing without me. That's not the role of the sun. The role of the sun when God set up to rule was to serve. That it was providing for the needs of the earth. It was providing for the needs of the plants and the and and the sunlight and the warmth that was there. It's providing the need for time and keeping track of days and of weeks and of times. The sun was put in the position to rule, and that position of ruling was a position of service. So they're positions of service. They provide direction. They could use to be determined north, west, east, uh, and south. They could Determine time. That was one of the reasons that they were put in place. They provide illumination. They allow you to see your way, see where you're going. They provide stability. They're always the same. They're consistent. And they do not promote themselves. Yes, man perverted the purpose of the heavenly bodies and worshiped them, but that was not their purpose. So this idea of ruling was to serve those whom they ruled over. We see that principle throughout the Bible. So ruling throughout the Bible, we see these areas of these topics about ruling. Ruling, we understand also from our study today is that it is a gift of the Spirit that is given to individuals within the church. So that's ruling throughout the Bible. How is ruling defined? What does this word mean? This word ruling means to stand in front of or to stand before. This idea carries the idea of leadership and delegation. It refers to the one standing in front. That's usually what we think of when we think of a leader. It's the one that who is out front, who's leading the way, who's showing us where to go. The example, as we look at these different definitions, kind of picture in your mind the idea of a shepherd. Because that's what we see about leadership in the New Testament, both of Christ and of a pastor, is that they're a shepherd. And shepherds lead sheep. My pastor used to say that you lead sheep, but you drive goats. So we need to be we need to be um leading the flock of God. So that's the one who's out front, the idea here of ruling, the one who is um who is standing in front of So there's a couple of ideas that go along with us, this idea of standing in front of. First of all, it carries the idea of the one who goes first. This has to do with the example. being the one who's willing to show the way, to go first, and leading by example. It requires courage and wisdom to be the one that goes first. You know, whenever um my friends and I growing up as teenagers, I told you I had a very strong leadership personality. So when um when we were teenagers, whenever we had a dumb idea, uh there would always be someone who had to try it first And being the one who is always in front of everybody, I was always the one who would do it first. It would either be somebody it would either be me saying, I'll do it, or my friends saying, Hey Derek, you try it. If you survive, we'll try it. Um that was how it would go, somebody who would go first. Um but that's why it says it takes courage and wisdom. Uh because when you're leading people, you need to make sure you're not leading them as I had done off the sides of bridges and cliffs and jumping down flights of stairs and things like that. It's not where you want to be leading people. So leading with courage, leading with wisdom. If you're going to go first, make sure you're going the right way if anyone's going to follow you. So it carries the idea of the one who goes first. It carries also the idea of a protector. This comes from the idea of the one standing in front of. It refers to the authority and responsibility aspects of leaderships. A leader should be a shield for those he is He is leading. He's the one who's going to be in front. He's going to be the one who takes the brunt of the attack. But if I'm leading people to do something and we do the wrong thing and somebody comes in and says, No, that's my fault. I'm going to take responsibility. I'm taking it. I'm the one in front. If anybody's in trouble, it's going to be me. They were just doing what I told them to do. That's the idea of this leadership, the one who's in a protector. All these definitions are illustrated in a shepherd. A shepherd leads the sheep, he is their protector, and the sheep follow the shepherd. Some confusion, we've gone had this point listed in all of our other outlines, confusion regarding the gift of ruling. Really, where it comes to ruling, you won't see that in many spiritual gifts lists. You won't see ruling. It's usually renamed. It's account called either organization, governments, or administration. So the idea of administration is a misunderstanding of the idea of the administrations, which are the different positions of service from 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Government is listed in Romans 12 as a gift, and it's likely the same thing as the gift of ruling. And the organizer is a description of what the type of person who has this list does. They're an organizer being. But the reason why it's renamed is because we kind of have a We're kind of taken aback by the idea of ruling, especially here in America. We don't like people telling us what to do. We're free, independent, uh independent people. So ruling kind of kinda grace against us a little bit. There's a stigma there I always have some reservations about claiming the gift of ruling, because it kind of sounds uh presumptive. Uh and as I joked about in an introduction, dictatorial, uh hey, me, I'm the ruler, that's what God's called me to be. God put me in this government So there's kind of a stigma tied to that word, so you won't see it very often in a spiritual gifts list. I use ruling because that's what the Bible uses right here. That's the only reason I'm using this word, is because it's the word that God gave us here in the Word of God As with any other gift, it can be used biblically and properly, but it can also be used in the flesh and be used improperly. But there's nothing intrinsically wrong with authority and leadership. It all comes down to what those who are in authority do with that authority. So as we look at this gift, we see the definition there as the one who stands in front of, we see the three things that we're told to do with this gift in Romans chapter 12. Looking back at verse number eight, this is the gift described. He says, He that ruleth with diligence. Now the assumption there is the let him do it is going to be carried through for this gift as well. So this first idea is diligence. That's the admonition given to those with the gift of ruling. This idea of diligence is the idea of working with speed and earnestness, kind of the idea of getting things done. So this is what is told to those with the gift of ruling. Now those with the gift of ruling are very goal-oriented, so this li lines up with their natural disposition. They like to get things done. However, there's two areas where really they're challenged through this idea of the of doing it with diligence And first, it challenges them in their tendency towards planning an organization. Before someone with the gift of ruling wants to head something up, they often want to have every detail planned before time. Um and wanting to get everything laid out, everything planned, everything. I need to know where everybody's gonna be, how everything's gonna work, what time this is gonna be started, I want all those details. So he says, hey Hurry up and get it done. Sometimes we get bogged down with the gift ruling in the planning stages. For example, before I lead a work party, what I would like to happen is I would like to know who all is coming I would like to have jobs planned for everybody. I would like to have the tools laid out that they're going to use for those jobs. I would like to know how long it's going to take them so I can know if they need another job. That doesn't happen when I plan work party. So I just need to make sure it happens. I need to make sure it gets done when I'm putting those plans and I have to forego some of what I would desire to happen. That's do it with diligence. Go ahead and get it done and don't get bogged down so much in the details. An encouragement to diligence is a challenge to get on with the work, even if not every little thing is in place. This also challenges them and their tendency to wait for people. This gift is one that tends towards being people-oriented. We looked at the different gifts and how they're either people or project-oriented. The first three gifts were more project-oriented. The middle gift, exhortation, is kind of balance people and projects together. And the last three, giving, ruling, and mercy, are very people-oriented. And ruling is this way. Someone with this gift will lean more towards working with people instead of focusing on projects. If they cannot do the work with or through someone, they don't feel like it's worth doing Um so he's saying, hey, if there's a job needs to be done and there's nobody else to do it, you can go ahead and do it even if there's not somebody to work with. Uh I really get a thrill in ministry of working with and through other people. But there's times when it's just me at church and I just need to get it done. I I don't need to say, well I'll just I'll just let that hole in the floor stay there work party. No, I just need to go ahead and get it fixed. So going ahead that's the diligence is go ahead and get it done even if you're not doing it with someone else. You remember the example I gave you of the candy wrapper on the floor the first week? You see a candy wrapper on the floor, how do people respond? That is my inclination. I see a wrapper on the floor, I need to tell somebody to pick that up. Now, do it with diligence means I need to pick it up. That's the admonition being given there. Their first impulse is to get other people involved. If they're not careful, they will allow work to get go undone until they can do it with other people Paul encourages them to use their gift with diligence, and he was encouraging them just to get it done. Go ahead and get it done with some speed. We go ahead and jump down to Romans chapter 12, verse number 14. We see the extra um encouragements that were given to those with the gift of ruling. The first is bless those which persecute you. We look at this phrase, it literally means to speak well of those who run you down. The word persecute there is the idea of pursuing or to run after or to be on the case of something to be after it. It's actually the same word we saw where in the verse before. where somebody with giving is to be given to hospitality. To look for opportunities to be hospitable. When you have leadership, people are going to look for opportunities to be on your case, to be to be after you, to find things to criticize. And he tells them, hey Bless those which persecute you. You speak well of those who speak poorly of you. It's the word for pursuing there. In the context of ruling, it says people will be pursuing you, they'll be running you down, they'll always be on your case You can never lead others without inviting criticism. And when you are spoken evil of, you should be speaking kindly back to them. You know, our natural response is to hurt those who hurt us But those in leadership, you're going to have more outspoken critics of you. And if you respond in kind when you're hurting those who hurt you, you're going to lose all the credibility behind your leadership So you are even to a higher standard, there's a greater responsibility because you have greater authority to respond properly. A soft answer turneth away wrath. If you ever hope to maintain your example of leadership, you must control your reactions. And this is so important for the gift of ruling that he emphasizes it again. He says, bless them with persecution. Persecute you, bless and curse not. Make sure you're speaking well of them. Do not curse is the is the word there. The word curse carries the idea of sending them to their doom. That's the idea of the word curse, and that's the tendency of those with the gift of ruling to disregard people that don't follow their leadership. Hey, if they don't want to get on board, fine. We'll just leave them in the dust. That's the idea of cursing here. They can just stay behind if they don't want to be a part. And he says, don't dismiss people. You keep you keep your your job is to work with people and don't just kick uh just kick them to the side because they're not going along with what you would like. That's this idea. They don't get on board who needs them. Don't don't dismiss people that don't support you That's this idea of bless and curse not. When we look at his gift throughout the Bible, we see some people who likely had this gift. First of all, as we've seen with every spiritual gift, we have the example of Christ. Christ developed and he demonstrated the idea of servant leadership throughout his ministry. He led by example, he led by serving He is the Good Shepherd. He leads us and we follow him. That is the idea of leadership that we have people, he has us following him. He leads us. He modeled for us the idea of blessing those that curse him. When he was beaten, he opened not his mouth. He reviled, he reviled not again. He gave us the example of how to have this type of leadership with Christ. A New Testament character who likely had the gift of ruling was Titus. Titus was left behind by Paul to set in order the things that are wanting. Paul needed somebody who could step into the church and there was some lack of organization and he said, hey, put things together, put things in place, set it up so that required leadership, that required organization, that required authority, and Paul sent Titus along to do that. He had Paul's confidence that he could organize the remaining work that needed to be done in the churches. An Old Testament character who likely had the gift of ruling was the character of Nehemiah. You think about Nehemiah, now he was a servant to the king, yet when there was a need there, he saw the need and he got people together, he was able to lead and rally people's support to go back and rebuild the walls of Jerusalem As I see the character of Nehemiah, I see that he saw the problem. He saw what needed to be done. He was a visionary. He was a leader. He said, look, I can see that there's a problem. He saw the possibility. He knew what could be done if we got people out there to work. So he saw the possibility of potential that was there. He saw the people. He didn't just go try to do it himself. He got a group to go with him and he led the people. And then he saw the positions. Hey you're going to work here because that's your ability. You're going to work here because that's your ability you're going to rebuild this part of the wall because that's your part of the wall. So he was able to delegate people responsibilities, saw the potential, saw what could be done, and organized it. Very strong leader there in the character of Nehemiah. We look at a disk gift discussed, this is that portion of the notes where we talk just about what does it look like when somebody has this gift. This isn't the list that comes from From the Bible anywhere, but just in my own personal life, what I know about myself, the shortcomings that I have when it comes to this gift and dealing with other people and reading other men that have dealt with people with these gifts. Kind of a definition, those with this gift may be considered natural leaders. They'll be gifted in the ability to administrate, to plan, to organize, and to delegate. Some positive characteristics of those with this gift, they are determined and thick-skinned usually. Those with this gift will be strong administrators. They will have the ability to motivate others. They are decisive and they're willing to face opposition. They're gifted with seeing the final result of a project even before it begins. What's the negative characteristics of those of this gift is that they can be lazy. It's my tendency to get other people to do my work. That's my tendency And if I'm not careful, I can let other people do all my work because of that is that is my spiritual gift. So there's a caution there with this gift is you're going to tend towards laziness, that you're going to want other people to do work for you They can come across as bossy. They can be very goal oriented and very picky. They can show favoritism to people who they see as loyal and be dismissive of those who are not Somebody that's gonna cling to you and follow your leadership. Hey, that's great. This is this is you can treat them as your disciple and they're they're such a great and then this person is not gonna listen to you. Oh hey, who cares about them? That's the tendency of those with this gift. It's also easy for them to usurp authority that is not theirs. As I said, I can take over anything And if I'm not careful with my with my gift and I'm not having uh spirit-led control is I can take over places where I don't have any authority to do so. Somebody asked me, I was talking about this idea uh with somebody about spiritual gifts, and I said, now you have the gift of ruling Yet you're an assistant. Like how do how do you have an assistant that's a ruler? I said, well, you have to let the spirit control you. Um because if if I let the spirit control me, it would be very easy for me to uh usurp authority that's not mine and get out of line, get out of place where you shouldn't be. So another negative characteristic of this spiritual gift. A couple cautions for those that may have this gift. Understand that the gift of ruling is a gift However, a leadership role is an earned responsibility. Just because you have the gift of ruling doesn't mean you have the authority to rule people. or to tell others um what to do. It's an earned responsibility. And this is especially true for young younger people. Way back when we first started, I mentioned that my gift was one that was very easily offensive. And and I did hurt people as a young person just not knowing what I was doing and not being spirit spirit-led in this that just I was always telling people what to do. And it drove some bitterness even between especially with my siblings that I had of just just how I treated them with this level of authority that I didn't have. So understand that authority comes with time, um but even though you may have this gift of ruling, this leadership is an earned responsibility. My natural tendency is to tell people what to do. If I've not developed a relationship with them, that use of authority can become very offensive. As Pastor said a few weeks ago, if you want to see it, if you want to see if you're a leader, turn around and see if anybody's following you. Your gift has to be developed if you're going to be able to use it effectively. So understand that leadership role is an unresponsibility. Second caution for those with a gift of ruling, biblical leadership is by servant by service and by example. You must be an example and a servant long before you can be a ruler. I never ask anybody to do something that I'm not willing to do I always try to take on the hardest and dirtiest jobs myself before I would ask somebody else to do it. Why? Because of my example. Because of service. That I'm not going to ask somebody to do something that I wouldn't do myself. And that's where you build up this idea of leadership by service and by example. That brings us right into the next point on developing this gift. If you have the gift of ruling, how do you develop it? How do you get better with it? Number one, be somebody worth following. Three times in the Bible, Paul told the churches to be followers of him. If God has given you the gift of leading people, you need to live in a way that inspires others to follow your example. So be someone worth following. Secondly, grow into positions of leadership. Now, as a pastor, one of my jobs, one of the one of the jobs I have from the Bible is to rule. And as we've said already, half of the uses of this word rule in the Bible refer to pastors But just because I have an acrylic plaque on my desk that says Pastor Derek does not give anyone here a reason to listen to me. Although our church has been very gracious in following all of the pastoral staff at our church. I think it's obvious to say that my right to my authority has grown tremendously over the last eight years I've been here. My ability to lead people or people's desire to want to follow me. now is much different than t when I was twenty-three years old eight years ago and came and was given just this title. So the position didn't didn't give me the right to to lead people is something that you grow into. So grow into your authority. So the gift developed, and lastly, the gift desired. As with every spiritual gift that we've talked about, it is given to individuals You have a gift, some of us have the gift of ruling, some of us have the gift of prophecy, some of us have the gift of mercy and uh and of ministry. So we have a gift. Yet all these gifts are responsibilities that we have as believers. We all are to manifest this gift in some way in our life. There's a couple passages of scripture we'll look at briefly here that give this admonition to all of us. Going back to what I said about the definition of ruling, that word ruling is used eight times in the Bible, four times referred to a pastor, once to deacons Once to the gift of ruling and twice to all believers. Those two times it's used for all believers are in Titus chapter 3. We can go ahead and turn there. Titus chapter 3 Both of the uses of this word take place. Titus chapter 3, verse number 8, and then also verse number 14. Says there, this is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly that they which have believed in God. So who is that talking about? They which have believed in God. Christians. So all Christians, right? That's who he's talking to. Might be careful to maintain good works These things are good and profitable unto men. Verse number 14, and let ours also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses that they be not unfruitful. Now the word ruling does not show up in this uh in these two verses. However, the Greek word translator ruling is translated here as maintain. Both places where it says to maintain good works, that is the word ruling. That means to stand in front of. Again, pointing out our example. All Christians should be the ones standing in front, showing what good works should be. All believers should be the ones leading by example. We should be maintaining an example of good works. We should be the ones who are out front. We should be the ones leading the way. If there's a moral issue facing our community, it should be the Christians that are standing out doing the right thing. If there's a question of what's the right thing to do, there they should be able to look at any believer and say, that's what a Christian should do. That should be the right thing because We should be the ones out front showing what good works are. We should be the ones who are maintaining good works, maintaining, be in front of, to stand in front of, to show the way, to be that example. So this role of leadership or ruling, how it applies to all of us, is in that idea of an example. We should be an example. In fact, we see that idea in 1 Timothy 4, verse 2 12 as well, where it says, Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers in word and conversation in charity and spirit and faith and purity. This is the admonition to be an example. We should be the ones out front. We should be the ones who show people the way of what it means to be these things, to have our in our words and our conversation and charity and spirit and faith and purity in all the ways we should be the example. He says there be an example of the believers. He didn't say be an example to the believers, although we are that. If you're you're a Christian and you're following God, you're an example to those around you. But he says be an example of the believers. It's a really neat idea we don't have time to get into, but basically what it's saying is that you should be the standard. You should be the thing that shows everybody what a Christian is. That the pastor should be able to, somebody said, hey, what does a Christian look like? He should be able to grab anybody in the room, bring them up, and say, this is what a Christian looks like. Because you're an example of the believer. You're an example of what it means to be a Christian. That's the way you live your life. An example of a believer. So the pastor should be able to pull anybody in the room and they should say, this is what it looks like to be a stay-at-home mom that's a Christian. This is what it should look like to be a businessman that's a Christian. This is what it should look like to be a laborer that's a Christian. This is what it looks like to be a teenager that's a Christian. Pastor should be able to pull anybody and say, here's an example of a believer That's the way we're to live our lives. So this idea of ruling is always an idea of leading by example, and that's what we're admonished to do in Titus, is to maintain good works, to be the example of what it means to be a Christian. We also have the idea of servant leadership. John chapter 13, verses 13 through 15, ye call me master and lord, and ye well say, for so I am. If I then your If I then your Lord and Master have washed your feet, ye ought also to wash one another's feet, for I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. The admonition of servant leadership was given to all their disciples, regardless of what their spiritual gift was We all have been called to serve one another. If we are we are all leading someone, no matter who you are, you're leading someone. Somebody is following you. Somebody is watching you. And we can do it just by age striation, but it isn't just that. There's people that are watching you to see how you behave, see how you act, and they're patterning their life after you. We're all leading someone. The question is, where are we leading them? There's something I heard a couple months ago in a sermon that's really been on my heart, and it's a very simple thought, simple but profound, and the thought was you're going to end up where you're headed. Wherever you're headed, you're gonna end up. You say, well, I'm gonna live my life this way and I want to end up over here. It's not how it works. You're gonna end up where you're headed. But I'd like to accept that just a little bit further. and say that those who are following you are going to end up where you're headed. Anybody following you is going to end up where you're headed. So mom, dad, if your life's heading this way and you want your kill children to end up over here, it's not going to happen. People following you are going to end up where you're headed. So how are you doing with your leadership, with your ruling, with your authority that God's given you among those whom you influence, where are you leading them? There's the warning that Jesus gave. When the blind leave the lead the blind, they both end up in a ditch. Alright, so people are when people are following you, it only is as good as your leadership is. We need to all be somebody who's worth following when it comes. The idea of leadership and our influence we hold within the church