On Monday I went to do some work on my house and uh was going to do some painting and uh my plan was to accomplish all of this great amount of work from that day. It was a beautiful day and want to get this done and So we show up and turn the paint sprayer on and paint is spraying out the hose. The hose is broken. Paint sprayer been used for many many years, never had a problem with it. The hose is broken. So we gotta go to the store and get a new hose. We put a hose on it And then the what at first I believe is the priming valve is not functioning correctly because the paint is going up through the pump and coming out the priming valve and it won't stop. And now I'm like, man, now I gotta take the whole priming valve apart. And I put take it apart, put it back together, clean it all, think maybe that'll fix it. It doesn't fix it. So I'm playing with it for a while and just lose all that time, forget it. Doesn't fix it. I'm thinking, you know what, I'm gonna have to go rent a f rent a sprayer now But I'm still having a good day, amen. So uh I'm really working on my attitude. I'm trying to just keep positive. This is gonna be okay. And uh so I'm working and and then I realized you know what? It actually it couldn't may maybe it's not the priming valve, I think it's the pressure regulator because what's happening is it's building up too much pressure that's causing it to blow by the priming valve. Uh and because the pressure was getting I I squeezed the gun when you do a lot of spraying you know the gun I'm like that's too much pressure It's supposed to be between 2,000 and 3,000 psi and I could tell it was a lot. So I think the pressure regulator was, and so I called Sherman Williams, look around, no pressure regulators to be found. I could get one on Amazon, have it here tomorrow, but I want to paint today. So I'm thinking I gotta go and rent a sprayer. So now after I spent all that time, we're did all this work, went and got a new hose and all that, still gotta go get a sprayer. Well then I think well I'm just gonna I mean it can't hurt anything. I don't know anything about pressure regulator valves, but I know I can take it apart and put it back together. That much I know. And maybe I'll see something in there that makes sense. So I take it apart I don't see anything wrong, but you know what they say if nothing else works, just kick it, right? You know? Uh now I took it I took the pressure regular valve, I took it apart and I whacked it on something, beat it on there a little bit. I'm just seeing like Doesn't look to me like there's anything wrong with it. I don't know why it's not working, but I put it back together and it worked. And it's still working. Praise the Lord. But I can tell you, I I literally in my mind more than once I'm like, okay, Lord I understand I'm having a good attitude. I am trying to have a good attitude, and this is getting worse and worse, and I'm losing daylight and Oh, it was so such a challenge. But uh we began last week kind of looking about and talking about just doing an attitude checkup, we were going to Consider our attitudes throughout this month in different aspects. Today we want to look at our attitude of commitment. A group sent out an advertisement asking for climbers that were interested in setting a record for climbing the highest peaks in every state of the United States in less than 100 days. Todd Houston saw the article and decided to go for it. He responded and he began to train hard. The expedition was scheduled to begin on April 1994 Everything was on track until February, less than two months from go date, and Todd got a call saying the expedition was canceled. The funding had fallen through. Oh man, he was devastated. Having trained aggressively and faithfully for over a year for this climb, and now was it going to be for nothing? He wrestled with his frustration and his disappointment. As he pondered his commitment to this project, he realized regardless of the funding, he was not going to quit. He was just going to find another way. Without any experience in the field, he began searching for a means to fund this expedition that he now was launching on his own without any other help, and he called it Summit America. Finding someone to fund it, he told himself and his supporters, God willing, I'll find a way to make this expedition happen. His hard work and determination paid off just two months later than they had originally planned On June 1st, 1994, Summit America was launched and Todd climbed Mount McLinley in Alaska to begin his expedition. One by one, the highest point of each and every state was conquered. All went well until the 47th climb, just two days before Todd's arrival on Mount Hood. In Oregon, two climbers were killed on the mountain. The locals and authorities and people said the mountain conditions were too dangerous. The environment was too hostile. It should not be attempted right now. Not wanting to give up, Todd called one of his friends from high school, Fred Zolok, a experienced mountaineer. Fred said, you've come too far to quit now. He said, let me come down there and we'll climb it together and we'll do so safely. Fred stood on the Fred and Todd stood on the summit of Mount Hood on August 7th, 1994. Todd climbed the last peak in Hawaii just 66 days after he started, summiting the highest peak. in every state of the U. S. in just 66 days. He shattered the old record by 35 days. Todd's total commitment triumphed over those who said it could not be done. He overcame every setback, every hardship, and every obstacle As amazing as that story is, there's one thing that I've yet to tell you. Todd, 13 years before he launched Summit America, Right leg was amputated in a boating accident. And yet, his determination His faith in God gave him the attitude of commitment that would not let him quit and made him a champion mountaineer. Beloved, can I tell you this morning that you cannot and will not be a champion of anything without the attitude of commitment? Whatever it is in your life that you desire to accomplish or be successful at, whether that be a family, whether that be a business, whether that be an endeavor, whether that be your Christianity Whatever it is, and you say, boy, I would love to be really good at this, can I tell you it will not happen short of a persistent attitude of commitment? Would you turn your Bibles to the book of Nehemiah? I'm gonna give you some different scripture today, uh a number of scriptures, but our main Text will be coming from the book of Nehemiah, chapter number six In Nehemiah chapter number six, we see that Nehemiah has an attitude of commitment here. Look down in verse number three. Oh, I'm an Ezra. I'm like, that's not does not sound like the right verse. Nehemiah chapter 6, verse number 3, he says, and I sent messengers unto them saying, I am doing a great work. So that I cannot come down. Why should the work cease whilst I leave it and come down to you? For those of you maybe a little less familiar with the story here of the book of Nehemiah, Nehemiah is a man who had what would be probably a pretty uh good position in the palace. a pretty comfortable situation for most people in that time serving there in the palace. And uh, you know, he Hears, he gets some news about his home, Jerusalem, and the condition of Jerusalem, that the walls are broken down and that the city lays in disarray and His heart is broken and God burdens him about doing something about the situation in Jerusalem and going back to build these walls And with God's blessing and the king's support, he goes back to Jerusalem, leaves his comfortable job, leaves his uh position of ease and goes and picks up a a a sword and a trowel and begins to rebuild the wall and he faces one obstacle after the next and we're not going to take time this morning to go through the story and see all of the different people that attempted to stop him But here we see Sam Ballot and Tobiah. They came on and wanted to stop him and they said, Hey, come on down. We got something for you. We want to talk to you. We want to do something with you. And he says, hey, I cannot come down. Why should the work cease? Why should this great work that God has called me to go to stop whilst I come and chat with you He says, no, his attitude of commitment is evident and prevalent there as he continues to work on the wall. We're going to see that Nehemiah is committed to this in the face of difficulty, in the face of danger, and still completes the task that God has given him to do It would never have been done without somebody willing to be committed. As we begin today, this is Sunday before Veterans Day. We've already paused to say thank you to them, but I want to, as part of the message here, just say thank you to the veterans. Who are committed to their duty, committed to their soldiers, committed to the task at hand. Soldiers, if they're going to be successful on the battlefield, and any battle that's ever been won was won because there was committed soldiers. Committed soldiers that went to the battlefield and did what needed to be done. You know, many times a soldier is committed to a cause. David said, is there not a cause? Certainly the Christian is committed to a cause, the cause of Jesus Christ. I hope that you as a soldier of the cross of Jesus Christ are committed to a cause. Beloved, I know that sometimes from conversations that I've had with soldiers That sometimes you're not committed to the cause. That you're on the battlefield, and that is not what keeps you there. Sometimes, and I'm thankful for men that although, and women, although maybe they're not committed to the cause, they are committed to their commands. They're committed to the duty that they have, to the responsibility that they know they signed up for and said, this is what I'm supposed to do, and although I don't necessarily believe in this although I don't necessarily think we should do this, I'm going to do what I've been commanded to do. You know, beloved, we ought to do what we've been commanded to do. Whether we necessarily feel like it or not. Amen. Whether we think it's a good idea or not, we ought to do that which we've been commanded to do. I'm thankful for the soldiers that were committed to a cause and for the soldiers that were committed to their commands. I think of Uriah the Hittite, who understood his duty and was committed to his duty, far above and beyond even David at that time. Who was just trying to cover his own sin. In 2 Samuel 11, 11, and Uriah said unto David, the ark And Israel and Judah abide in tents. And my Lord Joab and the servants of my Lord are encamped in open fields Shall I then go into my house to eat and to drink and to lie with my wife as thou livest and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing. Uriah the Hittite was committed, committed to what was his duty, his responsibility, even in the face of what would have been an opportunity for comfort and ease and to just relax. He had no idea what was going on in the corrupt heart of David at that time, but he said, listen, there's something more important than me, there's something more important than my comfort, and that is there's a duty that I have, there's a cause that's uh prompted me and provokes me to to lay here on the ground. I can't go in unto my home when the rest of thy men are out there. You know, sometimes soldiers, they're not committed to the cause, but you know what? They are committed? They're committed to their companions. They're committed to their comrades. They're committed to those soldiers that are in the ditch next to them. I've heard many of them say that in the battle, what it really is about is you're fighting for the guy next to you. You're fighting to be able to come home together so that nobody is left behind. Boy, we need some Christians that are soldiers of the cross that are willing to fight for the guy next to them, amen. They're willing to stand up for and stand in the gap for and go to prayer for and labor and strive for uh the soldier that stands next to them on the battlefield. I'm thankful for soldiers that are committed and they're committed to their comrades. I think of Jonathan who went to attack the Philistines. He had it in his heart and he said, Boy, let's go and let's attack this garrison of Philistines. And they were outnumbered by a tremendous amount. There was no possible way that they could have victory But if you remember the story, his armor bearer, his armor bearer looks at him and says, Hey, whatever's in your heart to do, let's do it. Whatever God's touched you and your heart to do, let's do it, and I'm with you. We're going to go into battle. And this armor bearer may have thought he was nuts. He Jonathan's lost his mind. We aren't coming home, but you know what he did? He picked up the armor, he picked up the short seal, and he said, Let's go do it. I'm thankful for men and women who are committed. To their companions. Victory in battle, beloved, only comes through the soldiers that are completely, fully committed. I was listening this week to a story by a Navy SEAL. He was talking about his path through SEAL training. He was in week number four of SEAL training, and he had to go through pool competency tests. He said the pool competency test that I can't even say, let alone go through. The pool competency test, he said really, it's controlled drowning. He said they put you in a pool and they take away your oxygen and then the the instructors who are breathing out of Oxygen bottles are down there and they spin you around, they turn you upside down, they tie you in knots, they lock you up. He said they give you tests that you have to go through, and the tests are consecutively harder and harder and harder. He says, but you are given a procedure that you must follow, and it doesn't matter how long you've been underwater already, it doesn't matter how little oxygen you feel that you have left, when you get Finally, your instructor stops messing with you. There's a procedure you must follow for your safety. You do not just shoot to the top of the pool. He said you have to stop. Kneel on the bottom of the pool. Check your back. Check your straps. Check your direction. There's a procedure that they must follow, and then slowly ascend. To gain control of your situation. It's about being in control. He had failed this test four times. The instructors saw some potential in them and said, listen, we're going to let you try again. We're going to drop you from this class. But next week there's another class coming in. We're going to let you move to that class and you're going to go through this again with them. If you fail next week, you're dropped out of seals. So he went to the next class and he'd already failed four times, which was really the limit. But they were going to give him another try, and they said, if you will just come on Monday He said through the whole weekend he couldn't even eat. He was sick. He just didn't, he just like it was the stress of having to go through this again and the controlled atmosphere of just drowning and basically they're just trying to kill me He said, but the day that he went into the get in the pool, he said, they make you stand with your back to the pool, you're not looking at it, and he said, they made me go last. And he said, I was filled with anxiety. I was filled, he's like, in my heart and mind, I'm standing there thinking, if I fail this test, I'm out of seals. He said that it was as though something flipped in my mind. A switch that quick changed. And he said, I said to myself, I will die in that pool before I feel this test. He said I was 100% fully committed to passing this test. He said they put me in the pool and I passed it, and to be honest, it was easy. He said there's only one thing that changed. The first four times I wasn't fully committed. The first times I saw a way out. I saw a ma a a another option. But when I was fully committed I won. That's the difference, beloved. Between somebody who's just playing and somebody who is fully committed. This is what must happen in the life of the believer. We must take quitting off the table. We must take giving up. As an option. When we remove it from the equation, when there is no other option, beloved, then victory becomes possible And yea, according to the seal, even easy. We see that the saint must be committed. Beloved Clarence Sexton said, there is no such thing in the Word of God as Christianity without commitment. We are living in a day where people want to have Christianity without commitment. They want to have it a take it as you want and just enjoy what you can, and let's not be fully committed to our Savior. We could walk through the pages of Scripture and see many that were fully committed to God. Think of Noah who was committed to building the ark, or Abraham who was committed to following God, even though it may cost him the life of his own son. We're studying on Thursday nights the story of Ruth and you think about the commitment that she made to Naomi and she was fully committed to Naomi or Esther who was committed to saving her people even if she was going to be killed or Daniel, who was committed to his God and to committed to prayer with his God, even if it meant he was going to go to the lion's den. Or the three Hebrew children who said, Even if I go into the fiery furnace, I'm not going to bow. Why? Because there's something higher to than me that I'm committed to, and that's my God. Nehemiah was committed here. Committed completely to his task, we see that they strove or tried to sidetrack him in verses six, I mean chapter six, verses one through four. We saw already that they called them, and now came to pass, Sambalat and Tobiah, the Geshem Abraham, and the rest of our enemies heard that I had builded the wall, and that there was no breach left wherein. thought at that time I had not set up the though at that time I had not set up the doors upon the gates, that Sambalat the Gisramite sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in some one of the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief. And I sent messages unto them saying, I'm doing a great work, so that I cannot come down Beloved, they tried to sidetrack him. They tried to get him distracted from his commitment. I wonder, what does it take to get us distracted? What does it take for you to get distracted from your commitment to read this book every day? What does it take for you to get distracted from being the witness that God wants you to be? What does it take to get us off track? How easily are we sidetracked? Not only that, they slandered him in verses five through nine. We see that they We're planning to send some letters, then sent Sambalat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth time with an open letter in his hand. He says, wherein was written, it is reported among the heathen, and the Gisma saying that thou and the Jews think to rebel. For which cause thou buildest the wall, that thou mayest be their king, according to these words. They said, Hey, I have a letter here I'm sending to the king that says that you are building the walls because you want to be king That you're going to take over, that you're ruling. They slandered him. Beloved, can I tell you, when you do right and follow God, you're going to have people that say all manner of evil against you. Just as they did Jesus Christ, they're going to question your motives. They're going to call you pious. They're going to call you a hypocrite. They're going to say all manner of evil against you, but I wonder, beloved, are you going to let that destroy your faith or keep you from being committed? Or are you going to be committed the more? Because of it. Oh, they tried to slander him. They tried to slay him. Verses 10 through 13 He says, afterward, in verse number 10, I came unto the house of Shimei, the son. I'm just going to skip all these names. He says, Let us meet together in the house of God within the temple. And let us shut the door of the temple, for they will come to slay thee. Yea, in the night will they come to slay thee. Beloved, they had in their hearts to kill them. And yet he was still committed. He didn't say, oh man, this is getting a little too hot for me. This is getting a little bit dangerous. I'm out of here. Beloved, it is typical today that men do not have a heart of commitment. We aren't very committed to anything in particular. No job. We aren't committed to the workforce. I was talking to someone this week and just out and about and they were talking about the cost of college and he said the problem is There's my son. Every semester was changing his major. He couldn't decide what he wanted to do. He said, after the third time, I said, son, this is it. This is what you're going to do for the rest of your life. You cannot keep changing this. You pick something and get committed to it. This is the problem maybe in our society today is we have so many options that we have we're unwilling to commit to it. Do you know why so many people cohabitate today instead of get married? Because they say they're not ready to make that commitment. Do you know the statistics that those that cohabitated before marriage It is astronomically greater that they also are the ones that are divorced the soonest. Why? Because they weren't committed to each other in the first place. They were just gonna they call it try it out. See if it works. Well I'm not sure if this is the one I want to be with for the rest of my life. Why don't you just get sure? Why don't you just decide that you are committed? Without question or hesitation, that you're committed. This is built into our col our our culture. We've got so many options for everything. One thing I tried to teach my kids is yes, when we choose one thing, we are saying no to everything else. That decision, and that's part of teaching your children on how to make a decision. You take them into the toy store. And say, okay, you have three minutes to decide what you want. You're teaching them to make a decision. You're teaching them to decide and to make a choice and to stick with it. A study done recently showed that 68% of employees have no commitment to their job. They're just going through the motions. They could take it or leave it. I'm sure that doesn't happen in marriages. That we're just going through the motions? That we're no longer committed to the marriage. How committed are you to your family today? We know the statistics on divorce. Beloved, only full commitment will make a marriage last. It is a lie of Satan that there is some magical person out there that is your soulmate that's going to make marriage easy. That's baloney. It's right. It's it's it's it's too much TV. It's too much r reading y you know your your romance novels. Where everything falls perfect, and the guy says the perfect romantic thing, oh, if I had somebody like that, boy, I would be happy. Baloney. It takes commitment. Beloved, it is only commitment that allowed the Fisher family to hold the record for the longest married couple They were married for 86 years. They just passed away a few years ago. They were married in 1924, when a loaf of bread just cost nine cents. And I can imagine that that was actually real bread. It was probably like real hearty bread. Not this fluff that you can't even spread peanut butter on today. I mean, man. Real bread, nine cents a loaf. They were asked. To what do you attribute your success? They said, there is no secret to our marriage. We just did what was needed for each other. With each day that passed, our relationship was more solid and secure because divorce was never an option, not even a thought. Beloved, when you remove the option to get out from the table, success is not only possible but easy. The problem is, is we're buying into the society norm where, oh, it's an option. They went on and said, remember that marriage is not a contest, never keep score. God has put the two of you together and put you on the same team. They said what? They were asked. What is the single most important aspect? To the success of your relationship. And they said, we are Christians. Marriage is a commitment as much to our Lord as it is to each other. Beloved, are you committed? The kind of commitment like the Fishers had is almost unheard of today. It is very rare. And I know that there are in our presence today many who are living with the pain of broken commitments. of relationships. I just encourage you, don't let it happen again. Don't you be the one that does that to somebody else. This same lack of commitment that's seen in our society or in our relationships is seen even in the church. Where Christians lack commitment to their ministries, to their service. Are you committed this morning to the church? Are you committed to the Lord? Is it evident even in the testimony today of Brother Taylor talking about you're putting God first? Do you do that? Are you that committed to God, or is your commitment to God a take it or leave it? I'm committed if it's convenient. I'll be in church if there's nothing on TV. I'll be in church or I I'll serve God if If it's able, can I tell you, beloved, that I've asked pastors that are many years my senior, I've asked them literally, I said, what am I doing wrong? How can I inspire God's people to have a full and complete commitment to an Almighty God who loved them and died and gave himself for them. How how can I instill that in them and inspire them to have that kind of a commitment I've asked men in this room, what is it that took place in your heart that motivated you to have that kind of commitment? Where you all of a sudden decided that the world and the flesh and the devil and those things, although I still fight them, the most important thing to me is God. And I'm committed to Him. Would you turn to in Nehemiah to Nehemiah chapter number ten minutes? You want a real challenge, you can read the first 27 verses here. In Nehemiah chapter 10, the first 27 verses are people that signed on the dotted line. These are people that said, I am committed. The names of these people, they came up and they signed up. You know, sometimes we can't even decide if we want to be part of an activity. We say week after week, would you sign up for the activity? Would you you know put put your name down? Well I'm not sure if I'm gonna go yet. I'm not sure. I want to leave my options open. And sometimes we sign up and then don't show up. Say, I know, now I'm meddling instead of preaching, right? Listen, we how committed are we? You sign on the dotted line for something, you signed up. You said I'm going to be part of a ministry. I'm going to serve in that ministry. Oh, uh sorry, I can't. I can't be there this day, I can't be there that day, and we try and we try and work with you, but can I ask you how come the ushers have to keep every service you know moving around and adjusting who's where and who's there because the guys that are on the schedule aren't here. You signed up to serve in a ministry. How committed are you? To the ministry. We see these people, they signed up. What what did they sign up for? We don't have the time to look at all of these things. But look down at verse number 29. We see that they signed up to be submissive to God's law. They clave to their brother and their nobles And entered into a curse and into an oath to walk in God's law, which was given by Moses, the servant of God. So they determined that they were going to walk by God's law. We see in verse number one they determined they signed up to be separate from the world in verse number thirty. And that we would not give our daughters unto the people of the land, nor take their daughters for our sons. They said, hey, we're not going to be part of that. They signed up to keep the Sabbath day holy, to honor it for God in verse number 31. And if the people of the land bring ware or any uh vitals on the Sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the Sabbath They they were going to honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy. They signed up to support the work of God in verse number thirty-nine. Just for the sake of time, look all the way down at the end of the verse there. They said, We will not forsake the house of our God. You can read through this on your on your own and just see how over and over again they they the commitments that they made. And they they didn't just say it, beloved, they put their name on the dotted line. I wonder how committed are you? Can you be counted on? Can you fulfill your ministry? You see there's a big difference between just participating and being committed. Somebody that participates says, oh yeah, uh I'll put a table away. Somebody that committed says, I'll put all the tables away if nobody else shows up. The difference between participation and commitment was illustrated very powerfully in the barnyard. When the pig heard the chicken talking about his commitment to the family and how the chicken provided eggs every morning. I provide eggs for the farmer every day. And the pig said, you're just participating. You're participating in breakfast. Commitment is when I provide bacon. That's the difference. Full commitment. Are you committed to your family? Are you committed to your faith? As we bring this conclusion this morning, I uh also want to say that I'm thankful for a savior that was committed to me. Amen. That is, beloved, the love of Christ that constraineth me, it is because of his commitment that I am driven to be committed to him We see that the Savior was fully committed to the Father's will in John 6. 38, he says, For I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. Our Savior was committed to fulfilling and following the will of his Father, even in the garden where he was praying and sweating as though it were Drake grate. great drops of blood, and he said, You know what? This is, Lord, if it be thy will, let this cup pass from me. He said, Whatever your will is, God, the Father. He was committed to the Father's will. He was committed to serving the people. Matthew 20, 28 says, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many beloved. He was committed to the sacrifice of his own life on the old rugged cross to provide salvation for you and I. Hebrews 12, 2 says, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Beloved, because of his love for you, he set his face as a flint, looking to the cross. knew that his life was going to be taken. He told the disciples, The time of my departure is at hand. Peter wasn't having it. Peter said, No, no, you can't do that. We're going to fight for you. And and uh he said, Get thee behind me, Satan. Because this is what God wants, and this is what's going to purchase the salvation of my people. He was fully committed. To your redemption, to your salvation. I wonder, do we as believers have an attitude of commitment Just commit it. Committed to your family. Committed to faith Committed to when you sign on a dotted line somewhere. You know, you today, I I don't remember the statistics. I read them this week, but the statistics of foreclosures in the last year. Hundreds of thousands of houses foreclosed. People signed on the dotted line and then didn't follow through with their commitment. Why? Because they got the option to get out of it. One way or another. Well, as Christians, we need to be people committed. This letter has been around for many years, and I'm sure that there are a number of you here that maybe have heard it. But it is so fitting, as I bring this conclusion today, that I want to read this letter to you. A Rwandan man in 1980 was forced by his tribe to renounce Christ. Or be killed. He refused to renounce Christ. They gave him the night to ponder. He said in the morning, if you will not publicly renounce your Savior, your life will be taken. In the morning they went, they called him out before the crowd, and he would not renounce Christ, and he was killed. They went into his room and they found that the night before he had written this letter This letter was recorded and published in a book by Bob Moorhead. The book titled his Words, Aptly Spoken. Excuse me. The letter reads like this. He says, I'm part of the fellowship of the unashamed. The die has been cast. I've stepped over the line. The decision has been made. I am a disciple of Jesus Christ. I will not look back, let up, slow down, back away, or be still My past is redeemed, my present makes sense, and my future is secure. I'm finished and done with low living, sight walking, small planning, smooth knees and colorless dreams. Mm chinty giving and small goals. I no longer need preeminence, prosperity, or position, or promotion, or platitudes, or popularity I now live by the presence of God, lean on faith, love by patience, lifted by prayer, and labor through power. My pace is set, my gate is fast, my goal is heaven, and my road is narrow. My way is rough, my companions few, my guide reliable, my mission clear. I cannot be bought, compromised, deterred, lured away, turned back, deluded or delayed. I will not flinch in the face of sacrifice, hesitate in the presence of adversity, negotiate at the table of my enemy, ponder at the pool of popularity, or meander in the maze of mediocrity. I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ. I must go until heaven returns, give until I drop, preach until all the world knows, or until he comes. And when he comes to get his own, he'll have no problem recognizing me, for my colors will be clear. Beloved. Are your colors clear? Are you committed? Oh, Colonel William Barrett Travis on March 5, 1836 In the sand in the courtyard of the Alamo, looked at his soldiers And he said, Men, tomorrow it's very likely we will all die. If you would like to go, you can escape now And nobody will think the lesser of you. But you know the story. He took his sow sword and he drew a line in the sand. And he says, But men, if you are willing to fight unto death, Would you step across this line? And I wonder this morning, beloved, if God were to for you and I draw a line in the sand. If he was willing to say, are you Committed. Well then step across the line. I wonder how many of us would step across the line. Or if we say, wait, I want to keep my options open. Or are we ready to say, I'm done playing? That I'm ready to be committed to Christ. Only one life 'twill soon be passed, and only what's done for Christ will last. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes Eyes closed. The attitude of commitment. Dear Lord, as we have this invitation this morning, I pray God that we Would ponder and think about the total commitment of our Lord and Savior who gave Himself completely and without hesitation for our