Would you turn your Bibles this morning to the book of Exodus? Exodus chapter number 17. Exodus 17. I hope you've enjoyed our study on the names of God. It's been a blessing to me as we progress through the life and of the nation of Israel. The nation of Israel is learning more and more about who they are. about who God is, as they continually come into new circumstances and find themselves in need. And then they find that God has already met the need. It has just been a few weeks in a progression of time since the nation of Israel has left the banks of Marah. That place where they found water, but it found it to be bitter, and sometimes life serves us up some bitter lemons. There's some times that life serves us up some bitter experiences. And the lesson of that time at Mara is that They were introduced to Jehovah Rapha, the God who heals, and he was able to take that bitter water and make it sweet. Take that which was unusable and make it usable. And what a powerful lesson that was for us as a church to consider and think about. No life is beyond God's ability to restore. Amen. God can use you and He can take those bitter things in life and restore them. He can heal them and allow you to come through those things As we learned of him, God of course takes them to Elam, that place of refreshment where there were twelve wells, and they found great refreshment and relaxing there at Elam. We learned that in order to experience Elam, sometimes you do have to go through Mara. And that's a that's a reality of life. But know that Elam is just around the corner. Listen, the sun's just behind the clouds when it's storming. The sun is still there. I love flying in planes and uh one of the cities you get to see this a lot in flying in and out of Chicago because it's pretty much overcast and gray in Chicago most of the time. And uh flying in out of Chicago, man, many times you're up above the clouds and the sun is shining. It's bright and beautiful as far as you can see, and you come down under those clouds and it's gray and dingy and dark But the opposite is true when you take off and you you you crest up through those clouds, the sun is still there, it's still shining. And sometimes when the storm hides the sun, I want you to know the sun, the S O N is still there. He's still there But we were there in Exodus chapter 15, that's where they saw that place of Elam. So we're we're just very little time of progression. Here in Exodus 17. It literally has only been a few weeks in time, and Israel in chapter 16 travels through the wilderness of sin. In the wilderness of sin, they turn their hearts to the problem of no food. You remember them complaining against Moses? They're going out in the wilderness to die again because they're hungry and there's no food. And God miraculously gives them manna from heaven. They they very quickly, food is not sufficient, their discontented hearts begin to cry out for water again. And you remember the story where God tells Moses to take his rod and to go strike the rock? And Moses and God he does so and God brings forth water from the rock. Water from the rock is what I needed. Amen. It came from the rock. And and water comes from the rock. God continually met their needs, but the children of Israel Sometimes as we they forget how good God is. You know, Christian, they were blaming Moses for their predicament. You know, blaming and complaining never solved any problems. Never fixed anything. Never solved anything. But God solved their problem. God gave them water. God gives them water from the rock. Then we come into chapter 17 and that's where we see him get water from the rock, and then they face their first real measure of opposition. Not just hard circumstances, not just situations that are unpleasing, but they're literally now facing an enemy. The enemy rises up against them You'll see, I believe it's in verse number eight there, that he says, and I have yet to get there myself. I apologize. Where am I? Exodus 17. You guys are there been there a long time. Exodus 17, I think it's in verse number eight. Is that where it says, then came Elam? So I'll be there in a second, but then came Elam. You know, sometimes when you think everything's going going good, I'm sorry, then came the Amalekites, not Elam. Elam's the place they went where there was uh You guys said yes. You guys weren't reading that. Then came is correct, but not Elam. Elam's the location. Amalekites. Then came the Amalekites and fought with Israel at Raphadeeum. You know Sometimes it seems like everything's going pretty well. I mean God had given them food and God had given them water and God was meeting their needs and now they were they were uh to take a Modern idiom, they're living high on the hog. They got food, they got water, everything's fine and dandy, they're doing well. And then came Amalek. The enemy rears his ugly head. The enemy rises up against them. Now they are literally facing opposition. Somebody that's going to fight them. They thought the battle was done. You see, they left Egypt a long time ago. The Egyptian army was drowned and utterly destroyed where they could no longer rise up against them. You know, sometimes people get saved. Egypt, of course, is a picture of the world, and they leave the world behind. They get saved and they follow Christ and they think the battles are done. Then came Amalek. Then came Amalek. Amalek rises up and rears his ugly head. The enemy comes along. And we are introduced in this text to Jehovah Nise. Would you follow along as I read this story for us, beginning in verse number 8, down through verse number 16? Then came Amalek and fought with Israel and Rephedeim. And Moses said unto Joshua, Choose you out men. And go out, fight with Amalek tomorrow, and I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in mine hand. So Joshua did as Moses had said unto him and fought with Amalek. And Moses, Aaron, and her went up to the top of the hill. And it came to pass when Moses held up his hand That Israel prevailed. And when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses' hands were heavy. And they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat thereon, and Aaron and her stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, the other on the other side. and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun. And Joshua discomforted Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. And the Lord said unto Moses, Write this for memorial in the book of the rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. And Moses built an altar and called the name of it. Jehovah Nisse. Jehovah Nisse. This literally means the Lord, my banner. the Lord my banner. They went in to fight this battle, and Moses stood on top of the mountain with the Rod of God, we see in verse number nine. And Moses said unto Joshua, choose out men and go and fight with Amalek tomorrow, and I will stand on top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand. a a banner, the rod of God. This rod was a testament and a picture of the hand of God and the power of God that was going to win this battle for them. And as long as they held high the banner, as long as they held high that which represented the power and the presence of God, they were winning But when they let the banner down, when they lowered the banner, when they said, Oh, that's not quite as important as the battle, look at the battles down here, all the work is down here, look at all the effort we're putting in down here, and Joshua was hard at it. But when the banner went down, the battle began to be lost. There's many applications we're going to give you as we go through this this morning, but they had to lift high the banner. He is my banner. Listen, the banner was a sign to the Israelites of God's presence and God's power for them. For us, beloved. The Lord is my banner. What does it mean for you and I today? Let me give you a couple of thoughts. First of all, the banner declares your allegiance. The banner declares your allegiance. Banner has been taken through the years. It has taken many different forms. The banner many, many years ago was quite literally for battle and so on, was not necessarily a flag like we have today. But it would have been just a emblem or a carving of some kind that was erected or put on top of a pole, and they would use that to represent this segment of the army or this branch of the army and each branch of the different military forces had their own insignia and it would be on top of their pole and that would represent them and they would carry it forth into battle. But it has come through the years down to a place where it became different types of uh insignia that was imprinted on fabric that could be carried much easier. And then that became flags and we of course have just celebrated Independence Day. I'm sure that everybody had a great time in remembering and thanking the Lord for the liberty that we have in Jesus Christ and the freedoms that we have in this country. We take time to sing the national anthem and to salute the flag, this banner of our country. But beloved, we're to hold high the banner of Jesus Christ. A banner, when you wave that, it declares your allegiance. We learned the pledge of allegiance to the flag as kids in school and if you've come from another country and went through the process of becoming a U. S. citizen. It's my understanding you have to learn the Pledge of Allegiance as part of the process by which you become a citizen of this country, that you are pledging allegiance to that banner. What I'm saying is the banner declares your allegiance. Where your allegiances lie. Some people Have allegiances to different ball teams. And they wear proudly the jersey The banner of that ball team. Some of them paint their faces and all of their extremities with with the colors of their team. I mean they they're proudly waving the banner of their ball team even though they haven't One in fifteen years. There's still a die hard uh whatever. And and I suppose I'm a Ravens fan, beaten don't throw anything if you're not a I mean this is I mean I'm a local guy, right? I've been here seventeen years I was telling somebody this week it's amazing how long you can live somewhere and still, you know, not call that home or not not uh like it's not you didn't grow up there and so but man I'm here and I'm gonna be here till I die. I mean Mary and I are gonna buy a plot down the road, so we're planning to stay here and we're making plans for the end. Amen. This is where God has us, so I guess I'm a Ravens fan, an O's fan. I I I don't know. I enjoy watching any of 'em. Be glad to go to a game with somebody, but I'll tell you, uh I mean, I don't own any jerseys. I don't I don't have to borrow those from Stephen, amen. Uh but But some people they love their jerseys. They got to put their banner. They're letting the whole world know who they stand with. What about standing with Jesus? What about holding high the banner of Jesus Christ, letting the world know that you're a Christian Unreservedly, without question, and without hesitation. I am a Christian, a follower of Jesus Christ. And if you have a problem with that, I'm sorry. I don't mean to offend, but I'm not going to hide who I am. Oh, people will stand up proudly and declare their allegiance to Satan. I've had people in front of their house, I'm talking to them, and they'll say, Oh, I'm a follower of Satan. I'm a Satan worshipper. And they they're just being belligerent because they know I follow Christ. And so they want to declare that. Listen, they're not ashamed of that. You'll hear them in the grocery store using their foul language. You hear them saying all of this stuff How come we don't say praise the Lord? How come we don't say man God is good? This is a day the Lord hath made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Amen. We ought to hold high it declares your allegiance. Where is your allegiance today? Are you a follower of Jesus Christ? Will you wear the banner of the cross and hold it high? Beloved, is there anything about you or your life that defines you or declares to the world that you are a Christian? He is my banner. The idea is that we would hold it up. Matthew 10, 32 and 33 says, Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men. Him will I confess also before my Father, which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father, which is in heaven. Beloved, you remember Peter there when he wanted to uh kind of skirt the issue, when he wasn't sure how bad things were gonna get. You know, Jesus was being tried and Jesus was ultimately going to be killed. And Peter was saying, I'm not real sure that I signed up for that. And you remember he was standing there by the fire warming himself, and somebody said, You're a follower of Jesus. He said, I am not. He said, no, I'm not. He denied Jesus three times until the cock crowed. He looked over and saw the eyes of his master. And the Bible says that he went out and he wept bitterly. Beloved, we ought to seize every opportunity to hold high the banner of cross, to declare our Lord and Savior before a lost and dying world. Let them know there is a Jesus that saves. And that He has saved us, and that we're not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation. And we're going to let the world know about it. Beloved, that is what baptism is. Baptism is just a picture. It is publicly declaring before men. What I used to believe, what I used to follow, what I used to partake in, all of that is gone. It is buried in the likeness of his death, raised to walk in newness of life. It's publicly telling the world, listen, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. That first step of obedience for us is just a public testimony of what God has done in our hearts as a follower of Jesus Not only, beloved, does it declare your allegiance, but your banner defines your adversary. You see the Amalekites were the descendants of Amalek. Amalek was a grandson of Esau. So ultimately, quite literally, these guys were related. They were cousins. They were distant cousins, but they were they were related. But you know what? That didn't matter. The Amalekites We're persistent, determined enemies of the Lord's people. All through the scriptures, any time the Amalekites raised their ugly heads, it was to attack God's people. Now you remember Saul was given a command to utterly destroy them? Remember he didn't do it? And uh we're not going to go through and read all those stories, but ultimately they were supposed to, and they didn't, because the Amalekites were persistent, determined enemies. Of God's people. Beloved, you put up your banner, it's going to define the enemy. The Amalekites were numerous, they were powerful, the Amalekites were deceptive. We're not going to turn there, but if you want to look at it later for reference, in Deuteronomy chapter 25, verses 17 and 18, it tells you how the Amalekites attacked them. Initially, the Amalekites attacked the stragglers. They had this large caravan, the Israelites, a large caravan of people traveling through, and it was the weaker, the slower. The people in the back that really couldn't maybe keep up, maybe it was those that weren't feeling too good. They were kind of under the weather and so they were traveling a little slower. Well the Amalekites in Deuteronomy tells us that they came in and attacked those people in the back that didn't have any defense. They were so successful at doing that, they thought, man They didn't even try and stop us. Look at this. Look at what we've done. They determined to go ahead and attack them outright as an enemy. So Moses told Aaron, I want you to tomorrow I want you to go and fight, and I'm gonna go up the mountain and I'm gonna pray. You know, beloved, you need both to win the battle. You need to fight and you need to pray. Both are necessary. There are people who have a tendency to lean on one or the other, a lot of times dependent upon their personalities. Some people who are very spiritual. They'll say things like, Would you pray that God would give me a job? And the church has been praying for a job for you for six months. But you forgot the other side. Have you gone out and looked for job? How many times have you been knocking doors and how many businesses have you been? How many resumes have you put in? You expect a job just to call you out of the clear blue? Like something God's gonna send it from heaven? Like manna? Like no there's two sides to it. Here here here's one. This is this is gonna step on some toes too. Would you pray for my lost brother? For my lost sister. We need to pray that God would save my family. Have you witnessed to them? Have you shared the gospel with them? Have you told them that they're lost and on their way to a devil's hell? But Jesus Christ came and provided salvation so that they could go to heaven? Oh, we want to pray, and beloved, we need prayer because it's a battle that we wrestle not against flesh and blood, against principalities and powers, but rulers of darkness, beloved. It is a spiritual battle, and we need somebody going to the throne of grace, calling on God for his power and his help. But there's also somebody named Joshua that's supposed to be down in the ditches He's supposed to be fighting. He's supposed to be doing the work of the battle. And it takes both sides, beloved. We need people praying, but we need people working as well. We've got to have both sides of it. This banner defines your adversaries. The Amalekites felt that they would make short work of these ill-equipped and undisciplined Israelites. You see, this wasn't an army This wasn't some prepared and planned group of people ready to go into battle. These people were farmers, sheep herders. They had just left Egypt. They were literally slaves. Literally it's been about two and a half months, I think, since they left Egypt. And and here they are. All of a sudden now they're in battle. I'm sure the Amalekites thought, boy, we're gonna make quick work of these folks. You know the world has a perception that they think that the Christians are weak. They think Christians uh you're you're standing or you're leaning on your crutch religion But you see they're misinformed because they we've got God. God on our side. Come on. If God be for us, what? Who can be against us? Amen. We've got God on our sides, and although some people may have a perception, like the Amalekites, that they were going to take them out, the enemy came up, and we're going to win this battle quickly, they did not understand that God was on their side. The battle here is quite literally a picture of the spiritual battle that takes place in man. If you if you follow these applications out, the Amalekites were a representative of or a picture of the flesh, that never dying, never-ending, continual battle that we have with this old flesh through life. We get saved and we left Egypt a long time ago, then came Amalek. Then came your flesh and you found out you haven't whooped the flesh yet That the flesh is going to rear its head up and you feel like you get it under control and there it is again. It just keeps on coming. It's a battle that stands against everything that is holy and right. But when you choose to stand for God, the enemy is going to stand against you. You don't have to do anything about it. The enemy is going to stand. We know the Bible says, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking who he may devour. He's looking for the straggler. He's looking for the weak Christian. He wants to stand against you. Beloved, as much as salvation is a work that is complete in Jesus Christ. We have no part in that. There's nothing we can do to earn or secure our salvation. But as much as that is done for us, there is a spiritual battle that takes place for the believer that we do need to be engaged in. You need to be engaged in fighting against the world, the flesh, and the devil, or you will not be a victorious Christian. It's not something that just happens. We've got to be engaged in a battle. We have got to be fighting. Paul told Timothy, fight the good fight of faith. We're told to put on the armor of God. Jude tells us to earnestly contend for the faith. There are some things that we've got to contend for. And I tell you that the banner determines your associates as well. You hold high the banner of the cross and your associates are going to change. It's inevitable. One of two things is going to happen when you become a follower of Jesus Christ Either the people that you used to hang with are going to get saved and become followers of Jesus, hallelujah, you being a witness and a testimony and leading them and bringing them to Christ by God's grace, that's the best solution. But you know what's going to happen? If they don't become followers of Christ, they're going to remove themselves from your presence. It's going to determine your associates. It's going to determine who you're hanging with. I was talking to somebody and I don't want to embarrass them or put them on a spot so I'm not going to mention it, but it was just last Sunday We were talking in the foyer, and he was being a help to a younger person who was dabbling or getting into uh drugs, and he was saying, listen. If you want to get over that, if you want to go get away from that and not be pulled down into it, the number one thing you got to do is change your associates. You gotta be careful who you're hanging around because your your friends are the ones that are gonna help you be victorious or your friends are the ones that are gonna tear you down And keep you from winning the battle. This is this is a very real thing that faces our world, our society today. And parents, let me caution you, let me implore you to please know who your kids' friends are Know who they're hanging around because fifteen years of good discipline and training of a parent can be undone in fifteen minutes with the wrong friend. The wrong friend will take your child down a road. He never planned to go down, but he'll go. Because of the influence of a friend. Listen, you hang high the banner of the cross, it's going to determine your associates. We see here uh Aaron and Hur came alongside him. He had some good associates. We all need some good associates. There's going to come some time in your life where you're kind of weak. Right? Amen. There's some times when we don't have the strength that we need to stay in the battle and we need somebody to come alongside us and lift up our arms and to pray us through that challenge to help us keep being victorious for God. That's why it's so important you what friends you have. It's so important what church you're in. Your church family, beloved, is the family of God that's going to walk with you in your hour of need. They're going to pray you through your storm and your trial and your test They're the ones that are going to rejoice with you when you rejoice, and they're going to weep with you when you weep. And those brothers and sisters in Christ many times will become much closer to you than even your blood relatives. Why? Because they were there in your hour of need, because they're the ones that are present. Maybe sometimes your relatives. I mean you love them. I'm not saying there's something there, but they live in Alaska or who knows where. They're they're they're somewhere else and And they can't be here tomorrow when you go to the hospital, but your church family can. We need some associates that are standing with us that are leading us in the right direction. Beloved, you're not going to win on your own. None of us are going to win on our own. The battle gets long and it gets hard, and that's when we need somebody alongside us to lift up our arms when they're weary. Lastly, this morning, the banner directs your activities. The banner directs your activities. Nowadays, uh I'm not I guess nowadays we have all this in in-ear communication. All the soldiers have devices, they got, you know voice boxes on their necks, they can all communicate and the the the high command can give them a command from anywhere in the world and tell them but You start going back a little while, uh not too awful long ago, and commands on the battlefield were given with a trumpet or a bugle, right? That's how they communicated. They were in battle and and one play one song played meant charge and one song meant retreat. And here well you go back a little further than that, and they actually use the banners To give commands on the battlefield. They would throw up a banner that meant charge. They would throw up a different banner, and everybody that saw it knew that meant retreat. A different banner meant flank right or flank left, and they could command the whole battlefield with the banner that got stuck up. Beloved, can I tell you that he is our banner, and that means our commands for the battlefield come from him. He's the one that's telling us when to move forward and when to pause and when to wait on God, when to rest. We need to be looking for direction from above. He is the one that's going to direct our activities in this life. We need to be prepared for the battle, but we need to be wise about our actions as we're involved in it. Some have forgotten that we're in a battle. But victory is not guaranteed because we've enlisted. Victory doesn't just happen, beloved, we need to live life on purpose. We need to follow the directives they are given to us from above. Yes, we need to know who the enemy is. But can I tell you we need to trust the commander? In the battlefield, the guy embraced in the battle, he may look at it right now and from way down here he's looking and he's saying, Man, this is where I need to go. I need to go right there and I need to do that right there. That's what it looks like to me But you understand the commander up on top of the hill sees the whole battlefield. And he sees that this spot over here is weak. And and if we move around this way, we'll be able to penetrate in and get behind the enemy lines and we're gonna win. And so he gives the command. This is where you need to go. You need to adjust this direction. What if the soldiers down here said Ah, I don't think he knows what he's talking about. I'm gonna keep going right here. They're gonna lose the battle If they want to be victorious, they need to follow the commands from on high because they have the whole battlefield. They understand the overall objective. Can I tell you that God sees the beginning from the end? He knows exactly where we are. I said that backwards. Were you guys listening? He sees the end from the beginning. That's what I was supposed to say. Just seeing if you guys are awake, amen. God knows exactly what we're going to face. He knows exactly what's coming down the road. And in our lives we may think, hey, everything's fine. I can do this. Let me give you one simple practical illustration. In your minds you may think, man, I can go out and buy that Mercedes I've been wanting my whole life because I've got the money for it right now. This looks good. You know, you make a decision like that, you ought to be praying about it. God knows what's coming down the road And sometimes you'll look and you think, I've got the money, looks like a good deal, I should go ahead and purchase that and you pray about it and God doesn't give you peace in your heart. And then you go just down the road just a little ways and find that there's some storm that comes into your life, and God knew that was coming And God saved you from being in a predicament where you had all your monies tied up into a Mercedes, which is a great place to tie it up. But I'm just saying You you you went that way instead of waiting on God. What I'm saying is we don't know what's coming. Sometimes it's not necessarily sin or wrong It's just God is guiding your life, trying to help you to make the wisest decisions so that you're going the right way. Young people, Satan wants to get you tied up with the wrong guy or the wrong girl. You need to be praying about those decisions. He's going to say, maybe there's not anything particularly wrong with this one, but God knows that's not the one for you. You need to be following commands from on high. How many of you that have been down that road you can say, boy, you could save yourself a world of hurt? Amen? If you would make a right decision the first time, let God direct your steps. That's why we need to have somebody. We need to have Moses on top praying. God, we've got to be in prayer and we've got to be in battle, listening to directions from on high. He is our banner, Jehovah Nise, God, my Lord, my banner. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?