It's an expedited service tonight. No testimony time, no specials, nothing uh nothing sweet. We get right to the preaching and then everybody gets to go home. Amen. Well, uh you can turn your Bibles this evening to the book of Acts. We're some chapters ahead of where we are in Sunday school, but going to look this evening here in the book of Acts. Charles Horton tells about his own father's brush with death. He said, Last week my 82-year-old Dad, a preacher, was admitted to a Florida hospital with internal bleeding. A blood transfusion was ordered and during the process of receiving The blood, Dad went into a pulmonary edema. Just before he passed out, he looked at me in my eyes, his preacher's son, and he said, Stay committed to the Lord. It was then that he blacked out. The nurses called cold blue and the fervorish feverish pace in which ensued they hauled Dad off to intensive care. They were able to revive him and Realized he had had a massive heart attack. As I stood alone in the room, I was overwhelmed with the thought that Dad's committed life to Jesus Christ and a wonderful life that he had could be summarized in a five-word sermon that he had given to his son just before his passing, or what I thought was the end Which is indeed the essence of the Christian life. Our growing love for Christ should result in a lasting commitment To him through our life. Stay committed to the Lord. The message that his father gave him on what he believed at that point to be his last words. I wonder what we would say if we had the opportunity to utter some last words, our very last admonition or encouragement to our son or brother or Father or mother, I mean just what would be on our hearts? What would be the driving uh consuming thought inside of us that at that moment when life was passing away, we would think to say. He said, stay committed to the Lord. What a testimony to his father and a challenge to us. This morning I brought a message on having an attitude of commitment. And we should. However, I want us to realize, and I think we certainly do, but We know that it's not just an emotional desire, but it is an informed decision that will lead to lasting commitment Oh, there have been many who have stood at the altar and said, I do. And they uttered the words, Tell death do us part. That commitment really solidified in their heart and mind at that time as an emotional desire, but a long way from an informed decision Realizing that life was hard, and that the honeymoon doesn't last forever, and that the relationship at times is challenging, and that's when your commitment has to carry you through. When the desire wanes. So this evening we want to look at the accomplishment of commitment. As we this morning looked at the attitude of commitment and the desire there was to inspire us as a people to say, boy, I want to be committed like that. And I hope that God did that in our hearts today to purpose, to be committed to Christ and to follow his will and to To have an attitude of commitment in our life, whether that's to a job or to our mate or to our families or to responsibilities or duties that we have in the world in which we live, but we understand that to fulfill that commitment is going to be more than just, man, I think it's a good idea. And so I hope tonight to stir us and challenge us with some simple biblical truths about how to accomplish that attitude of commitment. We see in Acts chapter number 20, reading in verse number 17 down through verse number 24. And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and he called the elders of the church. And they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know from the first day that I came unto Asia, after what manner I have been with you in all seasons. serving the Lord with all humility of mind and with many tears and temptations which befell me by the lying and weight of the Jews. And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but having showed you and having taught you publicly and from house to house Testifying both to the Jew and also to the Greek, repentance towards God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And now, behold, I go bound in the Spirit unto Jerusalem. not knowing the things that shall befall me there, save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that the bonds and affliction abide me. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I may finish my course with joy in the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus. to testify the gospel of the grace of God. We see Paul here declaring his commitments. I want you to understand that if we're going to complete this attitude of commitment, if we're going to fulfill or accomplish that, it's going to take a perseverance In the face of adversity. Paul said here, but none of these things move me We saw it in the life of Nehemiah this morning, as Nehemiah faced one obstacle or challenge after another, and yet he continued to uh persevere through hardship to continue to be faithful even in the face of that. And the Apostle Paul says, hey, no matter what burden comes, no matter what hardship comes, no matter what sh uh challenge comes, these things are not What's going to change my heart? It's not going to change my attitude of commitment or cause me to wane in my desire to accomplish this goal. He was purposed. Perseverance. That is the essence of the attitude of commitment, being willing to persevere. You don't have to turn there, but in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, we are given a description of the things that befell Paul. What he endured. He says, Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. I am more, in labor is more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prison more frequent, in death oft. Of the Jews, five times received I forty stripes, save one. Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck. A night and a day I have been in a deep In journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, and perils of mine own countrymen, imperils by the heathen, in perils in the cities, imperils in the wilderness, imperils in the sea, imperils among false brethren in weariness, and painfulness, and watchings often, in hunger, and in thirst, and fastings often, in cold, and nakedness, beside those things that are without, that which cometh upon He says, in the face of all of this that has befallen me, he says, none of these things moved me. He was determined to persevere. Boy, many today are ruled by the circumstances of their life. The circumstances of their life is what determines their attitude. The circumstances of the day is what determines whether they're going to accomplish something or not or whether they're going to be faithful or not. When what we need to do is instead of letting our circumstances drive our life, we need to drive our circumstances. As I said last week, we need to make it a good day. Make it a good day It's like the story of a spider who is fashioning the most beautiful web in the corner of an immaculate home. He was hard at work on this web until the cat came up and looked at him and said, you are wasting your time. Do you see how immaculate this home is? Do you see how clean and pristine everything is? There is no insects flying around in this house. You're not going to catch anything in that web. You are wasting your effort. And realizing the wisdom of the cat's words, he said, oh And he gave up making that web and he went in pursuit of finding a new location. He didn't travel too awful far and The home down the block he found an open window and he thought, boy, I shall make a web here in this open window. What better place than that? Catch all of those insects coming and going from the window And he was there striving hard to labor and build this web there in the this open window until a bluebird came along and perched up there and began smirking a little bit Spider stopped and said, What are you smirking at? He says, I just don't understand why you're building a web in an open window. He said, Don't you understand how wind works? That's a futile endeavor. You're going to build that web in the window there, and then in a short while the breeze, the wind is going to pick up. And where you think you're going to catch a bunch of spider or a bunch of flies, you're going to catch a bunch of wind and it's going to blow your web down. Oh, realizing the folly and the foolishness of his ways, he forego building that web and crawled out into the backyard, and he found there in the backyard a nice cabinet, and he thought, Boy, here's where I'll build a web, sheltered from the rain. Out of the wind, he began to build a web up inside this little cabinet. He was building that web for a few minutes until the ant came along, and the ant said, Boy, uh, don't you understand that this cabinet is not going to be here very long? This cabinet's gonna be hauled off. You're building this web for nothing. But the spider hadn't given up on all of his previous webs, lay there realizing he no longer had the strength to even finish the one he was working on. Because he had not caught anything and he had not had any sustenance. He lay there and began to die and as he was dying he thought man if i would have just finished the first one If I would have just stuck it out. You see, uh The Bible says a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. And we've got to be careful that a lack of commitment to things doesn't make us unstable. Running to and fro from here and there, never completing or accomplishing or finishing anything. And reaping the results of that, we have got to persevere, even though the critic may say it's foolish Even though somebody else may say, boy, this would be a wiser thing to do. Beloved, you understand that it is not aptitude But it is attitude, the attitude of commitment that brings success. Had he finished the web, he would would have been successful. Oh, he may have been able to build a web somewhere else at some point, but he ultimately lost it all. Not only does it take perseverance, perseverance in the face of adversity, trial, hardship, being willing to know that that's what's going to come, but we see it takes persuasion. He said in Acts 20, verse number 24, there he says, Neither count I my life dear unto to myself. Can I ask you, what what do you hold dear tonight? What do you hold of utmost importance or of greatest value tonight? What are you spending your time, energy, and money on? We could look at your checkbook and or credit card or Venmo account nowadays. There's less less and less checkbooks out there, right? But we could look at that and find out what it is that you hold dear. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. What is it that is of utmost importance to you? What is it that you are fully persuaded in your mind that it's worth something? Beloved Paul was persuaded that his life was not what was most important. He had determined that He would live for others and for the Savior. He forgot about his personal needs and his own burdens and his own discomfort in the pursuit of doing that which he believed was of most importance, and that was the service of Christ and others. In Mark 8. 35, Christ says, For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospels the same shall save it. I think Paul came to understand that. And that's what he began to live for. That is what he truly held dear. In Romans chapter 14 and verse number five, Paul tells us, let every man be fully persuaded in his You see, beloved, you are not going to remain committed to something through the hard time unless in your heart and mind you are fully persuaded that it is worth it. That story that I told you this morning, the true story about the Navy SEAL, he had decided in his mind, I'm going to die in that water. Or I'm going to pass this class. He had become to the point where he realized this is what's most important to me. He was fully persuaded that nothing else mattered as much as making it through that test. And when he became that persuaded, he succeeded in the task at hand. And so what we're saying, beloved, is you've got to be fully persuaded in your mind that the endeavor, that the effort is worth it. The reason so many people give up on their marriages is because they've decided it wasn't worth it. They say God doesn't want me to be unhappy. God wouldn't want me to live in in this situation or to deal with that or to put up with this or that The reason that we don't fulfill our commitments in different aspects is because we don't think it's worth the effort. You know, well it's been three years ago now, because when I turned 48, I weighed 226 pounds And I said, I'm done. I just got a new license. And uh I showed my son, I said, look at this uh picture of my old license and my new license. license and the difference. You could tell that I had lost some weight since my last license picture. Uh you know what I decided three years ago? I'm not living that way. I'm gonna do what I have to do to lose weight. I still got a little more I want to do. I'm not quite I haven't quite hit my goal But I'm 184 as of this morning. You know, what happened is in my mind I said, I'm done. I'm not I was fully persuaded. You know, there's been many times in my life I thought, yeah, I think I ought to lose a couple pounds But do you know it didn't happen? It didn't it didn't come to fruition. You know why? Because I hadn't been fully persuaded that it was worth the sacrifice. Because right now, those of you that diet, you know how brutal it is. You know how much food you do not eat How much you are like hungry all the time. It's like just just so discouraging. It's like man I want to eat that. Boy, I would love to eat this right now. Oh, I mean it's just h it's like you're hungry all the time and but you have to decide it's worth it. Why? Because this is what I want, this is what I need for my health, this is what I need, is where I feel best, and so I'm going to Be fully persuaded and willing to make that sacrifice, but unless you're fully persuaded in your mind that your relationship is worth it, you're not going to put forth the effort Unless you're fully persuaded in your mind that walking with God is worth it, you're not going to get out of bed in the morning and begin to read this Bible. You know, the the the guy that loves hunting, he is fully persuaded that it's worth getting out of bed at three in the morning and going down and getting in a deer stand when it's freezing cold and sitting in the stand and and and he's willing to do that. Why? Because he's fully persuaded that it's worth it. In his heart and mind, it's worth that effort. Now, some of us know he's crazy. But for him, he is committed. Are you fully persuaded? Beloved, the one that's fully persuaded doesn't look back In Luke chapter 9, verse 61 and 62, the Bible says, And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plow looketh back is fit for the kingdom of God. You see, the one is fully persuaded, he doesn't look back. When you make the decision to commit yourself wholly and completely to one lady, Jason You've only eyes for her now. There's no looking around to see what you gave up. There's no checking the other fish in the sea To see if you made the right choice. Your choice is done. For better or worse, for richer or poorer, that commitment has been made So you're not you don't have the the privilege to look around and and to try and evaluate at this point. You've made that decision. And anybody that has stood at the altar and made that commitment has made that decision And so we need in our heart and mind to be persuaded to the point that we're not looking back. He says, if you put your hand to the plow and look back, you're not fit for the kingdom of God. Keep your hand on the plow and stop looking back. Beloved, everybody has had some failures in their yesterdays. You know what you need to remember about your failure? Let me give you three things to remember about your failure. First of all, God expects it. I think maybe a better way is God knows you. God knows that we are but men. In Psalms 103, verse number 14 he says, For he knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. Can I tell you that God knows where you're at? You would not expect James to be able to ride a bicycle down the middle of the auditorium today. In a year or two or three when they get a little toddler bike for him, that it's either gonna have training wheels or or John's gonna be working with him and and What I'm saying is he knows the size of his boy and he knows his capacity and his ability and he's not expecting him to be able to just ride the bike Okay, James, you turn five, get on the bike and go. No, he has to learn that. And what I'm saying is God knows your butt dust. He knows who you are. He knows your background. He knows the the baggage that you carry. the burdens that you have, the life that you've endured, and he understands that. That does not lower his expectations for us. He still has something he desires for us, but he knows who you are. Not only that, praise the Lord that God forgives it. God forgive it. If we will just confess our sin, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. God can and will forgive that failure. So stop letting Satan bring it back up and use it to discourage and destroy your future. Because of your past. And that past is anything before this service. That's all in the past. There's nothing you can do about it. It's gone. And the last thing you need to know about your failures is that God will still use you. You can look all through the pages of scriptures and see servant after servant after servant. When you think about Jonah. He said, I don't want to do that. And he ran from God, swallowed by a whale. And then he said, okay, Lord. And he cried out to God and God had him vomited up on the shore and he went and God used him to bring a great revival. I mean you think about David, you just think over and over in the page of scripture, men that failed at a time, but God used them still. So what I'm saying is stop looking back. You need to be fully persuaded That the commitment that you've made is worth it. You need to persevere in the face of hardship. And lastly, tonight, you need to have a plan. Paul said in our text verse here, so that I might finish my course with joy. Paul's plan was to finish his course. But beloved, he didn't want to just get through. He didn't want to just make it by the skin of his teeth. He didn't want to just get by. He wanted to do it with joy. I was talking to Anthony today in the foyer. about a conversation that I had with some of the young men of the church earlier this week and I said, You know boys, any corner that you cut today You'll pay for tomorrow. I wish I could go back. We were talking about college, and I say the fact of the matter is is we were talking about reading our Bible and understanding chapter content and what takes place in those. And I said, oh yeah, in college we had tons of chapter quizzes. We had to we had to know what was in every chapter of most of the New Testament. had to you know be able to say, oh, Luke chapter seven is this, you know, oh Acts chapter nine is this, you know. I mean the basic events that happened in those, but I forgot them all. Because really I was studying first just to regurgitate them for a test, and then as soon as the test was done, gone. And instead of studying to get what I can. And what I'm saying is that sometimes in life we do what we just have to do to get through. But then we pay for it tomorrow. Because any corner that we cut today We're going to pay for it tomorrow. And what I'm saying is Paul didn't want to just get through. He wanted to finish his course with joy That means doing it to the best of his ability with the honor and glory of God in his mind. Paul wanted to finish with joy. You know, beloved, starting out is easy It's fun. To start a new thing is exciting. To start a new ministry, to get involved in a new ministry, it's fun for the first couple weeks. Starting a new marriage. Oh, it's so much fun, those beginning months. It's so exciting. It's easy Starting a new Bible study. Boy, this is interesting. Look at this. Boy, this is good. I'm going to do this Bible study. The first couple weeks. It's fun. Starting a new book. Here's something we're all good guilty of, uh starting a new workout plan. You know, starting again, maybe even with a new bicycle or a treadmill or a rowing machine or who knows what piece of equipment that some salesman talks you into getting, you thought, boy, this will be good I'll set this up and be able to work out in the basement and now it's been two years, three years since, or thirty years since you since you used it. And it's fun to start out But are we going to finish? You've got to have a plan. Part of making a plan is counting the cost. Counting the cost. In Luke chapter 9, I read you some of those verses already, but Luke chapter 9 and verse number 57 and 58, he says, And it came to pass that as they went in the way A certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. So we see here he declared his allegiance. He declared his commitment. He said, Lord, I'll follow you everywhere. But we see his disappointment over the cost in verse number 58. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes and birds have air have nest, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. He said it's gonna cost you. Oh. Well, that's not really what I meant, Lord It's kind of like the subjects of a great king and a regent. These subjects of the king had found out that their king had a heart disease and needed a heart transplant. And these subjects were gathered around the castle, and they they loved their king, and they were standing out there at the bottom of the castle, and they were yelling up to the to the castle, take my heart, take my heart, oh take my heart, all through the crowd, people calling out, take my heart. And the king was so moved and he says, Man, I could never just choose to to end somebody's life that way. But Your offer to me is so moving. What I'll do is I'll drop this feather and we'll let God decide who it is that heart that I get So he drops a feather from the balcony, and still they were down there calling out, Take my heart, take my heart, but with one small difference. Cause now they were saying, take my heart, take my heart That's the difference. A lot of times, Lord, I uh use me, but not for that Use me, I'll do it, but I'm not ready to commit that. I'm not ready to give up that. I'm not ready to sacrifice that. We need to count the cost. You see, for success, one must make an informed determination to look at it and say, okay, how can I do this? How am I going to get to the end of this? Establishing a plan. Seeing your way through. It will take sacrifice. Are you willing to pay the price? Can I tell you tonight that if you feel the cost is too high, then I I put to you that your love is too small. The burden of our commitment is felt in direct proportion to the strength of our love. The burden of the commitment is felt in direct proportion to the strength of your love. See what I'm saying is when there's great love, there is no burden would A mother who is fighting day and night for the life of their child say the burden was too much They would say it was no burden at all. You guys know the story of my sister Melissa? Alicia just met somebody the other day with Porter Wheeler syndrome. I've never, I'm 51 years old, I've never in my life met somebody else with the same syndrome. syndrome that my sister has. But they had a lot of questions because they had just this child had just been born and she was telling them, you know, about her aunt who lives with that and uh they were they were very shocked but you know in our home growing up uh we literally had locks a keyed lock on the refrigerator And locks on all of our cupboards because Melissa would wake up in the middle of the night and go down and eat herself. Eat eat till she couldn't eat, till she would vomit. She just couldn't eat any. Her body never tells her when she's full So she could just keep eating and the body just always says she's hungry. There's other things in our life that we had to adjust in order to meet Melissa's needs Do you think my parents, even to this day, would say that caring for Melissa was a burden? Not at all. Say no. It's a blessing. Why? Because the love is great. And beloved, when our love for Christ is sufficient, What he asks of us, the commitment that he calls us. You see, every time salvation is free. But you know, in the Word of God, every time you see Christ call somebody He asked for a commitment. This passage we just read, you know, he says, hey, let me go bury my dead. And he said, Let the dead bury the dead. You come and follow me. He asks a commitment of us, but the commitment is never too much when the love is great enough Paul said it like this, for which cause we faint not, but though the outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day, for our light affliction. Which is but for a moment. I read for you already, Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 11, where he described what he went through. I can tell you that list is way beyond anything I've ever been through. And Paul said that's a light affliction. Just a light affliction. Why? I think because Paul's love for God was so great. The burden of the Commitment was not there. And that is the same in our relationships with our mate, with the things that we have in life. But mostly and for sure with our commitment to Christ. Do you love him enough? We need to be ready to persevere. It's not just an emotional desire, but an informed decision. We make that informed decision and we become fully persuaded it's the value of our commitment. Do you do a cost-benefit analysis? You look at it and say, man, what God has done for me so greatly outweighs anything that I'm doing for Him, that it's worth it all. It's worth it all. And it's but a light affliction. And you need to establish a plan. A plan for how you're going to get there. If you want to read a book, okay, I'm going to read three pages a day. You want to read through your Bible, I'm going to read three chapters You want to be a witness? You say, okay, I'm going to start carrying tracks everywhere I go. I'm going to, you know, I I I'm setting a plan. I've made this commitment, and therefore now I have a plan to accomplish it. And you might need some accountability. You might need somebody else to say, hey, help hold me accountable on this. Help me accomplish this in my life. But put the plan into work and you can fulfill your commandment. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?