We're going to look this evening at 1 John chapter 2, verses 18 through 29. We are tackling a lot tonight. I could easily divide this up into at least two, maybe three messages, but I really felt like uh this is how uh it came together and We're going to try and walk through these these verses, combining a few of them uh underneath one point here and there. But uh I'm going to look this evening at what I've titled the troubled life, and I hope that it will make sense to you as we go through this. But uh in these verses that are under consideration this evening, there's given the direction or some thoughts concerning some troubling spirits, those that work hard to seduce the believer. Look in verse number 26. He says, These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce you. There are these spirits that would desire to trouble the heart of the believer. That would desire to create a problem for us as we as Christians are striving to do and be all that God wants us to be. And John is reminding the believers that there is those spirits out there Those spirits are are under the direction of or are reflective of what he gets into here with the spirit of the Antichrist. And that has been prevalent in our world. The objective for all who are moved by God is to honor and please God. But the objective for all those who are moved or submitted to that spirit of the Antichrist is to do all they can against God or against those that would love God. That word seduce there in verse number 26, these things have been written unto you concerning them that seduce you means to cause to roam from safety, according to Strong's. You know, I'm not the Greek scholar, but I can look up and see what Strong says about it. And uh that's what he says is to cause to remove from safety. truth or to go astray to be deceived. The goal of the seducing spirit is to cause you to be removed from safety. And those spirits are in the world, they're upon us. Sometimes we think about the world as a whole or the spirits that are out there or sometimes even people, we think about it as being benign, as really not anything that we need to worry about. That certainly, and maybe it's just me, but I have thought many times, certainly they are not doing this on purpose. Certainly they're not on purpose trying to. I mean, I know they're going and moving against God and against things that are wholesome against the traditional family, but Is this really an objective? Are they literally trying to undermine the country? Are they literally trying to undermine all that is good and right? Well, I want you to understand, beloved, that even though in their heart and mind they may not consider themselves to be so, they may not in their mind think that that's what they're doing But if they're under the direction of the Spirit of the Antichrist, then that's what they are doing it. They're doing it on purpose. They have an agenda and they're striving to get that agenda accomplished in society, in the world And yea, even in our hearts and lives. The true believer is often under attack at every turn. There are troubling spirits we must be wary of. It's something that we must learn to recognize. It's something we must be prepared to encounter, or they surely will have the victory that should be ours. I'm not going to take time to read all of these verses by way of introduction because we're going to systematically go through each one and and kind of break them out into uh some points and give some understanding with regards to these verses here. So we're going to begin this evening in verse number 18. And we see, first of all, their opposition. Their opposition. These troubling spirits that would trouble the life of the believer. We see the things that they're opposed to. He says, little children. It is the last time, and as ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now are there many Antichrists, whereby we know that it is the last time. You'll be able to recognize wrong spirits by what they oppose. Just this week I was having a discussion with somebody regarding capital punishment. And they were, you know, out of a out of a heart of compassion and and love and what have you, they they were saying, Well, you know, I don't see where I mean, didn't God say thou shalt not kill And I said, well, yeah, the same God that said that says all the powers that be are ordained of God. And that God has established government, and the Bible says in Romans chapter thirteen, I don't know if it's seven or eight, somewhere in there in the first seven verses it says that they wield not the sword in vain. And that God has given them power to punish evildoers. That's one of the roles of government is they are to punish evildoers. And I said, one thing you might look at or consider is by and large, what group of people in the world are against capital punishment? Often sometimes you can get a pretty good perspective of where you're at if you look at who you're standing with. And I said just beware of that. So what I'm saying is often we can recognize or know a seducing spirit. By what they oppose. They of course are going to be opposing all things that are right and true He addresses here the topic of last things as he opens up here. He says, it is the last time. Literally, this means the last hour, the end of days. The end of days is a theme that is addressed all through the scriptures, from the beginning of scripture until the end, addressing or looking at that idea of end of days. God wants us, beloved, to be mindful of the end of our days. of the end of our days individually and ultimately of the end of all days, which is addressed in the Word of God, is called the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord, when this old world will pass away and a new world will be established. God wants us to consider and think about that. The end of days is, beloved, not the end of all time. But is the end of the world as we know it. Why? Because this old world is going to pass away. And God is going to establish and set up a new era, a new world that God will reign supreme in. The matter under consideration here is to whom at that time are you going to be swearing your allegiance to? Are you going to, as he says, hey, the end of days are here, the time has come, and when that time has come, are you going to stand with the Antichrist, against God, against everything wholesome, against the Creator of the universe, or are you going to stand with God? Jesus Christ, the real Son of God, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Some might be motivated to ask, well, if John here was talking about the end of days and saying that they're present, that they're here, that they're upon us, is this a valid concern for us today? Pastor, a lot of years have passed since John said this. Well, if we take the Word of God as a whole, we understand that for every one of us, this is possibly the end of our day. For every one of us, we don't know how close the end draws nigh. These days are here. Every decision that we make should be rooted in the consciousness of the fact that our end could be close by. The end of days is at hand. At least our end of days certainly is at hand. And there has been an ongoing conflict between good and evil. From the time that John pinned these words till today. And that is prevalent and present. And are we going to side with good and with God, or are we going to side with the Antichrist? So the spirit of the Antichrist is alive. He's well, he's present. He's working in the world today. He's been present and active all down through the pages of time. The Antichrist is going to be against, again, all those things that are good and right. Beloved, if Jesus Christ is an incarnation of all that is good, then would you say amen to that? If Jesus Christ is the incarnation of all that is good, then the Antichrist should be the incarnation of all that is evil. In my study, I was brought across a figure in history in 168 BC. Named Antiochus Epiphanes, the king of Syria, he resolved in his heart to deliver to deliberately eliminate Judaism from the earth He invaded Jerusalem. He killed thousands of Jews upon his invasion. He sold tens of thousands of them into slavery It became a crime punishable by death to circumcise your child. To own a copy of the law was made a crime punishable by death. In the temple courts, there was placed an altar to Zeus. Swine's flesh was offered on the altar. The temple chambers were turned into public brothel. He did everything he could do. And people looked at him and thought of him as the personification of evil. He was down through the pages of history called that. Daniel speaks of this individual when he calls him the abomination of desolations in Daniel chapter number 11. Somebody that personifies all that is evil one day when the true Antichrist comes, he knows the world will believe a lie They won't recognize him for who and what he is, but I want you to know that spirit is present in the world today He says here that even now, even now, this verse, he says Little children, it is the last time, and as ye have heard, the Antichrist shall come. Notice that is singular. Antichrist shall come. So he's speaking of that, the day will come when there will be an Antichrist But then he says, even now there are many anti-Christ. You see the plural there in that. So what he's talking about there is is that one day there will be a physical Antichrist. And I want you to know there is false teaching that it is just a spirit. It's the spirit of the Antichrist. that there is never going to be an actual literal person that fulfills that role. But that I believe is false teaching. I believe there one day will be somebody that will stand and fulfill the role. And there's been people over the years that have guessed and And presumed uh who they thought who it was and th is this the Antichrist and and so on, and obviously thus far they have been incorrect. They have been mistaken. Uh but the day is going to come where there will be a real Antichrist that will fulfill that role and take up that position. The Bible is very clear on that. But I want you to know there's also a spirit That's where he says there are many Antichrists. There are those that are working in the background against all that is good, the Antichrist, that spirit of the Antichrist working in the lives of men. Beloved, if you're looking for the signs of the times, here's a big one. Just look at the prevalence of false teachers today. The prevalence and the prosperity, uh the the success that they're having, the proliferation of it. I mean there's false teachers everywhere and and they're growing and it seems like they're they're unhindered. Like there's there's nothing standing it's it's mind boggling. Anybody can set up a building and in a matter of a short amount of time end up with this great following of people. And yet their teachings can be so far from this book. They're false teachings. They're not true, they're not right. They're not following the Word of God. That, beloved, is a sign of the times. The spirit of the Antichrist. We recognize it by what he opposes. He opposes or denies the sinlessness of God. Of Jesus Christ, that he was born of a virgin, lived a sinless life. You know, they don't like truth. They don't like absolute truth. If they look at the spirit of the Antichrist, find somebody that's standing against or wants to proclaim or say there is no absolute truth today. Everything is subjective. How do you feel about it? You know, it's amazing because even in our own lives uh there are so many absolutes that we deal with every day. I don't know how they could say that. You know, Brother Hunt, if you hit your finger with a hammer, it's gonna hurt. Very likely it's gonna turn turn red. You're gonna get a blister underneath your nail. That's not going to change just because you don't like the idea. You can't just change that and say, oh well, I hit my finger with a my thumb with a hammer, but you know what? Uh today it's not gonna hurt because I decided it's not. You know what I think about it doesn't change the facts. There is absolute truth. That's the fact. They deny his sinlessness. They deny the death and the resurrection of Christ. They deny his lordship. There is a real problem with authority. The spirit of the Antichrist does not want to be ruled. He has a problem with authority. And you'll see that very prevalent in society and the world today. Nobody likes to be told what to do, right? Nobody wants to submit. I mean, they get mad at their boss because their boss said that they have to be at work on time. Who are you to tell me? Well I'm writing the guy right in your check. I'm the guy that's giving you pay at the end of the week, and I'm saying if you want to keep getting pay, you've got to be here by three o'clock or whatever it is. But people don't like that today Beloved, the Spirit of the Antichrist will always be in battle with the Spirit of God for the minds of men. We're talking about these spirits that trouble us in our life, and they come in many different forms. We see not only the opposition, the things that they oppose, but we see, secondly, their origin. He says in verse number 19, he says, They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out. That they might be made manifest that they were not at all of us. He says they were here at one time, but they left. If they really were part of us, if they really were child of God, they would have continued here with us But they didn't continue with us. They had to leave and go out and go on their own. Why? Because it was going to be made manifest, it was going to be very evident to the world that they weren't actually of us. They were of another belief. They were false teachers. They were bringing about false doctrine. And so he kind of in a wordy way gets around to saying they didn't belong here in the first place. But you talk about the origins of where they come from, we see that a lot of times they came from inside the church. They were They went out from us. They were here. He describes these false teachers that at one time were believed to be or part of the church. They look like the body of Christ, but we're not part of the body. Mark 13, 6 says, For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall be, and shall deceive many. Deceive many. God is clear, beloved, that there's going to be more and more false teachers that are going to be more and more prevalent in the last days. Matthew chapter 7, verses 15 through 20, he says, Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men, that's what he's talking about as far as it's going to be manifest. You're going to note it, you're going to see it. It's going to be manifest that they're not teaching true doctrine. By their fruits you're going to know them. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire, wherefore by their fruit ye shall know them. That's Matthew chapter 7. You see the Antichrist again is one who is opposed to or wishes to take the place of Christ. Now, I believe both of those are true, but I want you to understand the objective is different depending upon which way you look at it. The Antichrist is opposed to, or wants to take the place of Christ. So, on one hand, you have somebody who is an outright enemy. They are going to do all they can to stand against Christ, and I believe the Antichrist does that. He is opposed to God. And all that is good. That is the enemy we know. That is the enemy we see. That is the enemy we recognize. And we know he's coming, and our guard is up. But you see you have the other side of that where he wants to take the place of Christ. And those are attacks that come from within Those are attacks that are subtle. They're little departures from the truth. They're little things. He says, where does this come from? It comes from they began in the church. They were at one time part of the church. Many of you, I'm sure, saw that Charles Stanley passed away this last week. At 90 years old, uh went home to be with the Lord, and I believe he was a Christian. But I want you to know that his son Andy is a false teacher. I don't have time tonight to go into all of the doctrinal errors that Andy Stanley has gotten into. But he's a wolf in sheep's clothing. He he was inside the church. He grew up in the church. He was always in the church. His dad gave him a satellite church from his church. He took the satellite church and then ultimately came in one day and said, Well, I want to be the pastor of that church and I want to separate from you and you know, not that you need to know their family history, but ultimately they did But in recent years it's come out the many, many doctrinal problems that he has. He recently preached a sermon series entitled Aftermath. And on his church website, it's his, and I quote, he says, if you were raised in a version of Christianity that relied on the Bible as its foundation of faith, A version of Christianity that was eventually dismantled by academia or the realities of life, maybe it's time for you to change your mind about Jesus That's on that's on his website. If you were raised in a church that was based on the Bible, And academia or life situations caused you to challenge that thought, then maybe it's time for you to change your mind about who Jesus is and come to our church. Okay. We don't have a relationship or a church or anything else without the Bible. This is not man's opinion. This is the Word of God. This is the foundation. This is what our life's life situations are hard. They're very challenging and they are as diverse as the people that are present in this room. The situations that we face, beloved, they're difficult. And one of the hard things as a pastor that I deal with is is individual life challenges that people are facing, but we interpret our life through the pages of Scripture, not the other way around It is the paging of Scripture where we look to for direction and for that unchanging the God that changes not He doesn't change because society changed or because my situation changed. If it was wrong yesterday, it's wrong today, regardless if now it's talking about me. I mean as long as it's talking about Brother Hunt, yeah well w obviously it's sin. Amen. Obviously. But wa wa wait a minute. You mean you're talking about me now? No, that can't be sin You don't understand my situation. The Bible doesn't change. And we don't change our doctrine or our teaching because society changed or our situation changed or the things that we're dealing with get hard I know they're hard and I know they're heartbreaking and at times, especially when you're dealing with family or loved ones or people that you care about deeply, you're looking at them and say, Oh, but if it's sin it's still sin. And needs to be addressed and looked at as such. You don't love your kids more if you let them play in the street. You love them and you say, Hey, you can't go in the street. Oh, you're so restrictive I could see your three-year-old, four-year-old saying that to you, right? Oh, you don't love me because you're not letting me play where I want to play. Listen, you understand that the boundaries and guidelines that God gives us in His Word are because He loves us? We've got to beware of those that arose out of the church. And then we see your observance, yours and mine, our observance, verse 20 and 21. He says, but ye have an unction from the Holy One. And ye know all things I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth. He says, I didn't write this because you didn't know the truth at all. But because you do know the truth, and that no lie is of the truth. You see, beloved, God has given you and I the Holy Spirit. He says there, because ye have That is a definitive statement. You might want to underlighten that or circle that, beloved, if you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, ye have the Holy Spirit. Amen Ye have the Holy Spirit living inside of you. He says ye have an unction. An unction that is an anointing, a special endowment. That's been given to us by God, the Holy Spirit, which guides us unto all truths There is a false teaching out there that teaches that you don't have the Spirit until you receive your second baptism Or until you are given the Spirit at baptism or another day. Ultimately someday, if you pray really hard and work really hard and do really good, then maybe the Spirit will come upon you and you'll have the Spirit. But I want you to know that's not biblical. The Bible says at the moment of salvation, as soon as you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit comes and dwells inside of you. Now you didn't just get his hand. You didn't just get his foot. You got the Holy Spirit. All of the Holy Spirit. We believe in the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is a person, and the Bible says that He came and dwelt in you at the moment of salvation. The difference is how much of you does the Holy Spirit have? And you all know we can at times be much more surrendered to the Spirit and much more obedient to the Spirit than at other times. But you have the Spirit. He says there that ye have it. And beloved, that Spirit working in us. 2 Corinthians 1, 21 and 22 says, Now he which established us with you in Christ and hath anointed us is God, who hath also sealed us and given us earnestness of the Spirit in our hearts. The Spirit of God in our hearts. God gave us the Spirit. You know, beloved, in the Old Testament, the priests, the prophet, and the kings were the only people that were anointed. It was something kept for a select few. But I'm glad that with Jesus Christ, I am a priest. We believe in the priesthood of the believer. And I have been given the authority and the really the command to come boldly into the throne of grace. There is only one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And we've been called to come and we can go as priests. We can go direct in the Old Testament The the the Israelites had to bring their offering and their sacrifices to the priests, and the priests would take them before God. But when God came and Jesus Christ died on the cross, the veil was rent in two and the access to the throne of God and the presence of God was given to every believer. We can all go right into the presence of God. And you see, this anointing that we get, the Spirit of God, he says, ye have it. And beloved, it's not just for a select few. It's not just for the preacher. It's not just for the deacons. It's for everybody. That ought to thrill thrill your soul. That the Spirit of God, the same Spirit that I have access to, you have access to. The same power that's available to me or anybody else is available to you. We sang tonight there's power in the blood. Wonder working power. Would you be free from sin? There's power in the blood. That power is available to you. Just as it is to anybody else in this room. John has much to say about the person and the work of the Holy Spirit through 1, 2nd, and 3 John. Just in 1 John we see him mention it in 220, 227, 324, 4. 2. Don't turn to those. 4-4, 4-13, 5-6, and 8. Uh in 510. Different times where he addresses the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, beloved, guides us into all truth. The Holy Spirit is the power of the life of the believer But can I warn you tonight, that warning that was given to us in 1 Thessalonians 5. 19, where he says, quench not the Spirit. You and I can quench the work of the Spirit of God in our heart. Here he's talking about the fact that there is the Spirit of the Antichrist that's out there. There are those that would want to teach false doctrine, and he says, I've given you the Holy Spirit. to help guide you into all truth. I've given you the Holy Spirit to help bear witness in your spirit so that you would know what is right and what is wrong. But beloved, we sometimes we can quench the spirit and we no longer have that discernment. You know, we're supposed to quench the firing darts of Satan. By the power of God, with the word of God, we quench those fiery darts of Satan, but we're not supposed to quench the Spirit The Spirit we're supposed to let work in our heart. And I don't have time tonight to get into her teaching or teach on how not to quench the spirit, but you do it by doing wrong and not getting right with God and not submitting yourself when he tells you to do something. You respond and you won't quench the Spirit. The Holy Spirit has a ministry which is We could give you a whole list tonight of things, the work that the Spirit does in the heart and life of the believer. You know, beloved, no matter how much we like someone, if they're teaching things contrary to the Bible or against the Bible, we need to exercise spiritual discernment. And that spiritual discernment is guided by the Spirit of God, which we've been given. We see these troubling spirits, we see their opinions are given to us in 22 and 23. Their opinions are given to us. He said, who is a liar? But he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ, he is Antichrist. That denieth the Father and the Son. He's saying anybody that denies the Father and the Son or denies that Jesus is the Christ. If you deny that Jesus is a Christ, you're denying that God the Father and God the Son because they're all three one. And he says anybody that does that is a liar. They have that spirit, the spirit of the Antichrist, verse 23. Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father, but he that acknowledges the Son hath the Father also. It is at the very core of their belief that they must reject Jesus Christ, who he is as a person. They will deny him. We see in verse number 23 that necessity for someone to acknowledge that Jesus Christ is the Son of God in order for salvation to be present. He said, Whosoever denieth the Son hath not the Father. The same hath not the Father. In order for somebody to have the F to have forgiveness of God, in order for somebody, they have to accept Jesus as God's Son. As God in the flesh. Well, beloved, the Jehovah's Witness group denies that Jesus was God's Son He was a good man, he was a prophet, he said a lot of good things. Oh, he's in our Bible, but if you get right down to it with them, to the brass tacks, they don't believe he was God's son. And what does God say here? Who is a liar? He that denieth that Jesus is the Christ. That says it pretty clear. The Mormon church would rob God of his deity by their polytheistic beliefs that we are all gods. Oh, Jesus was God, but so am I. If Jesus wasn't more God than I am, then my faith means nothing. We're gonna have prayer time here in a few minutes, and there's some real burdens, some real needs that people need. The creator of the universe The God of heaven and earth, the King of Kings and the Lord Lord to come on the scene and make a difference for them. You know, I was on the phone today with somebody and said, I'll I'll pray for you. But you know I can't fix the problem. I can't I can't heal the sick. Or Put a family back together. I can't do those things, but God can. God can do it. Because he is God. Matthew 10, 33 says, But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father, which is in heaven. So their opinions are rooted in the fact that they must deny that Jesus is God, and as you see that in the world today, you'll recognize that spirit of the Antichrist. You know, when you have a troubling spirit, and there's a lot of different troubling spirits that come into the heart of the believer. It might be a spirit of fear. But you know, ultimately the spirit of fear is rooted in the fact that we're not acknowledging who God is. We're not recognizing him for the power that he has. And his ability to direct the affairs of men. And ultimately we're in his care and concern. And God is in control. So God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of love and of sound mind. Because of who he is. So I want you to see Uh lastly, although it's the remainder of verses which we have a number of, they're overflow. They're overthrow. How do you how do you overthrow this troubling spirits. You see, the troubled life is one that we don't yield to God, we don't surrender to God, we don't submit and let God rule, reign, reign supreme in our lives. And so you live a troubled life, but you don't have to live there as a Christian. This is not just something that you have to endure because God has also given us the victory. I can't help but think about Saul when he was afraid because the Philistines were encamped about them. You remember when he when he went and he looked for the Lord and he didn't see the Lord. Why? Because the Spirit of the Lord had departed, because he was not living right. To put it into New Testament terms, he had quenched the Spirit of God, and he was looking for God, and he couldn't find him. But he wanted to know what to do, and so you remember he went and found the witch of Endor? And he went and sought the witch, and he was looking for a familiar spirit. And he asked the witch of Indore, Would you call up Samuel and allow Samuel to give me some direction? And Samuel says, Why did you trouble me? Didn't you know that God didn't answer you because you're not doing right? Because you that God took the throne from you and gave it to David? He told them exactly what it was, but he went and sought those familiar spirits, those troubling spirits. If we're going to overthrow the spirits. That come and trouble us in our lives, there's several things we need to do. In verses 24 through 26, I want you to see that we need to remember his promises. Remember his promises. He said, Let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son and in the Father. And this is the promise That he has promised us even eternal life. And then he has the warning there about those seducing spirits, their objectives to seduce us. But we've got some promises from God that begin with the fact that God has promised us eternal life There should be no question in your heart and mind as to the eternal life that you've been given because of what Jesus Christ did for you on the cross. The work which God began in you, He will complete. He abides in you. For the believer who has lived and looked for the return of Christ, it's going to be a welcome sight. You know, Proverbs tells us uh Says a lot of good things in Proverbs. Oh the wicked flee when no man pursueth. That's the verse I was looking for. It just went out of my mind. The wicked flee when no man pursue it. You know, when you aren't living right. When you've got the pedal to the metal and you see a car parked on the side of the road, it could be a pinto, but your foot your foot hits the brake, right? I mean it's like wait, what is that? The wicked flee when no man pursueth. Because there's something in your heart and in your conscience you know you aren't doing right. But when you've been looking and longing for the coming of the Lord and you've abided in Him and you've maintained that relationship, you look for it, and it's going to be a joyous day. It's going to be a joyous day. It's going to be a time of reunion with the Father that you've loved and walked with day by day. And now finally you're going to be able to be in his very presence. It's going to be a blessed time. Are you today continuing in the Sun? He says, let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard from the beginning. Even that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you. Ye also shall continue in the sun. Ye shall continue in the sun. John 15, verse 9 says, As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. As I pondered this and thought about that idea of continuing in the sun, continuing in the presence of the sun and being what God wants us to be. You know, my kids they act a different way when I'm present. When I'm in the room. And my kids are very good kids. My kids are kids. Kids are kids and as soon as you think you've got 'em headed the right way, they're gonna let you know. As soon as you think you've got it figured out, they're gonna show you that you don't have it figured out. You know, I had one kid and I thought I was a good parent. We had two kids and then we were pretty balanced, one for Mary, one for me. We felt like we're doing pretty good. There's one for each of us. When I had three I said, Lord, pfft, I give up. I can't do it. It's hopeless You know, what I'm saying is kids are kids, and you know they act a different way when mom or dad are in the room, right? They are just living a different way Well, you know, Christians, we're supposed to be living a different way. And he talks here about continuing in the sun. I think about that idea of just being in the presence of God. And we're going to live and act in a different way when we are in the presence of God. It's going to come through in what we do. He has promised us eternal life. That life is the supreme promise of God. You know, beloved, that a changed life is found in an eternal life. John 10, 28, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. You know, at the moment of salvation, you began to live. Get this. At the moment of salvation, you began right then to live your eternal life Because you don't have to experience death. You will never be separated from God Your relationship has been restored. You're a child of God. Now physically you might die. That is separation from our loved ones. That's separation from here on earth. Unless the Lord comes back and that would be wonderful. But you are right now, if you're a child of God, you are right now living your eternal life. It's already started and it's on it's on its way. It's going to just keep on going. This is just a small window, a small segment of that eternal life that we get to live, and God has promised us that. Not only do we need to remember his promises, but we need to rely on his power. Verse number 27. He says, But the anointing which ye have received of him abide in you, and ye need not that any man teach you, but As the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him You know, again, we have that Holy Spirit which gives us power to live and to fight the battles that we're in. The Holy Spirit works in our heart and life. It teaches us things. And we we need to rely on that power. We can't do it in our flesh, can't do it by ourselves. We don't have the strength to do it. You know, I the the little kids are are so funny. You get Joe and Kate's age, you know, and they're just starting to exercise their own will and they want to do things by themselves, you know. And they they you know sometimes y you know they might want to be like let's say they want to get a wagon up these steps. And I could see Joe just fighting with the wagon, just like just trying to manhandle that wagon up the steps and Pulling on and pulling on and dad could come by and say, Here, let me help you. And Joe will be like, No, I I want to do it. I want to do it. I do it. I do it. You know, and he'll be fighting with it. And Dad could say, I could I could do that for you. And and Joe's, No, no, no, I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it. And sometimes we're that way. When our Father says, I can give you the power to overcome that sin. I can give you the power to overcome that fear. I can give you the power to have that sound mind. My grace is sufficient through this struggle. And yet we're there, got our hands on it. No, no, I got it. I got it. I'm gonna be I'm gonna grin and bear it. I'm gonna get through it God's saying, but I'm right here. I'm here for you. We need to rely on his power We need to remain in his presence. Verse number 28. He says, now little children, abide in him. When he shall appear, we may have confidence. And not be ashamed before him at his coming. You know, as I talked about the idea of wicked flee when no man pursues, and that being ashamed If you're doing right, if you've been abiding in his presence, not perfect, but what direction are you headed? If you've been striving to be what God wants you to be, and exercising and using the grace that God has given you in your life, to be all that God wants, you'll look at that reunion with Him, not ashamed, but with excitement thrilled to be in his presence again. I'm just trying to think about how the to to picture that that peace that's supposed to be available to us. And You know, I remember when I was seventeen I got into a really bad car wreck and I drove off of a a bridge embankment. And I fell asleep at the wheel, drove off a bridge embankment, my car hit nose first, flipped endover in twice, and then rolled twice and stopped upright. Uh the windshield came through the car and split my head from front to back. That's why I'm bald today. And I got I got out of the car and I ran a half mile to a gas station to call my own ambulance They were shocked. The the paramedics that got on scene thought, you know, that whoever this was dead. Uh and I walked away from that with nothing but a cut on my head. But I remember being in the hospital, I was 15 hours from home at 17 years old. I was traveling from Crossett, Arkansas, to El Paso, Texas. I was 15 hours into an 18-hour drive. Fell asleep. But I remember being in the hospital all by myself, happening to make the decisions, happening to decide what to do, what what what's going to happen, where what happens next. But I remember That next morning after my dad had drove all night and morning to get to me, when he walked in, the relief that I felt. Like all of a sudden the pressure was off. I don't have to worry about anything else. Dad's here. That's what we have with our Father. With our Heavenly Father. Just all that pressure's gone. All that stress is gone. All that worry's gone. We can just Relax into his presence, to abide in him. What a privilege we have. This is a vital element of the Christian to abide in Christ. Let me bring this to a conclusion. We need to review your performance in verse number 29. He says, and ye know that he is righteous. Ye know that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. So he says, you know that Jesus Christ is righteousness profonified. He is a righteous God. He said, so if you know that, if Jesus is in you, then you're going to be doing righteous things So we need to look at our performance. How are we doing with the righteousness that we're supposed to be displaying? Matthew 12, 35 says, a good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things. But an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth evil things. What is the pattern of your life? If Jesus Christ is living in us, we should be bringing forth righteousness, because that's who's in us. Righteousness. He is righteousness and he's in us and should be living through us. And that should be evident. It should be coming out. So what is the pattern of your life?