I would like us to each night um that we are studying this, the book of Philippians, to even though I'm gonna be narrowing in on a particular verse or two or three or whatever, I want us to kinda have the whole context and uh just to help us stay familiar with it and and be keeping it in front of us, I thought that each of these evenings that we look at these books uh the chapters. We'll read the entirety of the chapter together uh and then uh we'll look we'll focus in on that part we're gonna look at that night and then do the same thing for how many ever messages Pastor Derek asked me, do you know how many messages it's gonna be? I said, not yet. I'm just gonna work my way through uh verse by verse and see see what the Lord gives me and and where we end up. Um but I do want us to read the whole chapter, so we're gonna do it uh at this time I'm going to kind of show you what I how I've broken the chapter down as we're going. So in uh first thing here we see tonight is the greeting of the saints in verses one and two He says, Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons Grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Then verses 3 through 11, we see the giving of thanks. He says, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, for you and all making request with joy. For your fellowship. In the gospel, from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart in as much as both in my bonds and in the defense of the confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace. For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ. And this I pray that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment, that ye may approve things that are excellent, That you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Jesus of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and the praise of God. Then we see the gospel of Christ, verses 12 through 17. He says, But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places, and many of the brethren in the Lord's waxing confident by my bonds. are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some indeed priest Christ even of envy and strife, and some also of good will. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds, but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel Then in verses 18 through 26, we see here the gain of Christian living, the gain of Christian living. He says, What then, notwithstanding every way, whether in patience or in truth, Christ is preached, and I therefore do rejoice, yea, and I will rejoice. For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, according to my earnest expectation. And my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose I want not. For I am not in a strait betwixt two having a strait betwixt two having a desire desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for the furtherance and joy of faith That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by the coming to you again. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. that whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together with the faith of the gospel And in verses twenty-eight through thirty we see the gallantry of service, the gallantry of service. He says, And nothing terrified by your adversaries. which is to them an advent token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God. For unto you it is given in behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. Having the same conflict which he saw in me and now here to be in me. Just by way of review to bring us up to speed, we've read the text already, the context of the chapter. And we did did look at that and we'll be looking tonight really just at the first two verses. The greeting uh there. uh the greeting that he gives us. But I wanted to just by way of review we spent some time did an introduction to this book and we looked at this book together. Uh we talked about the composer, uh who was it that ultimately wrote wrote this down, somebody? Paul, he was the writer. We looked at his childhood. We talked about his conversion. Talked about the character that Paul had, and we learned some things and were challenged with regards to that. Then we look at the city, the city of Philippi, uh where the book was written to, the church that's there. We looked at that city. It was a uh commerce center, it was a center of uh You know, although it was uh there was a lot of nationalities represented there because it uh was a a Greek city but uh had Roman occupation, uh there was not really that many Jews there. Uh but Paul went there to start the church nonetheless. The city was a it was a colony recognized um as a Roman colony even in the Word of God. It was called that. Then we looked at the cause for the book to be written. What was the motivation? Where was Paul when he wrote this book? He was in prison. It's one of the prison epistles. So he's writing this book uh from prison. And in light of that, uh, you know, it's it's amazing uh that even though he's writing this from prison, what was the what is the key word of this book? Joy. The key word of this book is joy. So it's amazing that even though Paul was in prison, he still largely was expressing joy. Uh the theme, the key theme of the book. Does anybody remember that? This is really taxing your memory now. The sufficiency of Christ. The theme is the sufficiency of Christ in that no matter what you're going through, whether you're in prison or what you're dealing with here on earth. that Christ is sufficient and whatever state you're in therewith to be content and we're going to get into those things if we walk through But uh that's the key theme is that Christ is sufficient. The key verse is uh chapter one, verse twenty-one, and that is for me to live as Christ. to die is gain. That's kind of the focus, the theme for this book. Then we looked at the church, talked about the church and the founding of it and who God put together there, sending the gospel through the Macedonian call to Europe. which ultimately would be where we would hear about Jesus Christ and be brought to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ through that ministry that that continued to spread. through the balance of the world. And that was what Paul what God wanted Paul to do. And so we were able to look at those things. Now tonight as we get into actually the text, we're going to look again at just verses one and two as we see the greeting of the of the saints here. And uh as you read this chapter, you see Paul is recounting to them, he's talking to them about things that they already know together as a church, that they both agree on. One of the unique things about this book, unlike other books that Paul was writing, is he wasn't writing necessarily to solve a problem. in the church. He wasn't writing to fix, hey, I heard about this. I'm writing to tell you what you should do. Does anybody remember what the motivation for the writing was? I didn't hear some people said something. It was an expression of gratitude. It was a thank thank you note. Yeah, the mask. I can't hear through the mask. Uh so but it was a thank you note. Paul was basically expressing gratitude to the church. And so he's just kind of communicating to them the love of Christ and and the joy that they have in knowing Christ and hey, I'm in jail, but it's okay. Uh God knows. I know, and God's going to use this to the furtherance of the gospel. You know that, I know that, and we understand that to be true, and and he's he's not really dealing with any issues, uh, although later in the book uh he brings up a concern Not necessarily doctrinal thing, but a but an individual concern between a couple of people that he tries to help them with. But uh Paul just communicating to them uh about his love for them. and the joy of the Lord that's in his heart, the camaraderie that they have. As we look tonight at this, the greeting, uh Paul gives his name up front, Paul in Timotheus. Unlike us, who uh we typically sign our letters at the end, right? It was common practice in this time. And not just in the Word of God, but in in Greek and Roman culture to actually sign to introduce their letters with their name, saying, this is who's writing from the start. This is Paul Here's what I had to say. And and that was the way it was. Now, although you and I, we get a bunch of junk mail that just goes in the trash can as soon as it it's kind of like half of what comes in just goes right you go through the mail by the can because most of it goes right in there. You got a few things you would like to put in there that you have to hold on to. They're called bills Uh but most of it goes right in the trash can. And uh but I was thinking about this time period y and I can't imagine that they got too much junk mail I would have to think that during this time, if they received any type of a letter, any type of mail, it was probably big news. It's probably a big big deal. And then especially to get a letter from the caliber of somebody like Paul. and say, hey, man, this is from Paul. They had to be excited about that. I'm sure that they were thrilled to get this from him. And so Paul, first of all, he Introduces the servants. We see here Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ So first I want you to see the prophet. The prophet was Paul. He's a minister. And it's amazing to me. We've taken some time in the introduction. We looked at the Apostle Paul. And so we're not going to go back through his life and talk about all of who he was and And what he did. I just would like to tonight maybe key in on the one thing there that he gives himself, and that is the title in this statement. It's amazing that the Apostle Paul gives himself the title of servant. He said, This is Paul, a servant. He doesn't introduce himself as Dr. Dr. Paul. He doesn't introduce himself as the apostle of apostles. You know, the the uh the founder of your church, he doesn't introduce himself as this, although you know Paul was an apostle You know he he wrote 12 and maybe 13 books of the New Testament. He he he started most of the churches that we know about in the New Testament. I mean, here's somebody who had bragging rights. He could have said whatever, but Paul introduced himself as a servant of Jesus Christ. This is one of the, I believe, the fundamental things that are necessary for successful and longevity in ministry is to continue to recognize ourselves as servants. To see ourselves as servants. This is foundational to maintain a servant's heart as a Christian. We can't get too high and lift it up. We've got to continue to recognize ourselves as but servants. There's a big problem that comes into the Christian's life when he begins to think more highly of himself than he ought to think. Because of what God has allowed him to do. I mean you think about all that the Apostle Paul accomplished in his life and his ministry. And it was all simply in service to the king. And he says, I'm just a servant. I'm just a servant. Matthew 23, verse number 12 says, And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. So, beloved, as by way of challenge tonight, I want to exhort you to maintain a servant's heart, to be willing to continue to serve and do whatever God wants you to do, no matter where it is in the Christian life. To serve others. And let God use you to do that. And listen, in your, it's a battle, beloved. I you know I know none of you have this problem I'm gonna tell on myself, telling on myself, about telling on myself, okay? Let me explain. Uh I was writing, I didn't put it in my notes, but it just came back to me right now, so I think I'm gonna share it. But I was writing down in my notes here, I was going to give an illustration. Uh Fairhaven Baptist College wrote me about a year ago and asked me to write a biography of myself. that they could put on their bulletin board in the front of their church with some pictures of me. Six months went by and I didn't do it. They contacted me again and says, hey, we would like you to write a biography, kind of tell us what the Lord's using you to do in the ministry. Another six months went by and I still haven't done it. I just find it real hard to write a you know write about myself that they're going to put on the bulletin board Okay, now I'm telling myself about telling on myself. I was gonna write this down as an illustration tonight and I thought, so now here I am bragging about the fact that I don't want to brag about myself, right? See that circle? I'm like, this is really dumb. It is a constant battle, beloved, that every one of us has to deal with to maintain a level of humility in our Christian life and be willing to serve God, to do whatever God wants us to do, and to not think more highly of ourselves than we ought to. It's something that we've got to fight. The Bible says in the book of Proverbs, let another man praise thee and not thine own lips, not thine own mouth. Let another man praise thee. It's not something that we should be doing, but that we should allow God to do. And beloved, if we would just serve the Lord. In whatever capacity he wants for us to serve, God says, he that humble himself, listen, if we just can it's a continual battle, we've got to continue to put ourselves down and continue to control That pride that wants to lift ourselves up, to continue to think so much of ourselves and boy, we've arrived and we've accomplished and we've done this. We've got to continue to put that down. And as we put it down, God says, He'll lift you up If God chooses to use you like he did the Apostle Paul, if by God's grace he extends your area of influence, if by God's strength you begin to minister and impact more and more people for God, then praise God. But know that you've got to again battle and fight that pride that's going to come up and say, Oh, look at all what I'm doing. Look at me now, boy, I I'm doing this and doing this and I can do this. The apostle Paul here is close to the end of his ministry. And after all that, he says, hey, this is Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ. He doesn't claim any authority over them. He only claims obedience to God. Paul never complained about his situation no matter what he was going through. If he was beaten, shipwrecked, imprisoned, persecuted, none of those things mattered. He was just there to serve God and by whatever means that was Facilitated, okay. He describes here as we read in chapter 1 here the fact that he was put in bonds. And he says, I'm put in bonds to the furtherance of the gospel. This is okay with me. Because really all I'm here to do is serve, to accomplish God's will, and I know that this happened. God's in control, and it's alright. Are we that yielded to God's will? To God's control? You see, beloved, when we become puffed up and we think more highly of ourselves, we begin to establish expectations Of what we should get, or what we should have, or how God should meet our needs. And we have these expectations, and when those expectations that are not correct, but when they're not met, Then we get a wrong attitude. A bad attitude. Because our expectations that weren't given to us by God, but they were given to us by ourselves, our expectations aren't met, and we start to get a bad attitude. About the raw deal that we've got. You see, if Paul would have not maintained that servant's heart We wouldn't have the book of Philippians, this book of joy, written to us from the prison. He was able to have a right attitude because he didn't have expectations Beyond that which God wanted him to do, and that was to serve the Lord. It is key to joy in the Christian life That you don't establish expectations. We maintain a humble spirit of service to the Lord. We see the prophet Paul and we see his protege Timothy. This son in the faith, he's called the one whom Paul got to lead to the Lord and then disciple and train. Paul doesn't introduce him as his servant. He looks at Timothy as a fellow laborer, as a fellow servant of Christ. They're working together, and he recognizes Paul's ability to serve God. I ask of you tonight, who are you right now discipling? Who are you right now working with, encouraging, and guiding in their Christian life Who are you encouraging to be in God's house? Who are you encouraging to read their Bible every day? Who are you talking to about, hey, what did you get out of the Word of God this week? What did you learn this week? Oh, when I was reading this this morning, uh this is what this is the verses that I read, and man, this touched my heart. You see, Paul, Timothy was Paul's protege. Timothy was one that Paul was working with and saying, hey, listen, here's a young man in the faith. I've got to strengthen him I gotta encourage him. I gotta help him. He's gonna get discouraged and I've got to help him keep going. Paul's reaching the end of his ministry, but he says there's got to be somebody coming after me Who's going to replace you, brother, sister? Who are you bringing along and encouraging to be what God wants them to be? I'll tell you what, one of the most fulfilling things in the Christian life is to see God use you to bring somebody else along. And don't expect somebody just to walk up to you on the street and fall on their knees and say, What must I do to be saved? It takes a little more than that. But if you have a desire to see people saved or have a desire to disciple and reach and train people, God will use you to do that. You can be used greatly to encourage and strengthen and help your brothers and sisters in Christ, your fellow church members, those who might be not as strong in their walk with God as you and you can just be checking in and just saying, hey, when I read this morning, you don't even have to say anything, but you talk about what God fed you in his word and the Holy Spirit is going to convict their hearts And say, you weren't reading this morning. You didn't read God's word yesterday or the day before. You don't have to be the Holy Spirit. You just have to be real in God, the Holy Spirit, will speak to them. Paul, his protege, the one he was working with. This principle is seen all through the scriptures. I want to read for you in Mark. You don't have to turn there, but in Mark chapter 10, verses 35 through 42, we see James and John, they come to Christ. Remember that story? They come to Christ and they say, Hey. Uh Lord, you know, we're pretty good. Could could we could you do something for us? When we get into the kingdom, could maybe I sit on your left hand and he sit on your right hand? You remember that question? They said, you know, after all, we're part of the inner circle. After all, Lord, we're we're we're part of the disciples. When we get to glory, could could I sit on the left hand, you see? It doesn't matter who you are. We've all got to fight this. They said, I want to I want to be lifted up, Lord. I want to be put on your right hand, and out of all the saints that ever lived. Could I sit on your left and you him on the right? But in Mark chapter 10, verses 42 through 45, but Jesus called them to him. And saith unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and their great ones exercise authority upon them. But so shall it not be among you. But whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister. He's saying, hey, out in the world there is an there is a hierarchy, there is this recognition of somebody that's lifted up, and they they rule over everybody. And they're the ones that are exalted. But in Christ's kingdom, the one that's going to be great among you shall be your minister. Verse 44 is the heart of it. He said, And whoever, and whosoever of you will be the cheapest. Shall be the servant of all. The principle, servanthood. What an example Paul sets for us Do you want to be used greatly of God? Then be a servant of men. That's what he's saying. Do you want God to use you in a magnificent way? Then be a servant of men Beloved, it's not about how if we get to be up in front of people or we get to sit on the platform or we get to perform for large groups. But are we serving men? Many of you from your seat in your life could have a greater ministry serving men than the one who stands behind the pulpit. Because you have direct contact and the direct ability to minister, to serve them one-on-one. Serving men, and that's what we're called to. Whoever is going to be the cheapest of you. Shall be the servant of all. He said, I don't want to be anybody's servant. Yeah. That's a large, that's the that's the the dominant spirit of today. But with the power of Christ, we need to overcome that. We need to ask the Lord, Lord, make me a servant. Make me a servant. Even as Christ Himself was. In verse 45, he says, For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. And to give his life a ransom for many. Jesus Christ, setting the example for us, said, Hey, I didn't come here to be ministered unto. But to minister. And if we would have that servant attitude that Christ had. You know, the office of servant is not necessarily a desirable one, especially in society in the world today. People look at it and say, oh, I don't want to be a servant. But to be a servant of Christ is desirable. Because Christ does not want, you see, he bought you and I with his precious blood. And he didn't buy us to abuse us, to use us, and to discard us. He bought us to love us. Lift us up, to set our feet on solid rock, to help us be all that we can be in and through the power of God. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. You can be the servant of Christ if you are a servant of others. But you know, it's a choice we make. You say, I don't want to be a servant. But here's the thing. You are a servant of something. You are a servant of someone. I would rather be making the choice to choose to be a servant of who I want to be a servant of instead of by default being a servant. of this world. Romans 6. 16 says, Know ye not that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey. Whether of sin unto death or obedience unto righteousness. He's saying you can put it in neutral and coast. And you'll be yielding yourself as a servant to obey the things of the world. To do whatever Satan wants you to do. You'll be going that way, and you can yield yourself Just like you yield on the highway, you're pulling out the other day I was it was a little bit slick and I was coming down uh Shawan Road to jump on 83 and I had to yield. But this guy coming this way was going really slow. Way too slow. So I thought, well, I'll get in front of him. But it was really too slick to be trying to get in front of somebody. So I didn't want to yield to him. I wanted to get in front of him. Now praise the Lord nothing happened. But I was a little nervous. So I said I should I I should have yielded But I was going to make the choice to go. Well, you can yield by just not doing anything, just relax, and you'll yield yourself as a servant to obey this world and sin and the flesh and the devil. But if you make a choice, say, no, not yielding to that, I'm going to yield myself servants to obey, servants unto righteousness. That's what we need to be a servant of Christ. A servant of Christ. You can yield yourself to serve this world, and it will leave you empty and lost. Or you can leave yours allow yourself to be a servant of Christ and let him fill you with joy, unspeakable, and full of glory. We see here first this in the greeting we see the servants Paul and Timotheus or Timothy, then I want you to see the saints. He's writing here to all the saints, he says, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, which are at Philippi. With the bishops and the deacons. So he's writing to all the saints. First, I want you to recogn see his perspective that he has as he's recognizing here all the saints. There's not a hierarchy, and this is something that's common in Paul's writing because He recognizes that there's neither bond nor free, neither male nor female, neither Jew nor Gentile. It is all the saints. Beloved, the the uh ground is level at the foot of the cross And and especially in society today where there seems to be such a drive and and and such a division over race and nationality and color and differences, I want you to know that in Jesus Christ we are all equal and we're all the same. And at the foot of the cross, he loves every single one of us the same. We come to him a sinner, and he freely, freely forgives us of our sin and saves our soul and promises that we will have a home in heaven for accepting his son. He recognizes them, all the saints, whoever they are, wherever they came from, whatever their background was, when they confessed Jesus Christ, they were on their way to heaven and they're a saint. Amen. That is exciting. Now, not all saints are saintly, but you're still a saint. The admonition in the scripture here is to act like it, amen. To act like a saint. You are a saint if you've been saved. Now act like it. I mean I know you've all as parents at some point looked at your kid and said, listen Batrells don't act like that. Now you didn't say batrells, you said whatever your name was. But we don't act like that. You're a batrell, batrells don't act like that. And sometimes our heavenly father looks down at us and says, Hey, you're a saint. Don't act like that. That's not what you're supposed to be doing. Strauss says this: holy people may at times be unholy people in this life. Saints at times are unsaintly. However, the goal would be to realize when the practical process of sanctification is perfected There is something not right, beloved, about a human being behaving like an animal, or a full-grown man behaving like a child Nor is it right for a saint to behave unsaintly. There is recognition, he's saying, there's a recognition, I think everybody realizes that that a human being shouldn't act like a like an animal. A full-grown man shouldn't be acting like a four-year-old. And he's saying, and the same is true that when we recognize the perfection of the saints, that is the work of pro the work of sanctification in the life of a Christian That at some point that sanctification should make us more saintly. We're never sinless, but we should sin less. Amen. We see his perspective and the recognition of the position that every Christian has in Jesus Christ. At the moment of salvation, you're made a saint. This word saint here is Hegios, which literally means holy. And What does holy mean? It means set apart. It means set apart. The position that we have is we've been set apart for God A few months ago, when we were making the arrangements for the couples retreat, we called the Hershey Resort and we said, hey, we're going to have somewhere around 50 couples. Don't know for sure how many, but we'll have, you know, that's what we're shooting for. Maybe it'll only be twenty. I I don't know, but we'll see. We're gonna have a couples retreat down there. And they said, okay, well let us know as soon as you can who they are. How that's gonna go. And we we started making arrangements and they kept calling us. We need to know who they're gonna be. And they wanted to know the names. And they picked the room number. And they put your name next to that room if you were going. That room was set apart on that date for you. Nobody else had access to that room. Could you imagine if you were using a room and some guy walks in? Yeah, no problem. I'm just gonna use a shower here. Uh don't mind me. You'd be like, what? No, this room, we paid for this room. This room is set apart for us. We've got this allotted for this time. Well, your heavenly father says, I paid for you. I bought you with a price. I paid the price for you. You're to be set apart unto me as a saint of God. Every saint has been set apart from the world for service unto the Lord. One author put it this way about this text. He said unto the reserved ones. Like when you reserve your room, when you reserve something for you, you and I, as saints of God, have been reserved for Jesus Christ. He also recognizes the position that was given to the bishops and the deacons. Not in an exaltation, but he recognizes that position of leadership. And he also recognizes the position of responsibility that's given them. That they are responsible. That they are the ones that are going to be held accountable. And he greased them. You know, it's not something that uh we should desire in the book of James. He tells us, be not many masters. For there's a greater condemnation. Be not many masters. He says, you know what? Not something everybody should just desire or want. Because we know that those that are have a greater condemnation. They're held responsible before God. And we see in verse number two the salutation. He says, Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. He greets them, Grace be unto you and peace from the God our Father for the Lord Jesus Christ. Not only does he recognize their position that they have as saints, but he recognizes here the possession that they're given in Jesus Christ. They're given grace and they're given peace. Grace, you know, is quite literally the unmerited favor of God, getting that which we don't deserve. God extending his love towards us when we didn't deserve it. And he does so every single day of our lives. The Apostle Paul says, hey Grace be unto you. I pray that God's grace is shed upon you. We oftentimes in a few minutes we're going to have prayer and we're going to be praying for our fellow uh brothers and sisters in Christ and one of the things we often pray, especially those going through hardship is Lord would you give them the grace to endure this? Give them the grace to And God's grace comes down and ministers to us in a time of need. It's something that we get, and Paul says, hey, grace be unto you, and he says, peace. It's more than just the absence of war or conflict. Peace is literally a tranquility, a serenity of the soul We know, beloved, that we get peace with God through accepting Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. In Romans chapter 5, verse 1 says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. Through the Lord Jesus Christ. So we have peace with God. We're no longer at enmity between us and God. We're no longer enemies from God by accepting Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, but also by accepting Christ. We get what Paul's talking about here. And that's the peace of God. Not just peace with God between us and him, but peace of God. Peace that passes all understanding. Peace in your heart that no matter the storm, no matter where you are, you can have peace. You know, beloved, it's easy to have peace when the sea is calm. It's easy to be relaxed and think everything's fine when when when the plane is is flying smooth. What about when that turbulence hits? What about when that stress in the plane starts to starts to show and the stewardess and those working the plane they strap themselves in and all the alarms start going off and uh oh Oh well what about in life? When you get a phone call that was unexpected, when you get news that's not pleasant. When you get a bill you weren't expecting. You see it's easy to have peace in our heart when things are going smooth and everything's fine and dandy. What about when the storm comes? That's when the peace of God that passes understanding, if other people can't understand, how can you have that kind of peace in the midst of such tragedy Well that's from God. That's not something I've manufactured or something that I can do on my own. It's just something that God gives you. Because of his grace, he gives that to us. So tonight We see Paul and Timothy and the privilege that they had to be servants of Jesus Christ. Do you count it a privilege, beloved, to be a servant of Christ and to serve your brothers and sisters, to serve the Lord in whatever capacity we can. Whatever it is, no job is too small, no job is too big, just want to be a servant, just want to do whatever God wants. If we're going to be like Christ, we're going to be the servant of all. That's what he said. Do you recognize your position as a saint The position you have in Jesus Christ. And are you living up to that position? God has made a reservation on your life, and no one else is supposed to have access to it No one else is supposed to be ruling it. No one else is supposed to be telling you what to do. We're to be submitted and yielded to Jesus Christ and to him alone. Are you acting like a saint? And are you thankful tonight for the possession that we have of the grace and peace of God? The grace and peace that God gives us to go through this life.