Philippians chapter number three. We're going to be there in just a few moments. I'm going to read another passage of scripture to you. We're going to get to Philippians chapter three. That's where the heart of the message is going to come from. But in Philippians, uh I'm sorry, in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 22 through 24, the Bible says, For the Jews require a sign. And the Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. But unto them which are called Boljuan Greek, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. This, these verses here. Paul teaching the church at Corinth and describing the challenges it was for them as New Testament saints to try and carry forth the message of the gospel of Christ. To tell the world about Jesus, the risen Savior. For you understand, beloved, the gospel shared in this world at this time was a very challenging thing. He says to the Jew, it was a stumbling block. You see, the Jews believed that their Messiah was gonna ride in on a magnificent horse and and and deliver them from the oppression of all their enemies and that they would rise up uh together and And they looked what they believed their Messiah to be was somebody that was going to deliver them from all their woes. And yet They were told that this man who was born in a manger to some humble parents who rode into Jerusalem on a donkey Who ultimately was crucified? That is supposed to be the Messiah? For them, that was a stumbling block. They just couldn't get past that because not in their mind, that's not who the Messiah was Then to the Greeks, those Greeks who believed and and held high the the uh intellect. They fancied themselves to be extremely wise and they they they wanted to process and think through everything. For them, you know, leaders were Aristotle. These Plato, these these great thinkers, and they wanted to analyze and contemplate it, and they said, logically, this doesn't make sense That this man who was crucified, where's his power? Where's his prestige? Where is his intellect? This doesn't make any sense to them. It just didn't make sense that this would be the Messiah He says, boy, this is a stumbling block to the Jews and to the Greeks, it was just foolishness. And yet He says to those that are called, both Jew or Greek, it didn't really matter. It was the power of God. The power of God. This morning, for just a few minutes, I would like to speak to you about the power of his resurrection. Yeah. For Paul, chair carrying this message through the known world at that time, it was a challenge. But you know it's not much different today. People still look and they think, how can this cross, the story of this man that hung and gave his life on a cross 2,000 years ago, how can that affect our life today? That doesn't make sense. That doesn't logically fit with my worldview. That does not something that I'm ready to believe in. There's still people that question But to those that believe, it is the power of God. I would like you to see in Philippians chapter 3, beginning in verse number 7, we're going to read down Through verse number 10. He says, But what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ? Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung. that I may win Christ, and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God, By faith, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto his death Paul says that I may know him in the power of his resurrection. Paul had come to the realization that in his flesh dwelleth no good thing That in and of himself he had no capacity to save himself. He had no power in and of himself. And that is after in this passage of Scripture where Paul gives his credentials. Paul describes his capacity to really stand head and shoulders above most. I mean, he even says there, if you look back in verse number four. He says, though I might have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. He says Paul says, hey, if there's anybody that has the ability to look at what he's accomplished in and of himself and his own flesh, if there's somebody that can hold them up and say, boy, I I I have succeeded in this, Paul says, I could do that. He said, but what I've learned is that in all that I've accomplished, it's nothing. That I cannot stand next to the one who is called Jesus. And so it is my life's ambition and my goal to know him and the power of his resurrection. I asked you this morning, do you know him? I'm not just saying, do you know about him? I'm not saying, have you heard the story of Jesus' birth or heard the story of Jesus' crucifixion or maybe celebrated Easter sometime in the past. I'm saying, do you know him? Do you know the one beloved who was fat upon for you Do you know the one who wore a crown of thorns upon his head for you? Do you know the one, beloved, who carried his own cross up Galgatha, where he would be crucified? Do you know the one whose hands were pierced for you? Do you know the one beloved who hanging there on the cross cried out, Father, forgive them? They know not what they do. Do you know the one who gave his life for you? If you know him Then you should be living in the power of the resurrection. The sad reality is there are many believers, and I say all of us have at times in our life of being guilty of living outside the power of the resurrection. of denying the power of the resurrection. We're living our lives in failure. We're living our lives in defeat. We're living our lives in discouragement when God has given us the power of the resurrection to be victorious Christians. God's expectation, beloved, is that we're on the winning side, amen. And we as God's people should be living victoriously in this Christian life. We should be able to put away that sin and not pick it up again. We should be able to follow after Christ with fervency and consistency and faithfulness, the kind of faithfulness that God calls his people to Why? Because we have the power of the resurrection to do so. And when we live in defeat, we are denying the power of the resurrection. There's many things that we could look at and we could see the power of the resurrection. I'm going to give you a couple this morning. They certainly are not all inclusive, but first of all, I want you to consider the power of the resurrection as it was seen in the early church. You see, beloved, we mentioned it already, but can you consider with me this small group of people who were followers of Jesus Christ? This small band. They were excited about what Jesus was doing, and in their hearts and minds, they thought, boy, this is magnificent. Look at what's happening. And then their leader was crucified. You understand that that is what was promoted in the Roman Herald? Extra, extra, read all about it. King of the Jews is crucified. I don't think that they took out an ad the next week and said, extra, extra, read all about it. King of the Jews rose from the dead. No, what I'm saying is what was promoted, what everybody knew in society, what everybody understood to be the truth, is this man who held himself up as the Messiah, this man who said that he was going to uh be the king of the Jews, this man that everybody was looking to, he was killed on the cross That's why it was a stumbling block to the Jews. That's why it was foolishness to the Greeks. You consider the task that these men had to try and spread the message of the gospel in the early church. In a society where they would look at you and say, wait a minute, you're talking about the guy that was crucified? The guy that we watched die? You want us to believe in him? And to try and communicate and tell them the truth that no, he did he did die, but he didn't just die. He rose again three days later. This band of people that were the foundation, the beginning of the New Testament church, can I tell you, they weren't emperors They weren't kings, generals, or movers, and shakers in the Roman society of that time. They were fishermen. They were farmers. They were housewives. And I'm saying is they weren't anybody necessarily notable in society that would have an ear or that people would listen to Nobody was interviewing them to find out their thoughts on the matter. And yet they carried the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the death, burial, and the resurrection to the world. The Bible tells us they turned the world upside down. The power of the resurrection, this completely what would be an unbelievable story of a man Who laid down his life and then he took it up again. By all accounts, it should have died then By all accounts, Christianity should have, at its birth, been done away with because, after all, their leader died. And yet the power of the resurrection is seen in the fruition and fruitfulness of the early church. Do you know, beloved, that in that time even The Roman government and all the religious leaders were standing against them. They didn't have anything going for them, the early church. There was everything that could have been going wrong or to try and stop the church. Even at the resurrection, you recall, let me read for you Matthew chapter 27, verses 63 to 65. He says Saying, sirs, we remember that that deceiver said while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again. Command, therefore, that the sepulcher be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away and say unto the people, he is risen from the dead. So the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto him, Ye have a watch, go your way, make it sure as you can. Well, they sealed the tomb and they set a watch and they made it as sure as they can, but it wasn't sure enough. Because as soon as Jesus was ready, he took up his life that he graciously laid down. The hour had come, the time was at hand, and Jesus rose from the grave and he rolled back the st the stone so that Mary Magdalene when they came to see him that they would be able to look in and see that he was no longer there. He is not here for he has risen. Boy, they tried to do all they could to keep this from happening. But can I tell you, beloved, every other religious movement that ever has been. Their founder is in a grave somewhere. Hank Hennergraaff, who was a leader of the Christian Research Institute, wrote this. He said the resurrection is not merely important to the historic Christian faith, for without it there would be no Christianity. It elevates Christianity above all other world religions. For through the resurrection, Christ demonstrated that he does not stand in a line of peers with Buddha, Confucius, and Muhammad. Jesus Christ is utterly and completely unique in that he had not only the power to lay down his life, but the power to take it up again. Jesus is the only leader in all the world's religions who has left an empty tomb. Even the other religions, you go with them or to them or watch them and you will see that they have the place where their leader is buried and they can go there and many people make pilgrimages to those locations to see where their leader is buried. But beloved Jesus is not in the ground. He's uh sitting at the right hand of the Father. And from this small band of nobodies, the gospel spread throughout the known world. Turned the world upside down. Beloved, that is the power of the resurrection. You see, it didn't matter who stood in the way, they could not stop the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And beloved, that has not changed. Over two thousand years later, we know that the promise of God that he the gates of hell will not prevail against it. The church of God moves forward with the power of the resurrection. It's not about you and I, and it's not about our dynamic personalities or our ability to put on a program. It is Jesus Christ in the power of the resurrection in the lives of people that builds his church. Shah would have you see, secondly, the power of the resurrection that is seen in every Christian. I would implore you, beloved, if you're here today and you are not seeing the power of the resurrection in your life to stop denying that power and allow him to begin to work. The power of the resurrection first it is found in faith, faith that brings us to a point of salvation. We know that Thomas called doubting Thomas. After the resurrection, you know the story, the disciples met with him and said, Jesus is alive, and he's like, well, you know, basically I I won't believe it until I see it. I'm not sure. And Jesus knew the heart of Thomas, and so in John chapter 20, verse 27, then saith he unto Thomas, Reach hither thy finger and behold my hands. Reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side. And be not faithless, but believing. He's saying, Can you believe? Will you believe? And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God Expressing his belief and acknowledgement that he was standing there before Jesus. At that time, he acknowledged him as Lord and God. And Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed. Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed. It takes belief. Faith in God. God says, blessed are they that believe even though we haven't seen. It requires faith. Can I ask you this morning, do you believe it? Do you it it's believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, and thou shalt be saved. God hath raised him from the dead That the resurrection is a reality, that Jesus is not in the ground somewhere, but that he is alive and he's sitting on the right hand of the Father. It takes belief that has that kind of faith that you know that Jesus is risen and because of that, you know that one day you'll rise. Oh. Paul preached this to the believers in Acts chapter 17. There were some that believed and some that didn't. He said, and when they had heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. And others said, We will hear thee again. So Paul departed from among them, howbeit, certain men clave unto him and believed Beloved, there's always been scoffers. There's always been those that will mock. There always has been and always will be people that will not believe. But to him that believeth, it is the power of God unto salvation. Believing. Believing that Jesus died, gave himself a sacrifice for you and I, but not just that he died, that he rose again on the third day. It is power, beloved, in the in the life of the believer, the power that we consider forever. Knowing that Jesus rose from the dead, having that testimony and that promise, we too know that we will rise one day. It is the assurance that we know it will happen to us. You know the story in John chapter 11 where Lazarus uh died and They called for Jesus to come, but Jesus wanting to be able to teach some truths, he waited and he didn't go, but you know Lazarus was dead and he was in the ground and already already been buried and Jesus comes and And we'll pick up the story in verse number twenty-one, John chapter eleven, if you would like to see it. But he says, Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. But I know that even now whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee. Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. Martha say unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. And Jesus saith unto her, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die, believest thou this. Beloved, do you believe it today? That testimony that we will rise again, those that have died and gone on before as we have. In the testimony of these lilies down here, our loved ones that have been before us, we're going to see them again. We know that they are up in heaven with our Heavenly Father and with those that have gone before them And one day we're going to be restored. Why? Because we know that just as Jesus rose from the dead, he had power over death and the grave, and he won victory that day, that he will do the same for you and I. Boy. Beloved, my hope for today is to cure because of the resurrection. Because Jesus is alive. I know that he is with me. He's a friend to sit closer than a brother. He's a present help in my time of need. He is around. And I know, beloved, that my tomorrow is secure. Recome what may, no matter what trial I face in tomorrow's day or the day after, I know that Jesus is there. And my hope for eternity is secure because of the resurrection. It is the power of the resurrection that does this. I stood in the prison on Friday night in front of a number of inmates. And tried to communicate to them effectively the power of the resurrection. I told them that because of the resurrection, my life is not futile. Beloved, my life has meaning. Because Jesus rose from the dead. My life is not just a mundane existence without any purpose or without any drive. I don't get out of the bed out of a bed in the morning and wonder what is it all about. It's not like Solomon said in Ecclesiastes, yea, all is vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. Vanity and vanities is it all. That it's not like that. I have purpose. Why? Because of the resurrection. Oh, and I told them that because of the resurrection my failures can be forgiven. It doesn't matter how brutal the failure was, it doesn't matter how big it was or how small it was in the eyes of others, it's because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ that my failures, every failure, what the Bible calls sin, can be forgiven. Amen? And not only that, beloved, because of the power of the resurrection, my death is not final. That's not the end. Oh, this old body may lay in a grave for a little while, but the time's gonna come when he breaks the eastern sky, and this body is gonna be raised again. And that is what we look forward to. That is the power of the resurrection. Before I move to the last point, I just want to implore you Christian, God is expecting us to live in the power of the resurrection. And when you and I are living defeated Christian lives, we are denying that power. When we are allowing sin to reign in our lives instead of getting the victory and walking in the power of God, we are denying the power of the resurrection. I would implore you today to live in the power of the resurrection and let that bring change in your life because you can have victory. You can. I would tell you, lastly, this morning that the power of the resurrection is seen in enduring commitment. Turn to John chapter 21, if you would. You see, Jesus had died. Peter was discouraged. You know the story, Peter saith unto his disciples, he says, I go fishing. And they said unto him, we also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship immediately that night. They caught nothing, verse number four. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore. But the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Oh, I'm getting somewhere. What I want you to see is Jesus had died on the cross. From the human perspective, the game was over. The fight was done. Nothing else could be said. I mean, these disciples knew what Jesus had said that he was going to die, and that like Jonah, that he had given them over and over and over again examples that he was going to lay his life down, that he was going to take it up again. I mean I'm not getting on to the disciples. I don't know that I would have had any more faith. I mean you see that happen, you're like, oh man. And and Peter says, Man, I I guess I guess we're done, guys. I I don't know. I'm gonna I'm gonna go fishing And I imagine as they fished, their heart wasn't in it. They're out there fishing, and they're just, they didn't know what else to do. They're probably just torn up and distraught, and hearts are broken over the loss of Jesus. They probably spent some time crying and they probably spent some time talking about the what-ifs and Peter probably in his mind analyzing and thought, man, if I would have took somebody else's sword, I maybe could have done this and we could have got him off that cross. They probably talked through scenarios and went through all the I mean human nature, you're gonna do a thousand what-ifs, right? They're there fishing and Jesus shows up. He appears unto them, but they don't know that it's Jesus. He has a little conversation with them and he says to them, hey, cast your nets on the other side. I don't know what motivated them to do that, but they decided, okay, let's cast our nets on the other side. They cast their nets on the other side. And they caught a great magnitude, a multitude of fish, a great catch. And something in their mind Triggered back. And they're like, um, I remember the last time this happened. The last time there was somebody on the shore that told us this. I remember who that was. There's nobody else that we've been out here fishing all night and there and we caught nothing, and there's nobody else that could tell us, hey, put the net right here and we're gonna kill. That's Jesus And I'll tell you what, when they said that's Jesus, you can read the story there. Uh Peter, he said, Boys, I'm out of here. And he jumped out. He was gone. He would he jumped out of the boat and swam to shore The rest of the guys are there left holding the nets full of fish. And they're like, thanks a lot, Peter. So they're there working, they're they're pulling all the fish in. They weren't that far from shore. The scripture says that. They weren't that far, but they had to dragged the nets, they had to get it all the way to shore. So they're laboring to get it all in. Meanwhile, Peter and Jesus are back on the shore, and they got the fire going They're ready to cook up some supper, and the rest of the people get back. Would you look at verse number 15 So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? And he saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs And he saith unto him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? And he saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. Feed my sheep. And he saith unto him a third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved. But because he saith unto him, a third time, lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I love thee. And Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. Verily, verily I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself, and walkest whither thou wouldest. But when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hand, and another shall gird thee And carry thee whither thou wouldest not. Beloved Jesus is explaining to Peter, he's saying, Peter, do you love me enough to go to battle for me? He says, Peter, do you love me enough? I mean you see Peter, they they went from the pit of despair where they went back fishing and there was no hope. And yet when they see Jesus on the shore, the one who had died, and now he is the resurrected Lord, Peter jumps out of the boat and he swims to him and he says, Oh, Master, Lord, you're here, you're present, oh I can imagine his excitement and his throne. Thrill and the victory that he had. And Jesus is just questioning him. He says, Peter, do you love me? And he says, Lord, you know I love you. And he says, No, no, no. I'm asking you, Peter, do you really love me? And he says, Lord, you know that I really I mean look I jumped out of the boat for you. I swam to shore. The rest of those guys are more worried about fish than you. I wasn't worried about the fish Jesus. I'm here I'm with I'm with you. And he says no no Peter what I'm saying is do you love me enough to die for me? I'm talking about an enduring commitment. I'm talking about somebody that would be willing to give it all up for the master. Somebody that would be willing to go. And ultimately, you know, Peter was crucified upside down, his life was given as a martyr, unenduring commitment. Beloved, that is the power of the resurrection Since that day until this, there have been men and women who have given their lives completely and fully to Jesus Christ. for the cause of Christ to reach people with this gospel message. Why did they do it? Not because of them, but because of the resurrection. That is the power of the resurrection. It causes somebody who in and of themselves have no capacity or no desire, but they are driven to do something magnificent for God. On December seventh, nineteen forty one Jacob was assigned to kitchen duty. While peeling potatoes, he heard Pearl Harbor was being attacked. His heart was immediately filled with anger and hatred. He immediately began to despise the Japanese and couldn't believe what they did. He actually cried out verbally, the Japan is going to pay for this. It was a few days later that he got wind of the 17th Bomber Division was going to undertake a top-secret mission to try and deliver some much-needed payback to Japan. But you see, they had heard that this was going to be a one-way mission. That it very likely was going to be you you weren't coming home. You're probably going to give your life for this mission. So they were asking for volunteers. Nobody had to do it Jacob grew up in a Christian home. He went to church as a boy. He learned the scriptures and songs about Jesus. But he decided as a young man to go his own way. By the time he joined the military, went into active duty, he actually didn't even know if there was a God. Didn't even know if he believed in God at all. Here, he determined to sign up to be a volunteer. Lieutenant Colonel Jimmy Doolittle. Informed the volunteers that they were going to try the impossible, something that had never been done. They were going to try and take a B-25 bomber And launch it from the deck of an aircraft carrier. It had never been done. The timing had to be done perfectly, in in line with the with the ebb and flow, the swell of the wave, so that the the ship itself would give them a little bit more lift. Otherwise these bombers weren't even going to make it off the deck of the ship. It was extremely difficult and to try and get a bomber of that size off the ground in such a short runway Yet these men, sixteen, gave themselves to do it. Sergeant Jacob deShazer Signed up. He was so mad. He thought it doesn't matter if I come home. I'll at least be able to deal a blow to these Japanese. Well, the plan was for them to take off from the bot from the deck of the aircraft carrier. They knew they couldn't return and land there. So they were going to try and fly all the way over Japan into friendly airspace in China and land in China The problem was as they were reaching the shores of Japan, still several hundred miles from where they were initially planning to take off, and they saw some Japanese scout ships. And Colonel Doolittle said, we've got to take off now. We can't take a chance on any of these guys seeing and reporting us. We're gonna have to take off now, which means they were several hundred miles. There's no question they were not gonna make it back. No, I mean regardless of whether they got shot down or not, they weren't gonna have enough fuel to get to friendly airspace. All sixteen of the bombers successfully took off from the deck of the ship. As they flew into Japan, Sergeant Jacob DeShazer tells how he pointed his plane down and shot his cannons. At waving civilians. He said he was so angry and mad he did not care who he killed. He just wanted Japan to pay. His bombing run on an aircraft factory was successful, and he was flying towards China, the friendly airspace. However, as expected, they did not have air, uh fuel to get to friendly airspace. He had to ditch his plane. He jumped out, not knowing really where he was. At that time Several thousand miles away, Mrs. Doolittle was woken up from her sleep, and Mrs. Doolittle driven to pray for her son. She begged God that her son would be safe and that God would protect him from harm, not knowing at all that he was quite literally at that time falling through enemy airspace. Into hostile territory. He landed on the mound of an open grave He says that he grabbed that mound of dirt just thankful to be on land because he didn't know if he was out over open water. But he what they didn't realize is they actually were very close to an enemy brigade. Enemy soldiers, Japan Japanese soldiers were very close, and they found them and captured them right away These enemy soldiers actually pretended to be Chinese and won their trust for just a moment enough that they could disarm them, take their guns, and ate. Of the men were captured that night. Immediately five of them were shot. Sorry, three of them were shot, and five of them went into a long, brutal captivity. The torture started that very night and continued without mercy. They tortured him and these other men. They were beaten often and starved to the brink of death, and then given just enough food to keep them alive so that they could be beaten again. Over and over and over again. Every day, yea, every hour Jacob de Caesar said that his bitterness and anger and hatred for the Japanese began to grow. He said my anger for them grew to the point that it was literally consuming me. He said it almost drove me mad. He was in captivity for over 40 months, beaten daily. Thirty-four of those months were spent in solitary confinement. It was there in that miserable solitude that he began to remember the scriptures that he knew as a boy After some years of being in solitary confinement, of being beaten and interrogated and mistreated, those scriptures started to come to mind, and he asked the guards if he could get a Bible They of course mocked and made fun, and he continued to ask. The one thing that he wanted was a Bible. Don't know why, but somehow, some way, one guard was able to find a Bible and brought it in and gave it to him In May of 1944, he received a Bible. Soon after, as he was reading the pages of scripture, the love that God had for his enemies Stood in stark contrast to the hatred that Jacob had in his heart. Jacob looked at how Jesus prayed for his enemies. Jesus said, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. Jesus loved his enemies. And on June 8, 1944, in the solitude of his own cell, Jacob Tesader called upon the Lord for salvation. He confessed his sin and gave his life to God. Asked God to forgive him of all of his anger and his bitterness. You see, beloved, the power of resurrection was seen in the life of Jacob to Caesar, who, while still in a cell, still being beaten, Was able to take what was hatred and turn it into forgiveness. And what was forgiveness got turned into love. For the man that was beating him. There was one guard who was extremely brutal, one guard that Took any chance he could to mistreat, abuse, and brutally beat Jacob Dehazer. And he began to pray daily. And he sought While he was being beaten, he would sit and look in the eyes of his captor and ask God to save his captor soul This is the power of the resurrection. Well, on August 1945 A group of paratroopers made their way into his prison camp and freed him. He gained 24 pounds in 20 days. He had been so malnutrition, malnourished He had been finally set free, but you see, beloved, the power of the resurrection is seen in his enduring commitment. For he had promised God, if I get set free. I will go back to Japan as a missionary. He went home. He got married. And in 1948, literally still recovering from his brutal experience, his new wife, Florence, and their newborn son flew to Japan as missionaries. He landed on the ground and began to minister. Can I tell you that thousands of Japanese came to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ? He wrote a track that said I was a prisoner of war and told his story about how God changed him while still in that prison cell. The power of the resurrection is seen in the enduring commitment. He was a missionary in Japan for over 30 years. And during that 30 years. He saw 23 churches established, and he saw the man who led the raid on Pearl Harbor come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. That is the power of the resurrection. I want to ask you Do you have an enduring commitment to Jesus Christ for what He's done for you? Are you willing and ready to just follow Him to the end, to stay faithful? All the way until he calls us home. That's the power of the resurrection. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?