This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? This passage of scripture here again we see this overriding theme, this thought that is never far from the mind of John. the driving force for his Christianity, the love of God. It is continually before him, and you see it come up over and over again as a cause for his salvation and then the motivation uh for his faith and uh you know just uh s challenging us over and over again with these same thoughts. I had no idea, as I said before, that how closely this would be tying in with our Sunday School series on overcoming the world. And uh, you know, putting your life in order. Uh these were planned at separate times, and actually the reason that we're looking at first, second, and third John is Miss Gracie is the one who asked me specifically uh to study these. Great to see Miss Gracie tonight. I she's a little embarrassed. I put her on the spot. But you know I I put it out and says, hey, if you've got a passage of scripture that you're interested in or would like to study uh let me know and she's the one that responded and says I've always enjoyed uh first second third John and would love to hear a a study on that. And I said, well I don't have any other uh recommendations And if you have an interest in that, then let's get into it. And so that's uh what happened as far as getting into this. But uh as we get into this passage tonight on the obedient life, let me ask you, is it your experience that most men Most people that you talk to would say that they believe in God. I know today in the world it's getting less and less. But as a general rule, most people you talk to, they would say they believe in God. Is that correct? The the difference is that what do they mean by that? When they say they believe in God, their answer, if you ask them, well, who is God? The answer to that's going to vary pretty greatly. I mean the Buddhist believes something entirely different from the Hindu when you ask them, well, who is God? The Hindu believes something entirely different from the Muslim. And they all, and many more, believe something entirely different from what I believe with regards to who is God. Now, I believe. You know, in our class on uh In grief share, those of you that have been in there will recognize this, but uh Paul Tripp says in in their in the lesson on heaven, he he talks about there's a lot of different beliefs about heaven And he says, here's the thing about any time you have differing beliefs, he said they can all be wrong, but they can't all be right. Is you know, th they could all be wrong. It's possible that everybody is wrong, but they can't all be right. So that means somebody has to be right. So what are we going to do? Well I believe that the Bible's right. Others may have an idea. They may have an opinion. They may have a book that was put together, assembled, or e or even written from scratch, supposedly. from their founder. But it's still just the opinion of men. Beloved, we have the Word of God. And I think that that's what we need to look to. And tonight, as we look here at this, we really see him dealing with, what do you believe about God? First of all, I want you to see the provision of life in verse number one. He says, Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him. So let's consider this. What does it mean to be born of God? We are spiritually dead when we come into this world. As you are living as a natural man Before you meet Jesus Christ, before you are made spiritually alive, we are spiritually dead. I heard just today a young lady Um probably not much older than Sophia or Melissa. A young a young lady, you know how they say uh out of the mouth of children. Th sometimes some great wisdom comes out of the mind of a child and you know, y we're supposed to have faith and we can have the faith like a child, like a young person. Maybe sometimes we get too smart for our own good But this this young lady she said, you know, God created fish to be in a particular environment. God created fish to be in the sea. And when God created plants, God created plants and He put them in their environment. He put them into the earth. And when God created man, he said, Let us create man in our image. God created man to be with God. But what happens when you take fish out of their environment? They die. What happens when you take a plant out of the earth, the environment God planned for it to be in? It dies And when you take man and you disconnect him from God, the environment, the place where God had designed for man to be, he dies. Isn't that good? That is what happened when Adam and Eve sinned. They were disconnected, separated from God, and we were spiritually dead. We know that. The Bible tells us that very clearly. In John 5, 24, verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation, but pass where? From death Unto life. So we were dead in our trespasses in sin, but when we come to God, He allows us or enables us to, He gives us We're born again and given new life. You know, uh the mo the key passage on this phrase, being born again, is in John chapter 3. If you'd like, you could turn there back to the book of John, not for second or third John, but John chapter 3 says Jesus answered and he said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Now, I don't have time to teach on on this whole passage specifically, you know, just I want you to know that sometimes people misconstrue this passage of scripture right here, and they talk about this little phrase he says here, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, and they say that's talking about the baptismal waters. They're saying that you gotta be baptized and be born of God. This is a mis application or interpretation of this passage of scripture We need scripture to interpret scripture. Baptism doesn't do anything for salvation. It's done 100% by God. This is talking about the physical birth. When a mother's water breaks and a child is born of water. That's what it's talking about there. You've got to be born of water, physically born, but also you have to be born of the Spirit. In order to enter the kingdom of God. You see, Nicodemus had made a mistake. In John chapter 3, verses 1 and 2, I want you to see his mistake. He says There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God For no man can do these miracles but that that thou doest except God be with him. So What was Nicodemus, what was his mistake? In light of, I'm really stretching your brains now, in light of the lessons that we've learned over and over again in the book of 1 John. Let me ask it this way. How do you know when somebody is teaching false doctrine, when somebody is a false cult or whatever? What is the define according to 1 John, what is the defining characteristic, what they believe about? Christ. This just put together for me in my mind today, which is amazing, and I've seen in a whole new way since this study in the book of 1 John how important it is what we believe about Jesus Christ. You see, Nicodemus was a religious man, but what he believed about Jesus Christ was incorrect. He said, Oh, we know thou art a good prophet, we know they're a great teacher, we know that you're sent of God. But he hadn't come to the place where he recognized him as God. He said, You can do amazing miracles. He was a prophet, he was a great teacher, he was a miracle worker, but he wasn't God in the flesh. Nicodemus had to come to the place where he corrected his thinking about who Jesus Christ was in order for him to be born again, in order for him to have new life. I want you to know that being born again is a work that God does in our life. We can't do it ourselves. John 3 and verse number 8, he says, The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but cannot canst tell whence it cometh. And whither it goeth, so is everyone that is born of the Spirit. You say it's like that wind, it's born of the Spirit. It's not something that we can do, it's not something we can manufacture, it's a work 100% by the Spirit of God. This is something that God does to be born again. It's amazing. When we're born again, we know that we are given a new nature. The nature of God now dwells in us, and we've talked about these things. We know that we that old things are passed away and all things are become new. We are new creatures. We know we've been made a new man, Ephesians 4. 24, and that you put on the new man. That we've got a new man. These are things that happen as soon as you are born of God. Now there's four proofs given to us in these verses. about being born of God. I'm just going to give them to you real quickly. We don't have time to develop them in here. We're going to look at them a little deeper as we go. But the four proofs that you've been born of God are you'll see first of all is that you believe Jesus is the Christ. That's foundational. You have to understand and know what you believe about who Jesus is. Jesus is a Christ. That means Christ means Messiah, the anointed one, the one who came to save his people from their sins. You have to believe correctly about Jesus Christ. Four proofs you've been born again. You have to gladly obey God's commands. This is very clear in the verses that we just read. You obey God's commands. You are experiencing victory over the world You're experiencing victory over the world. And fourthly, you love God and the things that God loves. Four proofs that you've been born again, given to us just in these five verses. Now John was describing for us the love which naturally binds the heart of man to his natural father. He's describing this and saying that kind of love is present. It's something that you cannot help. When you've been born of God, you have a love for the Father. Not only that, you have a love for the things that the Father loves You can't say, well, I love God, but I don't like Brother Hunt. I mean, no, he's a brother in Christ. He has also been born of God He is also one of God's children that God loves, and it's something that you have this na you mean siblings might have some rivalry, but siblings love each other. Now I know sometimes in life things get bad and siblings get cross with each other and they do so much hurt to each other that they ultimately separate and they despise each other, but that's not by God's design or plan God's designer plan is that sin that siblings would love each other and that they would have that uh compassionate, loving relationship. Amen, Justin. They're still sitting together, you know, they they still at least can get along cordially. Uh so although on volleyball they threw on separate teams, but No. But hey, that's God's design, that we're gonna have a love for each other. And uh it's natural and that's what he's talking about, it's gonna be the same way when you're born of God. Almost something. It's not that you have to work it up. It's not something you you have God's nature now in you. And God is Love. And with that nature inside of you, you're going to have that. So I want you to see not only the provision of life here that we are born of God, but I want you to see the proof of love. The proof of love that's given to us in verse 2 and 3, he says, by this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous. Beloved, obedience is the proof of love. That's just a fact. It's very clearly stated there. Obedience is the proof of love. As we have seen over and over again, John driving this point home. Beloved, the person that feels that God's commands are too heavy. That God's commands are somehow going to rob them of the pleasures of their life and keep them from experiencing all that they want to experience. Better check if they're really born of God. Because he says here, if you're born of God, you are going to be keeping his commandments. That his commandments, beloved, are not grievous. We know Matthew 11:30 says, My yoke is easy, my burden is light. Now, him describing here or saying that the commandments are not grievous, grievous means burdensome, means heavy. Well, over in Matthew he says, my burden is light. So How how is this? He says it's not grievous, it's not heavy, it is light. But how many of you know that on occasion it's hard to do what's right? I don't think what he's saying here is that it's going to be easy to serve God. I don't think what he's saying is, oh listen, if you just choose to do right, it's it's just gonna be uh all sugar and spice, everything nice That it's just going to be easy. Sometimes the hardest thing you'll do is be faithful and do what God wants you to do. But what he is saying here is that in comparison to the alternative It's like and what is the alternative? Well, first of all, the alternative is a life of sin. A life of living for yourself and giving yourself over to sin and what he's saying is compared to that, boy, this is life Because the the bonds and the weight of sin are heavy, and we know that ultimately sin when it is finished bringeth forth death and will send you to hell. In comparison, I think serving God is pretty light Doing what God wants us to do in comparison to living a life of sin, oh yeah, that's not burdensome at all. The other alternative is a life of slavery. A life of slavery To man made laws for righteousness. You know, the Pharisees This cough is so frustrating. The Pharisees, we know that they counted themselves righteous Well, I thank God that I'm not as this publican. They counted themselves righteous because they fulfilled Not just the laws that God created, but they had written up an extra over 600 laws that they're supposed to maintain in order that they might be righteous It's still that way today. I want you to understand when we visited Israel on on the Sabbath. You have to take the stairs Or on the Sabbath, what they they the elevators and the hotels in a five-star hotel, the elevators on the Sabbath run automatically to every floor, get to the top, and they turn around and go automatically back down to every floor, because on the Sabbath it would be a sin for somebody to push the button to move the elevator. You can't do that on the Sabbath because that would be that would be wrong. It would be performing some work. And It's man-made laws by which they can try and achieve righteousness. I mean, consider all the religions that are in the world today. How much of it is just a list of rules and laws that they're trying to observe in order that they might obtain their own righteousness? I think about and you know what? Some of those people they put us to shame. We we've been saved by the precious blood of Jesus Christ and have uh eternity in heaven as our home and we know we've been forgiven. And we don't have half the commitment they have. You think about some of these monks that give themselves, spend their entire lives dressed the same way, walking around barefoot Attaining nothing, nothing from this world, no possessions at all, that they could be righteous. And what he's saying here, he says, in comparison to that, What I've asked you to do is not grievous. My burden is light. And I have to agree I have to agree. Compared to a life of sin, his burden is light. Compared to a life of slavery, to man-made righteousness, his burden is light. Boy, his commands are not grievous because when he commands, he empowers God doesn't tell us to do anything that He doesn't enable us to accomplish. I wouldn't tell Josh to come up here and move the organ tonight by himself. God's not going to look at you and say, hey, I want you to do this and not give you the means or capacity to do it. Even with temptation, the Bible says he offers a way of escape. God is is providing for you anything that he asks of you, he enables you to accomplish. His burden is not not grievous. His his burden is light because he's the one that empowers you to carry it Boy. His commands aren't grievous because where love is the motivation, nothing is too hard Some of these teenage boys are going to write that down. Love is the motiv. Where love is the motivation, nothing is too hard. That's a fact. You know, beloved, what I would not do, I mean, what I would look at and say, are you crazy? What I wouldn't do for some stranger out there. I would gladly do for one of my children. Where love is the motivation, no sacrifice is too great. I may in my heart and mind, I may be aware of the sacrifice But I don't feel that it's a sacrifice when love's the motivation Yes a a small example of this uh and I don't know if the glovers are watching, I hope not. But uh The Friday at at Minnie Boy's camp out, I took Brother Glover to the hospital because he had hit his head. And I was burdened for him. Something, I mean he had a concussion and he was hit pretty good. And uh I took him to the hospital and sat with them there from I think it was 3 o'clock until about 10. 30. uh in the evening. And he told me over and over again, just leave. And I said, You can just stop right now 'cause I'm not going anywhere. He's like, you need to get back to the men and boys camp. But I said, there's people there handling that. Right now I need to be here. I'm not leaving until we find out from the doctor how things are going. To me, it was not even a debate. It was not an issue. Because it's the brother in Christ. And what was important is to make sure that he was okay. There was people that were taking care of the camp out, everything was running there fine, there was nothing that they needed me for, we were c available, but I was happy to sit there. Where love's and motivation is not a sacrifice. It's not even an issue. I mean, no big deal. Like this is this is nothing. Glad to do it. Well, what about Christ and what Christ asks of us? Where love is the motivation, nothing's too much. Nothing is too much. There's an old story about a boy that was on his way to school and a stranger saw him walking and he saw that this young lad was carrying on his back a much smaller boy who was very clearly crippled. Unable to walk on his own, the stranger walked up to the lad and he said, Young man, do you carry this boy to school every day? And he said, yes, sir, I sure do. And he says, well, that must be some burden for you to have to carry him every day. He says, oh, no, he's not a burden. He's my brother. Where love is the motivation, nothing is too much. Love, beloved, turns burdens into blessings. Love changes oppression into opportunity. Love takes persecution and makes it a possibility. Love takes hardship and turns it into hope, and it takes problems and turns it into privilege. When love's the motivation. That's what he's describing there. Then lastly this evening, I want you to see the power of faith In verses 4 and 5, he said, For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world. What's the next three words? Even our faith. Even our faith. Beloved, nothing needful is out of reach of faith Nothing needful is out of reach of faith. Faith is powerful because of the possibilities it brings. Matthew 17, verse number 20. We know that Jesus is talking, and he says, Because of your unbelief, verily, verily I say unto you, if you have faith as the grain of a mustard seed, you shall say unto this mountain, remove hence in yonder place, and it shall be removed, and nothing shall be impossible unto you Nothing shall be impossible, beloved. We know that we are told let me ask you, and we need to hurry because I want to wrap it up, but let me ask you, what's some things according to the Bible Engage your your by your your mind and let's talk about what are some things according to the Bible that we do by faith. The Bible gives us several things we do by faith. And you know what they are. You guys can call them out. Prayer. We pray in faith believing. We walk. The Bible says that we walk by faith. What's another one? I'm putting you guys on spot. I know. You got a couple there. There's more when I give them to you, you're gonna say, oh, I knew that. There's one in Romans that's pretty pretty well known. The just shall live. Yeah, there we go. I know you guys knew that one. The just shall live. We know we live by faith. Another one in Romans may be less familiar, but in Romans 11, verse number 20, he says, Well, because of the unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. We stand by faith, we live by faith, we walk by faith. In 2 Chronicles 20, verse number 20, we see that we succeed by faith. Victory is brought through faith. Not only that, in our text, we see that we overcome the world through faith. Faith is powerful because of the possibilities that it brings. Overcoming the world is made possible through faith. God glories in faith because faith glorifies God. You know, beloved, it's easier to do right when I'm with the right person. When I have the right person with me. And sometimes it's much easier to do wrong when you have the wrong person with you. But if you think about this, if it's easier to do right when you have the right person with you, just think about the fact that you've got God with you all the time. You can overcome the world. Why? Because you have God with you all the time. It's by faith that we overcome the world. Faith is powerful, but faith is also progressive. Beloved, we're here to grow in faith, and we grow in faith by growing in our knowledge of God. Romans 10, 17. So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Are you growing in your knowledge of God? People say, boy, I would like to have more faith. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Are you growing in your knowledge of God? If you are, you will be growing in your faith. John defines here this conquering faith as a belief that Jesus is the Son of God. A belief that God, deity, took on flesh and became man that he might save us. We also know that we grow in faith when we go through tribulations. Romans 5, verses 1 through 5. He says, therefore Being justified by faith. There's another one. I have it in my notes and I didn't even add it to the list. Didn't even see it until right now. We're justified by faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By whom also we have access by faith unto the grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of glory of God, and not Only so, but we glory in tribulation also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience hope. And hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. And the Holy Ghost, which is given to us. Tribulations grow our faith. And Blah Bud, because we have this hope in us, we know that one day The final victory will be ours. We overcome the world here through faith, but because of the faith we have in Jesus Christ, one day, not only do we just going to overcome the world, but We're gonna win in the end. That's why we love that song, I'm on the winning side. This world put Christ on the cross, but he didn't stay there. They did their best to lock him in a tomb and to hide away that Savior of the world, but he didn't stay there. He rose again from the grave. And after shame came glory. You may have to endure some shame here on earth, but you know that after shame can come come glory. In the end we're going to win. This world can mock and make fun and laugh, but one day every knee's going to bow. And every tongue's going to confess. As you consider and think about the possibilities of faith, maybe you would read Hebrews chapter 11 and see how it is that all those that are in the hall of faith overcame. That's the power that we have as we live an obedient life. Do you know Obedience is faith in action. God said, do this. Okay, I'm gonna do that That's faith. Sometimes it doesn't make sense, but faith says okay. And we just obey The obedient life. As Christians, that's where we see victory