Alrighty, turning your Bibles tonight to Job chapter number eleven. I'm not sure this is is qualifies as a as a verse by verse, uh, but we are walking through the book of Job Uh we are going to cover eleven through fourteen, chapters eleven through fourteen tonight. Uh and so don't know that we're going to be although we are going to do a lot of reading uh but Not going to be taking time to look into every single verse and see what's there because of the scope of this and the repetitive nature of these accusations. We are this evening looking at the accusation of Zophar. We have already been introduced into this upright man uh whose name was Job. Uh we've read about and learned about his great heartache and trial that he endured and went through. We learn that indeed the godly do suffer. You can be godly and still suffer. And that the trial or test does not necessarily mean that you are in sin or doing wrong It might be a means or a method through which God would want to get the glory. And so we have the opportunity to glorify God. Uh he comes through this and Job's three friends that uh have a different mindset on it. They they are fully convinced that it must be because of sin and they have different perspectives and how they're communicating or uh letting Job know that. After sitting with Job for seven days, Eliphaz opens his mouth and charges Job with a gross uh sin, just gross sin. It says, Man, y you know, you You've certainly done wrong. Uh otherwise, what other explanation would there be for for this trial you're going through? Not to be outdone? Uh the second of his friends, Bildad, accuses him of being a hypocrite. He says, well, you must be a hypocrite. You're declaring your innocence. You're declaring your uh your uprightness and yet uh we know that you're not obviously because God is judging you and you are going through this trial because of that. So these spiritual men are sadly mistaken But in their minds, and I say spiritual in quotes, because in their minds they're fully convinced that this is the case In their minds, they are coming and approaching Job from a spiritual mindset. They are approaching Job and communicating to him what they feel is right, and there is no margin for error in their thought process. We need to guard against that anytime we are communicating or dealing with people uh at the very least we should be open to the fact that it's possible that we're wrong. It's possible that we've made a mistake. We have misinterpreted the situation, we have misapplied the statement. We've uh you know it's just we we've got to be careful about, you know, I know what he meant. Or I know this is what, you know, we gotta be careful. Leave this is where Job's free friends come in, and they're they're fully convinced in their mind from what they believe is a spiritual mindset. and they are attacking Job, but we know according to the Bible, the truth of the matter is is that they were mistaking. And so we're going to see first of all chapter number eleven tonight where we see Zophar's false Disparagement. Is it okay to learn a word? So hopefully you know what disparaging is when you disparage somebody that's uh an accusation that is a uh derogatory uh remark, um a kind of a a slam on them. Uh the Dictionary definition is scornful abusive remarks. I think that's pretty fitting for Zophar's attack here is some scornful abusive remarks against uh Job. And so we see here right from the beginning, we're gonna kinda walk through this and to try and point some things out to you, but He says, Then answered Zophar the Name of Thite and said, Should not the multitude of words been answered, and should a man full of talk be justified He's saying, boy, you've talked a whole lot, Job. Do you think just because you've said a whole lot it justifies you? You think just because you're you're good at communicating or just because you've been able to say a lot of things is somehow that wipes away your stain or covers your sin, this certainly is not the case. And he literally attacks him here and calls him a liar. He said, should, verse number two, should thy lies Make men hold their peace. And when thou mockest, should no man make thee ashamed For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure and I am clean in thine eyes. But oh that God would speak and open his lips against thee. He says, Job, you've declared your innocence, but boy, wouldn't it be nice if God would just declare you know have you ever wanted God to do that? Haven't you ever been in a situation where you thought, boy, it sure would be nice if God would just come on the scene and and answer this question, or if God would just declare the truth to this matter. And of course from Zophar's perspective that God was going to declare that Job was a sinner. But if God had spoken up, he would have realized and Zophar could have heard him, he would have realized that Job was not a sinner. He says, boy, you're pure, but you're just lying. He desired God to speak up and to declare Job a sinner. And since God wasn't going to do it, Zophar thought, well, it's upon me to do it. Since God's not going to tell you how wicked you are, how much of a liar you are, I'm going to tell you how much of a liar you are Look at verse number six. This is mind-boggling on its surface, and then in application, it's a very powerful truth. Look what he says. He says, and that he would show thee the secret of wisdom And sorry, that thy that the that they are double to that which is known. Therefore, am I reading the right verse? I'm an 11-year. Therefore, that God Exasters of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth He says to Job, after everything that you've been through, after everything that you've lost, Your family, your home, all your worldly possessions, your physical health. Job, you you haven't even got half of what you deserve. The mindset of Zophar is mind-boggling to me. That he could stand next to somebody that has endured that and speak that way. But let's look at it from the other side, and let's be let's be honest, every one of us Are right now living and enjoying the bountiful mercies of a loving God. And we have not received half of what we deserve. We are right now enjoying the blessings of God. And he says to Job here, after everything that he went through, Job, you haven't got half of what you deserve. And and I wonder, friends, sometimes we stand before God and we want to get upset at him. We want to say, Boy, I don't deserve this, or this is not fair, and it why is this happening to me? And of course Job asked this of God why But sometimes we need to get back to and remember, boy, we haven't got half of what we deserve. God has been good to us, and we've enjoyed his blessings for sure, his bountiful mercies on our life. Boy, it's amazing God's grace and goodness to us. He describes Job's understanding of God in Verses 7 through 10. He says, canst thou by searching find out God? He says, can you just by searching? Well God says Knock and it shall be opened unto you, seek and ye shall find. Beloved, we can know God if we search for Him As hidden treasure. We can know the mind of God. He says, Canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection? It is as high as heaven. What canst thou do? uh deeper than hell, what canst thou know? The measure thereof is longer than the earth, and the breadth thereof than the sea. If he can't if he cut off and shut up or gathereth together, then who can hinder him. He says, boy, God is so big and so deep and so high, and we know that his thoughts are not our thoughts, and that we truly can never and will never think on the level of God But beloved God exhorts us, encourages us to go and to try and get to know him. Amen. We should strive to know him, and we have the pleasure of knowing him as he wants to reveal himself to us. Yes. We see a worthy ambition in verses 13, 14, and 15. He says here, if thou prepare thine heart and stretch out thy hands toward him, if iniquity be in thy hand, put it far away. But that would be a worthy ambition. Amen. And and Zophar is just asking of him this question. He says, Man, Job, if you have iniquity in your hand, would you would you I mean come on, look at everything you've been through, would you put it far away from you? He says, and let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles. Verse number 15, for then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot. This is the worthy ambition that we would live spotless, holy, clean lives before God Regardless of Zophar's inaccuracy in his description of Job, we can learn from this and say, yes, this is how we should be living. We should be living clean, holy lives before God with without spot. He demands him to put away his iniquity. as he continues on down through the balance of of that chapter. So so far, you know, his false disparagement, his accusations against Job. Then we get into chapters 12 and 13 where Job begins to provide an answer. We see his answers he says there at the beginning and Job answered, chapter number 12. And Job answered, no doubt But ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you. Notice Job's sarcasm here. He says, Oh, yeah, you obviously have all the answers. Good thing you're still around, because boy, when you pass away, the wisdom on the earth is going to be gone. Uh I'm not sure that sarcasm is the correct way to deal with people. Uh pretty much I'm I would say it's probably not. Uh but we do see Job here. I think he was probably a little bit irritated with no far and he's like, whoa, don't you know everything? Uh look at the wisdom that you're bringing to the table. Uh and uh boy, when you're gone it's all going to be gone. Job just uh I mean he kind of says, Boy, you you you see the the sarcasm here. Then Job answers and he says, Listen, but I have understanding as well as you I am not inferior to you. Yea, who knoweth not such things as these? He says, listen, we all know how God works. We all understand these truths. What you're sharing is not something groundbreaking or earth-shattering. These are things that all of us understand. He says, my knowledge is not inferior to your knowledge in regards to God. He says in verse number 4, I am as one mocked of his neighbor, one who calleth upon God and he answereth him. The just upright man is laughed to scorn. He says, Well, you guys are laughing at me, but I'm upright. I'm communicating this to you. There is nothing in my heart. There is no sin there So we see the summarizing of Job here in these following verses, talking about how God works in the lives of men. And he gives us some examples of how God works. They understand it to be true. And he says, boy, this is what we need to know. Look at verse number seven. He says, but ask now the beast, and they shall teach thee. And the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee, or speak to the earth, and it shall tea teach thee, and the fish of the sea shall declare unto you. He says gives us an example as he says, Listen, the beasts of the field are used to God. you know, working. They they understand the laws of nature. They understand what God has established and set up. The earth itself functions inside the realms of God Almighty. And so You know, you could look to them and speak to them and they would tell you exactly how God works. He says In verse number 10, in whose hand is the soul of every living thing and the breath of all mankind. He says, we know how God works. We know that ultimately God is in control. The breath of every one of us, from my children who have already passed away, to myself, to every living thing. Our breath is in his hands. Beloved, your breath is in the hands of God. Your ability to breathe and to live and to continue to function is in the hands of God. He says in verses 12 through 13, he talks about how wisdom is supposed to come with age. He says, with the ancient or with the ancient is wisdom, and in length of days, excuse me, is understanding. With him is wisdom and strength, and he hath counsel and understanding. He said, Listen With wisdom comes understanding with the ancient, with the idea of that the longer you live, the more you should know. And we ought to, as young people, respect our elders We ought to gain wisdom and understanding from those that have been around for a while. We ought to seek counsel from those with the gray head. uh so that we can learn. You know, you don't have to learn everything by the school of hard knocks. You can just ask some wisdom and let the mature people teach you and keep you from from a lot of heartache. But a lot of times young people don't want to hear the wisdom of the mature. They want to just do what they want to do. And they l many times get themselves in a mess because of it. But he said this, and if there's anybody that has wisdom, I mean the ancient is wisdom and God is the ultimate. We know that I believe it is in the book of Daniel that God is called the Ancient of Days. And he is the Ancient of Days and He is wisdom. And God said Job says that got with God is wisdom. And verse number 13 there, with him is wisdom and strength, and he hath counsel and understanding. Behold, he breaketh down and it cannot be built up again. He shutteth up man, and there can be no opening. Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and there dry up, and also he sendeth them out and they overturn the earth. He's saying, listen, God is in control. This is how God works with men. There's nothing we can nothing we can do about it. God is the one controlling these things. We know that this is to be true. Now, all the way down through the end of this chapter, he's talking about how God works. You could literally read these verses and kind of point out or describe some attributes of God, some characteristics of God, who he is, the power he has, the the right that he has to rule, the strength that he has to rule, his ability to discern and to uh I mean just look at 22, he discovereth deep things out of darkness and bringeth out the light, the shadow of death. He increaseth the nation and destroyeth them. He enlargeth the nations and strengtheneth them again. God is in control. He he he the we know over there in the book of Daniel he talks about how he sets up kings and tears down kings. That that God is the one in control, and he is the one that is setting up a nation or tearing down a nation. And ultimately, this is how God is working among men. We see as we open up in chapter number 13 that he says, Lo, mine eye hath seen all this. Mine ear hath heard and understood it. Beloved, have you seen God work? Have you seen God directing the affairs of men? Have you seen God leading in your life? Have you paused to think about what it is that he's doing? Have you paused to understand his working in your life? Realizing that it that is him, Zoph uh Job here in response to Zophar says, I've seen God work. I know these things to be true. uh I understand the power and strength of God and his ability to you know he yes, he could take my family, he could take my wealth. I mean what who am I? God can move an entire nation if he wills and and God is in control of all the beast and the the fish and the fowl. I mean God is in control of all this and certainly I've seen these things and I understand it to be true. Again, he says, what ye know, the same do I know. I am not inferior to you. Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God. He says, but ye are forgers of lies. You're all the physicians of no value. Have you ever gone to the doctor you thought didn't help you? That's what he says. He says, You're a physician that has done me no good. You guys have been here all this time and you're supposed to be helping me and you you opened your mouth and you told me all of what you thought about what What you've told me has not helped me at all. You haven't given me any insight to my situation. You haven't strengthened me. You haven't aided me. What you have provided for me was absolutely nothing. When we were in the Philippines, uh I get uh not as much anymore. But I do get chronic sore throats. I used to get really bad sore throats when I was younger and they would turn into bronchitis and it would be very bad and we've never had For most of my life we didn't have health insurance and uh so but for a long time we lived in El Paso and we could just go over to Mexico and we could get a moxicillin in Mexico without a prescription. So we just go over there and get it So any time that I'm uh in a foreign field I go to the doctor and I you know most of the time you can get amoxicillin without a prescription because that will take care of my sore throat. And so when I was in India in twenty eighteen I came back with I don't know, probably two hundred and fifty pills of Amoxacel, you know? And uh you're like, what now There's seven of us in our family. And uh not only that, there's probably people in this room that I've given them oxicone to and said, hey, if you need some oxygen, here you go, this will help you. Uh and uh You know, so I've I've provided it for others. But it's all gone. Well, when I was in the Philipp in the Philippines, I wanted to pick some up. We went to the uh pharmacist and uh Of course through through Bill. So I he says, Well how many do you want? I said, Two hundred he's like, I ain't asking for that I said I said, What? He's like you could think you're dealing drugs or something. What I can ask him for two hundred pills. I said, Well, a normal prescription would be twenty-one pills You're supposed to take three a day for seven days for a normal prescription, and you're supposed to take them all. If you start a moxicone, you're supposed to go through the regimen. And uh so Tell him you we need twenty-one pills. And he's like, okay. So we go in there and, you know, he's asking the guy, like, I need twenty-one pills. I I think he should have been, you know, like if you just say it like you mean it But I think he was kinda like, could we get twenty-one pills? And the the the pharmacists ask what do you need 'em for? So he looks at me and he's like, What do you need him for? I'm like, Well I need 'em for a sore throat. And the pharmacist goes, Nah, I think you have a cold. You don't need it I'm like he doesn't know what I got. He hasn't checked he hasn't examined me. He hasn't checked me out. He has no idea what I need. He's just like randomly, nah, you got a cold. You don't need it And he wouldn't give 'em to us. I'm like, well, we'll go down the street. So we ended up did finding some. We had to go to several pharmaces to get a few pills, but uh we didn't come back with two hundred. Billy Billy was not that aggressive. He wouldn't do that But um we got some, but I'm saying that sometimes you you know the doctor just randomly like he's not gonna be any help at all. He's not gonna do what you need and that's what This you know, Job is saying here about so far. So you didn't you didn't help me at all. So he says here that what you've done, what you've given me has been useful useless. Look at verse number five. This would be some advice we could take to heart as well. He says to him, Oh, that you would altogether hold your peace. And look what he says. He says, and it should be your wisdom. He says, man, if you would have just kept your mouth shut. You were here for seven days and you sat quietly and and I mean that was great. If you would have stayed that way, that would have been awesome. You know the old saying, uh it's better somebody think you a fool than you open your mouth and prove it. And uh so that's that's what he's saying to Zophar here. You know, uh God tells us that in the book of Proverbs. He said, even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise. It is even somebody that doesn't have any knowledge, if he can control his mouth and keep from opening it and telling everybody he doesn't know anything, he could be thought to be wise. And while that would really help us, I think, just to help control listen, let's put a watch before my mouth, oh God. He says in 17 to Proverbs 1728, and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. That's what he tells them there. Hey, you need to be be careful. Then Job goes on to say that, listen, you're lying and you're doing it in the name of God, verses 6 through 8. He he says, hey, Hear now my reasoning and hearken to the pleadings of my lips, while ye speak wickedly for God, and talk deceitfully for him. You see, Zophar was coming with the mindset, this is what God wants me to tell you. And Job saying, Listen, you're you are deceitfully, you're communicating deceitfully, you are lying, you're saying things that are not true And you're doing it in the name of God. Well, that's puts us in pretty dangerous ground, I think. And many times there are a lot of people that do that. People teaching and preaching false doctrine in the name of God that is not in line with the Scripture, the Holy Word of God. Yes. Well He tells them in verses 12 through 14 that he's forgetting listen you're forgetting where you came from, you're forgetting that God is in control. Then he We see the spirituality of Job in verses 15 through 19. These are some well-known and very powerful verses here, but notice what he says there. We we've got to point them out because these are key to the book of Proverbs, but he says, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. But I will maintain mine own ways before him. He also shall be my salvation. For an hypocrite shall not come before him Hear diligently my speech and my declaration with your ears. Behold, now I have ordered my cause, I know that I shall be justified. Who is he that will plead with me? For now if I hold my tongue I shall give up the ghost. He says, listen, God is in control, and if he slays me, though he slay me, yet will I trust him Because a hypocrite's God is not going to allow a hypocrite to stand before him. So if I'm a hypocrite, as you say Let God be the judge, and I'll put myself in the hands of God, because God is in control, and he he trusts God here and just turns and turns to God. Goes on to describe many things in the preceding verses. He says, boy, I'm being broken like a leaf that is tossed in the wind. I'm being pursued like dry struggle in verse number 25. You've written bitter things against me in 26. You brought up my past in verse number twenty-six. You know, we see that look at verse number twenty-six, for thou writest bitter things against me and makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth. I'm thankful that when God forgives, he forgets. And that whether it's the sin of a young man or the sin of an older man That when we come to the cross and we put it under the shed blood of Jesus Christ, that it is forgotten. Amen? That it's gone. And we see, you know the uh the internet is forever. And uh we are seeing more and more with politicians and circumstances that we get exposed to That these people are being held accountable for the sins of their youth. Things they did when they were young and stupid. And should they have done them? No. Should they be held accountable for it thirty-five years later on a night when he was seventeen and, you know, got inebriated, got drunk, went out and did something he shouldn't have done. No, he shouldn't have done that. But that was thirty-five years ago. He's already, you know got all of that right with whoever was involved that many years ago and whatever. But uh you know, in our mud slinging society people want to bring bring up anything and when the internet has no Uh erase button. You know, it's all there and it's gonna be there forever. Uh the sins of our youth are gonna come back. And uh I just exhort you, encourage you, be careful what you do, uh, because it's all gonna come back. We know that one day we stand before God and it's all gonna be made known. But even here on earth it can it can be made known. He brings up his sins of his youth. He describes the idea in verse number 27 that he's put his feet in stocks. As I evaluate that, I think that it's the kind of idea of them locking them into a set, this is what we believe, this is where you fit, this is the box we have you in, kind of you're restricted to this. But they certainly evaluated Job's life unfairly. And we're going to get to the concluding thoughts here as we see Job's feelings concerning death in chapter number 14. And there's a lot in this chapter. We see verses 1 through 6 where he describes for us man's life as a whole. Again, some familiar verses here where we see man that is born of a woman is a few days and full of trouble. We know that to be true. That's life. There's trouble in life. It rains on the just and the unjust. We all are going to endure and have trouble. He cometh forth like a flower and is cut down, and fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not, and dost thou open thine eyes upon such him one, and uh bringest me into judgment with thee He describes this uh the life of men uh that's short, it's gonna pass fast, comes up quick, and like a flower is cut down. In verse number four, he says, Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? Not one. You know, that's a biblical principle. You can't bring something clean out of an unclean thing. You know, society today wants to live with the mindset that uh people are a product of their environment because they don't want to just admit the sinful nature that men have and so they feel like well if we could clean up the environment We would have doctors and lawyers. But the fact of the matter is, is if you take a pig out of the pig sty and put it in your kitchen, He doesn't turn into a boy. He's still a pig. And men have a sinful nature. And the environment, by and large, is a product of men, not the other way around. The most powerful example that we have of that is Adam and Eve were in a perfect environment. And yet they sinned. They brought sin into that perfect environment. So you could give somebody or put men into the most idyllic situation I heard this week I you know I've been studying finances, I told you that on Sunday, and uh this guy says I could give a bum off the street a million dollars and in six months he would be back on the street. Because the problem is not how much money he has. The problem is how he's handling the money he has, how he's living, the decisions he's making. And that's the situation. Society wants to remove the accountability that individuals have for their circum their circumstances and for their decisions. Until we want to say, well, the environment is the problem and if we change the environment they would be fine, but that's not the case. And that's what he's saying here, he says, man, can Bring a clean thing out of an unclean nose. Something that's unclean cannot be made clean just by itself. So And I need I need to hurry here as we move on. The most important thing I want to get to is a little bit later in this chapter. Uh but we know verse five tells us that our days are numbered, seeing his days are determined. The number of his months are with thee. Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass. You know, God has appointed all of our bounds. Our habitation has been set by God. You know, it's only by God's grace that you were born here in America. You could have been born in Haiti, the poorest country in the world, and grew up living on the street. You know, I mean just it's only by God's grace. The bounds of our habitation, where we're at, and the number of our days is is set by God. God knows how long each and every one of us are going to live. We see in verses seven through fourteen he describes and talks about this, the death of man, and that We we are established, God knows that we are gonna die one day. The end of our life is at hand. Verses 16 through 22, you can read this, but it describes and talks about the corruption of sin and how sin corrupts man and the problems that it creates. You know, we are supposed to be every Christian is supposed to be salt and light. And we are supposed to have an impact on our society, on the people that we are around and that we have the opportunity to influence and touch. It's up to us to make that difference. We'll go to verse number seventeen. He tells us in verse number seventeen. One of the things that God does with our sin, and the Bible tells us there's four things that God does with our sin. One here, he tells us is my transgression is sealed up in a bag. And thou showest up mine iniquity. So this is a description of God, how he puts away our sin far from us. We know he cast it as far as the east is from the west. We know that he puts it in the deepest part of the ocean. uh that he seals it up in a bag and another portion of the Bible says he cut it behind his back to remember no more. So we we know that this is how God handles our sin. I'm grateful grateful for that But as he describes and talks about the turmoil and the heartache that sin causes, and ultimately we know that death is caused by sin. I think Job's pondering in his heart and his mind like it maybe his own death. Like my death is at hand. My days are like this has got to be close to the end for me. I'm sick as can be and everything else has been taken. I've got nothing else here and uh after all I've told God that I don't really have anything to live for, so maybe my days are are at hand and and my time is up. But he asked a question that has been asked by man since the beginning of time. If you would look in verse number 14. He says, if a man die, shall he live again? And all the days of my appointed time will I wait till my change come. So there's several things very powerful in this verse here. First, we know that a man's gonna die. We are all gonna die at some point. But he asks the question that men have always wanted to know is if a man dies, will he live again? Men have always sought for the fountain of youth, the the means or capacity by which they may be able to live forever It's been something that men have always wondered about or sought after. Well, science today says no You know, the the humanist or the atheist says, well, no, when you die, you're dead, and your body just goes into the ground, and that's the end. But God says yes God says that man will live again. And we see that in the pages of Scripture. Several times throughout Scripture, we see that God raised Lazarus from the dead, and he raised others from the dead, and ultimately we know that God raised up, well Jesus Christ himself raised himself from the dead. He said, if I die three days, then I will take it up again. He's going to take his life up again. He raised up from the dead three days later, and by that is a testament for you and I that we will live again, even though we die. And so that behooves us to live a certain way in this life, knowing that we will live again. This description of life being given back to us, and I don't have time to develop this, but I think that you guys understand that um Men are born dead in their trespasses and sin. So if a man die, will he live again? Man is born in a dead and has trespassed in sin because he's been separated from God forever and ever. Well, the Bible talks about three things. That give life. And would you look at back at verse number seven in Job here? And let me see here. He says in chapter fourteen and verse number seven says For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stalk thereof die in the ground. He said, though this plant is dead, although the tree got cut down, and the root dried up and the stock is dead and starting to crack and it looks like there is no life at all there. He says In verse number seven, there's it will not cease, verse number eight, though the root therefore wax old and the earth and the stock thereof dry in the ground, verse number nine, yet through the scent of water it will bud and bring forth burrows like a plant. Out at the property a couple of years ago we cut down a tree. It was all dead. The tree was dead. There was no life in this tree. There was just this trunk standing there, the top of it had already pretty much fallen out and we'd been picking it up out of the yard for a while. And so we cut it off level with the ground. It's right on the corner of the mulch bed there on the far side where we set the tent. And uh wouldn't you know that the next spring, a bush grew up out of that dead stump that we cut down. I mean just all of these saplings coming up out of this stump that the tree was completely dead. There was no life in it. We cut it off at the ground. Then next thing, next spring, but for the scent of water Life came. So in the short time that I have left here, I want to just give you three things that the Bible tells us gives life. And uh you understand these already, but they're the fact of the matter is is we need living water if we're going to live again. And so first of all, we have the Son of God as the source of life. In John chapter 4, verses 10 through 14. Jesus answered, and he said unto her, If thou knowest the gift of God and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked him, and he would have given thee living water. The woman said unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep, from whence hast thou living water. Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which giveth us the well, and drinketh thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again, but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst, but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up to everlasting life. So the the water that Jesus Christ gives is a water of life and the dead heart needs Jesus Christ. To have new life brought into it. The heart of man is dead in his trespasses and sins, but we need Jesus to bring that the source of life. He is the living water. And the man that drinks of that will never thirst again. Then secondly, we see that Scripture is the source of spiritual life. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Ephesians 5. 26 says that he may sanctify and cleanse it with washing of water by the Word. So we are describing here in Job a tree that is dead and there is no life except for the scent of water If they would just get around the water. If the water could just come, new life would sprout from that dead plant. And so man who's dead in his trespasses and sin needs to get around the living water, Jesus Christ. and new life can be born in that dead heart. And then we need to get into the Word of God that we're washed. by the Word of God. We're made clean by the Word of God. We're changed by the Word of God. Spiritual life is given to us through the Word of God. You and I, beloved, are clay. You know the example, and I don't have time to develop it, but you know that we are clay. We are to be molded in the potter's hand. But beloved, the hard heart is not ready to be molded. And if you understand how clay is shaped and how clay is molded, is they take that lump of clay and they begin to drop water on it And they add more and more water, and that clay becomes to be gets to the point where it's pliable and they can begin to shape it. Well, beloved, sometimes our heart is too hard. And ourselves were too set in our ways. But what we need to do is get into the Word of God and let the water of the Word of God begin to saturate our souls so that God has the uh liberty to begin to mold us and shape us. Only when we get in that water and allow that water to saturate us is our heart going to be soft enough for God to be able to shape us. So not only is it the Son of God and the Scripture, the Word of God, but also I would have you see tonight, lastly, it is the Spirit of God. In John 7. 36, this is supernatural life. In John 7. 37 he says, In the last days, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and he cried, saying, If a man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. And he that believeth on me, as the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. There is that description of living water that comes why? Comes where? From the sun Who is living water? He says, if you'll believe on him, you can have that living water. But then notice what he says in verse number 39, John 7. 39. He says, But this spake he of the Spirit. Which they that believe on him should receive, for the Holy Ghost was not yet given because that Jesus was not yet glorified. So The Holy Spirit hadn't come yet, but he was describing and talking to them about how the Holy Spirit was going to work in the lives of men. Once the Son went to be with the Father, then the Holy Spirit would come and work in the lives of men. And beloved, the Spirit of God is what guides us and gives us supernatural life. It leads you. You and I, we love to or would want to experience the supernatural. Want to see God do miraculous things. But it doesn't happen unless we're willing to submit and surrender and yield to the Spirit of God. Letting the Spirit of God lead you in your life. The more sensitive you are, the more miraculous you will observe. That's just the fact. When you and I are led by the Spirit of God, let God direct in our steps. The most recent and most powerful example that I have of that in is probably The Saturday morning where we had been out soul winning and we were all done and the Holy Spirit said to me, You need to go by and see Mary Ellen and Rob And I dropped the family off and I said, I gotta go. I'll eat lunch when I get back. And I drove over to Mary Ellen and Rob's house and I knocked on the door and when she opened the door she began to cry. And she looked at me and she said, You have no idea how much I need you to be here right now. And that day is the night uh the the day that Rob and Jim put their faith and trust in Christ that Saturday morning. Why? Because I was sensitive to the Spirit of God directing my steps Had I said, man, I'm already done. I was already out and I came back and my day's done. I got other things I need to do today. I'll just talk to them tomorrow at church. That wouldn't have happened. If we want to experience the supernatural life, we have got to allow the Spirit of God to work in our hearts. Isaiah 44, 3 says, For I will pour water on him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground I will pour out my spirit. The question tonight is, how thirsty are you? That life is available to any and all who would want it, but just how thirsty are you? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? I'm going to ask the pianist to come and play.