Take your Bibles this evening for our second message tonight, turn to the book of Romans, not chapter twelve, Romans chapter 16. We're going to be going to Romans chapter 16 tonight to look at our text for this evening. This year, as some of them mentioned, the theme at Empowered Youth was a theme called Rising Above, kind of had a space and astronaut theme to it, but really the idea was that We as believers have been called to a higher life. There's a high calling that's been placed on us that we're supposed to have our mindset on things that are heavenly, things that are eternal, and not to be so distracted by the things of this earth. The theme verse for the week was Colossians 3. 2, set your affection on things above and not on things on the earth. The teens were encouraged to rise above the things of this world and to dedicate their lives in service to God. They're called to a higher purpose, called to leave sin and pursue holiness. Something, however, that was a little bit different this week than in years past was that they actually had two theme verses. Um they were both repeated every service, so we got to hear these verses, uh work on memorizing them. Colossians 3. 2 was one, and that was really the the focus of the week. So it was interesting to me that they even had this second verse because it wasn't highlighted very much. Actually I only remember it being mentioned uh in one of the messages, but because we've repeating it during every service, the thoughts really stirred in my heart that I'd like to share with you tonight from Romans chapter 16, verse number 19. Romans 16, verse number 19, if you found your place there, the Bible says, for your obedience is come abroad unto all men. I am glad therefore on your behalf, but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good and simple concerning evil. So the portion of that verse that we would repeat was just there at the end where it said, I would have you wise unto that which is good. and simple concerning evil. Just for a few moments tonight, I would like to share with you some thoughts on the honor of ignorance. The honor of ignorance. Let's ask God to bless the service this evening. Lord, we love you. Lord, we thank you for those who are here. We thank you for those who are at home. We thank you for this medium we have of this live streaming to Uh reach out to people here in our church that can't be here due to sickness, Lord, or even people around the country or in around the world that tune in into these services, Lord, just the opportunity we have to minister to them through your word. I pray that they would that would be accomplished tonight, that you would be with the message that's already been given and the message being given now, Lord, that they would honor you, Lord, and point Point people to your word, point people to what you have them to be and to do as believers, Father. Pray you bless us for these few moments this evening. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So Paul here is writing, he's writing the book of Romans. He's getting down to the end. Chapter 16 is the last chapter in this book. And as it gets here to the end, he's making a lot of um personal greetings. Hey, say hi to so-and-so, say hi to so-and-so. Not quite in those words, but that's what he was doing as he's closing out the book And then he throws a couple extra things here on the end of the chapter, but also on the end of this book, almost as a PS of sorts, like you'd be writing a letter and say, oh yeah Here's something else you need to keep in mind. Here's something else that you need to know. He has two of these. He has here at the end the the what was commonly called the doxology scene in verses 24. through twenty-seven. But the one before that is the one we're reading a portion of, and that's in verses seventeen down through verse number nineteen. is here giving the church a word of warning, a word of caution, especially related to those who spread false doctrine. He warns them in verse number seventeen to avoid them that spread this false doctrine. Look there, it says, Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause division and offenses contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned and avoid them. So he's stressing to this church, he said, you know doctrine, you know what's right, so avoid those that are teaching things contrary to the doctrine that you've learned. In verse number 18, he describes these people as for they which for they for they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ but their own belly. Someone who is trying to get a Christian to do something contrary to doctrine that they have been taught is not someone serving Christ. They are self-serving. That's what he's warning them about, these false teachers. And in warning about these false teachers and telling us, he's telling them to w watch out for those who are trying to get you to do something contrary to the doctrine that you have learned. Now this doctrine that he's talking about would be the doctrine from the Word of God. And it could also specifically apply to the book of Romans. It's a very doctrinal book in the New Testament. That is to say, that the doctrine that they learned was biblical doctrine. This warning does not limit them to only believe the things that they were taught as children. It's a warning to stick to the truths found in the Word of God. So when you have learned doctrinal things, when you have learned what is right, you stick with what's right, and when somebody's trying to get you to go away from what's right, you avoid them. You mark them, you say, I remember that guy, that guy tried to get me to do something contrary to what I know is right, and I'm not going to listen to him. So that's the warning he gives them about these false teachers. After describing them as false teachers and self-serving instead of Christ-serving, he describes what they will try to do in verse number 19. Verse 18 it says but by good works and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple. We'll talk about this idea of being simple here in a m in a minute, but notice it's that by good, by sounding good and sounding reasonable reasonable that they're attempting to deceive. You know, the devil and those who are working contrary to the things of God, they're not always blatant in in their false doctrine. They're always blatant in Now that is out there, but those that would try to get someone who knows what's right and trying to get them to do what's wrong, they're a lot more subtle. The devil is a very subtle liar. He's very crafty. He sneaks in. He doesn't show up at your house smelling like smoke, having horns, a tail, and a pitchfork, laughing maniacally at you. No, no, he comes in very very subtly, sneaks in, and would attempt to deceive you, as it says here, by things that sound good and sound reasonable. He and his followers, can the Bible tells us, can transform themselves into ministers of light and righteousness. And 2 Corinthians 11, 13 through 15, this is described. For such are false apostles and deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness whose end shall be according to their works. So his warning here is that people are going to come in and try to deceive them, these warning warning them, watch out for these false teachers. They're going to come in, they're going to try to deceive you. They're not serving Christ. They're serving themselves. But why are they doing it? That's seen at the beginning of verse number nineteen. It says, For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. Everyone knew that these Christians were Everybody around, everybody in the area, everybody knew these people are part of a good church. These people are doing what's right. These people are serving God. And what did that do? That made them a target for the attacks of Satan You know, a Christian they get saved, somebody who gets saved, the devil's lost them as far as their eternal soul, but if they don't do anything for God, it doesn't really bother him because they're not accomplishing anything. It's when somebody decides to start doing what's right that they put a target on themselves for Satan's attack. So Paul warns them and says, you guys are doing good. You're doing what's right. You know what's right, you do what's right, and we're glad for it, and you've got a great testimony. People around you know that you're doing what's right. But you need to watch out. But because you're doing what's right, Satan's going to come and he's going to attack, he's going to send in false teachers that would try to deceive you. And this is a warning for even our young people coming back from a conference like that, like we just went to. You made decisions for God. You decided to do this right, you decided to start taking steps for God. You just told everybody that you were going to do good, and you put a target on yourself That's a good thing because you want to be a Christian that Satan's mad at. If Satan's happy with you, you're probably not a very good Christian. So you want to be a Christian that Satan is targeting. So he warns them that they've made themselves a target because they're doing what's right. So Paul gives them a solution. He said, here's what you need to do in order to continue doing this right, in order to stand up to his attacks. End of verse number 19, and kind of the part of the theme verse of the week. It says, I would have you wise unto that which is good And simple concerning evil. Wise unto that which is good and simple concerning evil. And this is where our thoughts are going to come from tonight. First of all, we see that there is a need for knowledge. There is a need for knowledge. He says, I would have you to be wise. Paul says, I want you. I want you to grow in wisdom. I want you to grow in knowledge. You know, there's a lack of wisdom that's very common among believers when it comes to the things of God. But God doesn't want us to stay that way. God doesn't want us to stay without wisdom. He wants us to grow in wisdom. He wants us to grow in knowledge. This starts with the knowledge of our salvation. Now, we understand the first step of having a relationship with God is putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. You understand the things of God, you believe the things of God, and you get saved But after that, the first step of knowledge that you need to take is knowing your salvation. God wants you to have a no-so salvation. There are so many Christians who live their entire lives unstable because I they don't even know if they're saved or not. Well, I I I I think I got saved, but then I did this, and now I'm not sure, and and uh they're just double-minded regarding their salvation, and it makes them unstable in all their ways. We can see that in the book of James So God wants you to grow in your wisdom. And the first thing that is good that we need to be wise about is our salvation. So we're not going to take time to preach it. We've done so in the last couple months, talked about this idea of dealing with doubt Period of the church, you can go back and listen to some of those messages, but you need to know about your salvation. You need to know that. And God wants you to know that. After salvation, the next thing God wants you to know is His Word. We see in the Great Commission that we're commanded to go out and to reach people with the gospel. But immediately and part of the Great Commission, immediately after that salvation, Jesus tells them when they get saved, what you need to do is to Teach them. Teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. Anything God put into His word, that's what God wants a new believer to learn. If it's in the Bible, it's something that we should know. It's something that we should grow in and knowledge. He says, observe all things. All things that Jesus taught, all things that Jesus commanded, all things that are found in God's word are the things that we need to know. We need to be taught. We need to learn. the Word of God. In fact, we see in the Bible also that we should know the Word of God to the point where we can teach it to others. Paul was reprimanding a church and he told them, he says, you got to the point where you should have been a teacher. And I had to give you back the simple things, the milk of the Word of God. The expectation was that any believer who is part of a church should grow in their knowledge of the Word of God to the point that they can teach other people And that's what God wants you to grow in. When he says, I want you to be wise unto that which is good, he's saying, I need you to grow to the point where you know the Word of God and you know it well enough that you can share it with somebody else That you can teach somebody. It's a place that we should be growing. We should know it to the point where we can teach others. We also should know the Word of God to the point where we can defend our faith. 1 Peter 3, verse number 15 says, But sanctify the Lord God in your heart. And be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. And there's an idea of apologetics of the fact that we can defend our faith, that we know the Word of God. We know what God teaches, we know what we believe, and we can stand up for what we believe. It's something that we should desire to grow in as far as being wise into that which is good. Is the Word of God good? Are we wise considering the Word of God? Do we know it well? How well can we defend it? Do you know why you come to church? Biblically, what does the Bible say about it? Do you know why you use the King James Version Bible? Do you know why we practice baptism by immersion after salvation? Do you know why you believe in the deity of Christ? Do you know why you're a Baptist? Do you know why good works cannot bring you salvation? These are things in the Word of God that we should know as believers. And Paul told the church if you're going to stand up against these attacks, You need to know what's right. Because he says you have that, they're going to try to pull you away from the doctrine that you've learned. If you haven't learned the doctrine, it's going to be pretty easy to pull you away from it. God wants you to know about your salvation. God wants you to know His word, God also wants you to know his will. We have two aspects of the will of God and what was mentioned by one of the teens in their testimonies about learning God's will One is called the revealed will of God. That's what's found in the Word of God. What God told us in the Bible He wants us to do, that's part of God's revealed will. We also have God's specific will, what God wants you to do and behave and act and do as a as a person and as an individual. God has a plan for you. And He wants you to know what it is, and He wants you to fulfill that will for your life. So God wants you to know His will. God also wants you to know what is good. What should you be doing as a Christian? What should you be wearing? What should you be listening to? What should you be putting into or onto your body? What relationship should you have? What hobbies should you have? What entertainment you should enjoy? Do you have a Bible answer to any of those questions? God wants you to know what is good. God wants you to know what is right. It's very important for us to know what is good if we're going to guard against things that are evil. He says, I want you to be wise concerning that which is good. If you want to protect yourself from evil, you have to know what is right. A few weeks ago, a pastor preached a message on dealing with false teachers. And one thing about dealing with false teachers, a principle or a truth, or a rule when it comes to identifying things that are false, is that you must know the truth in order to identify error You must know what is right in order to identify what is wrong. You must know what is good in order to identify what is evil For sake of illustration, imagine with me that you've made it, you've gotten the call and you've been invited. You are on the game show, Who Wants to be a millionaire? I don't even know if it's still on anymore. You're on the show, you are there, you've made it through all these questions, you get to the million-dollar question. And the million-dollar question they ask you is, what is the capital of Maryland? Is it a Baltimore. Is it B Annapolis? Is it C Washington D C or is it D Cockysville And you start to think you've already used up your lifeline, so you go back in your mind's eye to that day in third grade geography class as your teacher was going over the different states. And you see her standing up at the chalkboard and you hear her say, Okay, today we're going to talk about the things that are not the capital of Maryland. So Cockysville is not the capital of Maryland. You say, Okay, good, it's not D. Um San Francisco is not the capital of Maryland, well that doesn't help me. Louisiana is not the capital of Maryland, that doesn't help me either. Silver Springs is not the capital of Maryland. That does not do me any good. Louisville is not the capital. As long as she makes that list, it's not going to do you any good knowing what is not right. You're not going to be able to get to the answer to the question. But flip it around. What if the question was, what things are not the capital of Maryland? You know you only have to know one thing to be able to identify everything that's not the capital of Maryland. Your teacher only has to tell you that Annapolis is the capital of Maryland in order for did you guys know that? Alright, good. Alright. You only have to know one thing in order to identify everything that's wrong. I could tell you everything that's not the capital of Maryland simply by knowing what is. And I can identify anything that's wrong if I know what's right. Knowing the Word of God, knowing the things of God, knowing what is good. He says You can't go into everything that's wrong and figure it all out and know all the nuts and bolts and the details and get a good understanding of these things. It's not going to help you. What you need to know is you need to know what's right So he says, I would have you to be wise concerning that which is good. This is the way you set yourself up to defend yourself against false doctrine. When we are wise concerning what is good, we are at that point prepared to guard against evil. This is true both of false doctrines and evil temptations. Knowing what is right. God gave us a simple standard when it came to determining things that are right or wrong when it comes to things that are not clearly laid out in the Word of God. There's some things that are very clear in the Word of God. This is what you should not do. Thou shalt not kill. Very clear, easy to understand. And we see that there. But we come to other things in our life, and there may be some questions there. Well, is this something I should or I shouldn't do? God gave us a simple tool, and it goes right with that principle of knowing what's right. If you look back just a page or two in Romans chapter 14. You see God give this test in verse number 23. It says there he that doubteth he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith. Here's the test. For whatsoever is not of faith is sin. Whatsoever is not of faith is sin. While God has given clear direction when it comes to temptations that are not clearly so laid out for us, what we tend to do is, uh can I prove that it's something that's wrong for me to do? How do I know that I shouldn't do it? God didn't say that was the test. God said he wants us to ask now prove that it's right. Whatsoever is not of faith is sin, meaning if you can't have a Bible conviction that it's the right thing to do, it's a sin for you to do it. Very simple test. Know what's right, and if it's not right, then it's wrong. That's the test God gives us If you do some if you do something and you do not have a conviction it's right, God says it's a sin. We often look at it and say, well, where does the Bible say that a Christian shouldn't do this? The answer from the Bible is where does it say that a Christian should? Where's our answer to have knowing what is right? I recently listened to a woodworking podcast and it is hosted by this married couple, and It went way off of the topic of woodworking and it came up with they were talking about tattoos. And as they were talking about tattoos, it really hit me what they said about it. Because the lady was talking, they they have a public testimony that they're Christians on their podcast. They talk about the Lord. Um they wear biblical t-shirts all the time on their show, but they have tattoos. And the wife was talking about how she was going to get another tattoo Somebody put into the comment section that they were reading as they were going along the verse from uh Leviticus chapter 19, verse number 38, ye shall not make any cuttings In response to this, though the wife said, Well, I don't think that's what that verse is talking about. And then she said this, she said, and tattoos are not a sin in my book. Tattoos are not a sin in my book. The immediate response to that would be, well, your book doesn't decide what's sin and what's not. But how often is that our attitude? Well, I don't see anything wrong with it. Well, I haven't been convicted about it yet. Well well I think it's okay, but according to the DRV, that's the D Derek Renshaw version. Largest book in there is the book of Second Opinions But in that book, well, and my book it's okay, and that's our attitude. But God says it doesn't matter what your book says. It matters what my book says. What does God want to say about it? And not, can I weasel my way around and find somewhere to say, well, I think it's okay. No, did God say, do you know it's the right thing to do? Whatsoever is not his faith is sin. Do you know what's right? And it's by knowing what's right is that we establish what's wrong. So God wants us to know what is right. How are we doing with our wisdom concerning things that are good? So there's a need for knowledge that Paul tells the church in order to defend them against these attacks, this need for knowledge, I would have you wise unto that which is good. Secondly, we also see him admonishing them that there is a time for simplicity. Not only is there this need for knowledge, there is a time for simplicity. Look at the end of the verse, it says there, and simple concerning evil. Now if you back up to verse number eighteen, this word simple shows up again. It says, For they are are that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly. And by good works and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple. So the goal of these false teachers was to take somebody who was simple and deceive them. Now this word sinful is a very common word in the Bible. We see it a lot in the book of Proverbs, especially relating to young people, and it carries the idea of someone who is ignorant. Someone who just doesn't know any better. It's not an insult. It's just they haven't been taught. They don't know what they don't know. They just are simple. They haven't grown. They haven't matured. They haven't been taught in And there's a constant battle for the simple between, and you look at the book of Proverbs, between the wise woman and the foolish woman. They're personified. Wisdom and foolishness are constantly vying for the attention of the simple. The foolish would get the simple and pull them to their side and turn away from the things of God. The wisdom wants to teach the simple and what is right and bring them towards the things of God. So that's this idea of simple. And when you just don't know, you're easy prey That's why Paul said, I want you to be wise concerning that which is good. That's where we get beyond simplicity towards the wisdom of God. And then we're prepared to go against these attacks. So then why does he say, and simple concerning evil? This is a different word for simple. This word simple is the idea of pure, but it carries the idea of unmixed, as if you had a glass of clear water right here, and you had a glass of dirty pond water right here God says you stay unmixed from evil. And it doesn't take very much of that mixing in to make this last dirty. Just a little bit turns this glass dirty. God says, I want you simple, I want you unmixed, I want you uninfluenced by things that are evil. There is a time for simplicity. It's not in our knowledge of the Word of God. We shouldn't be simple there. It's in our knowledge of things that are evil. It's our mixing with things that are wrong. It's this simplicity that Paul wanted them to maintain. The time for simplicity is when it comes to things that are evil. We as believers should not have intimate knowledge of evil things. It's one thing if you have this knowledge from before you were saved, but a Christian who is living in the will of God should not be current with things that are evil. For example, I was safe as a young person, but as a teenager I did things that I shouldn't have done. One of those was listen to some of the wrong kind of music. I listened to a lot of country music, a lot of that junk. in my life and God gave me victory over it as a teenager. So I am not simple concerning country music because I know the lyrics to a lot of those songs that are in my head, they're stuck. But I can tell you by the grace of God that I don't know any song after 2007. Because that's when God gave me victory over it in my life. And I'm now simple concerning anything that's new in that area. because God gave me victory over that sin. So while I did have that knowledge, God gave me victory and now I can say that I'm simple. So if you knew some things or did some things prior to your salvation, you get forgiveness for that. Or even if you have something as a Christian that you've done. You get forgiveness for that, and you say, now I'm going to live simple concerning evil. I've got some of this stuff that I have to deal with, but from here on out I can live a life that pleases God. God's desire is for us as Christians to be ignorant of the evil that is out there. I'll tell you, your life will be a lot better if you are. Let's consider a non-spiritual or amoral example that came here from just even at the pandemic. I've met many kids over the last year and a half that have been very fra afraid of the disease that is out there. I was even asked to counsel with a young person who was living terrified day by day that they were going to die of this disease. Healthy young man who really had no risk um when it comes to disease, but he was would refuse to go out of his house because he was terrified and fearful of it. However, this year in April Over a year from the beginning of the outbreak and of the pandemic, my son Titus was sitting at the dinner table one night and he said, Dad, what's COVID? A year later, now was his life better or worse having been ignorant for a year that there was a disease out there. It was better that he just didn't know that that was out there, that he didn't have to worry about it, that I could carry that worry for him, that he didn't have to worry about it. It hit me at that moment yes, that how powerful that ignorance can be He lived for a year without fear, without having his life disrupted just because he didn't know. Would his life have been better if he did know? Would he have been better off cowering in fear in his bedroom for that whole year? No. It was his ignorance that gave him freedom. And his ignorance of of the evil you could say that was out there that gave him that freedom to live his life. So as us as Christians, let's take it back to spiritual, would you be better off or worse off as a Christian if you didn't know the curse words that you know? Would you be better off or worse off as a Christian if you didn't know the ungodly music that you do? Would you be better off or worse off as a Christian if you had not seen the immorality that you've been exposed to? Would you be better off or worse off if you did not have the guilt and the grief of past sins that you do carry God intends for us as believers, as Christians, to live a life that is simple concerning evil. Simple concerning evil. Now there are things that we are going to be exposed to simply as a matter of life. But we do not need to test out the evil for ourselves to become a mature Christian. A mature Christian is not one who has experienced all the evil that there is and has had to fight and gain victory over all those sins in their lives. A mature Christian is one who is wise concerning that which is good and simple concerning evil. Parents, we have a special responsibility in this. We have a responsibility to help our children stay simple. It's our job to protect them from the evil and the knowledge of it. Again, a non- uh spiritual example, I recently saw something from a from a from a woman who was asking for financial help. And she was talking about the difficulties that her and her husband were going through and she was asking for financial help and she put it this way and it really struck me. She said Because I don't want our four-year-old to know that mom and dad are struggling. Um, so I want them to have this nice Christmas and Thanksgiving like that. But just that idea that stuck out to me, I didn't want our four-year-old to know we were stru struggling The only way a four-year-old is going to know if mom and dad are struggling is if mom and dad tell them. And mom and dad shouldn't be telling their four-year-old if they're struggling, because that's not the four-year-old's burden to bear. It's not my son's responsibility to worry about whether or not I'm going to pay the electric bill. That's my worry. I need to be sheltering, I need to be protecting him from that and carry the brunt of that weight myself And the same thing is with the evil that's out there. You say, well, they're going to run into it one day anyway. Well, don't give it to them now. Don't expose them to it now. You shelter them. You take those attacks from Satan and protect The young people that are under your care. It's your job to protect them spiritually. If they are exposed to evil, it shouldn't have happened under your watch. And you should have had a lot of barriers in place to prevent it I cannot tell you how many times as a young person I had to tell my friends, well I don't know anything about that. No, I don't I I don't know what that is. I don't know what that means. No, I haven't seen that. No, I haven't heard that. W Saint cause like parents helped keep me simple concerning evil. And I'm thankful for it today. This brings us right into our last point for tonight, and that is the honor of ignorance. The honor of ignorance, our title for our message as well as for our third point, the honor that comes with ignorance. See, we often get this backwards, especially as teenagers. And it is true for us as adults as well, we're just not so obvious about it We can hide it a little bit more. We get this backwards and we seek to be knowledgeable about that which is evil and we don't mind being simple concerning good. The problem is that we're more concerned with our reputation than we are with our testimony. See, your reputation is what people know about you. Your testimony is what people know about God because of you. And we want our reputation to be that we know what's going on. That we're familiar with these things, that we're in with everybody else. And so we're worried about that and not so worried about what people know about God because of us. When evil comes up in the youth group or with the guys or ladies at work, we're often embarrassed to be the one that just doesn't know what's going on To not be the one to know what's um what's being talked about or joked about. That makes us the brunt of the joke, right? That we're we're behind the times, that we just we just are out of touch, right? That's the that's our concern, that we we don't want to pre-perceived that way Somebody might say, you know, you don't wanna know what happened last night in the latest episode of whatever immoral reality show is going on that everybody's watching? What is it? You live under a rock or something You don't know what the latest TikTok dance is, what's wrong with you? You don't know what's the latest hit single, you don't know the top rap artist, you don't know the latest Hollywood star that got divorced, man, you're weird It's not. It's an honor as a Christian to say, I don't know about that junk. Because I've kept my mind pure. I've kept my mind wise concerning that which is good and simple concerning evil. What do we do? We often try to know the most about the things of this world and the things that God can take a back seat. Why is it that the coolest kid in the youth group is always the one with the newest stuff and the least restrictions That's the cool kid, the one that th their parents let them do whatever they want. They have the newest phone. They have all the apps. The parents never tell them no, they've seen all the latest movies. That's the one who we find to be cool. And that's when it as teenagers and adults, we're we're a little bit better about hiding that, but we still have our our hearts I want to be involved with what's trending. I want to be involved with what's new. I want to know what's going on. on this thing that's going on, this new series that's been out on Netflix or or this thing that everybody's talking about. Or I I heard on the news that this HBO show is everybody's the the newest thing. I just don't know what's going on, so I can't even relate to the people at work. Well good. You're not supposed to relate to them. We're supposed to relate to the things of God. From God's perspective, there is honor in ignorance. I praise the Lord that I have no idea what alcohol tastes like. I praise the Lord that I don't know what tobacco tastes like. I praise the Lord that I don't know what it's like to kiss a woman other than my wife. I praise the Lord that I don't know how to dance. I praise the Lord that I haven't listened to rock, rap, or pop music. I praise the Lord that I haven't watched the latest and greatest TV shows. You know, there are a lot of things that I wish I could add to that list. Problem is that I didn't protect myself in times that I should, and I failed to guard myself from evil. That list I wish could be a lot longer. And it's my goal that when my son stands up one day, he'll be able to have a longer list than I have of things that he doesn't know about the things of this world. But young people, you don't get that when you're pursuing evil You don't get that testimony when we say, Well, I need to find out what it's like. I need to know what I'm missing. You're not going to be able to stand up and have that testimony one day. And that's a good thing when we don't know about the things that are wrong. Young people, let me plead with you to be simple concerning evil. Be the young person that knows the best way to pray instead of knowing the best way to go viral. Be the young person that knows the most Bible verses instead of knowing the most ungodly song verses. Be the young person that follows God instead of following this world's influencers. Instead of trying to see how much wrong you can get away with. Try and see how many scars you can avoid. I remember when I was about 19 years old, my pastor got up and he preached the message. He asked me to help him with it. He gave me stack of nails in a two by four. And he had me come sit on the front of the platform while he preached his message. And every time he would talk about a different sin that young people were tempted with, he had me nail a nail in that board. Just a little bit Have me nail a nail on that board. Do it again and again and again and again and again and again. And then by the end of the message he says, Alright, now you can get right with God. And what I want you to do, Derek, is I want you to pull all those nails out of that board. And I did so. The nails were gone. The sin was gone. But he says, now hold that board up, everybody see. All those scars, those can't go away. Yes, you can get forgiveness over the music that you're allowing into your head, and the things that you've shared and the things that you washed, you can find forgiveness for that, but you lose a part of your testimony. You carry some damage for the rest of your life because you were curious concerning things that were evil instead of simple concerning things that are evil. No, there is an honor in ignorance. You don't have to know what's the latest and greatest. You don't have to know what everybody else is talking about. We need to be simple concerning evil. Adults, the same goes for us. Just because we have seen and been around more evil than these young people does not give us the excuse to continue in it. How are you doing tonight with your wisdom concerning good and your simplicity concerning evil