But uh tonight we're gonna look at just uh chapter two of First Thessalonians, but I'm I'm here on purpose and I wanna just tell you when I think of a pastor and having the responsibility to declare all the counsel of God. And no one sermon can meet all the needs I I remember one Sunday when I was preaching there in Oshkosh and I was preaching on obedience and being conform to Christ and mortifying the flesh and dying to self and There was a lady who kind of through the whole thing just sat there and she bit her lip and she just stared at me and You know, I boy, you don't know how people are responding, but afterwards I shook her hand, I said, hey, what what's going on? And she said, Well, my mommy died last night And every inch of me thought, boy, I should have preached from Corinthians, the Lord, comfort you with the same comfort. And you always feel so inadequate as a pastor when you've got 500 needs in front of you And you love people and you just can't meet every n need, every service. And so it's not surprising that pastors say, hey Come to every service because we're trying to help you in every area of life. And so I just so appreciate I love being with Pastor and his wife and I'm honored to serve this church, and I've made some good friends here and thank you for every kindness to me. I leave early tomorrow morning. And I called my wife and asked if I've been gone long enough, and she said, almost. You can stay one more day. And so I tomorrow. But When you pastor, you also recognize that people, you're you're pastoring sinners. And the only guy that thinks he has a perfect church is the one that doesn't know his congregation. Very often pastors are guilty of overestimating the spirituality of their church. are gonna preach on the hypostatic union and all the types and the labor and the basin and why there was three oxen this way and this symbolism and and yet there's somebody in the pew that's having trouble paying their rent. And somebody over here that's struggling with a wayward child and and that tension of, hey, we want to have a high view of God and a deep appreciation for the scriptures. What do they say? To live above with saints we love, oh, that will be glory. But to live below with the saints we know, that's another story. And um good pastors, good pastors say, look, wherever you are, I want to help you get to where you ought to be. You're not gonna shock me. I know I got sinners here. Such were some of you. And I love that. Here the Apostle Paul, you know Thessalonica Just briefly, uh he goes up into Asia Minor on his first missionary journey, comes back and reports to Antioch, then he goes out confirming the church, as it says, and Here's the Macedonian call, come over into Macedonia and help us. That's the northern half of Greece. He goes over Philippi the chief city. There he meets Lydia the Cellar of Purple and all of the stuff that you read in Acts 14, 15, 16. And then you get to, he leaves there and goes down towards southern Greece, where he's going to end up in Athens and Corinth. But on the way down, there's this city called Thessalonica. And Paul goes there and God blesses and There's all kinds of things. Kind of he preached, and some got happy and some got mad, like any place else. They say he had to be ready to pucker or duck every place he went And the Apostle Paul writes to the Thessalonicans here, the Thessalonians, and he's writing to them, but imagine, and I want to just say, just Quickly here, he's going to make reference to the fact that he made tents there. Two places in the Bible. Paul makes mention of being a tent maker. It's here and in Corinth. But you have to kind of see the the bigger picture In Corinth, that's a seaport city, and there's the intercourse of all the people going back and forth, all the cultures, every cult and ism is there. And there were those orators, silver-throated orators, guys that had a glib tongue, guys that were very persuasive, men who were bombastic, men who were persuasive. uh ferocious debaters. And Paul saw that those guys were kind of taking advantage of the people. The Bible talks about having men's person and admiration because of advantage. And they would ride herd on the people and They would take their money and say, oh look, you know, I'm kind of like a guru and the gods have come down to you and so you should and the Apostle Paul didn't want to be considered one of those guys. It's right to pay the pasture. In Corinthians he says, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox, it treads out the corn. If we sow none of your carnal things, our spiritual things we reap your carnal things I have power as an apostle to forbear working, he said. But so he wouldn't be chargeable to them. So they wouldn't think that he was just one of those guys. There were times that he supported himself as a testimony and for credibility's sake. We're going to see that in chapter two, but I just want to say in preliminary, understand He was doing that to validate that his message was head and shoulders above all those other guys. And so just so you kind of get that in the in the bigger picture. Now, if you slip down in verse five of chapter one It says, for our gospel came not in human word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance. And watch this phraseology, as you know what manner of men we were among you, for your sakes. And then slip down a little farther, verse number nine, for they themselves show us what manner of entering in we had unto you. And how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God. Those two phrases tonight. What we were like among you, and how we entered in. And so pray with me, Lord. We love you. Bless our time in the scriptures. Thank you for this good church. And Lord, there's so many things they're involved in. Lord, so many things you're trying to accomplish this week. And I do pray you'd bless and hallow the wedding and that relationship. But Lord, for tonight, speak to our hearts. We need you. We ask that you'd come to church tonight, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Now watch the first 12 verses of chapter 2. For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you. There it is. That it was not in vain, but even after we had suffered before and were shamefully entreated, as you know at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention. For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile, but as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men But God which trieth our hearts, for neither at any time use we flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak of covetousness, God is witness Nor of men sought we glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome, as the apostles of Christ. But we were gentle, and there's the phrase, among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children, so being affectionately desirous of you. We were willing to have imparted unto you not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because you were dear unto us. For ye remember, brethren, our labor and travail for laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you. We preached unto you the gospel of God. Ye are witnesses in God also, how holily and justly And unblamably we behaved ourselves among you that believe, as you know how we exhorted and comforted, and charged every one of you as a father doth his children that ye would walk worthy of God who hath called you unto his kingdom and glory. Notice the first seven verses, six verses He says, you know, our entering in unto you, and look at the word he uses, we were bold, verse 2, and our God to speak. He then goes through and makes mention four or five times about motive. And he said, Listen, the reason I have authenticity The reason you should listen to my message among all the voices that are out there, the reason my words are authoritative. You know, you know that we ministered with a pure heart You know we didn't try to seek glory of men. We didn't use flattering words You know the entering in we had unto you. We were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel with much contention, even though there was opposition He stood up on his hind legs and told the truth. Notice here, he says our exhortation was not verse 3 of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile. But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak. A man of God Called of God. The Bible says if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. That's the mercy seat. That's where the kind of glory of God came. That's The holiest of holies. That's where God met with them and they covered the sins year by year. That's where the Lord says, move the tabernacle or stay here for a while The oracles. He said, for any man speak, let him speak. As if people were hearing from God Almighty And listen to me, I wouldn't give you a dime for a pastor that won't preach the truth of God Almighty. Somebody's got to stand up and say, Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not commit adultery. The Bible's not for fornication, but for the Lord. Somebody's got to stand up. And say, be ye holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. Somebody's got to stand up and declare righteousness. And and and I love the way he says it. Neither at any time use we flattering words, nor a cloak of covenages. He keeps referring to this. It wasn't in guile It wasn't in deceit. It wasn't trying to manipulate you. It wasn't trying to deceive you. I, with a pure heart before God Almighty, told you the truth. If the cat Doesn't like the way he's being pets and let the cat turn around. I'm bold. He said, You know, you know, my entering in unto you When I came and I preached and I declared, nobody can question it. I was in the church not long ago and a fellow was in the audience And he said, Pastor King, I don't believe everything you said tonight. But he said, I know you believe it. I know you believe it. Right? There's no substitute for authenticity. There's no substitute for genuineness And here he makes reference to. He says, look, you Thessalonians, you know what kind of entrance we had in unto you. Pastors have this hor just honor, this terrific responsibility. I've not shunned to declare unto you all the gospel of God, all the counsel of God. I didn't shirk from that responsibility. What God said was wrong, I said was wrong. What God said you ought to be doing, I said you ought to be doing. Sometimes uh I'll get into a church and a pastor will say Well, you know, I try not to mention giving or tithing because, you know, people don't like that. I never preach on the big S word because our women hate submission and all of this stuff Somebody's got to stand up and say, thus saith the Lord. This is what the Bible says. This is what Christianity looks like. And I just can't tell you what it's like for me at least to lay my head on a pillow and say the best I could before God Almighty, I gave them the right impression of God and the Bible with the purest of hearts I might not have done a good job of it, but with my heart, I tried my best to help them see. I don't want to give God a black eye. I don't want to soil his reputation. I don't want to in any way misrepresent what he says. Bold But then look with me at verse number seven. See that first word, but but that's there for contrast. But and then he says this we were gentle among you We were gentle among you. Our entrance is one thing. What takes place behind this sacred desk is one thing. What I preach and declare and exalt Is never going to change. But I was gentle among you. This is not hypocrisy. This is pastoring. This is not you don't have to be a hard case among them Gentle, watch what it says. We were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherishes her children. That's talking about a woman nursing a baby dandling a child on her breast. This is how does a mother nursing a baby, how does she hold that baby? How does she cherish and care for that baby? Watch what he says. So being affectionately desirous of you. The old saying they don't care how much you know until they know how much you care. So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls. Because you were dear unto us. Listen to me. This matters. Ministry isn't just what takes place here. We were gentle among you because you were dear to us. He expresses as much as he says, I was pure-hearted. I was true to God. You know my message. I never compromised. As much as he said that, he said, you also know how much I loved you. You also know how much I cared about you. And now watch, because you were dear unto us, verse 8, verse 9 For you remember, brethren, our labor and travail for laboring night and day. Why? Because we would not be chargeable into you. We preached unto you the gospel of God Verse 10, you're a witness and God also, how holy and justly and unblamably, here's the phrase, we behaved ourselves among you. See, yes, I want a pastor to stand up and preach the truth. Yes, I want him to say, I don't care if you don't like it, I'm here to please God. But he says, we it's not just preaching. Look at the words in verse 11. We exhort it, sometimes you exhort, we comforted. Sometimes you comfort and charge. Sometimes you say, hey, get back in the fight. You square their shoulders, pat them on the bottom, and get them back at it. We comforted, charged, exhorted as a father doth his children. The two comparisons, like a nurse with a baby, like a father with his children. Why? What do we want? That you would walk worthy of God. Now hear me in. I'm actually dumb. What does it mean when the pastor looks at his watch? Nothing's on nothing. But the same pastor that stood behind that sacred desk gets a phone call. Mom and Dad Have ten children. They wanted to replenish the earth single-handedly. A little mini civilization they got going. Dad works a job and mom stay at home and they're homeschooling the kids and boy they're everything from a babe in arms all the way up to a high schooler Dad, in order to finance this whole affair, is work in seventy hours. It's Friday. He's coming home at six. She's done schooling the kids at four. We gotta run to the store. We gotta get some groceries. So she packs her tribe into the van bus. Right And goes grocery shopping. Now listen, I don't know. I've I've got six kids But you put one or two inside the basket and you tell the other ones you stay right here and hold on to the side of the car, right? Right And she's getting stuff, and while the eight year old boy Who's just ahead of the cart, while she's looking at rice chicks and grape nuts, he goes around the end cap, and there they have matchbox cars. He sticks one in his pocket. Everything swimmingly until she checks out. Store security's got him on camera at the door, and they take him aside and they say to the mother, your son stole. And she says, no, no, no, he was with me all the time. He was, kind of. You ever take it's like herding cats. When you when you take that many kids to a grocery store Of course, they call the police Of course, they take all the pertinent information. Of course, mom's still got these other kids, all of them sitting around, and here they've raised a certified thief And now it's six o'clock before she even gets to leave. In dad's home when she pulls in. And there isn't any supper. Right? Right? Well Where were you? At the grocery store. Well, what time you're for? Well, what how come you? Well, we got stopped by the police. Now listen, he goes ballistic. He goes ballistic. What kind of a mother are you? You can't watch the kids? What kind of listen now you're he'll be in the paper We're going to be embarrassed. You've humiliated us. You were supposed to be responsible. Do you know how hard I work? Oh. I get the phone call and mom is crying Dad is mad. Everybody's hangry. The little eight-year-old is sitting on the end of the couch biting his lip. His dad's called him A thief. His dad's resigned him to preach. You know the chances of him being in a fundamental Baptist church when he's 25 is zero. For the big crime of shoplifting. I promise you, I am the guy that said, Thou shalt not steal. But is this the time? Bring my Bible out, stand in front of him, and lather his ears flat against the sides of his head Thou shalt not steal. See right here. Right here. Exodus 20. Thou shalt not steal. Thieves and murderers have their part in the lake of flare. That's where you're headed Tell me, tell me. Is that what the boy needs? Right, right Well, hey, you preach that. You stand there right from the pulpit. Everybody wants law for you, but liberty for me. Look, we've all had a major case of the stupids. He took a matchbox car. Does somebody have to be the voice of reason? Does somebody have to step away from the gun? Step away from the gun Let's not make this bigger than it has to be. We'll go through the process of how they handle it. Your wife is a good woman If you ever went to the store with all of them by yourself and she wasn't there, you'd find out what it's like to try to keep this batch together. The reason he's like that is because he takes after you I'm called to home. The guy who said, Your body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. The guy who said The marriage beds undefiled and whoremongers and adulterers. God will judge that guy, that same guy. When they go to the home And the fourteen-year-old girl, tears running down her face, three months pregnant. Bandages where she slit her wrists. And Mama Says, we can't, we cannot, you're not gonna have that child. I'm you have a future. I'm not gonna condemn you to this. We're gonna get an abortion. Church member Dad, Dad, one of our deacons You little witch, you whore, you slut, you know, and then you you're a murderer, you're a murderer, you're gonna kill that baby. And now, now, I'm going to lose my position as a deacon because I don't have my family in order, all because you can't keep your knees tied together. And now People are going to die and go to hell. My ministry's short-circuited, and it's going to be on you. Hey, hey, I'm the guy that on Sunday said thou shalt not commit adultery. I'm that guy But we're here now. Somebody's got to see a bigger picture here. Listen Don't worry. A mature church will handle this correctly Don't worry about, oh, does this mean we're light on sin? No, they did not learn this in Sunday school. This was the backseat of a car. You don't ever have to wonder whether or not I endorse that But I care about her. You were dear unto us. We exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you. Goal and sin no more. We're with you. Every pastor. They have to trape through this mud Well, Pastor, you're are you gonna make them go in front of the whole church? Pastor, you're not gonna let them have a baby shower. Pastor would tell the teenagers they can't speak to her until four years after the baby's born. Everybody has an idea. about what ought to be done. Why? Because they want to protect our stand on holiness. But hear me carefully. This is a precious life loved by God and she did a regrettable thing. Can we help her to be a successful Christian? This is a challenge to a church. How do we find this balance? Paul says, you know our entrance in unto you. You know what we were when we came we were bold And we preached it without fear or favor of man. But you also know we were gentle among you. There's a balance. It's the same apostle. It's the same Bible. When people say, well, I don't think I think here's what we ought to do. She has to wear a brown dress, uh, she has to wear a scarlet ribbon, she uh Notice how often they don't have a Bible verse to back up what they're saying. I tell one story and I'm done. A gal in our youth department, I'm youth pastor, and she's fourteen and she's caught stealing some makeup from one of these dollar stores and Lo and behold, it's the second time she'd been caught. Now the family is what I would call a marginal family in our church, if you know what I'm saying. They're not there every week, but Wow, she's got to go to juvenile to court. And The parents are frantic. They're maybe going to put her in juvenile detention. And so they say, Pastor King, you're the youth pastor. Would you if we could get them to just assign her to go to counseling with you, would you agree to do that? Sure, sure So we go to family court commissioner. Here's the court commissioner, black robe behind the desk, kind of a judge in our county. And here's the prosecutor reading the charges. And here's the girl and her family and me. And wow, since she's a minor, it's private, you know. And the court commissioner says, I see here it says that you were caught shoplifting Did you do that? Yes. Well, my record shows that you've shoplifted twice in the last year. Is that right? She said, yes. And he said, well, let me ask you a few questions. He said, where did you learn this? He said, do your parents steal? And she said, well, no, no, my my parents don't steal. And he says, well then what about your friends? Do you have a bunch of friends who are thieves? Do your friends all steal? Oh no, no, I don't have a single friend that steals. And he says, well then, he says, let me ask you, the church that you go to, they teach it's okay to steal? And she said, well no Oh no, they they say it's wrong to steal. And he says, and Pastor King here, did he ever tell you it was okay to steal? Well, no, no. Pastor King says I shouldn't steal. He says, well then let me ask you about the Bible. He said, do you think the Bible sanctions? No, it says thou shalt not steal. And he says, well then let me ask you one last question. He says, what about you? Do you believe it's okay to steal? And she said, well no, no, I I don't. I know it's wrong to steal. And he sat back in his chair. He says, well then The family says it's wrong, the church says it's wrong, the Bible says it's wrong, your friends say it's wrong, and even you say it's wrong, and Yet you sold So he said, you tell me what good is the counseling with Pastor King gonna do? It seems to me he shot every bullet in his gun already. And people like you we put in cages Eddie sentenced her to jail. Now hear me. There is every inch of me that kind of likes that. But I'm glad that there is the mercy side of Christianity. There's a lot more to it. There's a lot more to that person. Yes, there are consequences for sin, and we ought not to ever diminish that. But somebody's got to have the courage to say, listen, I'm still for you. I want to help you. Who knows how many people in our congregation, probably half of them, stole at one time in their life. 75% of them. 90% of them might not have been virgin when they married. Let's not have any kind of hypocrisy here. It's only the mercy of God that you aren't facing some real serious consequences from your past behavior. We extend mercy as much as we can without ever, ever compromising the message and the stand for truth. And I tell our families, if you knew everything I know, I'm confident you would have handled this the same way. But I can't always tell you Trust me, we're consistent in how we deal with moral challenges. You know our entrance, and you know what we were like among you. That's pestering.