We are uh you know last week with me being out and uh in Idaho there had a safe trip, uh things went well and uh you know got back but Uh then we we've had several weeks of of kind of special days, different you know, Mother's Day and Baby Dedication Sunday and Anniversary Sunday and these things. And so I took a little bit of a break from the names of God that we have been studying. But this morning I I feel like we're going to get back to the names of God and look at some of those for a few weeks here. So One of the books I'm reading by Elmer Towns, uh he relates this humorous story. The title of the book is The Names of My Father. And uh he says there was a little boy, uh kindergartner that was in class and he was given a class project. And he sat down with Gusto to do it, and he sat down and he announced to the entire class I'm drawing a picture of God. And he begins drawing it. Well the teacher replied, Well, nobody knows what God looks like. And without missing a beat this crit kindergartner said, Well, they will when I'm done So I I don't know for sure if if everybody really did uh know what God looked like when that kindergartner got done drawing. But the fact of the matter is is the Word of God does give to us some glimpses of God He gives us really some word pictures, some descriptions. And it is in the titles and the names in which God has given himself that he draws for us a picture of who he is, allows us to see his person, his character, what he is like. Although we do not know His visage, we wouldn't be able to pick him out of a lineup. We certainly get to learn his character. We certainly get to see what he's like. as a person. In our pursuit of God thus far, looking at the names of God, we have studied Elohim, that name which describes the greatness of God, that He is the great creator, the mighty God. We've studied El Elion, the Most High God, Il Roy, the God who sees El Olam, the everlasting God, a God that is eternal, and El Shaddai, the all-sufficient God, a God who is sufficient in all things. This morning we want to look at a name of God that appears on the page of Scripture more than any other. Actually close to 7,000 times. this appears. That is only it it it the closest one to that is well we saw Elohim and that's I think if I remember right somewhere around 2,000 times. So it's a substantially greater number on the pages of Scripture of this name of God. And that is Jehovah. It is not the combining of his name many times and in the coming weeks we may study like uh Jehovah Shalom or Jehovah Raphael. We may just study the secondary aspects, but the foundation of that next name for God, Jehovah, it really describes for us the essence of God. who God is. My Mamades, a Jewish rabbi, a great philosopher from the Middle Ages, he said, all the names of God On the pages of Scripture are derived from his works, except for one, that is Jehovah. This is called his plain name because it teaches plainly and unequivocally the substance of God. So this is really foundational as we begin, and in the coming weeks we look at some other names of God. the the the names that are put together here with Jehovah. Today this is foundational understanding what Jehovah means as it gives us the very essence, the very substance of who God is. First of all, I would have you see the manifestation of that name. Would you turn to Genesis chapter number one? In Genesis chapter number one, we have The very first mention of God, and this is Elohim. We look at this at the beginning. This is the first name for God found in the pages of Scripture. In the beginning God. That is Elohim. He is Elohim here in this beginning chapter. Each time that he's mentioned and talked about, he is talked about as Elohim, really the great creator. But you get to chapter number two, and we see in Genesis chapter number two, beginning in verse number four. These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth, when they were created in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew, before the Lord God. Had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground. But there went up a mist from the earth, and Watered the whole of the face of the ground, and the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. We see here a number of times the name Lord God. You'll notice that the Title Lord is written there in all caps. That is Jehovah. So it could be Jehovah Elohim, Lord God, Jehovah Elohim. That would be the self-existent Great Creator, Lord God. Putting those names together, the name Jehovah that is translated Lord in all caps in our in our Bible literally means the self-existent. Occasionally on the pages of scripture you'll see the title Lord, but it is not in all caps, it's just capital L and then Lord. That is typically m most of the time Adonai, the name Adonai is translated Lord with just a capital L. But when it is translated Lord all caps, that is the name Jehovah, which means the self existent one. This is how God chose to reveal himself to his people. It is his personal name. You see, Elohim is how God relates to his creation. In the beginning, God And he was referenced and pointed to as Elohim, as God, through the beginning chapter there as he was talking about or looking at the creation. But when he came to the place where he was going to form of the dust of the ground his crowning creation, his crowning achievement here on earth, the formation of man that would be made in his image. He introduces us to the name Jehovah. This is his personal name, the name in which he relates to his people. Don't have to turn there, but in Exodus chapter 6, verses 2 and 3, the Bible says, And God spake to Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord, all caps, I am Jehovah. And I appeared unto Abraham and unto Isaac and unto Jacob but by the name of God Almighty, but by my name Jehovah was I not known unto them. He's telling, he's introducing here to Moses, he's saying, listen, there was a time when Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, they knew me as Elohim. They saw me as God, the Creator. But they had yet to know me as Jehovah, the personal, intimate God. They had yet to learn of me in that name. And so he is introducing his name, Jehovah, here to Moses, and he's saying there was a time when they did not know that name. Now, how many of you have a middle name? I know there's some that don't. And there are some that choose to never tell anybody their middle name. My middle name is Eugene. There are a number of you here that have never met me as Eugene. Today is the first time in your life you ever heard me say, hey, my name is Eugene. This is what God was saying here. He's saying, now yes, there was a time that they knew of me as Elohim as creator, as the God that literally spoke the world into existence, but now I'm introducing myself as Jehovah, a little bit more personal. And you get somebody's middle name that's a little more personal. I met in in Idaho last week on Sunday morning, I met a guest of the church and his name was Eugene. I said, well I ought to remember that. That's my middle name And uh, you know, I I don't worry about it so much, although that's not a very common name uh today, but I know some people don't like their middle name But it's kind of another way of knowing you, and so this is God revealing himself, this aspect of him. They knew and worshipped him as the God of heaven. But had not really understood or been revealed the name of Jehovah. The first full manifestation of this name of Jehovah Really is seen in Exodus chapter number three. Would you turn there? I hope you brought your Bibles and you don't mind looking at the Word of God this morning. We see He introduces his name, but here is where he really kind of describes it. We're talking about the self-existent one, Jehovah. So in Exodus chapter 3. Verses 13 and 14. He says, And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, I shall say unto them, The God of your father has sent me unto you. And they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? So Moses, you know, here he's going to free the children of Israel, and he says, When I go to them and I tell them, hey, you guys should follow me, we're going to leave, we're getting out of here, your God has sent me. And when they say, Well, what God? What God are you talking about? He said, Tell them, we see here in verse number 14, and God said unto Moses, I am that I am. He said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am, hath sent me unto you. You see, beloved, this is God Himself declaring to us even the meaning, the definition of this name. The self-existence. I am. I am. That summarizes it all. I am. There is no other definition needed, it's just I am. I always have been, I always will be, I am now, and I am tomorrow, and I am for eternity. I am that I am. It is the full declaration of the meaning of his name, Jehovah. It is personal, it is continuous, it is absolute, it is eternal. I am. What I'm saying, beloved, is that God Elohim, who is the creator, wanted to introduce himself to his creation as I am. Just as I would come to somebody and let's say as I did this morning with Brian and Sandra, I said, hello. I am Pastor Caleb. This is who I am. I'm Pastor Caleb. God introduces himself to us as Jehovah, that personal name, that name in which he relates to his people There's so many, as I studied this and looked at this, there's so many amazing things about this definitive characteristic that are found in the pages of Scripture so many times that you'll see him in reference to Elohim, and it's very clear that it's because the name Elohim is there because it's in it's relating to creation. But then when he begins relating to people, the name changes to Jehovah. It is that personal name. We see the manifestation of the name. Next, I would have you see the majesty of that name Listen, this was the holy name of God. To the Jewish rabbis They they wouldn't even pronounce that name. They would not speak it maybe because uh they had Moses in giving of the law had talked about that to take the name of the Lord God in vain was punishable by death, that they shouldn't blaspheme the name of God and this name of Jehovah was so holy and so reverent to the rabbis that they wouldn't even speak the name. They would often use the term Adonai in the place of Jehovah because they wouldn't speak the name of Jehovah even as they in the synagogues were reading of the scripture. And it's from my understanding that even still today In the synagogue, when they are reading the scriptures, when they come to the name Jehovah, they replace and say Adonai, referencing and pointing to who it is, but not speaking that holy name of God. When the scribes would write this name, Jehovah or Yahweh in the pages of Scripture, they would pause, they would come to that name. They were a scribe. They had to write it. They had to add it. It was on that particular place in the scriptures. And so they would pause. And they would go wash themselves. They would have a ritual cleaning. They would prepare to write the name. They would come back. They would, in solemn reverence, Acknowledging how holy that name was, they would take a special quill and pen that was used only for writing the name of God. They would write that name with that quill and with that ink that was set aside for only that purpose. Wouldn't write anything else, no other word should be used with that quill to write that but that name alone. They would write the name and then they would go back and wash themselves and come back to their task. It was a holy name, a majestic name. That they valued and understood what it meant, how he related to his people. But have you seen the message of Jehovah? What was the message of that name? It was a personal message. You see, beloved, it's one thing to believe in God. You know, as you look through the pages of the Old Testament, you'll find that all of the nations believed in some God. You'll have them reference and talk about God, and they'll say, well, what God? And what God are you speaking of, or whose God is it? You can go anywhere in the world today and you'll find that people worship God. But then you have to ask them, well, what God are you worshiping? Who is it that you are worshiping? But they have gods beloved that they fashioned with their own hands. They have gods that they have designed with their own minds, but they have yet to come to meet God Jehovah. I am the self-existent God, the God who is, always was, and always will be. To all the nations he was Elohim, but to the nation of Israel he became known as Jehovah, Jehovah God. In 2 Chronicles chapter 14, Asa cried unto the Lord his God. Unto Jehovah. He cried unto Jehovah his God and he said, Lord, Jehovah, it is nothing with thee to help, whether with many or with them that have no power to help us. O Lord our God. For we rest on thee, and in thy name we go against this multitude. O Lord, Thou art our God. Let no man prevail against thee. He's saying, Jehovah, we know you. We have that personal relationship with you. You are our God. Don't let anybody prevail against you. I want to ask you this morning, do you know him as Jehovah? Is he your personal God? Do you have a relationship? Not just do you know about God, not just do you know there is a God that yes God created the heavens and the earth, and surely we understand that it didn't just happen, that it didn't just by accident, but we understand that there is a creator, but do you know him personally? The message is that you would know him personally. I wonder, beloved, is he Lord Jehovah to you? We see this message is a personal message. We see that it was a commanded message. Jehovah is a name in which God related to his people, Jehovah is a name in which God commanded his people. Four hundred and fifteen times in the Word of God you will see the phrase, thus saith the Lord. All caps. Jehovah. Thus saith the Lord. Do you know there's only two times in the pages of Scripture that you will see the phrase thus saith Elohim only two times and in both situations It was tied to creation. It's amazing to see truths like this. Let me read them to you. We see one of those times. In 2 Chronicles 24, verse 20, he says, And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada, the priest, which stood above the people, and he said unto them, Thus saith God. Elohim, why transgress ye the commandments of the Lord, Jehovah, the commandments, Jehovah? That ye cannot prosper. You have forsaken the Lord Jehovah as he hath forsaken you. In Isaiah 42, verse 5, he said, Thus saith the Lord, He that created the heavens and stretched them out, he that spread forth the earth that which cometh out of it, he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein. Thus saith God, Elohim And he's talking about created the heavens and stretched them out and spread them forth. But beloved, it was God's commands that he gave by saying, Thus saith the Lord, Jehovah. His commands are for you and I today. That is his personal name, his name in which he relates to you and I, and he wants to have a relationship with you, and he gives to us commands that we are to follow. And beloved, his commandments are not grievous. His commandments are for your good and for his glory. And we should not begrudge the commandments of the Lord. We should understand that anytime he commands of us, it is for our good. Just like a parent who would command his child to do something, you're not just trying to make the child's life miserable. Although I know if you have teenagers, many times teenagers' perception is that that's the sole mission of mom and dad, is to make their lives miserable. That's all mom and dad are living for, is to destroy my life. They just want to embarrass me every opportunity they get. They just want to, you know, make my life miserable. That's not the case You are doing it because you love them, and our Heavenly Father, who loves us with an everlasting love, gives to us commands because it is for our good. Yep. Not only was it a message of command, a commanding message, but it was a holy message. One of the immutable attributes of Jehovah is that he is holy. He is holy. In Isaiah chapter 6 and verse number 3 he says, And one cried unto another and said, Holy. Holy, holy is the Lord Jehovah. Holy, holy, holy A thrice holy God, maybe because of the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Isaiah cried out and the angel cried out and said, Holy Holy, holy. Every aspect of God in all three persons is holy. Jehovah. The whole earth is full of his glory. In Leviticus 19, verse number 2, he said, Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy for the Lord Jehovah. Your God am holy. Be holy, because God, your Lord, Jehovah, is holy. In Daniel chapter 9, verse number 14, he says, Therefore hath the Lord, that is Jehovah, watched upon the evil and brought it upon us, for the Lord Jehovah our God is righteous, meaning holy, in all his works, which he doeth. Beloved, he's a thrice holy God. He's so holy he can't even look on sin. His own son hung on the cross. And he cries out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Because when Jesus took upon himself the sin of the world, On his son rested the sin of man, and God the Father could not look at that sin, and God turned away from his own son. And Jesus cried out in pain. All that he had endured, nothing that he endured thus far, made him cry out like that, My God, why hast thou forsaken me? Oi, God is holy. The holiness, the righteousness of God, beloved, it demands justice. The holiness of God demands justice. And you see that sometimes on the pages of the Old Testament. And sometimes we we stand in awe. of the holiness of God and where God in his wrath judges the sin of his people or the sin of other nations. In the pages of the Old Testament you think about Sodom and Gomorrah and how it was burned up or you think about the punishment that was going to be sent to Nineveh, or you think about how God oftentimes, because of the wickedness of men, he he he punished them greatly, and we think, wow The holiness of God demands justice. He pours out his justice and his righteous judgment upon the wickedness of man. But beloved, can I tell you the miracle of Jehovah? The miracle of Jehovah is that his holiness demands justice, but his love provides mercy. Yes, in God he is just and his holiness demands that the just payment be paid. But his love provides mercy. There were many times as a young man that I was not necessarily as good as I should have been My father, I wouldn't describe him as a very hard man, but can I tell you that dad's Word was law. What dad said we had to do. There wasn't much tomfoolery. There there was this is what was required. And there was times that I stood before my father guilty. And whatever punishment was coming my way, I deserved. Have you ever been there? But like the one time that I went to court and I knew I was guilty, I was standing before the judge. The prosecuting attorney asks for my sentence And the judge looked at me and said, what do you have to say? I said, I've got I I'm I'm as guilty as a day as long. I'm just asking of you For your mercy. Could you please have mercy? Now, that judge did not have any mercy on me. He did everything except throw me in jail. But can I tell you there were many times that my dad had mercy? Now don't worry, it was just a traffic infraction. You guys are wondering what did what did Pastor do that he was before a judge He was gonna go to jail. Yeah, it was a traffic infraction. Okay, don't don't get too stressed. Also was when I was about nineteen, so uh a lot of years ago. But there was times I stood before my father and I was guilty, but he had mercy I'm glad that we have a thrice holy God, that his justice demands that the penalty be paid, but I'm thankful that he also is love. And that He has mercy. The children of Israel continually defied the will of their Heavenly Father, the will of their God. But he continually and he continually judged them for it. We see in Judges chapter number 10. Verse number six and seven. And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord. We see that over and over again in the book of Judges. The children of Israel did evil again. in the sight of the Lord. And served Balaam and Astroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Amnon, and the gods of the Philistines, and they Sock the Lord Jehovah and served him not. And the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the children of Amnon. God said, listen, you've defied me, you've gone and served other gods, all kinds of gods that have done nothing for you, and I God Elohim, and I, Lord Jehovah, who have done all for you, you've rejected me, and his righteousness demand that a judgment be paid. But we see also in this passage of Scripture, just a few verses later, in verse number sixteen, he says, And he put And they put away the strange gods from them and served the Lord. And his soul, that is God, Jehovah, was grieved for the misery of Israel. He looked down and he saw what Israel was going through, and his heart was was broken for them. His heart was in misery because of that. He himself felt what they were enduring, and he had mercy on them. Jeremiah, that weeping prophet who himself was broken over the sin of the people. He said in Jeremiah 31. The Lord, that's Jehovah, hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. I have loved thee with an everlasting love, just as it was Jehovah God who told Moses to say to Israel, I am the Lord. Would you turn there to Exodus chapter 6? Some of you might still be there from when we were there earlier. Turn to Exodus chapter 6. I want you to see this verse. He says, Wherefore saith unto the children of Israel I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burden of Egyptians And I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched-out arm and with great judgments. You see, God, Jehovah, I am the Lord. He said, tell the children of Israel that I am Jehovah, and I will deliver you out of the bondage of Egypt. I will free you. I will have mercy on you. And the miracle of the name Jehovah is that yes, God, his righteousness demands that justice be paid and we all stand guilty before a thrice holy God because all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But can I give you the message this morning that Moses gave to the children? Jehovah says to you with an outstretched arm this morning, I will deliver you. I will deliver you. He has an outstretched arm and he's reaching for you and he says I will deliver you today because Jehovah is a personal name where you can know a loving God who reaches his arm out to lift you up out of this old sin-sick world and deliver you from the bondage of sin that holds you down, that keeps you from living a victorious Christian life that God would have you to live. I am Jehovah. That is the miracle of Jehovah. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?