Chapter twelve. Working our way right down through the series here on spiritual gifts. Actually got to get into one of the gifts last week and really start to dig in and see what it looks like and how it interacts in the church and how it is used. That was the gift of prophecy. Today we're going to be going on to the gift of ministry. I actually was talking to some people last week about this week's lesson, and I was a gift ahead. I was thinking that this week was uh the gifts of teaching, but that's that's next week, this week's ministry. So I was off a week on that. Whoever I was talking to, I apologize. But we had uh looking forward to the study and obviously studying ahead and looking at what's coming uh down. Kind of uh Looking at this idea of the spiritual gifts today, we're going to be looking at the second one. Last week, as I said, we discussed the gift of prophecy. Now a large part of the reason that we're going through this study is so that you can look at the Word of God and the teaching here and kind of identify What's my spiritual gift? We looked in the first lesson on how it's important to know your gift so that you know uh what it is and then you can know how to use it. Obviously, as we said last week, all of the gifts Our responsibilities that we have as believers, we should be growing in all of them. But God has given you a particular spiritual gift to use within the church And if you know what that is, it's really going to help guide you into the the best way that you're suited to do ministry. And that's uh beneficial, that'll be beneficial to you. So just tell me what your spiritual gift is. A secondary product of the study is going to be speculation on what other people's gifts are. I think I heard that a little bit last week. Oh, that's so-and-so. That's why they act that way, kind of a thing. That's going to take place. One challenge that's going to occur, however, on both of these fronts, both determining your gift and determining someone else's, comes from that idea of that all of these are responsibilities. And so when you look at somebody and you say, oh, that's definitely this person Well, it may be their gift, but it is also their responsibility, just like something may be your gift, but it also is your responsibility as well. So that's going to kind of add some mix, especially into trying to look at somebody else and determine what their gift may or may not be While prophecy or ministry, like we're going to discuss today, may not be your gift, you still have the responsibility to perform those jobs to a certain extent within the church. And if you are growing personally as a Christian, you're going to be growing in all these responsibilities. So the more mature you are, the longer you've been saved, the longer you've been growing in Christ. the more you're going to relate to all of these gifts because you're growing in the responsibility here and growing in the responsibility here, growing the responsibility here. While it may not be your gifts In particular, you're going to become good at lots of these different things. So that's gonna throw some confusion here. Like, wait a minute, I thought I had this gift, but I'm really good at that as well. Um but that's okay, because we're supposed to get really good at all of them. There's just kind of a way that God's given us for ministry. For example, I have a s uh When looking at the gifts of others, I ha may have a strong suspicion of what some people's gifts may be, but without get sitting down and talking to somebody in a detailed way, it's easy to mis mistake a skill in of in a Christian as a Christian responsibility for their gift. So be patient with yourself as we go through the lessons. You might start to think that you have all the gifts. And that's good, that you're you're mature enough to say, okay, I I'm doing these and I'm doing this. And kind of sorting through that and saying, well, what's really my tendency? Where does God lead me to use and minister in no matter what the situation, what's my tendency or bend in that direction? So for example, I imagine that if I had not said last week that I do not have the gift of prophecy, some may have supposed that to be my gifts. After all, you're really opinionating And you don't mind telling people what you think. So you that would be something but that that is an area that I've grown in is a responsibility I have as a Christian. It's also part of my administration as a pastor Part of it the pastor is prophesying, is preaching, and it's also confronting sin, and it's so it's something that I've had to grow in, although it is not my spiritual gift. Some may have come into this and said, well, we're going into ministry. That's probably Pastor Derek Skipped. I mean if somebody's got a car broken down in the parking lot, he's gonna be out there uh with his suit sleeves rolled up so he can help get the tire changed or If there's any kind of work or job to do around the church, uh he'll be involved with that. But again, ministry is something I've grown in. It's not my spiritual gift. Um something that I have grown and developed in, and it's also part of my administration, the joke was when I was hired on here at the church was that I was going to be the maintenance pastor. That was kind of the kind of the joke that I was going to be ministry was my job description and just serving. And so that is part of it. Obviously something that I do and lots of people in the church do. But it is uh not my spiritual my spiritual gift, a responsibility that I've grown in but not my gift. Now looking ahead, um some may have pegged me as having the gift of teaching. After all, um I can talk for five, six hours on any gif given subject. And if we didn't have a clock in the back there and pastor sitting right here, Sunday school could go tell lunch every day if we if we didn't have something curtailing that. Again, something I've grown in ability but but again not my not my spiritual gifts. As we go through this, you're going to relate to different things in today's lesson particular because ministry is something we can all relate to. We had a work party this week, a lot of people here. just serving in the church, doing doing whatever they're asked to do with a happy spirit, with a good attitude, and ministry is something we can all relate to. So if we go th go through this lesson, it's gonna be very easy to say, well that that might be me, because obviously I don't mind ministering. I don't mind serving. But as we go through, just just keep an open mind as we go through each of these lessons and pray and God will lead you to it and then get into the work of the ministry and it's going to kind of come to the forefront. It's how God's gifted you to serve. So when you serve, it's going to come to the forefront. So as a reminder, the simplified definition, we have that real technical definition, but the simplified definition of a spiritual gift is how God has prepared us to respond to a situation within the church. Last week we gave an example of someone finding trash and the different responses that could come to that. Several weeks ago we gave the example of a flat tire on the on the bus and how the different gifts would respond. Now both of those kind of the the answer, the right answer you could say, tends to be ministry. We need somebody just to do the work, right? Um so I was trying to think of another example I could give that wouldn't be so obvious that we need somebody who would minister. So an example of how the gifts could interact with a problem or a situation that arises at the church, as we think about what our instinctive response may be. Another illustration. Today, let's consider the problem arising in the church of someone being vocally disapproving of something that pastor said in a message right after the service in the foyer. So this is a situation, some minds vocally disapproving. How what would be your tendency to respond to the situation? So someone with the gift of prophecy will want to stand up for the pastor and defend him to the one that's attacking the message. Someone with the gift of ministry will offer to watch their kids or close up the building so that someone else could have the opportunity to talk to this individual privately. So they want to serve in the background to make that opportunity available Someone with a gift of teaching will not only want to show the person that the pastor was right, but they'll want to show them several other places in the Bible to prove that the pastor was right as well. Someone with the gift of exhortation will pull the person aside, sit down with them, listen to them, and offer maybe to come to their house and do a Bible study to let's just see what God says about it. Not what you think about it, Pastor thinking, let's see what God says about it. Someone with the gift of exhortation might respond that way. Someone with the gift of giving may offer to take that person out to dinner to talk about it, or will offer to the pastor to help some need that person may have so the church can express love to them in the background. Someone with the gift of ruling will tell them that they need to talk to the pastor first, but then may find out what their issue is, identify the best person to talk to them, and put the two together so the issue could be resolved. Someone with the gift of mercy will make sure that they text Pastor later to tell him how much they did enjoy the service and to let him know that they're praying for him. So just different situations, different people respond differently, and a lot of it's tied back to our spiritual gifts. So those are all examples of handling that situation biblically with your gift. Now every gift could also handle that improperly. We are not going to go walk through all that, the improper responses, but you could think too, okay, well if If this person responded this way, that would be the wrong way to respond to that situation. So again, there's always right ways and wrong ways that our gifts can manifest themselves. But as we look at it today, we're going to be going into the gift of ministry. So if you can read there, follow along with me as I read, Romans chapter twelve and verse number seven. There it says, Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering, or he that teacheth on ministry. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word. What we can learn from it, Lord. I pray that you'd help uh our church as we go through the study to each one of us look into our hearts and our lives, Lord, and and And seek out what you have gifted us with so that we can use it more fully within the context of the ministry that you have given to us here in our local church, Lord, serving you. uh and serving others, Lord, the way that you've equipped us too. I pray that you bless our time around your word this morning. We thank you for those who you've given the gift of ministry that don't mind Lord serving in the background and just just working hard uh Lord without worrying about who gets the credit or being noticed or anything like that. Lord, just uh just a blessing that they are to the church. Lord, pray that you'd help us as we study your word today. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So hopefully as we go through these teaching illustrations, this is going to start, you're beginning to get a grasp of the different gifts and start to understand what your gift may or may not be. So today we're going to begin with the gift of ministry. Again, I didn't mention the beginning, but we do have notes in the back. did not get those, those are available. They're also should be online. But ministry, the gift to find. We look at ministry first of all in the Bible, and as with prophecy, remember with prophecy, That was a little bit could be a little bit confusing because it's a operation, it's something that God empowered people to do, it's an administration, it's a position within the church, and then it's a gift as well. Ministry carries a little bit of that because ministry is an administration as well. Ministry is a position in the church. So when we think of ministry or minister, what's the first thing that comes to mind as far as a position? The pastor. The pastor is often called the minister. So this is ministry, minister, it's a position in the church, a position of service, and administration. So the pastor We get this idea of the pastor being a minister from the example of Christ through the idea of servant leadership. Jesus contrasted how he wanted people to lead versus how the world teaches The world leads by power, the world leads by control, where Jesus said, whoever is greatest among you, let him be your servant. So servant leadership, that's what Jesus taught and modeled for us in the Matthew chapter twenty, verse twenty-six says this, she is saying, But it it shall not be so among you, but whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. So we get this idea of the pastor being a minister through the example of Christ in servant leadership. We also see the example of Paul. Paul often called himself a minister of the gospel and a minister of Christ Just the idea of a servant. I'm serving Christ, I'm serving the gospel, I'm ministering. That word is used there to minister, meaning to serve something to someone else. He's talking about the gospel when he does that. I'm ministering the gospel. I'm giving that to other people. So that's how this idea develops of the ministry. And it's also we see it in Acts chapter 6. The contrast a little bit between this administration of ministry and the other one we're going to talk about where the apostles are dealing with a problem within the church and they talk about their ministry as ministers. I call this the minister, ministry of the minister. Acts 6 verse 4 says, but we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word. So we have a responsibility as pastors to serve people in spiritual matters. That was what the what the um disciples there at the Church of Jerusalem were um were communicating and teaching. That brings us to the second position of a minister. This one's not quite as obvious because We do not call them ministers, but if you look at the Greek word for ministry right here in Romans chapter 12 and also throughout the Bible, it's the word diaconos. Deaconas, sound familiar? That's a deacon. That goes back to Acts chapter 6 as well, where he said, we need somebody to serve tables. to minister at the tables there in the church. We need somebody while the pastors are ministering spiritual things, we need somebody to minister in carnal things, not carnal as in wicked, carnal as in things of the And so another position of ministry, administration ministry in the church is that of the deacon. It's a position of ministry. In this institution, as I said in Acts chapter 7, the institution of deacons, that ministry is contrasted with the ministry of the pastor. When the deacons took the burden of carnal ministry and the pastors took the burden of spiritual ministry, the next verse says the word of God increased and the number of disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly. So people in positions serving the way God has called them to serve. So ministry. It is a position within the church, the position of the pastor is called a minister. the position of the deacon as a minister as well. But then we see it's not only this administration, it's also a gift. And that's what we're discussing today, the gift of ministry. This is a spiritual gift, a spiritual ability that God has given to people in the church to serve him and others. So that's ministry in the Bible. How is it defined? Ministry, I said already, is the word diaconos. is the word deacon. Um so all of our definitions are going to come from that word. The word minister, we go way back into the root of the word. The idea it's a picture of humility and the word means somebody who goes through the dust. It's also the idea of somebody who runs errands. I think of biblical times, uh dirt roads, people running barefoot. When you're running errands, you're going through the dust. Uh in a in a hurry, there's dust that's stirred up, so stir the um go someone who goes through the dust, someone who runs errands. It also carries the idea of waiting a table, pictured there as well. And a third picture that's in this word for ministry is the picture of an attendant. And Paul's going to refer to this as he continues. So this word minister, it's used for servant, it's used for minister, it's used for deacon, and it carries this idea of running errands, waiting at table, being an attendant. Some confusions that people have regarding the gift of ministry, they wouldn't say it this way, but kind of the idea is that the gift of ministry is kind of one that's there for someone who can't do anything else Uh we start looking at pe gifts and people and and there might be some people we look at and say, I don't really see they're not really good t teachers, they're not people that are out front, they're not well they can serve. So that's probably what they have. So it's kind of almost treated as the consolation price of the gifts. That's the improper understanding of the spiritual gift of ministry. It's not the case at all. This is a gift that God has chosen specifically for individuals within the church. Now it is likely that this is a more prevalent gift within the church because we need a lot of people serving, but it's a it is a very valuable gift Yes, anyone can serve, but there is a difference in service of someone who it is their gift to serve. So all of us can serve. As I said already, we had work parties. Everybody serves. And we want everybody to serve, and everybody has positions of service in the church. But then there are people who have been gifted in ministry. Think to a time that one of the words there for our So picture a time that you went to a restaurant and you had a waiter. Now anybody can take orders and and bring food, right? And you had somebody that was just anybody that could bring food and and take tables and clean dishes and ask if you want a refill. It was just just a job, just a position of service. But you've also had people who were gifted in waiting tables and that excellent service and that's where the idea of tipping and some waiters get more tips and some waiters get less tips that comes on the service because there's a different way that they serve when they're passionate about it. And that kind of takes us to this idea of ministry even in the church, kind of an example of that for us. Yes, we can all serve, but there are people who've been gifted with the gift of ministry, and it's completely different. There's a greater level of desire to see the church and the building and people just taken care of because they have that heart for the ministry. Of course, any of us would be willing to. We had again work party. I could ask anybody in this room to do anything here at the church, and I believe everybody would do it. Everybody's willing, willing to serve. But if you contrast everybody being willing to serve with somebody like J. R. Trott. Um J. R. Trott did thousands of jobs here at the church. I probably asked him to do about four of them. Just Heart of ministry, that that's what he wants to do, doesn't care for credit, doesn't care for for getting knowledge, he's just going to do it in the background, and we'll see that attitude of the minister come out as we discuss this gift. So that's some confusion. It's not the constellation prize. It's not something that just is is, well, you can't do anything else. I guess I'll serve. That's not the way that not the way that we should view this gift. A second um kind of a confusion Is kind of the idea that we just all have the gift of ministry. Now you know my position is that everybody has one gift that they've been given by God But it comes back to that idea of like, well, I just I'm willing to serve. You gave that example last week of picking up trash. I don't really think about it. I just pick up the trash. So maybe that's just my my inclination. But again, there is a difference. It'll be addressed. We all have that responsibility, but certain people are given the gift. So what does this gift look like? How is it described by Paul for us here in the book of Romans? So look back at Romans chapter twelve, verse number seven. He says, Or ministry let us wait on our ministering. Ministry let us wait on our ministry. This first thing he brings up, if remember last week he had prophecy, and he brought up immediately the idea. In verse number six, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith. So he gives the gift and he gives some instructions about it right away. So when he gives the gift of ministry here, he goes right into this idea of waiting. So the waiting of ministry This idea of waiting on our ministering focuses on a position. Now this is not position like a position of a job or authority or like the pastor is a position. That's not the idea here. When it says position When he says waiting, that word wait cares at this this position. It's the idea of being in your place. You being in your place. You being where you need to be, and that's when you have the opportunity. to minister. He said if you have the gift of ministry, you'll be in your spot and you're going to find an opportunity to minister. So the idea that he focuses on there is one of faithfulness. Nothing will enable you to use your gift of ministry more than faithfulness. If you are faithful to the church and to church functions, I guarantee you you'll have an opportunity to use your gift. especially around here. We will put anybody to work if you're here. So you want it is uh you've heard it said that the greatest ability is availability, and this is Paul's encouragement with to those who have the gift of ministry. Be in your place. What Paul is doing by combining this idea of waiting, being in your position, with the idea of ministry goes back to that illustration of the word ministry being in attack. An attendant is someone who you know where they are, you know what they do, and you don't have to worry about them being there or not being there. They're just in their place and they're ready to serve. Somebody attending to a table or a parking attendant or something like that. There's somebody who has a place. They're there, you're dependable, you can count on them, and they're just ready to serve, and they almost go unnoticed until you need them. And that's the idea here of an attendant. Someone being at hand. They're in their place, they're ready to be called on, and they're ready to serve So in this instruction, he's encouraging them to do what's already natural for them. Someone who wants to minister, that's their heart, they want to be available and they want to be here. So he's encouraging them in that. Hey, you're serving, you're working in the church. You just stay faithful. You stay in your place and you'll have an opportunity to serve and use your gifts. So that's the idea we talked about on this idea of waiting. Now we get we talked about last week how when you look later in this chapter He gives a lot of instructions that are good for all of us as Christians, but they're almost each verse is almost tied back to a different gift, it seems, from the from the structure and what he's teaching there. We looked at how verse number nine relates to the idea of the gift of prophecy. So going to verse number ten, this one would tie back to the gift of ministry. So look in Romans twelve, verse number ten. The Bible says there, be kindly affectioned one to another, with brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another. So these relate back to the idea there of the gifts of ministry. And again, they're good teachings for all of us within the church. We can take, even though it's not our gift, it is our responsibility, so we can all learn something from this. There's a really neat relationship that Paul is bringing out in this verse. First thing he says there is be kindly affectioned. Be kindly affectioned. What he's dealing with here is the attitude of service. The attitude of service. This word kindly affection is the only time this word shows up in the Bible. And it is the idea of the love, the tender love specifically, of a family, especially between a parent and a young child. That's this idea of be kindly affectioned, that that tender love that a parent has for a child, especially at a young age. It draws on the care with which one should use their gift of ministry. You know, a parent does not begrudge all the meaning menial, thankless tasks that they do for their children. It doesn't bother them that they have to do that again Wipe up the milk again, clean up this again, give them a bath again, even though it's the fourth time today, change their clothes again, um, get up again in the middle of the night. Um this even at my wife's home this morning because my Elena wasn't feeling well last night and I had Elena with me in bed um not sleeping very well for a couple hours this morning. And you don't you don't it it's okay because of that kindly affection. I have that tenderness towards my children that it doesn't matter. Um I'm gonna do whatever for them, even if it I don't get they Elena's never written me a thank you know She has never I haven't got any tips uh from my from my well my boys are getting old enough they they buy me a drink every once in a while from the bookstore, so I'm starting to get that from from them. But but it's just you do these tasks, why? Because of your love for them. That's this idea, kindly affection. They serve their children out of love. Have you ever seen a new mom excited about a dirty diaper? They get they get excited it's it's a weird thing The guys don't do that. We don't get excited. Like, oh did you make a stinky? Oh, is mommy gonna change you? Like all excited about this idea of what uh an opportunity to serve. That's what it is. It's an opportunity to serve out of love. That's how it's seen there That's this word kindly affectioned. While doing menial tasks without recognition can get burdensome, Paul reminds those with the gift of ministry that they're doing it because they love their church family. So this love of a parent to a child, that's kindly affection. He says be kindly affectioned with brotherly love. So brotherly love is a different word. This is the word Philadelphia. The city of brotherly love, you've heard that. When you look at the root words, there's a compound word, the word friend with the word brother. So brotherly love is when your brother becomes your friend. So I remember when I was younger, I could call on some of these boys up here. Are there some times that brothers aren't friends? Um and as a young person, all that fussing and fighting and and arguing and knocking doors off the walls and things that we did As young people, as brothers, as you grow and as you mature and as you grow in your love for one another, brothers become friends, and that's a great bond that you have there. That's this word here for brotherly with brotherly love. The idea of a brother becoming a friend. When your brother becomes your friend, that is Philadelphia. Have you ever heard someone say of a family member, I love them, but I don't like them? It's some it's the way we can you know their family, uh you their family gotta gotta love 'em, right? Um so I love 'em but I don't really like 'em. So that's that brotherly love before it becomes Philadelphia. I love 'em but I don't like 'em. But as that matures, as it grows, you can you you learn to love them as well. Just like this attitude develops in families, it can develop in churches. I love them because I'm supposed to, but I just can't stand being around them And Paul reminds those with the gift of ministry that they serve because they love their church family, but they also need to like them as well. Um and so got Paul reminds them here, hey y you You you love them and you like them as well, brotherly love, and you do it out of that tender affection that a parent would have for a child, do it with brotherly love. And then he says thirdly in his instruction, verse number 10, with honor preferring, in honor preferring one another. This word honor means to put value on something. So it says you honor, you value someone else. And then it says preferring one. The word prefer there means to lead the way or go first. So what that looks like in the gift of ministry here is I value you, so let me do this. You're important to me, so let me let me take care of this job. I could give examples of times where we've had issues here at the church on the wrong side, wrong end of the plumbing And uh me and Pastor looking at it and like, well, I value him, so I'm gonna put my arm in there. Um because of that's this, let me go first because I value you. That's this idea of an honor preferring one another. That's the the heart of someone to give to me. ministry is, I care about you guys, you do what you need to do. I'm going to take care of this. That's the word here of an honor preferring one another. So that's the gift there described for us by Paul. We have some examples of the gift of um gift of ministry in the Bible, the gift depicted. First of all, we're going to have the example of Christ. Now I did not do this last week. I'm going to put Christ into all the examples because he's our ultimate example. If we go go back to last week in the gift of prophecy, Paul, Christ is an example there in how he dealt with the false doctrine of the Pharisees, confronting. Ye snakes, you vipers, uh you you you you're uh white as sepulchres full of dead man's bones, look good on the outside, all corrupt inside. He confronted sin, so he was an example there. He's also the ultimate example of ministry So in all of our gifts, we can look to Christ as our example of how to use that gift properly. Each of these gifts was perfectly used by the Savior as he did the will of God among the people of God. Matthew 20, 28 says, Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. That was Christ's heartbeat. It was a heartbeat of ministry, of serving one another, putting others' needs above himself. His value that he placed on us was much greater than the value he placed on himself. in the fact that he gave his life for us. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friend. That's the the heart be the Savior there is shown in this gift. There's no greater example of the attitude, the humility, and the love of the gift of ministry than is seen in the person of Jesus Christ. So Christ is the great example for us of the gift of ministry. Another person in the Bible who may have had the gift of ministry is that of Martha. You remember Martha, she was always, what, cumbered about with much serving. She was whenever we see Martha, she's serving. We have the example of when she talked to Jesus about having Mary come help her, because people that are ministering think everybody should be ministering. That's just we should all just be we wash the dishes together. And so that was Martha's attitude there, but not just there. Also after the resurrection of Lazarus, Martha is again seen serving a meal. Every time you see her, she's in the background and she's serving. She wasn't mentioned as often as Mary, but she was there, and she was working and she was serving in the background. So Martha is an example of someone who had the gift of ministry. I was thinking through the disciples that Jesus surrounded himself with, and there are two that come to mind as possibilities for this gift of ministry. Again, we're not told that they had this gift, but just looking at their life, one would be possibly James the Less James the Less is often called the unknown disciple. We know very little about him. He was just with Jesus. He was just serving, and he was always doing it in the background The only thing we really know about him from his time as a disciple was his height, because James Less means James the short guy. That's what James Less means. And as I thought about that, that kind of is how people with the gift of ministry are just in the background that, oh, that guy that's, that taller guy that's always cleaning up. Sometimes they're just always there serving and they almost go unnoticed, but there's that description that we could pull out and say, oh yeah, that guy, that guy that's serving, that lady that's that's doing that. So possibly James the Less. We do see, however, James Less does end up as a spiritual leader in the church. He speaks out at the Jerusalem Council in Acts chapter 15. So again a uh an example of what I talked about the several times now that any any position or any gift can serve in any position. So someone with a gift of ministry ended up as a leader within the church, possibly here with James West. Another possibility is James, the brother of John. We just see that he was always around Jesus. He was part of the inner circle. Peter, James, and John. But when you look at people that were talking, it was Peter, and you see John. James is usually just sitting there in the background, but he was always working. He wasn't outspoken, however. But some more possibilities in the New Testament, we won't go look at all of these, but Romans 16, verse 1, we see Phoebe described as a helper to Paul. We see Nesaphorus described as a helper as well, Aquila and Priscilla. Again, his helpers, his co-laborers, and Urbane as well is another one that Paul describes as his helpers. So lots of examples in the Bible of people who just were serving. Serving the background, we don't know much about them, but they were ministering, they were serving, they were doing what they could to promote the work of God by doing the work of the ministry. And we see that from those with this gift, the gift just depicted for us in the Bible Moving on to the idea of discussing the gift, what does this gift actually look like if we're going to describe someone who has the gift of ministry? We can kind of summarize it this way. Someone with this gift is perfectly happy performing menial tasks in the background for the church. Some positive characteristics, they have a strong desire to serve others and they don't mind doing menial tasks. They work hard efficiently and are very thorough in the work that they do. They will serve faithfully, even without recognition as they serve there in the church, even redundant tasks. I mean coming every week and doing the same thing. I I personally I'll do it, but I don't enjoy doing the same thing every week. I want to do something different. Um but someone in the gift of ministry, they don't mind coming every week and vacuum the floor. Come every week and wipe down the pulpit. Come every week and and wipe down the door handles and come whatever it is they just that they don't mind doing the things in the background. They don't want pastor to mention that they're doing it. They just want to serve in the background. Strong desire to serve others. Some negative characteristics that can can show up with those with this gift. They can be a little pushy and possessive with their work. This is my job. I don't want somebody else doing my job. They might mess it up. They're kind of a a possessive nature there. They can lose sight of helping people and their focus on accomplishing tasks. Sometimes they can be offensive in their attitude if only they can do it right. Somebody else comes in and works for you and does their job And then they'll come in as soon as they walk out of the room and redo it all the way that they like it being done. Um and the person that just did it sees them doing it and like, well what did I work for? Um so just some things to be aware of as some Some cautions there. Also some cautions about this. This is a gift like with prophecy is more task oriented than people oriented. Now as I think of this, I was reminded there's a comedian years ago that wrote a song about being a visitor at a church and while he was there he had a church fellowship and he didn't have a fork so he He kind of went into the kitchen to to find a fork for himself and he was confronted by an older lady in the church and the verse in the song went this way. It said, Stay out of my kitchen boy. Don't you know that it belongs to me? I've been cooking in here for at least thirty years, and that's the way it's going to be So if you need a fork or you need a spoon, next time stay in the other room, because boy you better pay attention and you stay out of my kitchen. So again Task oriented versus versus people oriented and we can understand how how it can it can get that way. So some cautions there. Another caution uh and this is a this is a plus and a minus. Again these cautions could go either way. But those with this gift will seek to work in the background. They don't want to be out front. They don't want everybody to know what they're doing. At the same time, because they want to work in the background, their work is often going to go unnoticed. No one notices that the lights are on until there's a light bulb out. No one notices that the weeds are pulled until they aren't. No one notices that the floors are vacuumed until there's dirt in the foyer So the the work they do is often going to go unnoticed, and when when it does, while they purposely seek to avoid attention, it is easy to feel unappreciated when you don't get any. Um and that comes on the rest of us to to value the work that other people do uh here at the church. Now that you want to stay in the background, and and I'm glad that that's your heart and your attitude, but you need to be aware that when you're in the background your stuff's gonna go unnoticed and it's easy for the devil to come in and say nobody cares about what you do um because nobody said anything, nobody's ever thanked you for this. You've never the pastor mentioned that this person did this, but he didn't say that you did this. There's a temptation there to to get bitter, so be aware of that. Going on to the gift developed. If this is your gift, you want to stir it up within you, as Paul commanded, to get better at what you do. And when Paul was teaching on his gift, he stressed two things, and we discussed them already: faithfulness and motivation. Faithfulness and motivation. If you want to grow in your gift of ministry, consider growing in your faithfulness. How could you serve as a church if you're not here So if if if you feel like you have the gift of ministry and you aren't using it, well may maybe you should try to be here a little more often. And that's where Paul encouraged faithfulness to the church. If you are here, if you are faithful Watch that you're not growing weary and well-doing. I've been vacuuming this floor every week for years. I'm just ready to do something else. I'm tired of my my my position. And you gotta be um aware of that. So uh being faithful to a job, being faithful to a ministry. Um one of the greatest blessings that comes from someone who is mature in their gift of ministry is their dependability. Those in leadership never have to wonder, is that going to get done? Because we can count on people with the gift of ministry. And if we ask them to do something, we don't have to come back and check, hey, did you get this done? Because they they're faithful to get it done. There's something that can be dependent on there. So if you're going to grow, you're going to develop your faithful, your gift of ministry, Paul says, first of all, develop your faithfulness. Also, he talks about your motivation. Paul points out that the reason that you minister is because of your love for others. You don't clean the church because you hate a dirty building. You clean the church. It's not that you clean the church because no one else was doing it. Now if the only reason you're serving is because no one else was doing it, well keep on serving. We want you to keep doing it. We want to keep the buildings clean. But grow in your motivation. Say, you know what, I'm not vacuuming this floor to keep it clean. I'm vacuuming this floor because I love my church family And I want to make sure that nobody else has to do this. I want to make sure that people get to enjoy coming to church and not see not see dirt on the floors. I don't clean uh ministry. Ministry is about getting things done, but we need to get things done because of people. You can grow to the point where you don't clean the bathroom because it's dirty. You clean the bathroom because you want your church family to enjoy a nice clean restroom. Someone with a gift of ministry is great at getting things done. Paul just reminded them the reason they're doing it. You're good at doing your job, but don't lose sight of why you do it. You're not just doing it to keep the building clean, you're not just doing it to make sure it gets done, not just because then nobody else is doing it, you're doing it because you love people. And that was what Paul stressed there. Your motivation of service is loving people. And that's when you're not going to grow tired of it. Because yes, you vacuum the floor, it's going to be dirty next week And you vacuum it, it'll be dirty next week. And if you're focusing is on keeping the floor clean, you're never going to be satisfied because it's always going to get dirty again. But if your focus is on ministering to people, every time you vacuum that floor, you're helping somebody And that never that never is exhausted, that's always satisfactory, and so getting your motivation on serving others. So the gift there developed, growing in faithfulness and growing in your motivation. Lastly this morning, for just a few minutes, the idea of the gift desired. As with we said with all the gifts, it is given to certain individuals, yet it is a responsibility that we all have as believers. We all have the responsibility to minister and to serve. A couple of verses that describe this, Galatians 5. 13 says, For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty. Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. So you've got freedom in Christ, use that freedom to serve other people. And so service is a call that you have on your life as a believer, a responsibility that you have. So serving others Another verse that points this out, 1 Peter 5. 5, likewise ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, ye all of you, be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility For God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. That idea of humility, serving one another, be subject to one to another. There's a verse in Ephesians that talks about us all being subject. Submitted to one another. Um that my pastor used to say there's no no big shots here, just a lot a lot of little shots shoot in the same direction. Um and that's uh the description he gave gave of of the church there that we should we should strive, just all of us serving one another And another reference there, again, from the example of Christ. John thirteen verses fourteen to fifteen. This is when Jesus washed the disciples' feet. He said, If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. And we understand he's not talking about literal washing of each other's feet. It's an attitude and a heart of service that I'm going to lift others up by putting myself in a position of service. That I w I care I care about you, so let me do that for you. That's the heartbeat, the attitude of someone's ministry, and something that we can all learn from. And all grow in our desire to serve God and serve others here within the church