1 Peter chapter 2 verse number 21. Read read with me. This is our theme verse. It's on the screens. It's on the uh slide up here. banner that we have in front of us. And uh but 1 Peter 2. 21, read that out loud with me. He says, for even here unto were ye called Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps That this is our theme first for the year. As we thought about this and considered this and looked at it for the last several months, looking at what the plan is as we come into this this new year, you know, many thoughts have come into my mind. One is that everybody has a comfort zone. Everybody has an area in which we are most at ease in which we feel that like let's just say temperature. We have a temperature that we like and sometimes even between husband and wife that temperature can be extreme, you know It's one person likes it really warm and one person likes it really cold or vice versa. Uh the staff give me a hard time because my legs are always cold and I'm sitting in the office studying and and I put a heater at my feet to keep my legs warm. Well that warms up the office pretty good, but my legs still feel cool. They come in, they're like, man, it's hot in here. And I'm like, well I'm comfortable. Leave me alone. You know, I I like it And we have this area in which we feel most comfortable. There is a way of life in which we feel at ease. There's certain crowds of people that we feel most comfortable with that we're we're comfortable to be around. When we get in the the wrong places, I mean y have you ever been in Washington DC after dark? And turn maybe you parked in this street in the daytime and then it gets to be night and you're going back to find your car and you're kinda like, uh Lord help me, you know You're kinda a little bit out of your comfort zone. You're getting into a place where you're not quite as familiar. Uh you know, some of you have taken brother Matt uh home and you know Matt's neighborhood where he's living Uh, you know, if you're not praying when you're going through there, then you must be backslidd me because that that neighborhood, man, is like Lord, uh, you know, you hope you don't hit a red light 'cause you're afraid they're gonna come out and just uh, you know, take your car from you Uh uh I know he's praying that God would let uh allow him to move and uh be in prayer with him about that. But you know, you get out of your comfort zone. You know, Brother Matt, he's he's lived down there and he he's used to it You know, he knows when something's going on on the street and he doesn't need to be out there. I'm a little ignorant of that and I wouldn't know I'd be out there in the middle of it and get shot or something. Uh but you know he's he He's learned to adapt and live in that, but it's outside my comfort zone for sure. When we find ourselves in our comfort zone or outside our comfort zone become nervous, apprehensive. Fight or flight kicks in. You know, there's nothing wrong with this. It just proves that we're interested in our life, amen. Uh or that we know we have this place in which we feel at ease. There's nothing wrong with that. But When our there is a situation and an area in our life that when our our comfort zone can actually become a means of concern as well. It's easy for people to reach as individuals a place where they're satisfied with the status quo. We structure our lives to the point where we can almost predict what's going to happen tomorrow. I mean we know what's our day is going to consist of. And this type of repeatability makes us comfortable. It makes us at ease. We know what tomorrow is going to hold for the most part. For many, this brings a sense of security and well being. There's nothing wrong with that, but when this type of comfortable living invades our spiritual life is when it becomes something of concern. Last week, one of the testimonies that was given talked about how when they first came to this church they were outside their comfort zone. They really uh were kind of pushed. and motivated to make some changes. But they got here and they got in and got involved and kind of found their comfort zone here. And we can all find that wherever we're at and whatever environment we're in. There's nothing wrong with being satisfied with your job. But when you become satisfied with your service or your relationship with God, there is cause for concern. There's nothing wrong with being comfortable in your home, in your automobile, in your financial situation or standing, when we become comfortable and complacent in our player life. Become satisfied with our spiritual progress, there is cause for concern. We should never reach the place where, as a child of God, we're totally satisfied with our walk or our witness. We should always push forward. If there ever was a Christian that saw the need or could have got comfortable where he was at, if there was ever a Christian that had achieved Enough to maybe be at ease, you would think it would be the Apostle Paul. But we know the Apostle Paul did anything but assuming Because he said, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forward to those things that are before I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded Let us have that mind. The mind that Paul had to press towards the mark. Not only do many individuals seem to reach a spiritual level of comfort, but so do churches. Churches as a whole that kind of reach this area where we get comfortable, where it's us This is our church and this is who we are and we reach a place where uh okay uh the bills are paid and uh attendance is is okay and we're we're comfortable with where we're at. And there are many, many churches that exist and live inside of that comfort zone, not seeking to push or move beyond it. When we're in that comfort zone as a church, we may not pray for the lost like we should. We may not reach out to the visitor. Like we should. We may not invite others or invest in others as we should, because we've reached a comfort level in our church It's easy to become satisfied with the way things are. But the sad truth is, is when a church becomes complacent, that church begins to die. As soon as we reach the place of the church where we are no longer striving for our Lord, then we begin Into as a church to die. There are churches all over America, week after week, that close their doors, that are no longer. And they didn't see it coming. They just got comfortable and stopped pushing forward. It may take years before that final death toll is wrong. But As soon as we become comfortable, the process is started. So we need to move out of our comfort zone. We need to be pushed beyond what is You know, that temperature we enjoy. This week I got an ad from Dell Computers and I thought that I brought it because I stuck it in my suitcoat pocket because I was gonna bring it. But I was So it's not it's not in my coat pocket. But I got an ad from Dell Computers. It was sitting on the counter when I walked into the kitchen. And I looked at it, and immediately the Holy Spirit spoke to me. You need a computer. No, I'm just kidding. It literally s challenged me spiritually. I look at this ad, and it was I mean one of the best marketing ads I've ever seen from a computer company. You see, four years ago I bought a computer from Dell. And this ad said, see what four years, see what difference four years can make They knew that I had bought a computer from them four years ago. And they were showing me the difference between the computer that I bought four years ago and what I could get today. What's available today? I mean look at the increased processing power and look at the increased uh color gamut in the screen and uh look at the the benefit of this. But what spoke to me immediately is I look at that and God said What would your spiritual life be if we put it on a piece of paper and said, look at what four years, what difference four years can make? The Holy Spirit spoke to me and says, Could you put anything down there? Has the last four years or even the last year made any difference in your life? Could you write down and say, boy, look at this, look at the upgrade that I had. I mean, if we looked at it tonight and we said, uh, you know John Smith Christian 2. 0 What are your upgrades, brother? He's got a new knee and he's got a no. I'm not talking about that, I'm talking about spiritually. What is it in our life? What steps have we taken? What difference has a year made for us? What an amazing thing is God spoke to my heart. Would you be able to write down, look, Pastor, I would have never come to Sunday night church, but now I do. Or Pastor, I would have never given a track out a year ago, but now I give tracks out. Here's a change in my life. I would have never come to Sunday night prayer meeting, but now I come to prayer meeting. I'm saying, what is it that you could put down in your life? Or maybe have you existed inside of a comfort zone and maybe need to do some R D And think about what God would want you to do this year. If we could fast forward all the way to the end of this year. and we gave you a piece of paper and said, hey, what steps did you take? What difference has been made in your life this year? Could you put something down? For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. Christ left an example. We should follow in his steps. Tonight I want to just talk about one area. There's many things, and I looked at this and developed actually several messages with regards to the steps of Jesus that we should follow. But tonight I want to give you just one thing really looking at our text verse and our theme verse here. First of all, I want you to r realize that we've all been enlisted. You've all been enlisted. He says, For even hereunto were ye called. We've all been enlisted in the army. We've all been recruited. If you've trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and by testimony would say, I'm saved. I know I'm on my way to heaven. I want you to understand that you've been enlisted. You've been recruited for the fight. You're part of the battle. You have been enlisted. You are part of this process. Now I know that uh we Today it seems like we get it a little bit confused when we think about the idea of full-time Christian service. We think, oh, I was called into full-time Christian service. And we look at it and we say, oh well I haven't been called. For even hereunto were ye called. If you're saved, you've been called. You might not have been full called uh to get paid. To be a Christian. But you've been called to be a full-time Christian. We I think sometimes condition our young people to think about this idea of Christian service as a measure of if God really speaks to my heart and really draws me and and really does something in my life, then I'll surrender and step over here into full-time Christian service. But we're all called to be full-time Christians. I've said it before and I'll say it again. It's just doesn't seem fair that I get paid to do what God told me to do. I mean it's a little bit s I'm a little bit spoiled because we're all supposed to be Christians. And God has called me to be a servant like this, and you guys bless me and provide me a salary to be able to serve God and do what God wants me to do. But we're all to be Christians. There is some type uh sometimes this this measure or this idea that uh well you're a full-time Christian servant. You're supposed to be super Christian. Well, I am supposed to be a good Christian and I hope I I I hope I can I by God's grace will set an example But so are you. You're supposed to be a good Christian too. I don't see anywhere in the scriptures where you get a slide. Because you weren't called into full-time Christian service. I don't see where that makes a difference. We're all called to be Christians. We've all been enlisted in this fight. We've all been recruited to be part of what God wants to do in this world and reaching this world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know, as we said this morning, God loves this world. He wants to reach the world, and as a church, we need to be reaching out. I want to have a gospel-centered church. The focus of the church, the heart of the church, reaching the lost, bringing people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ There's something that I said in Sunday school some months ago, and uh it's kind of just stuck in my mind, and that is that we're not called to satisfy the saved, but we're called to seek the saved. And too many Christi too many churches are so involved in the programs of the church, and I think the programs are good, we're going to talk about a lot of those things tonight, but all those I really believe should be secondary, they should be built. made to strengthen the Christians so that they can be better soul winners. So that they can be better witnesses for Christ, so that they can reach the lost. You know, as people come into the church house here, sometimes we get the idea we look at them as a prospect guard. Oh, here's somebody that could come and be and be a part of the church. This is not a business. This is a ministry. And God has really spoken to my heart these last few weeks as I've prayed about this coming year and the focus for our church. Really spoke into my heart about ministering to people for them, not for what they can do for Hunt Valley Baptist Church. God help us as a church if when somebody comes through the door we look at them as a possible giving unit for this ministry. We need to look at them and say, what could God use us to do in their life? What area do they need strength in? What area do they need help? What area do they need uh somebody to come alongside and and and help them and encourage them. If they never do a thing here, if they never help in any way, if they never put a dollar in the plate, it should be our mission and our desire because we're following the example of Jesus. Christ, and that is to minister to their soul. Regardless of what they ever do. And if we would just invest our life in people, not expecting anything in return or not doing it because we want to try and build a church. But we want to build lives, and if God brings them here and puts them in part of the church, we'll let God take care of the church. We're just going to love people. That's what I hope we can do as a church. That's what I desire as we go forward that we would uh follow this example. We have been enlisted, but not only have we been enlisted, we've been given an example. We've been given an example in Jesus Christ, an exceedingly great example that we're to follow. He gave to others never for what they might do for him. But because of what he could do for them, he invested in others We have this example, and there's one area I want to talk about tonight that is fitting with us taking this next step. An example of Christ that we see something that He did. In Luke chapter 2. Verse number forty, he says, and the child grew and waxed strong in spirit, and filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. Turn to Luke chapter two, I want you to see verse number fifty-two. I'm going to read verse number 40 again. You look at verse number 52. And the child grew and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom and grace of God was upon him. This is when Jesus went to the temple. And they learned something about him. The Bible says, in Jesus increase in wisdom and in stature, and in favor with God men. Jesus Christ gave us an example here of what we should be doing. We should be growing. He grew physically. I won't take long here, but we're on the outset of a year, and Jesus grew physically. I don't think that a lot of these pictures that depict Jesus Christ as this infeminate, weak individual is a good picture of what Christ was. I believe, you know, he talks about somebody that didn't even have a place to lay their head. I think he walked uh most places that he went, and uh I think he was a rough, a rough man, strong. He grew physically. We need to take care of the body. We need to strive to be in better shape. I didn't say a different shape. All of us are working on a different shape, you know. We're real level because the bubble's in the middle. But I think we ought to strive to be in a little bit better shape. Just put forth a little bit of effort in that area this year that we would strive to grow uh physically, uh improve physically. Some of us have been growing physically for a while, but we improve physically Here we also see that Jesus grew in wisdom. You know, we're never to stop growing in this area. We're never to stop learning what it means to be a Christian. And to follow Christ. We're to grow in wisdom. How do we grow in wisdom? Matthew chapter seven, verse number twenty-four. and 27 if you want through 27 you want to turn there Matthew chapter 7 24 through 27 he says therefore whosoever heareth these things of mine And doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which buildeth his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and it beat upon the house, and it fell not. Man, which built his house upon the sand, and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon the house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. So how do we get wisdom? We read the instructions. We hear the instructions. We obey the instructions. Read, hear, and do. Not just read, not just hear, but do. He says that I will liken him, the first man, there so whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth. I will liken him unto a wise man. We need to grow in wisdom this year. How do we do that? Hear the instruction and do it. And do it. Jesus grew in his relationships as well. He grew in favor with God and man. You know, I think we could all do to grow in a little bit better favor with God. Amen. Amen. I think we could. There's things that we could change or that we could improve in our life that would put us in a little bit better relationship with our Heavenly Father. We also could do with some improvement in some of our relationships with man as well. Whether those are relationships in our home with our children, with our wives. At work with some of our co-workers, with those who work for us, or those we work for, I think we can improve in this area. Jesus grew in favor with God and man Maybe some of us ought to read how to win flints win friends and influence people. You say that's a worldly book. Yeah, but it uses biblical principle, the idea of a man that has friends must Show them so friendly. Doesn't matter how you say it, that's biblical. And you know what? Some of us might need to make some adjustments in how we handle our relationships. And by the way, you're not the person that can judge whether you're good at this or not. You need to ask somebody you can trust. Say, hey How am I getting along with people? Somebody that's willing to tell you the truth. Maybe we need to adjust a little bit. So that we can improve in our relationships with others. Relationships are the core of our life We must come to the place where we learn how to deal with relationships. So many people today, the relationships, they don't know how to function You know, I don't have time to go there. You need to work on your relationships, what wherever they are in your life, whatever relationship might be suffering. You need to work on it. All not only have we been enlisted, not only have we been given an example, but we have been admitted. Not committed. Emitted. That is to send forth. He emitted a cry. He cast forth a cry aloud, emitted. God has sent us out. What does he say? He says that ye should follow his steps. We've been enlisted, but we're not just part of the army. We've got a job to do. And he says, okay, here's the job. You've got to go and follow in the steps that I have given you. You've got to follow the example. To admit, to send forth, to give forth, to release You know, I talked about this a little bit this morning from a different perspective, but you know what happens in our life is our experiences, what we know because of our life situations. Dictate our beliefs. Our beliefs dictate our actions Our actions dictate our experiences. Our experiences dictate our beliefs Our beliefs dictate. Are you following me? We have a vicious circle, and we're stuck inside of our beliefs because of what we've experienced. And what I'm talking to you about right now is that you look at a a Baptist church, and our experience is that people don't like Baptist churches. And our experiences is that people reject the gospel. Our experience is that people don't like tracks. And because that's our experience, we have a belief that that is true. And our belief is that people won't accept the gospel today. People won't come and visit the church. Things aren't going to change. Things aren't going to grow. God isn't going to do something great or miraculous. Why? Because my experience says so But my experience says so, therefore I have built a belief on that. But my belief dictates my actions. Because I don't believe that people respond to a gospel tract, I won't give out any tracts. Because my belief is that people don't come to a church like ours, I don't invite anybody to church Because my belief is that people don't respond anymore to good preaching, Bible straight preaching. I hold back on what God might want me to say And you know what? My belief is true. Look at that. I told you nobody responds to tracks anymore. Because I'm not giving any out. Because I'm not made making an opportunity for God to do something great. I want God to change our belief this year. We've got to stop living inside of our bounds, inside of our our coast, inside of the area and our our experiences. Because with God all things are possible. And God can do miraculous things beyond what we could even ask or think. If we could just get and begin to live as a Christian should live, and that's by faith. When we by faith say, God, I don't know this world doesn't love you anymore, and this world stands against you, and there's probably nobody out here, but Lord, by faith, I'm going to Step out and I'm gonna give out a track and I'm gonna ask somebody to come to church and I'm gonna invite somebody to church. Hey, Stephen invited his little friend to church He came this morning and this morning Stephen's friend from school trusted Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior. And he looked up at Miss Mary after he got saved and he said, Now I want to get baptized. Somebody's been talking to him about the process. It still works. God still does amazing things, but we've become conditioned by our experiences And we stop living by faith and we start just saying, oh, it doesn't work anymore. And what we see God do gets smaller and smaller and smaller instead of living by faith and stepping out And saying, God, I'm going to take this step for you by faith. I'm going to move forward for you by faith. And see God do something great. That's what I want for our church this year. That's what I want for my life this year. We've been sent out to do great things. But we're only going to attempt what we believe is possible And we become so conditioned by our experience we don't believe anything's possible. God could bust this wide open. God could do amazing things You know, he's already this year. I mean, last Sunday night was a kind of service that you might see once every 10 years. An amazing service. Miss Gracie, I I can't wait. I'm gonna tell your I'm gonna give your testimony, okay? This week, Miss Gracie had a friend come to her house and she was talking to her about the Lord. Catholic lady that she's been talking to for some time. Miss Gracie had been been talking to her about Jesus. And she called me up and she says, Pastor Caleb, Valerie's right here next to me, and Valerie, she's a Catholic, but she decides she wants to be a Christian. Could you talk to her about Jesus? And I I said, I'd be glad to. Miss Gracie had done all the work. She had laid all the groundwork. She had given her all the verses. I started telling her the verses, as this Valerie, I started telling her the scriptures and she She said, Yeah, Miss Gracie told me that. Yeah, Miss Gracie said that. And I said, Will you understand all this? And she said, Yes, I do. And I said, Well, would you like to trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior right now, here on the phone? She said, Yes. And she bowed her head and trusted Christ as our Lord and Savior. Sun son this this morning. Oh, people don't come to church anymore. What was his name? Name Brandon? Brendan. Brendan. Oh, there you are. Sitting with your family. Brendan. Good job, Steven. It does work. You know relationships are how this happens. Just this last week No, a week ago I think. It may have been longer than that now, maybe two weeks ago, but you got to leave joy to the Lord. Eight days ago. Eight days ago. Five days before joy went to went to on off into glory, he got to leave lead Jesus Christ that lead this joy to Jesus Christ. You know why? Because of the relationship. He talked to me this morning he says God put it together. Because how many months ago did her husband pass away? Late June. Last June, Valerie's husband passed away, and they took time to go to the funeral of this older gentleman That they hadn't seen in forty or fifty years. Hadn't seen him in forty or fifty years, but by being at the funeral, that relationship opened the door five days before joy went on to be and to glory, she trusted Jesus. Jesus Christ. I think relationships are worth investing in. You know our problem as Christians, and I'm preaching to myself right here I mean, I'm talking about the kind of soul winning that I grew up on. You know, I'm a Christian and I live inside my little bubble. I'm here at church and I'm in the Christian school and I'm inside my little bubble. But every Tuesday night for an hour, I step outside my bubble and I go knock some doors, and then I run back into my bubble And I worry about who I might bring into my bubble. That's the kind of soul winning I was raised on. But you know the kind of soul winning that makes a difference is when we invest in When we build friendships. We need to learn how to be in the world but not of the world. We need to learn how to have a relationship with somebody, even though they aren't exactly like me. Even though they don't talk exactly like I do or dress exactly like I do or go the exact same places I do, we need to learn how to to communicate and and and love and care for those people where they're at So that the day, the opportunity might be three months from now or six months from now or a year from now, but I'll have the chance to show them what God did in my life And maybe with the power of God they'll get saved. And then they'll come to church and they'll start growing. And letting God build and grow and change them, and then they'll build some relationships. That's what we need to do. And I'm asking God as our church, we would find a way to do it. That we would impact Cockiesville, Hunt Valley, your workplaces with relationships. Because God can do it. I know we get inside our bubble and we are comfortable here. We gotta reach out. Take a step. Be a witness. See somebody saved. And there's nothing like it. You've been enlisted. You've got an example that is bar none, the greatest that ever was. And you've been admitted. You've been sent out to do a task. I hope we as a church. Would follow this example, grow in our wisdom, our knowledge of Jesus Christ this year, grow in our relationships so that we could invest in other lives. Go in our relationship with God. That's what I hope God will allow us to do. Dear Lord, I pray you take this moment of invitation and That each would respond to you. To be a doer of the word, not a hearer only. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.