No, we're in studying the book of first John, so you can turn there. First John chapter number four. Uh first John chapter number four. I didn't get my notes to Pastor August, which might not have mattered because he Texts me at about 5 30 and says I am coming in from DC. DC traffic is is uh hot and heavy, so I'm not I don't know I'm gonna be like right and seven it looks like. And he did make it. I I actually went to the uh Alicia and told her I said I might be leading this first song. If Gus doesn't walk in here any minute, I'll be ready. And uh but he he rolled in right on time, but uh of course we are in first John. The repetition is found in the book of First John It's great for young Christians. Really, this study has been uh just a great study with regards to foundational uh basic beginning truths of our Christian life. Uh they've been a great reminder for me. I've really enjoyed the study myself, but repetition is the key to learning. And uh in the book of 1 John, over and over, you'll see him referring back to the heart of his message, which is a threefold message. He deals a lot with light, he talks about love, and he talks about truth. And so some of these things as we hit them in your heart and mind might say, I thought we had that lesson already. Well John gave it to us again. So we're just going verse by verse through the book of 1 John, and so we're just tackling it as it comes And you'll see that the topics or these things get hit several times. Last week we embarked on the fourth chapter here and got to start, opened up this fourth chapter with some lessons on how to recognize the Spirit that is not of God. There's some lessons there very clearly given to us how to recognize a spirit that's not of God. Does anybody remember the the key defining characteristic of somebody that is a false spirit? Brother Hunt denies that Christ is the Son of God. Denies that Christ is the Son of God, denies the virgin birth, the incarnation of Christ. That what they believe about Christ is central to determining, and that's very clearly given to us there in those first uh few verses. And uh so that's very important. Then we recognize or spend some time talking about how to become an overcomer And that was the the life of the overcomer, or the overcomer's life uh last week that we looked at. Uh and of course we are expected to be overcomers because greater is he that is in you than he is in the world. Amen. Amen. So tonight we want to talk about the love of God. We want to talk about that love of God and how it really has the power to transform our lives. It changes a man from the inside out into the image of God's Son. Hopefully, your Christian life is one that's defined by love. First of all, it was love that sent God's Son from heaven down to earth to save your soul. And that is the beginning of the Christian life. But then from there on we are slowly becoming like Christ. And we're going to see in this text tonight that as we become like Christ, we will begin to see more love. Now, by the way, let me just throw this out. We're going to talk a whole lot about love tonight, but I want you to understand that love is not this lovey-dovey Oh, I'm just gonna love you and let you do whatever you want to do, uh, the mentality that permeates society today. How many of you know that it is love that tells a child no? It's love that draws a line in the sand and says, Listen, son, this you're not supposed to go past here. And it's a loving God who knows exactly what we need, who does set boundaries for us as Christians He sets up a hedge for us and he says, hey, if you live inside these boundaries, if you live inside this hedge, you're protected by God Almighty. You're provided for by God Almighty. If you live in the hedge, but too many Christians want to get outside the hedge. Too many Christians aren't satisfied or content with what God has given us and the boundaries He set for us, like a child who doesn't want to stay in the backyard. and takes off down through the neighborhood and soon finds out how treacherous the neighborhood can be. As a young man, I remember we had a little gang in Sheboygan, Wisconsin. Like in the hood, right? This Sheboygan, Wisconsin, I mean this you're talking about the gang. Anyway, d it didn't matter to me. I I'm talking about these little gang members uh came and they like to beat up on the pastors kids. And they used to ride by the church and they would yell at us, you know, Jesus freaking all that. Well, I remember one time I was out running around the neighborhood and uh yeah, they they attacked me. And that's why I'm a little different, okay? I'm still in recovery. No, I remember being so afraid I was on my bicycle and I was so afraid and I'm running and these four or five guys chasing me and uh they you know threw a stick or something and made my bike you know, stop and they they ended up attacking me. I mean I wasn't too tore up. Certainly been in a lot worse uh as I got older, but but I remember that for sure. Why? Because I got out of the hedge. I got outside the boundaries that God wanted me to live in. And as we talk about this tonight, I'm not going to chase a bunch of those rabbits, but I want you to know we're supposed to be living inside the boundaries that God set. And it is love that motivates God to say, hey, here's where you need to be. Don't don't go outside of that. This is where you're gonna this is where you'll be happy. This is where you're gonna be fulfilled. This is where you'll be satisfied as a believer. Follow. There's a way. Walkie in it. Amen? Alright, so we're gonna run on. So I want you to see tonight this is Hard to believe. We're actually going to tackle verse 7 to 21 tonight. These verses all go together. They're all talking about love in some ramification or way. And uh there some of them are repetitious and so we may not uh you know individually deal with them. We'll kind of put them together even though they're not in order. So far we've just gone verse by verse and in order. But uh these there's several of them will group together under one topic and uh try and address these. But I guess for the sake of hearing it all, let's Just follow along as we read verse seven down through twenty-one. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and every one that loveth is born of God and knoweth God, and he that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. In this was manifest the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us, and he sent his son to be a propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us his spirit, and we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed that believe the love that God hath to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect that we may be that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him because he first loved us. If a man say, I love God and hate his brother, he's a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this is the commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God loveth his brother also. I did not add him up, but the word love is mentioned a lot of times in those few verses, isn't it? It just uh repeats and repeats, but we want to dig into this tonight. I've got three points for you. I want you to see first of all the exhortation. The exhortation. He's given us here, beloved, let us love one another. There's a command here, there's an expectation that as believers We would love one another. It's a required love. Love one another. It's something that God expects for the believer to have love and concern for one another. We see this very clearly. You can't say that you love God if you don't love your brother. We're supposed to love one another. That's a good place to say amen. Now I've been I've been moving really fast because I got a lot of ground to cover and I told you I'm gonna get done early. And so I've been trying to keep keep things clicking. Uh but The fact of the matter is is you can't say that you love God if you don't love your brother. He says there in verse number twenty and twenty-one, if a man say I love God and hate his brother, he's a liar. That's what he says there, right? He says, For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this is the commandment we have from him that he who hath Who loveth God loveth his brother also. It's very clear it's a required love. It's also, I want you to see that the root of all love comes from God. The beginning of it. God is the one that started it. He says there for God, for for love is of God. And then the end of verse number eight, he that loveth knoweth not God for what is the next three words? God is love. I want you to know the root of love, all of it comes from God. It started with him and the capacity and the ability that we have to truly love people. Not with the world's kind of love, not with a with a uh a kind of love that is expecting something in return, but a unselfish sacrificial love like Jesus Christ is the abilities given to us by God A. E. Brooks said, human love is simply a reflection of something that began with the divine nature itself. Human love is a reflection of that divine nature. As you get saved, you get God in you, and you begin to get changed from the inside out, and your capacity to love others grows. Warren Wersby said, the cross is a plus sign. It reconciles sinners to God and people to one another If two Christians do not love one another, they have taken their eyes from the cross. Very powerful words. I want you to see it's not only a required love, not only is the root of all love from God, but we see a reciprocal likeness here. In verses 7 and 8, he says, Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. And he that loveth knoweth not God, for God is love. It's a reciprocal likeness. What I'm saying is that It's through knowing God we learn how to love. But it's through love that we get to know God. And it is a reciprocal in nature. It's almost a snowball effect. The more we learn to love, the more we learn about God. And then we have a greater capacity to love because we're more like God. And then we learn more about love, and then we begin to know more about God. It is Through knowing him that we begin to be like him, it becomes evident to the world around us that you know God. Why? Because of the love that's evident in your heart. Let me ask you, do you know him? Do you know him? You know this world it's very popular to wear the uh WWJD bracelets, shirts. Jackets, ties, whatever, all kinds of stuff, W know, bumper stickers, what would Jesus do? But I wonder how many of them really know what Jesus would do. Do they really know him? You know these interns just got here. They've been here a little over a week. They were celebrating. We survived our first week. Hallelujah. Counting them down. Um but you know when they first get here, they don't really know me. I mean we've met, we've interviewed, we've talked, and and they they came. But you know by the end of ten weeks they're gonna know me pretty well. And and it's it's a process through you know, I walked outside and they were working on the bridge. And I said, listen guys, let me help you. Here's a better way to do this. And explained why. Said this this is how this is going to happen. And so through that they learned, well, Pastor Caleb would want it done like this. Pastor Derek was here ten years. He had a pretty good handle. Pretty much he knew how I would want it done. Oh, Pastor would want it done like this. Or he would say that's not going to be acceptable. Yeah, we were we were at the Minute Boys camp out and some volunteers cleaned the bathrooms for us. And we were walking around and we were cleaning everything up. We were getting everything ready to go because, you know, we want to leave it in better shape than we found it. We were cleaning the bathrooms up. And Andrew comes out of the bathroom and he's like, uh they clean them, but I don't think you're gonna be happy with it Uh yeah, they've been clean but not to your clean. And I walked in and I s I I just said, well if you know I'm not happy then we gotta clean them again and we got about six guys in there and went through the bathrooms and real quick we went went through and cleaned everything up. Uh but he knew. He's like, you you're not gonna be happy, Dad. But I wonder how much do we know God? How well do we know God? We we w when we know God, we'll strive to please God. If we love God, we're not going to be living for self. We're not going to be holding grudges. We're not going to be abusing others. We're not going to harbor prejudices. Because that's not what God would want. Love is always looking for reconciliation, not retaliation. Human nature is looking for retaliation. That guy cuts you off going down the road. What? That was my spot. I don't know why that gets under our skin so bad, you know? You know, especially I was down here on York Road and you know that light coming under Shawan, especially since they added that new light by Chick-fil-A there. Getting around that corner right there is ridiculous I had already waited through a whole light, was waiting for the second light to be able to turn left, and some yard bird who didn't want to wait in line Came all the way down in the second lane and because I wasn't fast enough on the gas pedal, he jumped in front of me. And I was like, oh man I shouldn't have let that guy in. Like just that's not fair. He should have gotten the line like everybody else. You know, why does that bug us so much? Just that little thing. We look for retaliation Love is always looking for reconciliation. I want you to see the example that's given to us here in verse number 9 and 10. He says, and this was manifest the love of God toward us. Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. So we have an example. Jesus Christ didn't ask of us to do something he didn't do. God is not saying, hey, ye should love those that hate you and despitefully use you. Without him first himself first going through it. He did it. He lived it. He was the example. I want you to see several things about this love. It was a radiated love. I want you to know it was totally unsought. We didn't go to him, he came to us. And we didn't even know what we needed. God's love reached down into this world and found you where you were at. And began to draw you to himself. How can a man come to the Father, come to the Lord except the Father draw him? That was not a direct quote. I missed some word or two in there. But the father's got to draw him. God started drawing you. God found you where you were. Maybe God sent a soul winner or somebody else by to To be a witness to you. Maybe you had a friend that invited you to church and you heard the truth about the love of God. I'm saying it was an unsought love. Even when we didn't want anything to do with God, God loved you. It was a totally unreserved love. That is, he held nothing back. He gave it all. We've got some young men here and I don't know how young these men are or don't don't know them that well but you know you get to that age and you start building a relationship with a young lady And the beginnings of the relationship is a little tentative. It's a little reserved. I'm not going to jump in, I'm going to kind of check and see how this goes. We're gonna find out if it's reciprocal. We're gonna find out if she cares for me at all. And what I'm saying is it's kind of held back until you find out if you're gonna get it. in res in return. If you ask her out two or three times and she says no, you're like, well forget you Well you didn't love her that much, did you? Well, what I'm saying is God's love was unreserved. He gave it all up front totally. He held nothing back. He sacrificed himself. And we know that it was an undeserved love. You and I have not done anything to warrant God's love. What a stunning truth to consider the fact that he Sought us when we didn't seek him. He loved us when we didn't love him. We didn't we didn't deserve it. Here's how you know that God is love. Regardless of what's going on in the world, regardless of how bad it gets. You know, sometimes people look at the world and the problems and they say, man. A loving God would not let this happen. Well sin is what caused this to happen. But he tells us right here, how do you know? Somebody says to you, how do you know that God is a loving God? He tells you right here in this verse. Herein is love. Not that we love God, but that He loved us and He sent His Son to be a propitiation for our sins. That's how you know. You know, without question That God is loved because he sent his son. As wicked or hateful as sinful men can be, and God gave his son for us. I want you to see the repetitious list that's given to us here. It's kind just kind of interesting. We see in verse number nine, we see a word, and this was manifested, the love of God toward us. Now Why was that? Why was this manifested? The last phrase tells us. Why was this, verse number nine, it was manifested, the love of God toward us. Why? The last phrase, what does it say? That we might live through him. So the love of Christ, Christ was manifested. He was uh you know took upon the form of man. Why? That we might live through him. But I want you to look back at John chapter 3 and verse number 8. We see this word manifested again, and we see another cause or reason. He says, He That committeth sin is of the devil, for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifested. That he might. What is the last of that verse? Destroy the works of the devil. So we see secondly, first of all, he was manifested that we might live through him. He was manifested to destroy the works of the devil. Look back at John chapter 3 and verse number 5. And ye know that he was manifested, what does it say to take away our sins. He was manifested to take away our sins. Now go to 1 John 1 and verse number 2. Chapter 1 and verse number 2. For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life. Which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. Jesus, we know he's talking about Jesus, was manifested unto us. Why? To show unto you that eternal life. So there's a four-point outline for you, preacher boys. You can take that and run with it. This repetition list. John likes to repeat. And so I'm just giving you that. I want you to see it was a redeeming lot that he gives us God sent his love into the world. Why? To be a propitiation for our sin. This is verse number 10 back in our text passage in chapter 4, verse number 10. God was sent to be a propitiation for our sin. A propitiation is a word that means atonement. It means to satisfy, to pay the penalty of. A propitiation. Now we know in the Old Testament sin was covered by a sacrifice. A sacrifice was offered to God to cover man's sin. They had to go periodically at set intervals of time and offer sacrifice and for different things for different sacrifices were acceptable, but ultimately uh they sacrificed unto God And this sacrificial system was to be a picture. It taught Israel and the rest of the world two things. First of all, it taught that no earthly sacrifice was totally sufficient. It didn't matter how I mean they had to continue to offer sacrifice because no earthly sacrifice was sufficient. But it also taught them about the one who would come who would be sufficient. Jesus Christ, who was given to reconcile man to God, that was what he did as a propitiation for us. Would you write down in the margin of your Bible there, if you want to just a study point, write down Romans 3. 25, just to have it for later. Romans 3. 25 says, whom God has sent forth To be a propitiation through faith in his blood. So how does God become a propitiation for us? How is our pay-the payment paid? How is the wrath of God satisfied? Now I know you're not looking at it, but in Romans 3. 25 it says, whometh God has sent forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. The shed blood of Jesus Christ. Putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, in his shed blood that was shed to cover our sin once and for all, he gave himself as a perfect sacrifice. Putting faith in that, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. Put your faith in that and God can be a propitiation for you. Then I want you to see the examination thirdly, verses 11 and 12, we see, beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Let me ask you, what is too much? When has God crossed the line and it a asked too much of you? When has God infringed upon your personal time or your personal life or asked too much of you. Is it too much for God to ask you to live a clean, Christ-honoring life? Is it too much for God to ask you to love others? Where is the line for you? Where is it you said, okay, that's all the farther I'll go for God? That's all no, I I I understand the importance of this over here, but this over here is not that's that's out of bounds for God. Wait a minute. The examination here is we examine ourselves and find out how much we love God We see it's a responsive life. It's a life that we're supposed to love one another In verse number nineteen, what does he say? Verse number nineteen, you guys read it, tell me. You see, it's a response of love. God gave it all up front. But we despised him. But when you come to the realization of what God did for you, and you acknowledge that fact and you confess your sin before Him and put your faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ, He becomes the Savior of your soul. He forgives you of your sin, and when you realize that you say, Wow. He loved me that much. I want to love him. Was talking to the interns the other night. We're standing around in our kitchen at about ten thirty at night. Well, we've done that a lot. I don't know if this conversation was then. This might have been in the afternoon. I don't I don't remember. We spent a lot of time with them the last few days. Uh but we were talking um about loving your mate, about having a right relationship in your home. And they had just watched Mary and I have a big row and and you know just get all over each other and Mary was out of control and I I had to apologize and uh No, we're just basically you guys know I've told you before she's so good to me, she loves me so much, I feel like, man, I've got to be a better husband. She deserves better out of me. I'm such I'm s I I I feel like, you know, I'm inadequate. I'm not enough because she why does she love me so much? I don't deserve that. I need to do more for her And that type of feeling is is reciprocal. If I'm striving to do more for her, she says, man, I married the best guy in the world. I want to do more for him. And I say, will you stop? Because you're making me do more for you already. It's making this too much work. But I'll tell you what, it's a good place to be. And that's why we're talking about our love for God. When we see what He does for us and how much He has given and sacrificed everything, we say, man, it's the least I can do to follow God. And do what God wants me to do. It's the least I can do to love one another. Human love is just a response to the divine love that was first sent to us. The fact of the matter is, beloved, is we can't see God, but we see the effect that God has on our lives Just like we can't see the wind, but you see the effect that it has when it blows trees down and blocks the road and tears the neighborhood up. When it fills the sails with air and pushes the boat. You see the effect the wind has. So the world, beloved, should see the effect that God has on us. The love that now is flowing forth from us as we take on the very nature of God and we know that God is love. We are going to love men, whether they're rich or poor, whether they're healthy or suffering, whether deserving or undeserving, whether in our mind they are acceptable or unacceptable. If God can love those who oppose him, those who despised and rejected him, those who falsely accused him and ultimately hung him on the cross. Surely we can love somebody that forgot to say hi to us. Surely we can love somebody who offended us. However, you want to say it. The Bible tells us clearly offenses will come. We know it's going to happen. You spend enough time together, it's going to happen. One of the first things I do with the interns when they get here, I sit them down and I say, listen, we're going to spend a lot of time together. Something's going to happen, it's going to bother you. If you let it go, you're going to have a burr under your saddle that's going to bother you for weeks. Just don't do that. I'm a very approachable guy. You could come and talk to me anytime. I said, now I don't know why people say I'm not approachable. I don't understand that. But I said, listen, you guys come and talk to me. You know The fact of the matter is is we were going somewhere with that and I forgot what it was. What was I saying? Yeah, offenses are gonna come. That's what I was saying. Maybe I embarrassed him in a service. Don't know how that would happen. But I I embarrass and you know just come and say, Pastor Caleb, you know, it it's embarrassing when you do that. And then I won't do it. I mean I just just communicate. Convinces are gonna come. We've got to handle them biblically, handle them right like God wants us to. I have a whole nother outline here. Can I just give it out to you quickly? It's something that's revealed to us in this text. And it's When we love God, when we love one another as God said to, it proves some things. And these this is evident in these texts. Here's what it proves. And I'm going to give just give you what it proves and the verses that go with it. It's all in this chapter. So it proves that you're born of God, verse 7 and 8. It proves that you uh see and know God, verse nine, ten, and eleven, that you see and know God It proves that the Spirit is within you, verses 12 to 13. The Spirit is within you, 12 to 13. It proves That our testimony and confession is true, verses 14 and 6, 15 and 16. 14 through 16. Testimony and confessions are true. I know I'm moving fast if you're trying to write these down. That God is going to deliver you from judgment, verse number 17. That God will deliver us from fear, verse number 18, and that we in fact do love God, verses 19 through 21. When we love one another, it proves these things. And if you need that list, I'll be happy to give it to you later. So the love of God enters the heart of man and changes us from the inside out. Have you been saved? As God's love entered your heart, then I want you to know you've been given God's ability to love others. Not your ability, God's ability. One of the things I pray for as a pastor is that God would allow me to see the potential, not the problem. Every single person's different. Every single person has burdens. Every single person has challenges. Everybody's in a different place. And I ask God, help me to see that individual's potential, what they can be in Christ. And not the problem, not the burden, not the heartache, whatever the struggle might be. Because through it through it's God still working on all of us. Amen. We see that in verse number 13. He says, Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us, because he hath given us his spirit. The Spirit of God is in us. We have God's ability to love as He would have us. I want you to see lastly here the results. It's threefold. First of all, we know that The love of God is perfected in us. That's God's plan. He that begun hath begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. God's going to bring that. And the love of God, if you allow it to, Will be perfected in you. Now you can stop it. You can resist the Holy Spirit. You can grieve the Holy Spirit. You can stop letting God work on you, but if you allow it to you, he'll Perfect it. Then we see that we have peace given to us in verse number 17. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in the world. So it's twofold. We have again mentioned the fact that it's perfected. Our love is made perfect. And then we have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in the world. You see, our love is made perfect and we can have boldness in the day of judgment. Um have you ever been in a group of people that were called out for something? Like all you boys standing up here. Okay, which one of you broke the window downstairs Wasn't broken before church. You guys were all down there playing basketball. Who broke the window? There is a few people in that group that have boldness because they know it wasn't them. They are 100% innocent of this whatever. You know, they came up with maybe a little fear and trembling, like, oh no, what's the problem? And then they find out, oh, broke the window. Well, it wasn't me And they're just waiting for uh Steven to fess up. The guys are all pointing to Stephen. They're like Steven, Steven. Uh they're just waiting for him to fess up. But he's the one that doesn't have boldness, right? He's the one that wants to s just crawl into a hole and die. Like, no, no. I don't I don't wanna That's what he's saying in the day of judgment when we're standing before God because what God did for us, because we are coming with the perfection of Jesus Christ, not our own works, we can have boldness. It doesn't even make sense. It's hard for me to even believe, but that's what he's saying. Because of the love of God, in the day of judgment, we can have boldness. We don't have to stand there in fear and trembling. Guilty as I am, I've been forgiven by Jesus Christ. Amazing truth. So we have that peace when that day comes. In the day of judgment. And we know that we have power. In verse number 18, he says, There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear. Because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Again, we see that process of perfection. Whereby we yield to the love of Christ and allow that to work in our hearts. Perfect love casteth out fear. You know, that would be a very good study for one of you to take on and share with me How does perfect love cast out fear? How does love overcome fear? You can dig into that and let me know. I'll add it to my notes. We want to bring it to a conclusion tonight. The truths here that we've shared with you this evening, very, very important. The loved life. The loved life. We were loved by God. And we're supposed to let that love flow through us I hope you love the Christian life that you get to live. I think there's no greater life in the world. And you know, I tell people when I'm outdoor knocking, I tell 'em. Let's say, just per chance, that you're right, that everything I believe is hogwash And everything you believe is correct. And when I die, I'm just going to be buried in the ground and there's nothing left. It's all it's that's the end. I'm just going to be buried in the ground and it's it. But can I tell you something? I've had the best life you can imagine. And I don't regret any of it. I wonder if you could say that. And you say you have no regrets. Here's the thing. If the opposite is true, and the Bible is correct, And when you die, you're going to spend eternity in heaven or hell? Then you've lost everything. When I die, I haven't lost anything except for the fact that maybe you think I'm weird. And quite frankly, that doesn't bother me because I've had a great life. But if the Bible's right, then you're going to spend an eternity somewhere. And that's based on what you do with Jesus Christ. If you're here tonight and you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, I want you to know you can. By putting your faith and trust in Him. Would you stand