So turn your Bibles to the book of Job. We are in Job chapter twenty-two, and uh we're going to kind of fly through some scriptures tonight. Uh uh especially in comparison to some of the other books that we've looked at where we looked at you know week after week we looked at three verses, four verses, you know, five verses, three verses, and uh I think we're covering five chapters tonight. uh of the book of job. I'd actually not didn't count them, but we're starting in 22 and uh we're just gonna here's the thing is we're in the third round of accusations The third round of explanations and their their belief that of course Job's wicked and he's a sinner and all that. And then uh we have uh in the third round Uh it's kind of noteworthy that for whatever reason Zophar decides to sit out. Zophar, I don't know if he sits quietly or if he leaves the scene or I don't know, but he does not interject into the third round here The third round really is just Eliphaz and Bildad. So Eliphaz and Bildad have a few things to say, and then of course Job responds. So we're going to cover both of those tonight and Job's responses both times, and we're going to move pretty quickly because There's a lot of similarities in the other passages of Scripture that we've already looked at, but we want to kind of key in on some of the uh notable things and let the Lord speak to our hearts tonight from these Passage of Scripture. So we begin here in uh Job chapter number twenty-two with a third round of accusations with Eliphaz. He comes on the scene and he begins by attacking Job's relationship with God. He he comes right on the seas, then Eliphaz the Timanite answered and he said, Can a man be profitable unto God? You know, that's a powerful question. When you consider that idea just right away I looked at it and said, well, I hope so. I I desire to be profitable. I hope that that's our ambition to be desire and profitable. Of course, uh you know, here Elifaz his Implication is no, and we're going to see several statements he makes that by implication he is wrong, because we know the opposite to be true, and it is possible, beloved, for us to be profitable. But it's also possible for us to be unprofitable. You know, in uh the New Testament there in the book of Luke, he talks about the unprofitable servant. Do you remember the characteristic of the unprofitable servant? Can I attach your memory? What was it that made him unprofitable? The Bible says, because he hath done What he was commanded to do. That he he has done he is unprofitable because all he did was what he was told to do. He you know the the boss said, okay, I want you to pick this piece of paper up and I want you to put it right here. This is how this job is done. Can you do that? And he picks one piece of paper up and he moves it. And you're trying to get people to think and say, okay, well obviously if I wanted you to pick that one up, that meant the rest of them. Let's get all these papers and let's put them all right here, you know. And d the idea is just well, I'll do what I have to do. I'm gonna do only thing only thing that's that I know that you can prove is required of me and I'm gonna do that because bless God I'm gonna do what I have to do, but I'm not gonna do anything else. And so Beloved, just the challenge tonight is let's be profitable servants. Yf asked questions, Job says, can a man be profitable? Well the fact is we can be profitable. Romans chapter 3 and verse number 12 says they are all gone out of the way. They're all together become unprofitable. I don't want to be an unprofitable servant. I want to be a profitable servant for for God and the and the kingdom of heaven and and uh so we want to be profitable. He says, Are you un unprofitable basically? Can a man be profitable to God? As he that is wise may be profitable unto himself. He says, is it any pleasure to the Almighty? He says, are you bringing any pleasure to the Almighty? I know Greg likes the idea, we've talked about this several times, about the idea of putting a smile on God's face. Doing something that you know makes God happy. And this is what Job is asking, he says, hey, are you any pleasure to God? I wonder, beloved, are you? Is your life a pleasure to God? Is there something in your life that God looks at and He is pleased with, that God is thrilled with, that you put a smile on God's face? You know young people, do you know how you can be pleasing to God? Ah, Greg gave it away. Did you guys get it? I was hoping one of you kids would get it. And what does the by what does the Bible say? Honor because why? Because this is Pleasing to the Lord. Pleasing to the Lord. That's how you please him. Please please the Lord. Please the Lord. Um Colossians 3. 20 tells us that. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing. This is well pleasing. That's how you can please the Lord. Colossians 1 verse number 10 says, that you may walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work. and increasing in the knowledge of God. So there's a couple of ways that we can all be pleasing to God. Being fruitful. The good works that we're endeavoring to do, being fruitful in those works, seeing fruit come about, and that's fruit we know is not that we can't just Make it happen. God has to make it happen, which means we have a relationship with Him, but being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. So here's ways that you can be pleasing. He goes on to attack his relationship with God? Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? Will he enter with thee into judgment? Is not thy wickedness great and thine iniquities infinite? Then he begins to attack his relationship with other people in verses six through nine. Look at, you know how in the other passages that we've looked at previously The statements were kind of general. They were kind of like, well, a wicked man would do this. And the implication was that Job was wicked. Well notice in this passage right here, they're getting a little more direct. Notice how many times Eliphaz says thee and thy and thou. He says there in five, is not thy wickedness great? And thine iniquity is infinite, for thou hast taken a pledge from thy brother for naught, and stripped the naked of their clothing. Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, and thou hast withholden bread from the hungry, but as far as the mighty man he had the earth, and the honorable man dwelt in it Thou hast sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken. He describes it and says, This is what you are. And then he lays it all at the feet. Of Job here in verse number 10, where he says, therefore, he said, this is what you are, and he says, therefore, he says, this is why snares are round about thee. And sudden fear troubles thee. He describes here his relationship with his friends and attacks him, throws it all at his feet, says, That's why that you're going through this, Job He asked Job in verse number 12, he says, Hey, can you hide from God? He says, Is not God in the heights of the heavens and behold the height of the stars? How high are they? He says, Is there any place that God doesn't see where you are or what you're doing? We know that's not true. God sees us everywhere. God sees it all. He knows exactly what's going on. He goes on to describe even down in verse number sixteen where he says uh that those who were in the flood couldn't hide from him. He says, which were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown with the flood. He said, those who were destroyed in the flood, they couldn't hide either. Job, you're not going to be able to hide. He describes in verses 19 through 30 the uh uh plight of the righteous and the plight of the wicked wicked according to him. And although his statements are incorrect His whole philosophy really is wrong. He does say some things here that are very, very powerful and they're worth considering. Would you look down in uh I guess let's begin in verse number 20, he says, Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant of them, the fire consumeth, Verse number 21, he says, Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace. Thereby good shall come unto thee. He, of course, by implication is saying Job didn't know God. We know that's not the case. But just that statement, acquaint thyself with him Could I encourage you to acquaint yourself with God? That is our plea as we are out and about and have opportunity to be a witness, and especially in today's world, we're You know, there was a time when men knew who Jesus was. They knew that God was the Creator, and whether they understood it or believed it or those things, But now people are so far removed from anything having to do with the Word of God that you've got to start at square one. They're like, well, who is God? Why is why is he God? Well, because he created everything. What? I thought we came from a tadpole, or I thought everything came from a big bang. They have they have no education about who God is and you're trying to say, okay, let's acquaint you with God a little bit Well, can I encourage you tonight to get acquainted with God? The the amazing thing to ponder and think about tonight is that it is possible. It's possible that we be acquainted with God. Do you know from the beginning of time there has been this mindset that there's a God-shaped hole in the heart of every man? And man has longed to find or to know God or to find what the purpose of life is and they search for something beyond themselves and many times life is filled up with this man-made religion and and works. and performance and all these things. Why? In order to appease or to uh please the God that's been manufactured in their minds. But We can be acquainted with the one true God, with the creator of the world, the one who sent his son. Wow, we we have the possibility of being acquainted. The estatement here makes it clear that it does not call into question the existence of God. It doesn't leave it open like if there's a God Let's find him. No, he he says, acquaint now thyself with God, that there is a God. We just must get to know him. Beloved, we can be acquainted with him because he sent his son. We can be acquainted with him because he has given us the scriptures. New Testament opens up with the introduction to Jesus Christ who is the Word of God personified. Jesus is the word living. The Bible is the word written. And as we get into that on Sunday, I'm I'm excited about being able to increase in our knowledge and understanding of that, but just the privilege that's ours to know him. Because we can know this book. The God of the Universe. You know how many people buy biographies Of people like, I mean when I was a kid, I went out and bought, I worked at Walmart. So I went and bought Sam Walton's biography. I mean, he was worth $20 billion That's not that much today, but that that was a lot back then. Twenty billion, I mean he was right up there in some of the the in the richest men in the world. Twenty billion is nothing now, right But that was a lot, and I'm like, man, how did he do that? I wanted to read about it. And all he did is start one company among hundreds and hundreds of other companies. And uh people buy these biographies because they want to know about these amazing men. We have the biography of God, of Jesus Christ, his story here, and we can be acquainted with him We can read about it. We can learn and know what he has for us to know. And there is no biography on earth that will help you as much as this biography. I mean, there's some beneficial things you might learn from reading the life stories of some of these other men who have uh lived disciplined lives or or Especially if they were Christians and honored and pleased God and their in their paths and you can learn from them, but nothing will help you like the Word of God will. We can be acquainted with that. God wants us to know him, but not only that, he wants to know you and I Look at verse number 22. We see here he gave us the scripture. He says, Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth. And lay up his words in thine heart. Lay up his words in thine heart. This book has been given to us so we can know him. And we should receive it and we should lay it up in our heart. Hide God's words in our heart that I might not sin against God. Not only is there a possibility to be acquainted with God, but I want you to know it's profitable to be acquainted with God. You know, have you ever heard somebody say he's a good guy to know? You know, talking about somebody with something particular, like you know people might say you got a uh paint problem on your car? Brother Greg's a good guy to know. He's a good guy to know. You know, uh you you have uh you Good guy to have his phone number on your screen, you know. Uh you know, as in some of you ladies, you know, I I don't know what But you say, Well, she's a good lady to know, you know. You need a coupon? Mary's a good person to know, you know Um you you know you you say this d areas of expertise and you say, ma'am, that's a a good guy to know. Well can I can tell you the the best person to know is Jesus. There is nobody better, and the benefit and the profit that it is to you to know him is beyond measure. Wow. There's no one better. He's described in this passage as several things. First of all, we saw in verse number 21, if we're talking about the profitability that it is to know him, he says, acquaint now thyself with him and be at peace. Beloved, when you're acquainted with him, you have peace. It is the peace of God that passes all understanding. It's a peace that will carry you when you're in the place that Job is at right now, when you're in the midst of a storm or a trouble. trial that you cannot understand, that you can't see your way through, but in the midst of it, you won't even realize why you have the peace you have. It's a calmness that comes over your spirit. It's a peace of God that carries you through those tumultuous times. Man, this world is such a mess. But we can have the peace of God. He says, acquaint now thyself with God, and then it's profitable because you have that peace. The more you know Him, the more peace you have. Wow. He says also in verse number twenty four He says that then shalt thou lay up gold as dust. Laying up gold as dust. The benefit and the profit that it is to know God, the blessings on your life are immeasurable. Taking that most valuable thing and looking at how it could come to you like dust. Dust comes everywhere. You know, you ladies, you you you go through and you sweep the kitchen and and you think it's all clean, it's all done, and then you come back through and you're like, where'd that dust come from? I just did this. It's everywhere. Can you imagine? That's what the blessings of God are like. Coming into your life like like dust. Everywhere you look, you see God blessing and ministering to you. We see in verse number twenty-five that He is a defense unto us. He says, Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defense. And thou shalt have plenty of silver. He is a defense to us. Now Eliphaz takes this a little further than he should have. And this is the mindset or the mentality of a lot of people today that have the name it and claim it idea. You'll hear them preaching and they'll say things like, you just need to speak positive things into your life You just need to uh voice, you need to give voice to those positive emotions and you need to speak those good things into your life. And this is kind of what Eliphaz is saying here. He goes a little bit beyond even what would be true. Certainly the blessings of God are immeasurable and we cannot uh uh uh even account for them all. We don't even be able to see them all. Yet Eliphaz goes on and and he says, Listen, you're gonna have all the gold and silver that you want. And uh he he actually kind of says, you're going to get anything. Look at verse number 28. He says, thou also, thou shalt also decree a thing. And it shall be established unto thee. Do you see that? Isn't that the name it and claim it crowd? You shall decree a thing, and it shall be established. That's what they say. They they I don't know if you remember uh My mind just went blank. But that one speaker that that was that blew COVID away, that that he pronounced COVID was going to be gone, he's a he's a name it, huh? Yeah, Kenneth Copeland. Yeah, Kenneth Copeland is preaching, I'm gonna blow COVID away. I pronounce you gone, you know, and um the Spirit of God is gonna, you know, he's just speaking into existence something. He's just just randomly like he has power over COVID because he he said it. They they almost like God doesn't have any choice in the matter. That now they they've said it and so they're gonna speak it into existence. And that that is not the mind of God. We pray in the will of God. And we ask. And we submit to the will of God. Jesus Christ himself, when he was in the flesh, asked of the Father. And so we come to him, we can come boldly. And he tells us to ask, but nowhere do we have the authority to command. Nowhere do we have the authority to say, thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee. That's not true in any way. And if you hear somebody speaking like that, you need to just change the channel or turn it to another station or whatever it is, uh, because that guy doesn't know what he's talking about. So we see in chapter number 23 and 24, Job's clarification of his comments here, Job begins by appealing to God. In the beginning here says, And Job answered, and he said, Even today is my complaint bitter, my stroke is heavier than my groanings. Oh, that I knew where I might find him, that I might keep come even to his seat. I would order my case before him and fill my mouth with arguments. I would know the words which he would answer me and understand what he would say unto me He said, boy, if I could just come to the feet of Jesus, if I could go to where he was, if I could cry out to him, if he could hear me. He calls out I would have all of my arguments in a row. I'd have everything ready to say to him. He knows right here that He can't see God. He's looking everywhere. He says there in verse number three, he says, Oh, that I might know where I might find him. I don't think Job is alone in that. I think there's times that men get to that place in their life where they don't know where they where God is. Maybe they have gotten so far from God personally that they're not sure even how to start to get back to Him. Sometimes maybe that just feels like the sky is black and you can't reach heaven. This is where Job was at. But look with me at verse number 10. He says, but he Knoweth the way that I take. When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. Job said, you know what? I don't know where God is, and I'm not sure. I mean, if I could even get to his throne, if I could just sit by his side, if I could speak to him, that would be great. But he says, you know what? There's one thing I do know. I know that he knows where I am. I don't know where he's at, but he knows where I am. He knows the path that I'm taking. He knows the road I'm going down. He knows the struggle I'm carrying. He knows the burden I'm in. He sees where I am Job's faith is on display again. He says, He knows me. God knows me. You know, you ponder and think about this, that God knew Job in the very beginning of this book, where Satan comes before God and God says to him, Hast thou considered my servant Job? And Satan says, if you just take all of his possessions and you put down that hedge, he'll curse you. And God says, basically, he says, no, he won't. You see, God knew Job. And Satan did it and and and uh Job didn't curse God, did he? And so he says, Oh well obviously you you know you haven't hurt him yet. Take his health and and you you know skin for skin, boy, if we if we get him like that, he'll curse you to his faith. But God knew Job, and Job still didn't That's how much God knew Job. And he knew that even in the face of all of that, Job was not going to curse God. I wonder, what does God know about you and I? What does God know of you and I? Because beloved, he knows us. He knows the way that you take. He knows And when you're tried, when you go through the fire, how are you going to come forth? He says here that God knew him and he said, Listen, God knows that I'm going to stay on the straight and narrow, even in the face of all this. God knows that that's my heart's desire. Look at verse number eleven. He says, My foot Hath held his step, his way have I kept and not declined. He said, boy, I I'm staying on the straight and narrow. I'm I'm I'm not declining one step. I'm not taking one step off of God's path. I'm staying with him all the way to the end. God knows, beloved, that I love his word. Look at verse number twelve Neither have I gone back from the commandments of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. I wonder how highly do we esteem the words of his mouth? How highly, how valuable is that precious word of God to you and I? Is it guiding our life? Is it dictating our steps? Is it keeping us on the straight and narrow? That the word of God Job said, God knows that I value his word. God knows that I esteem it higher than my own food. I can guarantee you if we if we set a rule in our life, no Bible, no breakfast. Or we would be changing our morning habit. We've got to have a a pattern where we are in the word and we value the word. He understood that God was the one that was at least allowing this into his life. Look at verse number fourteen. He says, For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me. He said, God did it. He appointed it for me. It's what God has for me right now in my life. What has God appointed for you? Maybe you didn't want it. Maybe you don't like it. But could you trust God through it and say, well, like Job, I understand God has appointed this for me for right now. And I can trust him. He also notes the cause, or should say the reason. In verse number sixteen. Verse number 16 he says, for, basically saying, because, or here's why, God maketh my heart soft. And the Almighty troubleth me. Job here describes why he's going through this. God troubled him, brought him to this place to make his heart soft. Sometimes we have to go through some stuff to get a soft heart. We again see as we get into chapter number twenty-four, the great faith That uh Job has here. Job describing this work of God I mean consider this. He's here saying, I know God knows me. And I know that he hath performed this thing. He's appointed it unto me. And that God is making my heart soft. But in the face of all that, compare that against verse number 3 of chapter 23, where he says, Oh, that I knew where I might find him. He said, I I I don't even know where God is, but in the midst of all that, he still has faith to trust God. Do you? When he could not see God, he knew that God saw him. A songwriter says God never moves without purpose or plan when trying his servants and molding a man. Give thanks to the Lord, though your testing seem long. In darkness he giveth a song. Or rejoice in the Lord, He makes no mistakes, He knoweth the end of each path that I take, for when I am tried and purified. I shall come forth as gold. Beloved, your greatest test is going to be When the sky is dark. Your greatest task is going to be when you feel like your prayers are not getting to heaven. That God is not hearing your cry and God is not answering your call. That's when the greatest test of your faith is going to come Because that's what you don't know. You look at it and you say, Man, God didn't didn't answer that. Or God apparently has said no and and and he didn't come through and and boy I wish I I mean right now. In grief share, we have somebody who has been through a loss, and for them it was many years ago, but they said, you know, that was my crisis of faith. I beg God to save my father from death, and he didn't do it. God didn't answer. And I had this image or this expectation that God heard prayers and God answered prayers and I prayed and I just I just I I just thought God was going to heal him and God didn't heal him, God took him. And and And he says, so I left God. I think sometimes we build a wrong expectation in the hearts of our young people. And that's where he ended up. So that's what I'm saying, when you feel like God didn't hear or God didn't answer, where is your faith? Is your faith going to be sound and strong? Don't believe the lie of Satan that God is not hearing you. That God is not answering you. The Bible says, Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Beloved, you have to go back to the Word of God, that we revealed the Word of God, that we know to be true. And believe it. This is what God said. Believe it. You say, Well, I don't feel like I hear them. I don't feel like I'm getting through. I don't understand what it is. No. Go back to the Word, and what does the Word of God say? And trust that. Unless you feel sorry for yourself I want you to remember that Jesus himself asked, let this cup pass from me. And the Father said, No. That's not my will. The plan is for you to go to the cross. What I'm saying is there's sometimes there's things that God has in his plan for you. Things that he has appointed for you, like he did for Job, that doesn't make sense to us. We might not understand it. We think, boy, there's no reason for it, or we don't deserve it. And those things may be true, but we have to go back to the faith of Job and just trust him. In chapter 24, he he really describes the way of the wicked. He talks about the wicked man. He Just let me just give you some of these things. He he talks about how they oppress others in verse number three. He he talks about how they turn away the needy in verse number four, how they uh They don't have compassion on others, verses 7 through 11. They're incompassionate. That God knows them and God will judge them in verse number 12. He talks about the fact that they're rebellious, that they're murderous, that they're adulterers, 13, 14, and 15. Verses 18 through 24 he describes the fact that God is still in control, even in the midst of all this, that God knows, and that they're going to be judged in God's time. They they we look at it and say, boy, why aren't they being judged? God's going to judge them in in his time. Then we read chapter 25. This is a very short chapter, if you notice, just six verses. Then answered Bildad, Shudite, and he said, Dominion and fear are with him. He maketh peace in his high places. Is there any number of his armies upon whom doth not his light rise How then, listen to this question in verse number four there, and he says, How then can man be justified with God? Or how can he be cleaned that is born of a woman? Again, the implication here by Bill Dad is that no man can be justified. I'm glad tonight that that's not true. That we know according to the word of God that man can be justified. He describes in verse number five and verse number six how j even the stars are not pure. Talks about man, how man is just a worm and that he has no hope that you're just just a worm, you're like any other worm, you just the stars are f are filthy and And and everything is impure, and there's nothing that can be justified before God, but we know, beloved, that we can be justified. In Acts 13, 39, he says, And by him all that believeth are justified from all things. Justified from all things. Beloved, whatever it is, you can be forgiven. You can be justified. Romans 3. 23, we know that for all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. But verse number 24 says Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Love that we can be justified. Even though Bildad's implication is that you can't, you can. Romans 5, verse number 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ Being justified by faith. We can be justified just as if I had never sinned. Your sin can be forgiven, washed away. You can be made clean, justified because of what Jesus has done for you. We see Job's clarification in chapter 26 here. We're going to bring this to a close. He questions The speech of Bildad in verses 1 through 4. I want you to notice verse 5 through 14, where he begins to speak about the sovereignty of God. He's describing ultimately that God is in control of all things. Dead things are formed from under the waters and the inhabitants thereof. Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering. He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing. He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds, and the cloud is not rent under them He holdeth back the face of his throne and spreadeth his clouds upon it. He hath compassed the waters with bounds until the day and night come, unto the end. The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof. He divideth the sea with his power, and by his understanding he smiteth through the proud. He says, listen, God is in control of everything He goes through and just describes the magnitude of the earth around us with an understanding. And it's amazing, beloved, you think about Job and what he he's stating here is he's describing God's power in these things. Well you and I uh have modern science. We have knowledge of thousands of years of world history. We've had men that have been to outer space and telescopes that can look you know, thousands and thousands of miles out into space and what we can see and everything about science has just confirmed and and reiterated what the truth of the Word of God is But we consider the magnitude of that and then think about the fact that Job here, we know that this took place early in somewhere in the pages of Genesis. This is not even late in Bible history. And yet Job's understanding of God and how God set the bounds of the habitations of the water, and that it's not going to go anywhere unless God wants it to. And how God, how God, He'd never been to outer space. I mean we've seen the satellite images and we can see the Earth standing, I mean just out there in space just spinning this ball. I mean we we've seen it How is it that Job could describe that? How could he say the world, this whole ball that I'm standing on, which he didn't even know was a ball, probably? I don't know. He's like, it's all hanging here just out in space. By God's control. It's amazing when you think about that. How he knew God that well. Understood this. Ultimately, what I'm saying is he's describing the sovereignty and the power of God. And beloved, the sovereignty of God is something we need to keep in our hearts and minds, understanding that He is in absolute control. Roman, I mean sorry, uh Webster's dictionary, the 1828 dictionary, describes sovereignty as supreme power, absolute supremacy The possession of the highest power, absolute sovereignty, belongs to God alone. Winston Churchill believed in the sovereignty of God. He said, He must indeed have a blind soul who cannot see that some greater purpose in design is being worked out here below. Understanding that God is in control. That His design and His purpose is being worked out. Benjamin Franklin said, The longer I live, the more convinced I am of the proofs that I see God governing in the affairs of men. If a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, Is it probable that an empire could rise without his aid? He's saying, Beloved, if God knows when a sparrow falls How much greater of a magnitude of a thing is taking place on here is the rise of an empire describing America and he's saying, how is it we think that we could come to be a power of any size or magnitude without the aid of an Almighty God. That God has to do it. And he was understanding and acknowledging that. And beloved, how do we think we're going to live a successful life outside of the aid of an Almighty God? How do we think we're going to have a right family outside of the aid of an Almighty God? How are we going to love our wife like we should, or love our husband like we should, or raise our kids in the nurture and admonition of the Lord outside of the help? Of an almighty God. We need his help. He is sovereign and he is leading in the affairs of men. Job saw that God was in control, and he described the magnitude of that over and over in these verses. Psalms 115, verse number 3, he says, But our God is in the heavens, and he hath done whatsoever he pleaseth. Isaiah 14 24 says, The Lord of hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely, as I have thought, so shall it come to pass. God spoke the world into existence. And he says there in Isaiah, he says, as I have thought, so shall it come to pass. Beloved. We need to function and realize we are living inside of the will of God. Subject to his sovereignty, to his power. Here's the thing, Christian Too many of us are treating the will of God and God's plan for our life like a Chinese buffet. Like we can just pick and choose what we what we like off of that. Oh yeah, I'll take a little God's blessing here and and uh I'll take a little bit of his protection. I want some of that, some protection and Oh the love of God. Yeah, let's get let's load up on the love of God. Wait, let me get some seconds there. There's more people. I don't want to run out here. Let's go, oh, we're gonna pick up, let's go ahead and get some of this. Uh oh, but There's I don't care for that. Oh no, I don't I think I don't like that. I'm gonna leave that off. What is it are you leaving off? It's not a Chinese buffet, friend. We come to Him as we are, submit and humble ourselves and yield to Him. and do what he wants. And Job, in the midst of all that he was going through, he recognized the sovereignty of God. And he said, if this is what God has appointed unto me Then there is a reason for it. He is softening this hard heart of mine. He is doing something in my life that I might not understand, but beloved, I know that he knoweth the way that I take And I know that when I come out the other side, I'm going to come forth as gold, not because of anything that I've done, but because I've stayed true to him and to his plan and honored him through this. Wow, that's a worthy ambition. If we could do that. If we could just do that. In the midst of whatever, recognize. He's in control and he has a plan and we need to trust him. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?