Turn your Bibles this morning to the book of Leviticus. The book of Leviticus this morning, chapter number twenty. We've been following the children of Israel as they are learning about their God. Each new revelation that they come upon of the God who loves them and is there to help them. Exposes not just who God is to them, but it exposes who they are. It kind of gives them some insight into kind of their spirit and and what's going on in their heart and their life. As on this study we began looking really just right in the book of Genesis as it opens up with introducing us to Elohim, that is God, the mighty creator. God as he relates to the universe, as he is the creator of all things, he is God, the God, the only God, Elohim. It's not long, you know, just a chapter or two, and and sin is introduced into this perfect creation that God has made because he has given man a free choice and he placed there in the garden uh tree that they were not to eat of because he wanted them to submit and follow him out of love, not just because they were robots, not just because they didn't have any choice or option. And of course Tate Satan tempts Eve and Eve and Adam and Eve fall into sin, and sin introduces and separates man. The need for a redeemer is evident. And God reveals to his people the name Jehovah. That Jehovah is the God in which uh He is the how He relates to man. It is a name Elohim is the name that he gives us as far as God, and he is the creator, and he's over all, but Jehovah is kind of how he deals with that crowning creation that he made, mankind. He is the self-existent one. Jehovah is his personal name. You know, out of all of God's creation, mankind is the only one that gets to look heavenward and call him Lord. He is Lord Jehovah. But then that name Jehovah Lord As found in the Word of God in all capitals, anytime you see in the Word of God Lord in all capital letters, that is Jehovah by definition. That name Jehovah is expanded on in some compound names as we learn more about God and who he is and who we are. We saw already Jehovah Rohi, the Lord is my shepherd. Jehovah Shalom, the Lord, is peace. Jehovah Jireh, the Lord, will provide. Jehovah Raphah, a Lord, the Lord who heals. Jehovah Nishe, the Lord, my banner. This morning we've come to the book of Leviticus. It is in the pages of Leviticus that the children of Israel are told how to walk and how to worship. God defines for them this is what I expect of you. This is how I want you to live. This is how I want you to worship. These are my commands regarding our relationship. And God defines those things for his people. And so it is very fitting that in the book of Leviticus we are introduced to Jehovah Makadesh. Strong's does not put the M in front of the name, although many commentators do, and I'm not a Hebrew scholar, so I don't know for sure that is supposed to be there or not. But uh if you read it in Strong's it's Kadesh But many people, many of the commentators put an M in front of that with an apostrophe by it, but it's Jehovah Makadash, the God who sanctifies. The God who sanctifies. Would you look in our text this morning, Leviticus chapter number 20, in verse 7 and 8? He says, sanctify yourselves, therefore, and be holy, for I am the Lord your God. And ye shall keep my statutes and do them. I am the Lord, which sanctifieth you. I would like to talk to you for a few minutes this morning, and we probably will be pretty brief. But about this name of God, the God who sanctifies. I want you to understand, beloved, that this process of sanctification is something that's done in and through the power of God, but it is something that God demands of us. God demands this of us. He says, sanctify yourselves therefore. It's something that is expected of us. It is expected because it is God's character. God is a holy God. Isaiah said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. Holy, holy, holy. That's who God is. It is God's character to be holy. That same word that is translated, sanctify, in other places, that appears over seven hundred times in Our Bible, and it is translated as consecrate, as hallowed, as holy, as set apart. The primary meaning really is to be clean and set apart for God's use. To sanctify is to be clean and set apart for God's use. So he says Sanctify yourselves. It is a command of God, it is an expectation that we would be clean and set apart for God's use. You know, I like Sharp knives. I like good meat. And it's always fun to shave good meat with a really sharp knife. And I have a couple of Japanese knives. They're constructed out of Damascus steel. They are sharpened with a 15-degree hone opposed to twenty-two like some American knives. And that fifteen degrees is supposed to create less friction. On the sides of the blade. But when that knife cuts through something and is sharp, I mean that is just satisfying. It's just just slices right through. Now do you know that that knife Does not get used to open boxes. That knife does not get used to cut cardboard. Some of you ladies have a pair of scissors in your house that have been set apart The kids do not use those scissors. I know at least in my house growing up, you better not use mom sewing scissors to cut wrapping paper. Mom sees you with her scissors, you'd be like, what are you doing with those? Those are for sewing, those are for cutting fabric, those are specialty. Now some of you maybe you cut hair. I know Miss Mo and maybe others you you've cut hair some of uh the the l cranes uh they they've spent a lot of time cutting hair and you might have a special set of scissors you use for that. You don't want them cutting cardboard with that. You don't want to like cutting carpet or something. No, you you have a pair of scissors that are just for that. And they've been set apart. Beloved, God is saying, sanctify yourselves. That is Uh you're special. You're fearfully and wonderfully made in the image of God, and he has a plan for your life, and God's desire is that you would be set apart, clean, for his use He commands that of us, beloved. He expects it of us. God in his word set apart some things. We see in Genesis chapter 2, don't turn there, but in Genesis 2, verse number 3, he said, and God blessed the seventh day. and sanctified it. You see, God sanctified that seventh day. He set it apart as a day of rest Now those of you that are a little bit older, you remember the day when everything was closed on Sunday. That that you literally couldn't go anywhere on Sunday. I love it that Chick-fil-A is closed on Sunday. Now, it's inconvenient for me sometimes because I've thought in my mind, oh, I'm going to go get some Chick-fil-A, and then I remember, oh, it's Sunday, and they're closed But you know what? Chick-fil-A is one of, if not the most profitable uh fast food restaurants in the country. And they're clothes on Sundays. I believe that God honors them. I mean by two to three times more profitable. A uh Chick-fil-A uh a McDonald's will bring in one and a half to two and a half million in a year. A Chick-fil-A will bring in seven to eight million. And they're closed on Sundays. Some people would say, oh, they're taking one seventh of their profit and they're not not I mean imagine how much money they could make if they opened up on Sundays. Well mark my words, they open up on Sundays and the progression of the world and how things are going Um that kind of stuff happens. I pray it doesn't. But you know when they open on Sundays, I'll bet you their their their income drops. Because they've chosen to honor God. That that day was set apart. God sanctified the Sabbath for something special. By the way, you ought to be in God's house on Sunday. It's a special day. We ought to honor God on his day. Some people will say it's my only day of the week I get to do what I want, but it's not your day. It's God's day. We ought to honor God. Put Him first in our life. There are several places in the Word of God that God sanctified, like He sanctified Jerusalem as a special place. He sanctified the temple. the tabernacle they were set apart as places of worship and a place to meet with his people. Different individuals were sanctified in the Word of God and Jeremiah chapter 1, verse number 5. He says, Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee, and before thou camest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee. And adore ordained thee a prophet. So God sanctified him to be a prophet before he was even born. Can I tell you, before you were born, God had a plan for your life. God had something that He desired for you to do, and if we are unwilling to be set apart for His service, if we're unwilling to be clean and usable vestibles, then we're not going to accomplish what God has sanctified you to be. Of all God's attributes. It is his holiness that is the most marvelous. It is his holiness that is the most supreme. One commentator wrote this. He said, it is the balance of all attributes, of all God's power. For power without holiness would degenerate into cruelty. Omniscience, which is all knowing, without holiness would become crafty Justice without holiness would degenerate into revenge. Goodness without holiness would be passionate and intemperate. Doing mischief rather than accomplishing good. To understand, even the good attributes can, without holiness, Holiness is that most pure of virtues that keeps all other things right and on the right track. It is something that God commands of us. It is his character. He said, be ye therefore perfect, even as your father which is in heaven is perfect. He tells us to be holy in 1 Peter verse 1, verse 15 and 16. He says, But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. You see, beloved, God expects us to be sanctified. Not santimonious, but sanctified. To be clean and set apart for his service Putting his will and his way first. Not only is it his character and it is command, but I want you to understand, beloved, that it is he that gives us the capacity. To be sanctified. It is something that He expects of us, but then He enables us to do it It would be like me sending my son to the store and saying, I need you to buy a battery for the suburban. It's going to be $169. And then I say, here, here's $169. I've given him the command, but I've also enabled him to do it. Look at our text verse here. I want you to see both are present. We have the command and we have the enabling. He says, Sanctify yourselves, therefore, that is the command, and be ye holy, for I am the Lord your God. And ye shall keep my statutes and do them, for I am the Lord which sanctify you. He's the one that does the work. The capacity is given to us by him. It is a finished work of God on our behalf. The thing is, beloved, is our state should match our station. We have been given the ability to be sanctified. It is an expectation of God, but you and I must be willing to allow it to happen You and I must submit to that process. God is the one that's going to sanctify us. He is the one that's going to work in us. That work which He hath begun in you, that good work, is a work that He will perform until the day of Jesus Christ. It's a work that He's going to do. We have to just submit to it. That process of sanctifying us and God working in us is something that He wants to do. We just need to allow it to happen Beloved, it is relationship, not religion. We talked about this in Sunday school. You see, religion leads to hypocrisy. Relationship leads to holiness. A right relationship with Him will lead to holiness. Religion demands of you, but Christianity delivers you. That is the difference. What I'm saying is a process of sanctification is a work that is empowered by God. He's the one that does it. I think of a young boy whose mother and I use a boy on purpose because they're usually the ones in this place, but whose mother wants to give him a bath. Who wants to clean him up. And the boy's like, I'm not dirty. He's been out in the mud all day. He's been playing in the yard all day. I mean, he is the definition of filthy. And he's like, I'm not dirty, I'm fine. See, my hands are clean and there's mud all over them, you know. I don't need a bath. And mom says, no, no, we're gonna get a bath, and she goes and runs the water She does the work. She gets out the the no-cry soap and gets it ready for him. You know, she gets everything ready and and she takes him into the bath. And then she's pulling his shirt off, and he's like, no, I don't want a bath. You know, he's fighting the whole time. She's taking his shirt off, she gets him undressed, she puts him in a tub, and then she's scrubbing him and rubbing his head. She's doing all the work And he's just resisting every part of it. Sometimes, beloved, that's how we are. God is trying to clean up this old filthy person God's trying to do something magnificent in my heart and in my life. He's trying to change me and make me something beautiful and magnificent for his honor and his glory. And I'll love the result if I would be willing to just submit and let God do it. It's the work that He's going to do in us. So, beloved, I see that God demands it, but I also see that in truth, in reality, I believe it is the heart of men that men desire it. I think we do desire it. The Apostle Paul says this in Romans chapter 7. Verses fifteen through twenty. And I know I give you a lot of scripture. I hope you're writing them down or looking at them. A lot of times I'm moving so fast I don't give you time to even turn to them. I just keep on going These messages would be about twice as long if we stopped and turned to every passage. So I don't know. You want them to be longer or you want us to get done? Uh you look at it. Romans chapter uh seven verses fifteen through twenty he says, for that which I do, I allow not. For what I would, that do I not. But what I hate, that do I. If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that is good. Now that it is no more I that do it, but sin that lieth, that dwelleth in me, for I know that it is in me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that thing which I will is present how to perform that which is good I find not. For the good that I would, I do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if I do that, I would not It is no more that I do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. You see, he defines for us here the conflict That conflict that's in every one of us. I believe that in our heart there is really a desire to be set apart, to be clean and set apart for God's use. I think that it's in us that we want that. We say, Yes, Lord, I want to be clean. Yes, Lord, I want to be used by you. Yes, God, I want you to do a miraculous and magnificent work in my life. But we have the old sin nature, don't we? We have that thing that dwells in us that that Paul says that that There's no good thing that dwelleth in me that I've got this sin nature. And it's not me that does it, but the sin that dwelleth in me, and that desire that's there. And we want to be clean, but at the same time, we we're fighting against that process That is what sanctification is. It is that process where we're made clean by the power of God. I believe that men desire it There is something wholesome and attractive about holiness. There really is just something wholesome and attractive about it. There's some somebody that you know that's honest. They're just honest as the day is long. They're just a good person. They're just a person that you know are That kindness just flows from them, that they are going to do unto others as they would have others do unto them, that they're going to prefer others above themselves. There is just something that attracts us to people like that It is attractive. It is something that's pleasing. We desire that what I'm saying, beloved, is that holiness is attractive. It's something that we desire. You're looking for somebody for a company. You're going to want a guy that's holy. You're going to want a guy that's honest. That's going to work hard. That's going to work as unto the Lord. You get picked up in an Uber, you want your driver to be somebody's holy. First of all, that means they're going to be sober, amen. Yeah, they're they're gonna treat you right, they're gonna be honest, they're not gonna be tricking the meter and and and and somehow charging you extra or looking for looking for more than they they than they deserve. What I'm saying is there's something attractive about it. Isn't it just Irk you when people are so conniving? You just look at it and wonder how can they even be that way? I can't even think of how to be that dishonest And yet in the world today, it seems like over and over and over again we run across that and oh it is just special when we see something that truly is holy. The psalmist put it this way in Psalms 90, verse number 17. He says, and let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us. But the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us. That beauty is that holiness attribute. Let that be upon us. Let that process of sanctification take place. It's a desire, I believe, that men have that we want it to happen. But can I tell you, beloved, that it is initiated by your conversion? It is initiated by your conversion. Isaiah 55, 7 says, let the wickedness, let the wicked forsake his way. And the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him and our God, for he will abundantly pardon. We all need a pardon. We're all that sinned and come short of the glory of God. We all have that sin nature, and we need to be forgiven by a thrice holy God who died and gave himself for us. The possibility for holiness of God to sanctify you is initiated by conversion when you come to Him and put your saving faith in Him and ask Him to forgive you of your sin. That's where That takes place. But can I tell you that it is intensified by your commitment You see, it's a process that God's going to do in us, but we have to be committed to it. We can be like the boy who's resisting it on every turn and fighting against it and not wanting any part of it. In Exodus 31, verses 13 through 15. We see the same God, the same name for God mentioned. He says, speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily, my Sabbath ye shall keep. For it is a sign between me and you throughout your generation that you may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. And verse number 14 he says, Ye shall keep the Sabbath, therefore, for it is holy unto you. It is sanctified, it is set apart for you. But notice twice in that passage of scripture where he's talking about them being sanctified, he says, ye shall keep. In our text verse, it opens up with sanctify yourselves. But then in verse number eight, it says, I am the God that sanctifies you. So you have both there, the command and the capacity. The capacity to do it comes from God. The command is for us to allow it to take place in our lives. He says, ye shall keep. What I'm saying is there's something that we have to do. We have to be committed to the process. It's not just going to happen. Let me ask you, if you were honest, how committed are you today to the process of sanctification? Of being conformed into the image of God's Son. Of being made clean and set apart from this world How committed are you? Are you fighting against it? Are you resisting it? Are you submitted to it and say, yes, Lord, this is what I desire, and I'm committed to it? Yeah, you know, there's a difference between just desire and being committed to it Cody and I were talking before the service today about our eating habits a little bit. It's one thing to desire to eat healthy. It's another thing to commit to that. To uh to forego the sweets and the crispy cream donuts somebody brought in this morning that were very tempting It's another thing to forego that and commit to a salad roughage that God made for animals. And you say, okay, I'm just gonna eat this. Oh, yeah, it's it's a whole what I'm saying is it's one thing to desire it and say, boy, if this would just happen, I would do it for sure. But it's a process. It's something that takes some effort, it takes some commitment on our part. And can I tell you, beloved, that it is indicated by your conduct? What I'm saying is how committed you are is indicated by your conduct. You can say, yeah, I want to lose weight. And at the same time you've got a whopper in this hand and uh a fried deep fried apple pie in this hand. You are not very committed It may be a desire, but you haven't taken the step to do something about it yet. You know it's possible, beloved, to desire to be holy and not be holy? You it's it's actually possible to be set apart in some aspects but not be holy? Think about Samson The Bible tells us that Samson was set apart. He was set apart for a job that God had called him to, but he was far from holy. It's a sad reality and it's actually heartbreaking, but we've all heard the stories of people that were in ministry. They have been set apart to serve the church. And it breaks your heart when you hear that they have not been holy. It's possible, beloved, to have the desire. What I'm saying is it's indicated by your conduct. It's not just a matter of what I say, but what I do. Your walk talks louder than your talk talks. How committed you are to this process of sanctification is indicated by your conduct. True holiness is more than just being separated from, it's being separated to. Yes, we are separated from the world and the flesh and the devil and all that is unclean, the unholiness of the world. But it is also an aspect of spirituality that we are separated to. We're to be doers of the word, not hearers only. Amen? That's what the Bible tells us. That's why he says, sanctify yourselves. We have to be committed to the process. What hinders this is that we have an enemy. I wish we didn't I wish we could make the decision to follow Christ and it would just happen. Like we decided and and then it's done and we can go on for God and but we have Satan. And Satan disrupts our plans. Satan gets in the way and hinders the work that God wants to do, the sanctifying process inside of us. He does this because, beloved, he is the deceiver. He is the great deceiver. We know that he is the devil. The one that deceived Adam and Eve all the way back in the beginning. We know that he is the a liar and the father of it. He was the first liar and he's the one that's propagated and provokes every other one. Can I tell you he's going to deceive you in some ways? He's going to deceive you to think that you're not good enough, that you can't do it. He's gonna lie, and in your heart and your mind you're gonna think, I can't be that good. I can't be that holy. Pastor's talking about being sanctified, about being holy, and I'm having a hard time just doing this one little thing right here. Listen, don't listen to Satan This is a process. Sanctification is something that happens one step at a time between you and God and your relationship with Him. And He will enable you to do it. He'll enable you to take that next step. He'll give you the command, but then he gives you the capacity. Don't let Satan deceive you and think you can't do it. Don't let him deceive you to think that you've tried before, that you're not good enough that's something beyond your ability to do, it'll deceive you to think that you're something that you can do on your own Oh yeah, try it by yourself. We can't do it by ourselves. We need God's help. We need to rely on Him. Stay close to him. Be empowered by him. That's how it's made possible. If I sent my son to the store to pick up the battery and forgot to give him the money, he would call me from the store. Say, um, how am I supposed to pay for this? Can you call it in and pay for it over the phone? Is there something you can do? But sometimes we go about going on that rodent journey and we've left God behind Satan not only is a deceiver, but he's a distractor. We know in Matthew chapter 13, verse 22, he talks about that seed that was spread, the seed that was thrown down, and some of the seed fell on good soil, but some of it fell among thorny grounds. And the cares of the world, the deceitfulness of riches rose up and choked the word, the distractions that come There's the desire and we want to be clean and set apart for God's use, but Satan puts these distractions We might could call them temptations, like Krispy Kreme donuts, in front of you. Whatever your temptation is. I love ice cream. Man, that's a temptation. And my kids keep buying it. I'll come home and there's new ice cream in the fridge. Must be God's will. It miraculously appeared. I didn't shop for it. I didn't go get it. Look, it's just here. It's like the cruise and the oil that never fails. It keeps coming. More o more ice cream. Satan's gonna bring temptations. He's gonna distract you and keep you from the purpose and the goal and desire that you have to be sanctified and set apart and he'll make it so it's not so important and you can pursue other things and it'll be okay He is the distractor and he's going to rise up with those things and choke out that word of God that God wants to do in your life Beloved, we could go on, but I want you to understand that God is the one that sanctifies us. Yes, it is commanded by him But the capacity to accomplish that is given to us by him. All he asks is that we be committed to the process. He's going to enable us to do it. If we would just be willing to submit and to follow. Don't let Satan disrupt the plan. Stay on his plan for your life. And every one of us will be shocked at the miraculous thing that God does in our heart and in our life. What do you need him to do? God can do it. Nothing shall be impossible. The older I get, the more I believe it. The more I've seen God do the miraculous for people and in their life and in situations that looked hopeless and beyond repair, but God did it. We just need to be committed. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?