Grab your Bibles and turn to the book of Philippians. The book of Philippians. We've been studying the book of Philippians here now for a couple of months. I had no idea. uh how impactful this study was going to be. Uh to be honest, I chose the book of Philippians because it was short Uh you know, real spiritual reason. I could tackle this one, it's pretty easy. We'll go verse by verse through this and I kinda thought this would last us here for the for the time period. I didn't want to get, you know didn't want to do Ezekiel or something like that, you know. Little little simpler. Uh but it really has been a very powerful study for us. God has Met with the church family. I've had many comments and uh just the practical truths that are present in this book that can be applied to our everyday life And uh it's fed my soul as I've studied and looked at this, and I hope God has used it to feed you as well. We are going to be looking tonight at the goal of the the saved, the goal of the saved, which is found in verses twelve and thirteen. But I want to give you a little bit of review. We're not going to go back to chapter one, but we're just going to kind of bring I want to read these verses and and bring us up to Verse number 12, read verse 12 and 13 and kind of get the whole context of what we're looking at this far. So we see we saw first of all as we opened the book the guise of unity. the semblance, the likeness, the guise of unity. What is what does the unity look like and the unity that we should have as as God's people? And we see first of all there the desire in verse number one where he says, If there be therefore any consolation in Christ If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any vows of mercies, he says, listen, if, he says, whereas that if there is a question, it's basically he saying sense He's saying because. He said, because you've enjoyed some things, because God has come and done some things for you, you ought to desire unity. He says, hey, if you have ever experienced some consolation in Christ, You ought to desire unity if you've ever enjoyed the comfort of love. And we've looked at these things in more detail, but what a joy to know the love of Christ. What a privilege to have friends and brothers and Christians uh in Christ and and family that love you, amen. If you've ever known that love and experienced the love of a friend or a brother, you can praise God and thank him and desire the unity that we ought to have. He says if you've had communion in the Spirit. It's exciting tonight that somebody like the Remus family and the Sharpe family and the Johnsons can come to a church halfway across the state and and and come into a service like this and feel right at home Because there's a fellowship of spirit there. There's a bond and a unity of friendship that's present. He says, if you've ever known any compassion from God, have you experienced the compassion of God? Any bowels of mercies, has God ever come alongside you and lifted you and held you and cared for you in your hour of need? He says, because you've experienced some of this, you ought to desire the unity that God has. That unity that God wants us to have. He gives us the definition of unity right in the scriptures. In verse number two, he says, Fulfill you my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. That's the definition of unity. What is it that you have a like mind? That you have a led mind. That's a mind that's led by Jesus Christ. He is the head, and if we're all following Christ, we're going to be unified. Amen. He says you have a lowly mind and you have a loving mind. Then he tells us, listen, unity is not just going to happen. It's not just going to be because. There's some things that will destroy unity. He gives that to us in verse number three. He says, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than themselves. Strife will destroy unity. That strife is contention, and only by pride cometh contention, and when there's pride in the church, it's going to destroy unity. It'll take it out every time, and not just pride, not just strife, but self-importance, vainglory Vainglory. And it is anytime we glory in ourselves, it's vainglory. It's so empty and meaningless because what hast thou that thou hast not received? God has given it all to us, and self-importance will destroy vainglory. Self-interest will destroy vainglory, not esteeming others, but esteeming ourselves. And so self-interest will destroy that. He says, Hey, these things will destroy unity, but if you want to, you can develop unity. He gives that to us in verse number four. He says, Let not every man, look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. And we saw there that there's a present attitude that has to be in the heart of every believer. Look not every man on his own things, but every man on the things of others. You need to esteem others better than yourself. And there's a practical application, and that is you look, you get involved, you do something. It's one thing to see a need, it's a different thing altogether to do something about it. And that's where we have to have this, the guise of unity. What does it look like? He's given that to us here in verses ch uh chapter two, verses one through four. Then he tells us the guide, he gives us the guide for servants, a guide for servants in verses 5 through 8. He says, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. Who in the bo being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Hey, Jesus is the guide He is the example. He is the standard. He is the rule. And we are to try and measure up to him. And as that perfect example of a servant of Jesus Christ, Jesus came. He had a sacrificial mind. He said he was God and he was the creator and he became the created. He sacrificed for you and I. But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of a men. He became a servant to man. He came not to be ministered unto, but to minister What an amazing truth. I mean, we all like being ministered unto. Yeah, I like it when I'm sitting in a chair and my wife says, Hey, would you like some tea? Sure. How about a back rub? Well you're well you're about you know yeah. Um still working on the on the foot rub though, you know, I don't know. We all like to be minister too, but Jesus didn't come to be minister too, he came to minister. And Christians, we ought to have the Spirit of Jesus Christ and not only have a sacrificial mind, but a servant-hearted life and a servant mind Then he says, and being in the form, in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Beloved Jesus Christ himself had a submissive mind. Boy, we don't like to be submissive. Just to talk about it. Just to say, you know, we ought to be what? I mean you tell a lady she's gotta be supposed to be submissive to her husband. What Where where are you? You are some from old fashioned. You know what in the world? I mean, you say, oh, you ought to be submissive to your boss, you ought to be submissive to the police, you ought to be submissive to the authority. People don't like that They don't like it. Jesus Christ, the creator of the world, was submissive. And he set that example for us, our guide for servants. He was the guide. He was the example. We ought to be able to be like him. I think if Jesus could do it, we should do it. And when Jesus did it, I want you to see that God honored him. We see the glory of the Savior in verses 9 through 11. The glory of the Savior, he says there, wherefore God hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. The fact is that God exalted him, God lifted him up, and because he was obedient, He did what God wanted him to do. God gave him a name above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, things in the earth, things under the earth. The future is that every knee is going to bow. One day, someday, every knee is going to bow. And we see that faith is going to be exercised. He says here, and that every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Hey, they might not believe right now, but they will believe one day. They will believe one day. And we see, we approach, we come to our verses for tonight's text, and it opens up with wherefore? That is to say, because of. Because of all these things that we've talked about from the beginning of the chapter till now, because of all this, what I'm about to give you is of vital importance. You need to hear it and you need to do it. And so tonight, if I could just give you two points as we look at these two verses. He says, here, wherefore, my beloved brethren, as ye have always obeyed. Not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Wouldn't that be great if our kids would obey in our absence? Amen. When we're not there. But Paul says, hey, not just when I'm there, but like you've always done, even when I'm not there, even so much the more, he says. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Paul has explained to us the Christian life. He's given us that example which is Jesus Christ. He's described the glory that was given to the Savior because he was obedient. He has given us the subject, and now he exhorts us, beloved. He encouraged the saints, anyone that is possessing of the free gift of salvation. He says, hey, you need to put into practice what you've been given. You need to seize the opportunity because Jesus is worth it Because the life he's given you is worth it. Paul is saying, don't let it go to waste what you've been given But work out your own salvation. You know, there are some parents whose children have uh earned a degree in political science. And it cost them $120,000 to get this degree in political science. And mom and dad are wondering why their son is working at Wendy's Okay? I mean they're saying, hey, you are wasting the investment. You are wasting all the time and energy and education and all the cost. That's been given to you. You're wasting it. What are you going to do with your life? And Paul says, don't waste the Christian life that God has given you. He saved you for a reason, and you've got something important to do for Jesus Christ. Work out your own salvation, he says. So he exhorts us, beloved. He exhorts us to work out our own salvation I want you to understand several things. First of all, there shouldn't be, but there is a little bit of a conflict with this verse. Because some people they're like, oh, there it is. You've got to work for salvation. Now you understand the basics of scripture interpretation, and if there's a passage that looks like it teaches something that other passages disagree with, then your understanding is incorrect. You take something that's clear and that's known and use that to define that which is unknown. And a verse like this that you look at it and you say, oh, on the surface, it looks like it means we've got to work for our salvation. You've got to work to get salvation. But beloved The Bible still says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and then not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. It's not much clearer than that. I don't think we need to work for salvation. I'm not going to spend any time there, Titus 3. 5. I mean, you guys here, you know the scriptures, you know that this is not what this is teaching, although there's some that would like to grab a hold of it and say we need to work together to keep our salvation. That's not what this is teaching He's given us a clear command here. He's writing to us, to those that have that presently possess new life in Christ. Do you have a new life in Christ tonight? Have you been saved? Mackenzie, you've been saved. Jesus as your Lord and Savior. He says, if you have it, this is written to you. He's given you a command. God saved you for a purpose. I'm going to steal the title of a message that hasn't been developed yet. Okay, Pastor Derek and I, we talk about messages and ideas all the time, and some weeks ago he was talking to me about an idea for a message that he's going to develop. And I'm gonna steal it. Just the title. Just the title. I'll still let him develop the message. Then I'll preach the message. Amen. He uh the title of the message is this God didn't save you to take you to heaven. God didn't save you to take you to heaven. You think about that. Oh, I know we look at heaven, we like heaven, we think man that heaven's our home. Beloved, if God saved you to take you to heaven, how come you're not there yet? God saved you and He has a plan for you. He's got something you're supposed to be doing. He has given you salvation for a reason. And he's got something that you're supposed to be accomplishing here on earth. And beloved, it is your responsibility to find and fulfill God's plan for your life. He says there work out your own salvation. I'm not going to belabor that, but you know it's individual. We each got to do it. Everybody's got to work out their own salvation. Nobody can make that decision of salvation for you. We're talking about the decision of salvation of Christ. Not only that, nobody can know God's will for you. You've got to work it out. What God wants you to accomplish with your life and the purpose that He has for you, your pastor is not going to tell you. Oh, He can help you, He can guide you, give you direction, but ultimately, only person that knows that is you. It's a decision between you and God. You gotta work that out. Now I I drive a uh Beautiful suburban. I'm still in awe at God's goodness to us. Amen. That's in a magnificent vehicle. Mary and I will be driving in their car. We're riding down 695 cruising. The thing is so smooth and comfortable and like this. is awesome. Man, look at this car. This is nice. Man, ain't God good. Ain't God good to give us so well anyways. I'm I'm just having the time. But you know I think everybody here understands, you know, a little bit about engineering enough to know that that at one point that vehicle was just somebody's dream That vehicle was a bunch of parts sitting on a shelf somewhere around the country, maybe even in other parts of the world. But somebody had to bring all the parts together and say, this is what I want to build. This is what I want to craft. We're going to shape this. We're going to work together to make this suburban. We're going to turn it into this. And beloved Jesus is forming a masterpiece The potential is there in your life. You've been saved for a reason, and God wants to do something rich and full and powerful in your life, but you've got to work it out. You've got to work it out. It doesn't just happen. It should be the goal of every believer to be complete in Christ. Paul was talking about Epaphoras in Colossians He's describing those whom he labors with. He says, we labor together, we labor in prayer together. And what was the reason? He said that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. As we labor for the Lord, we're allowing Him to build a masterpiece in each of our lives. If you'll allow me to take a couple minutes and give some further clarity to this. And my reading And looking at this verse, I saw lots of different descriptions and ways of explaining and illustrating this thought here about working out your own salvation. I spent some time pondering it and one of the examples that I would read about was like that of working in a garden and that you can go out and you can plant the garden and put the seeds in the ground. And go away and hope for the best. And you might get some plants. You might have a few that come up. You might get a little bit of fruit. But if you've ever worked a garden at all, you understand that you've got to be out there weeding the garden. You've got to be working in the garden. You've got to be watering it. You've got to be protecting the garden. You've got Put nets over them to protect it from the cicadas. that would eat it and kill 'em. You've got to be doing all that in order for that garden to bring forth fruit. You have the garden the seeds in the ground, but if you want it to be fruitful, if you want it to be profitable, you've got to work it out. The Christian life is much the same way. You've got to work it out. It doesn't just happen. It's not, oh, you possess Christian salvation, you possess that, but it doesn't just happen. It's like working out in a marriage. Marriage But like marriage, salvation is a lifetime of discovery and development. It's a lifetime of working out. Beloved, a person knows he's married. He stood down the altar. And the the pastor said, I now pronounce you man and wife. I mean he got a ring. He got a marriage certificate that says, you are married. You know what? You can have an exciting, fulfilling, loving marriage, or you can have a wretched marriage. And it is almost entirely dependent upon how much work you're willing to put into it. Katie's getting married at the end of the summer. Katie, if you think that you're gonna have a successful and happy marriage because you love each other, you're mistaken. You're mistaken. That love's just the beginning. You know what, Katie, it's possible for you to have the marriage that you envision right now in your mind The marriage that you see for yourself, all that joy and excitement and that thrill and that happiness and that union, all of that that you envision right now in your mind, it's possible. It can be that. But you gotta work at it. You gotta work it out. It doesn't just happen because you love each other. About six weeks in you're gonna find that to be true. For some of you in here it was on the honeymoon, hallelujah. You thought it was all gonna be bliss and then you woke up. But you can have it. And you know what, beloved? You can have an amazing Christian life. You can have that joy of the Lord. You can have what God wants for you For you. Everything that in your mind you think the Christian life could be and should be, the potential is there, the possibility is there. You're saved and you've been washed by the blood of Jesus Christ And he is there working in you and it can be that, but it doesn't just happen because you got saved and because you love Jesus. It takes work. You've got to work at it. The most powerful illustration that I read about, which is most applicable to the Christian life, is that from the commentator John Phillips. He said that he likens This to the ownership of a mine. Where one owns a mine filled with precious metal But it takes work to get it out. You own the mine. It's yours. But for it to make any practical difference in your life, You have to get off your blessed assurance, as the Southern preacher says, and get down in the mind and dig it up. You've got to get down there and do some work to harvest and to bring that out and to use it to make a difference in your life. God has given you and I a gold mine of precious promises But we've got to get into the book and dig them up. God has given us the gold mine of precious experiences as Christians where God does real and miraculous things for us in our life that we can't explain any other way except by the Precious blood of Jesus Christ and the power of him working in our life. But it doesn't just happen because I'm a Christian and I claim the name of Jesus and I go to church on Sunday morning And I carry my Bible. It happens because I'm walking with God. Because I get out of bed and I pray and I talk to my Savior and I long to please him and I long to love him. And I want to see him do something real and powerful and different in my life And as I'm in the way, God does that for me. We see precious miracles take place. We've got those precious experiences. We've got those that those Things that can be harvested, the times with Jesus Christ. Those precious times where God comes, heaven swings low, and God meets with you in a real way. Oh, I long for Christians to know and experience that. I have Christians that have been saved 20, 30, 40 years come and ask me, how do you know God is talking to you? Everyone in here should know the voice of God. But it doesn't just happen because I got saved. You've got to work out your salvation. It's good. We see the conditions of the working out here. He says do it with fear and trembling. With fear and trembling. I don't have time tonight to teach on the fear of the Lord. Let me just say that there's a practical thought here with we ought to be cautious and careful about how we approach the task that God's given us to do. Every task, every job, every every witness, every time we teach, every time we sing, every Every time we open in prayer, every time we serve as an usher, every time we minister to somebody out in the hallway, every time we exhort and encourage a brother in Christ, every time we get to be used of God in any way, we ought to approach that with some solemnity This to the fact that it is a great work. It is a great work that we get to do for God. There ought to be some fear of missing what God has for you. Some fear of missing it. Man, I gotta walk I gotta walk with God today because I don't want to miss what God has for me. God wants to do something with me today, and if I'm not walking with him, I'm going to miss it. Here's what I guarantee you, beloved, if you were actually in a mine working, digging for gold, that was your gold. You would look at each new wall with with this type of apprehension. This I hey I I don't want to miss one ounce. I don't want to miss one we're gonna get it all. Every little bit of of of gold that's in here And God wants to do some amazing things in your life, but we approach what we do for Christ so flippantly sometimes, so carelessly. There should be some fear in how we approach the task that God wants us to do. There should be some trembling. I look at this as some anxiety about doing the task that God wants us to do. Paul wanted to be sure that he was pleasing to God. He wanted to be pleasing to God. You know, I ha I have anxiety about our church events here When we have a church event, whatever whatever it is, I I I I worry that the temperature is just right. That that isn't that it's cool enough. When people walk in the door, it's kind of fresh and it's by inviting I were I I walk through the room and I smell, does does it smell fresh in here? Does it smell clean? Do we need to put some air freshener out? Everything needs to be correct. I worry that all this we go downstairs for some fellowship and I want to make sure that the soda mount soda machine's on and that the that the drinks are cold and that the food is hot. I want to make sure there's sufficient ice for everybody and if the chicken's supposed to be crispy that it's crispy and that the salad is fresh and that the everything is ready to go. I want I I I look at all that stuff. I want to make sure that the fellowship is good. I look around the room and And there's somebody over here that's not nobody's fellowshipping with. I I try and find somebody to send them over. I go over myself and I want to make sure everybody's engaging and if they enjoy it There's so many things that I that are in my mind every event we have I go to and fro because I I'm concerned that everybody is getting all they can out of it And we preach from the Word of God. I want the Spirit of God to speak to the hearts of men. And beloved, if I have that kind of anxiety over a meeting here with with With people, with friends, with family. What kind of anxiety should I have over doing something for Almighty God? Pleasing God It's important and we should approach it with that kind of fear and trembling and say, Lord, this is your work and it's a great work. But beloved, any time God sins, he also provides. So could we look at verse 13 and see the enabling that Christ gives us? He says, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and do of his good pleasure. Beloved, we have God's attention. We have God's personal attention And whatever you're dealing with tonight, whatever you're going through in your life, whatever burden you're carrying, whatever struggle you have, know that God is with you. He's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, and in every hour of need, God is with you. You've got his attention. He is watching you. There's times in your life that you approach things with apprehension. I think about the young like kids. Have you ever seen a child or talked to a child and they would say, Yeah, I want to go, but I want you to go with me. I think about McKenzie. They might have had a similar conversation. There's a little bit of of apprehension. I know this because her mom posted it on Facebook. My baby is flying across the country all by herself. The mom probably had a little more apprehension than McKinsey did. But that I beloved, you got God's personal attention with whatever you're doing for the Lord. That plan that God wants to work in your life, that great task that God wants to do, whatever it is, your life can be an amazing life for God. And you can experience powerful things for him. And some people say, well, I can't. Beloved, it's not you. It's God that worketh in you. You work it out. You go after it. You do the labor. But God is working in you to give you the strength and the power to do it. I know you guys have all experienced this with with some kid I think you know like Andrew and Titus they're so little right now like let's ask ask Titus to come up here and move this this cabinet, right? This is too big for him, he can't carry that But I could say here Titus you grab that side. And Titus is grab Titus is carrying the other side, right? He ain't carrying anything. He's just holding on to it. You know, you guys have all done that with kids. And th they they're they that's what God's doing for you. God's giving you something to do. He says, I want you to do this. If you just by faith pick it up and go after it, God's enabling you. You've got God's personal attention, beloved. Then we have God's powerful ability. He is working in you. He's omnipotent He is all powerful. That's why in just a few verses we have that most familiar of verses. I can do all things through Christ. Because Paul had known and experienced the power of God working in him. We are working out what God wants us to do. We are going after that. We're doing our part. But God's the one that enables us to do it through his power, through his strength. He's never going to force you. He is an omnipotent, all-powerful God, but he's not going to force you to do it. You have to surrender. And say, okay, Lord. I want your will. He says they're both to what What does it say? Both to to will and to do. Both to God will give you a new want-to. You're living the Christian life, you say, Pastor, I'm going to church, but I don't want to go to church. Pastor, I've been reading my Bible, but you know what? I don't want to read my Bible. Listen, if you get a hold of this and you surrender to God, submit to God, he will give you A new will. Both to will and to do. He will give you a new desire. Our verse of the month. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. You know, church, I've taught on this. I believe that that that means There's two sides of that. First of all, if you've got the wrong desire, if you delight yourself in God, He'll give you a new desire. And when you've got a new desire, then He will give you that desire in your life. It's a powerful thing. You say, man, I am struggling. Living this Christian life. Yield to God and let God work in you both to will That is, he'll give you the right kind of desire. And to do, he'll give you the durability to be able to accomplish it. Whatever it is, God will give you the strength to do it. You can do it in and through the power of God. It's him that worketh in you, both to will and to do. What's the last phrase of that verse there? Willing to do what's that? Starts of this question. This to me is an amazing thing. You and I are uniquely situated to bring joy to God. He wants to work in and through us, and beloved, when we allow him to do that, it brings pleasure to God. It puts a smile on God's face. We as finite humans can put a smile on God's face. We can bring pleasure. Oh, I know he does untold things for us. He's given us salvation and he meets our needs and he walks with us in the cool of the day and he carries us in the midst of our storms. We can't do a whole lot, but if we will let him, he'll give us the will and the power to do what he wants, and when we do it, we can put a smile on his face. That's what God wants every Christian to do. That should be the goal of every saved person. The goal of the saved. What a privilege. Is God giving you salvation tonight? Can I ask you, what do you do with it? God has given you literally the life of his son. Are you wasting it? Are you wasting it and living for self? Or are you serving your Lord? Are you working out your salvation? Being faithful to your Lord? Would you stand?