Uh we are in the book of Philippians. Uh we have been studying this book and uh enjoying walking through this with you. Going to look at three verses tonight. Philippians chapter two verses nine through eleven As we see the glory of the Savior, Philippians chapter 2, 9 through 11. He says, Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. This group of verses here, uh, you know, really this first part of this chapter, verse one through eleven, are are really pretty familiar verses to anybody that's been in church for any length of time. We know that Christ is our example, and we looked at that last week as we talked about the fact that He is our guide. the what is set before us. He he walked the road before we walked it, and he's been through it. And uh he set for us an example that we're to follow, that example of humility in the face of extreme humiliation. Yet he still was humble. And he did it all for us. Jesus did that. And once again, in our text, we read about how Christ in that All powerful way in which he can fulfills the biblical admonition given to us in Matthew 23, verse 12. And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased. And he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. We saw in the verses that we looked at last week about how Christ humbled himself He humbled himself and he became obedient. The creator took upon himself the form of the created. He submitted to be under the total and complete care and command of his creation. I mean you think about the idea of God being born as a baby, helpless, in care. I mean his creation had to care for him. His creation had to change his diaphers. His creation had to raise him and and train him and work with him. The creator took upon himself the form of the created for us. He lived as a boy and he died as a man when he became obedient to the death, even the death of the cross. He humbled himself, but God exalted him. God exalted him, and we see that in this text this evening as we look at the idea of the glory of our Savior, the glory of that name, Jesus. I don't know if you noticed tonight, but the songs that we sung tonight were about Jesus. Did you happen to know what we were teaching on the night or I mean I didn't ask her to say the songs we sang tonight were about the names of Jesus and something special about that name and Jesus did not exalt himself. He was exalted by the Father. And Paul wanted the Christians of Philippi to know That's what he did, and we are supposed to have the mind of Christ. We are supposed to be like him. One Bible teacher put it like this: we're to be like-minded, we're to be lowly-minded, and we're to be Lord-minded. That's what we're to be like, and that is the admonition given to us in this text. All believers everywhere are to have that mind of Christ. But all too often we're not that way. We are like the disciples. In Matthew, I mean in Mark, I think it's chapter ten, where they come and they say, uh, Jesus, could I sit on your right hand? And he said on your left hand. Could we have that place of honor? Could we be recognized as somebody special? That's what we as Christians many times want, not following the example of Christ. So let me give you just three points here as we look at these three verses tonight, and don't think we'll be very long, but first of all, we see the fact. The fact is that he has exalted him. He says, Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. God exalted the name of Jesus. You and I ought to exalt the name of Jesus. That's a precious name. It ought to bother us when people take that name in vain. It ought to be something that you say, hey, that's my Lord, my Savior, my friend that you're talking about. It's amazing to me how they'll mock and laugh and blaspheme the name of Jesus Christ. You know, but it's a name that's above every name. You can like it or lump it. You can believe it or disregard it or not believe it. But there is power in the name of Jesus Christ. People can deny it as much as they want, but there is power in that name. Why do people get so upset at the name of Jesus? Why do flea people blaspheme the name of Jesus? Because there's power in that name. There's weight to what you're saying when you use the name of Jesus. It will not change the fact that God has exalted him, whether you believe it or not Jesus, Emmanuel, is God with us. It's the name that Jesus took when he was brought here onto earth when he came as the Son of Men. When he took upon himself the form of man, that name Jesus. In Matthew 1. 21, he says, And he shall bring forth a Son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Hey, Jesus made the decision to allow himself to be humiliated Jesus surrendered to the will of the Father and he endured it all. He went through it all for you and I. He allowed himself today it'd be several, I don't know how many days, it'd be a while from now that you'll read the devotional, but I wrote a devotional today about how they mocked Jesus. Just considering and thinking about the idea of how they mocked and jeered and laughed at him and and and slapped him and said, Prophesy who struck you? put a robe of purple around his shoulders and and and said, Oh thou king, oh thou king, and they put a crown of thorns on his head recognizing him but mocking him and making fun of him and and there's a part of us that that just gets gets upset about that That they did that to Jesus and he had to go through that, but Jesus surrendered to that and he did that for you and I. As I pondered the thought, on one hand we say, hey, he's God in the flesh. Why didn't he just strike them down? But if Jesus would have done that, you and I wouldn't know Jesus. It's because he surrendered to that humiliation and all of his humility that we have a Savior. And it's because of that that God the Father exalted him. He chose to humiliate, allow himself to be humiliated. God the Father chose to exalt him. You know, there's many great names as we look in the Bible. We think about Moses and Enoch and Esther. Peter, James, and John, uh, Ruth. I mean you go through the scriptures, there's so many names, and they they you you name that name and it brings to mind their character traits and their strengths and And what God did with them and how they've encouraged us over the years. David, you hear those names, but there's nothing, no name, that brings as much meaning and is as powerful as the name of Jesus. Jesus' name. That's why, beloved, there's 119 hymns in our hymn book that the name of Jesus is in the title. That's not talking about all the songs that talk about Jesus or that mention Jesus in the song somewhere or that talk about our Savior. That's just the 119 of them that have Jesus' name in the title. Because there is something about that name. Jesus is the sweetest name I know, and he's just the same as his lovely name. And that's the reason why I love him so. Oh Jesus is the sweetest name I know. There's power in the name of Jesus Is his name, the name of Jesus, brings salvation. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. There's no other name. There's no other place where you can go and get the saving grace of God. No other name you can call on. You can call on anybody else you want, but only the name of Jesus is the name. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. It's by calling on Jesus' name that you experience forgiveness of your sins and salvation. From death and hell. Salvation is only through Jesus. It's not through some church. It's not through some denomination. It's not through any religious practice or any religion out there. Although there are many, many, many of them. Of them all. Listen, according to this book, which has stood the test of time. Heaven and earth shall pass away. But this will never pass away. There's been times in bygone history when all of uh society was out to try and destroy this book, to get rid of it To do away with the word of God. And yet it still stands. And this book says there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Jesus' name brings salvation. Jesus' name bring answers to prayer. And whatsoever you shall ask in my name, that will I do. Whatsoever you shall ask in my name, that's why we pray to the Father, through the Holy Spirit, in the name of Jesus. That's why we close our prayers in Jesus' name. Amen. I think it was Monday afternoon I was talking with Kathy and she was giving me the update on her brother and how he uh it was Sunday night that we were talking and he was put into ICU And his oxygen levels were critical and they couldn't get him to come up. And m then Monday morning, early afternoon, Monday ten, eleven o'clock or something like that, we were talking and uh she said they moved him to critical care. And it doesn't look good, Pastor She said they told me to to prepare for the worst. That he you know if they can't do something, they gotta put them on on a on a respirator and they gotta uh I I don't know what I'm gonna do. I I I love my brother so much, Pastor And walking around the property over there at the seraphim's house. I beg God for the life of Aaron Brooks. With Kathy on the phone, but I prayed and I prayed in the name of Jesus. Because it's in the name of Jesus that there is power. You know tonight if I wrote a check out and uh I I signed my name on the bottom of that check and I put $100 on there and I forgot to put the little dot zero zero And you thought, oh he left the end of this, I could put whatever I want, and you just added some zeros to make it a hundred thousand dollars? Well, you wouldn't get anything Because my name is not worth that much money. You would go to the bank and they you would get a little stamp that says insufficient funds To complete this transaction. That's what you would get from the bank with a hundred thousand dollar check with my name on it. But beloved, when you come and you have a check signed with the name of Jesus You'll never get an insufficient funds to complete the transaction because there's power in that name. All power was given to him in heaven and earth And he has that power to help us in our hour of need. If we come to him in our prayer, we come to him and seek God's help and strength in a situation, we come in the name of Jesus because there's power in that name. It's a name that's been exalted and it's above every other name. Every other name on earth, there's a lot of beautiful names out there, but there's only one, Jesus. That name he he answers prayer. Listen, you got any rivers you think are uncrossable? You got any mountains you can't tunnel through? God specializes in things thought impossible, and he can do what no other person can do in the name of Jesus. I must tell Jesus all of my trials. I cannot bear these burdens alone. In my distress, He kindly will help me. He ever loves and cares for his own. I must tell Jesus. Jesus. Beloved, that we've got that name we can go to and call upon. And I'll tell you what, in your hour of need, there is nothing that will bring peace to your heart or strength to your soul than just getting on your name. Knees and calling on the name of Jesus. Sometimes you may be so weak you might not even know what to pray for, but you just get on your name, on your knees, and call that name Jesus. Lord, friend. And he brings power to your situation. Not only, beloved, is it a fact that his name is exalted And it's a name above every name. But I want you to see the future that's shown to us here. The future says every knee shall bow. That at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of things in heaven and things in earth, and things under the earth. This is talking about a time that's yet to come. We of course know that because not everybody's bowed the knee yet. You see people that mock and make fun and laugh at the name of Jesus. But one day They'll bow. Every knee in heaven's gonna bow. You know, I don't think it's gonna bother the angels at all to bow the knee. When Jesus' name is called forth, I think the the angels in heaven will be glad to. Hebrews 1, verse number 4 says, being made so much better than the angels. as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. God recognized, hey, his name is exalted above even the highest of angels, the name of Jesus. Jesus. I don't think the the angels are going to have a hard time bowing. They're going to be glad to. I don't think, beloved, that the saints that have gone on before That they're in heaven, I don't think they're going to be disappointed at all about bowing the knee. Those are the things that are in heaven. The things in heaven are going to bow the knee. The angels are going to bow. The saints that have gone on before us, they're going to bow. Every knee is going to bow. Listen, this is going to be a glorious time for all believers here on earth. Saints who have been living here on earth. They've been submitting to the Lord and fighting that old battle with the flesh and the devil. When finally that name of Jesus is called and we have the privilege of bowing the knee to him in that final glorious moment, hey, it's going to be a wondrous, joyous sight for us. Sir. We're gonna be we're gonna be thrilled to bow the knee. And you know what, beloved unbelievers are gonna bow as well. They may not like it. They may not want to. They may fight against it. But the truth of it's going to come through their heart and mind, and they're going to realize and recognize Jesus for who he is. The very Son of God, and they're gonna bow when time runs out, and all the judgments have made. And heaven and hell await all those that are bound for their shores. And God the Father calls out that very name, the name of Jesus. One author said this. the atheist, the agnostic, the skeptic, the Catholic, the Taoist, the Communist, the Buddhist, Confucianist, Socialist, Exotentialist, Hindu, Jew, Protestant. Satanist, cultist, pragmatist, spiritualist, unitarian, universalist, pantheist, polytheist Every one of them is going to hit the deck and Kai, Jesus is Lord. Jesus is Lord. There's also says here that every knee under the earth will bow. I remember some years ago one of our church members here, they asked me, they read this passage, and they said, Pastor Caleb, what's under the earth? Every knee under the earth is going to bow. What's under the earth? Well, in this text, beloved, I believe, is dealing with talking about Satan and all of his dominion. All of his angels, all of those demons. Hey There's going to be a lot of sinners in hell that are going to bow. They may have denied Christ. They may have thought they were going to hell to have a party. And men thought, I'm going to be there with all my friends and I'm just going to have fun. But you know one of the saddest things, beloved, is that when they're in hell, they're going to lift up their eyes and they're going to realize the knowledge, the truth of it is going to come through in their heart and mind and realize that all they needed to escape such a terrible torment was to trust the name of Jesus. And that very knowledge, I mean, sometimes I some of the most pain I've ever been in my life is with a toothache. I've had some toothaches that have I have liber literally had pliers in my mouth trying to yank out my own tooth. The pain is just excruciating. And you think if there's anything that I could do to just get rid of this pain. I mean whatever if I could do it, I would do it. If I knew this would fix it. If I could stop this pain this way, I would do it in a heartbeat. Can you imagine knowing that you it day after day after day in that torment of hell and knowing that all you had to do was trust Jesus and you could have stopped it, but now it's too late Every knee in hell is going to bow. Every one of Satan's dominions, demons, are going to bow, and Satan himself is going to bow the knee to that name that's highly exalted above every name. And we see the faith that is expressed, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father Listen, this is not the whole world turning to Christ in faith of believing on him and his name. By then it's too late. Their fate is sealed. But they will recognize and confess that Jesus is Lord I don't know how it's going to happen. I don't know if just the scales are going to be removed removed from their eyes. You know, the Bible talks about that uh the the devil has blinded the eyes of them that are in this world. And maybe the scales will be removed Maybe they'll stop believing the lie that Satan has put on. Maybe that I don't know exactly what it's going to be, but the surety of it, the truth of it, is going to register in their hearts It's going to register in their mind and there's going to be no denying the fact that Jesus is Lord. They're going to confess it. You know, even Christians that wonder and don't have the faith that they should have in their Lord and Savior, and they're like, I'm not positive if this is really real or not, that surety is going to come. I don't even know how to describe really in in my mind. I'm trying to figure out how to picture and how to say that's something that you know be that you know that you know it's a surety. And and you you You just know it in your very soul. That's what's gonna hit everyone. Jesus is God. They're gonna confess it. Man. Beloved, you can bow now and confess that Christ is Lord. And you can escape the penalties of hell. Or you can wait until it's eternally too late. Matthew 10, 32 through 34 says, Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before the Father, which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father, which is in heaven. Think not that I am come to send peace on earth, I am come not to send peace, but a sword. He's beloved. You can confess him now while there's time. Confess him before it's too late. That name of Jesus. The name of Jesus, one author Said this. It's the name above every name, and it's for everyone. For the astronomer, he's the bright and morning star. For the baker, he's the bread of life. For the builder, he's the sure foundation. For the carpenter, he's the door. For the doctor, the great physician For the educator, he's the master teacher. For the electrician, he's the light of the world. For the farmer, he's the sower and the lord of the harvest. For the firemen, he's the water of life. For the florist, he's the rose of Sharon and the lily of the valley. For the geologist, he's the tried stone, the rock of ages. For the historian, he's the ancient of days. For the jeweler, he's the precious cornerstone. For the jury, he's the faithful and true witness. For the laborer, he's the giver of rest. For the lawyer, he's the advocate. and the mediator. For the merchant, he's the pearl of great price. For the news reporter, he's the good tidings of great joy. For the pharmacist, he's the balm of Gilead. For the photographer, he's the express image of God Himself. For the printer, he is the word. For the publisher, he is the author. For royalty, he's the king of kings. For the shepherd, he's the Lamb of God. And the list just goes on and on He is everything to everybody, that name of Jesus. Beloved, as we close tonight, these have been some encouraging words. About Jesus, the Jesus we serve. But I want to pose to you this question concerning the exaltation of Christ. Yes, one day he is going to be exalted. He has a name right now that's above every name. And one day every knee is going to bow in submission to him. But the question I have for you tonight is, is He presently exalted in your life? Is he presently lifted up as king? Does Christ have the highest position in your life? Are you completely submitted to him, putting him first in every area? Are you fully yielded? To the king. Are we exalting Christ as we should? Oh, we know one day it's gonna happen. But we have the privilege today to do it day by day in our own individual. lives before lost and dying world that our father may be glorified