So today we're going to go on in our study of rightly dividing the word, and we're going to talk about the Gospels. When we talk about the Gospels, we're talking about Matthew. Mark, Luke, and John. And I'm differentiating there because there is the the Gospels as are written by the first four books of the Bible written by um the these four men. But then there's the idea of the gospel, and the Bible actually mentions several of those. We might get into that in another lesson, rightly dividing the five types of gospel that are mentioned. In the New Testament. So the Gospels we're talking about are Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the first four books of the New Testament. We've taken a lot of time over the last few months to look at the divisions that are in the Bible. And one we're going to go look at this morning with the idea of the Gospels is one that goes against the typical handling of this topic Um we're talking about Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And I say it's different than typical because when it comes to the Gospels, a a typical approach or A study of theology that's out there is the idea of and it's referred to as the synoptic problem. This is a study that tries to evaluate the gospels, merge them together, and try to figure out where the real account is, quote unquote real account is. Those who study this, they want to find out where the truth of the story is, almost as if It's recommended, I've heard heard it recommended as far as getting your news if you go to a outwardly right-wing source and you hear the news, you go to outwardly left wort source and you read the news, where they overlap, that's probably what the news is What they're saying that is the same. That's news. Everything else is opinion. People try to do that with the gospel. Let's see where stuff overlaps and where it matches out. That's what they call the synoptic problem. They are looking at the passages to see what agrees versus the passages that, quote, disagree. They are trying to figure out who copied from who. The conclusion that those who have studied this quote problem have come to that they have come to is that Mark was the first gospel that was written, and then Matthew and Luke copied from Mark and then added all their own thoughts to the passage. This idea looks at the Bible through an entire entirely human perspective as if it was a human project that man was trying to generate of their own. um and they completely ignore divine um God's divine involvement in the process. One quote that I came across in my study said this, do not try to harmonize four men who have never quarreled Do not try to harmonize four men who've never quarreled. The the gospels don't uh disagree with one another. They complement one another. There are differences. If they just all said the same thing, we wouldn't need all four of them. Uh we could just have one. Uh if we had if they were just Copies of one another. The four gospels all share the same subject, but they are looking at him from di and presenting him from different perspectives. Imagine taking four pictures of the same guy. Let's get Anner and he we're going to take a picture of him sitting in his chair right there. Then we're going to get a picture of him running across the parking lot chasing a soccer ball. Then we're going to get a picture of him jumping across the stage at Vacation Bible School, and then we'll get a picture of him sleeping on one of the pews between services. And we take these four pictures and we try to say, well, which one's the real anter? Let's take the legs off the sleeping guy and attach them to the running guy And we'll take the head of the jumping, you try to merge these four aspects or you're gonna you're gonna come up with something that's not the real picture. Um so the four gospels present Jesus in four different lights and understanding why they wrote what they did, how they wrote what they did, what perspective they were trying to share is going to help us to understand the gospels as we as we study them in our own personal walk and hearing them preached and things of that nature. Of course, there are clear overlaps in the Gospels because they're recording information about the life and ministry of Jesus Christ. But each has its own purpose for being written. If we understand those differences, they'll help us see a fuller picture of Christ. Here in the book of Luke, chapter one, we see Luke giving an introduction to his gospel. This is different than the other gospels do, but he's giving an introduction and he tells why he wrote, giving giving the fact that He wrote it, there was a way that he wrote it, there was a reason that he wrote it, there was an audience that he wrote it to, and those elements come out in the different Gospels as we study them. We understand these distinctions It helps us to understand the differences between the Gospels, not differences that that contradict one another, but differences that complement one another. So Luke chapter one, we're going to read verses one through four. There the Bible says for as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us, even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eye witnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having a had a perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write thee in order, thou most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Let's open with a word of prayer this morning. Lord, we love you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for these wonderful accounts that we have of the life and ministry of Jesus Christ, Lord. Pray as we uh study these together this morning that we would be encouraged, that we would uh enjoy the truths that are there, and Lord, as we go into our our our rest of our Christian lives that the truths we learned today would just give us uh great spiritual fruit as we uh study your word in future days, Lord. Pray you bless our time around your word this morning. We ask that in Christ's name. Amen. So you see, Luke sat down and said, you know, there's been a lot of people trying to write down what we believe, talk about us as Christians, and it seemed good to me, or he's led by the Spirit. We understand it from other pastor scripture, Holy Metro Space of it they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Sorry, I messed up part of the verse there, but we understand the passage here from First Peter that they wrote as they were moved by the Holy Ghost, and he he was prompted to do this He had an understanding, so the perfect, meaning a complete understanding from the beginning of what had happened, and he wrote down his gospel for this individual who was newly saved, so he knew that his faith had a resting place. and uh in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the foundation. If Christ is the foundation, you need to know who your foundation is built upon. So he wrote these things for this man. for this purpose. So we see the gospels all had kind of a a similar thing. They had an audience they were written to. They had a purpose for which they were written. They had a way that they presented Jesus Christ. So as we look at the Gospels, we're going to start first of all talking about the similarities. Just overall, what are some of the similarities of the Gospels? We see that the four Gospels of the New Testament record the humanity The ancestry, the birth, the ministry, the death, the resurrection, and the ascension of Jesus the Son of God and the Son of Man. Some have more detail, some have less detail, but this is overall what they were written about. The focus of the Gospels are the words and deeds of Jesus Christ. When Luke wrote the book of Acts, he also wrote it to the same individual. Theophilus, and he wrote an introduction there as well, and he mentions having written his gospel. And in Acts one verse one he says, The former treatise have I made, that would be the gospel of Luke, O Theophilus. Of all that Jesus began both to do and teach. Said, my gospel was written about the things that Jesus did and about the things that Jesus taught. That was the focus of the Gospels, what they were writing about. They're focusing on the ministry of Jesus Christ. Now, each of the Gospels gives a little bit different picture. The book of Matthew focuses a lot more on what Jesus taught. The book of Mark focuses a lot more on what Jesus did. They both contain what Jesus said and what Jesus did, but they gave different focuses as they were presenting the picture of Jesus Christ. As we look at the gospels, we understand that these are not biographies. We don't see them start all of them at at the birth and record all the details of his life as he grew up and family ties. Those things come out in the story, but they weren't trying to present a, here's a historical biography of a man. They weren't writing about that. They were sharing his ministry for a purpose. We only know, for example, before his ministry began, from all the gospels, we only know three things about him. That he was born, he was visited by the wise men, fled to Egypt, and in twelve years old he was in the temple. So until he was 30, we don't know anything about him. That'd be a pretty pretty strange biography, not to have childhood and how you were raised and where you went to school, but that's not the purpose of the gospels, to write a write a biography. That wasn't what they were trying to do The Gospels also, they are historical narratives. They are not commentaries. The writers of the Gospels were writing not writing, well, Jesus said this, and here's what I think about it That's there's a place for that, those are commentaries. But the Bible's historical narratives, these are true stories, this is what happened, this is what Jesus said This is what Jesus did. This isn't the disciples' interpretation. This isn't just they they have oral tradition that changed over time that they finally recorded. This is what Jesus said. This is what Jesus did. It's a historical narrative of what took place. Another thing to understand, the Gospels record events and instruction that occurred under the law. Although all the gospels were written after the time of the law, but where Jesus Christ had died already, the church age had begun, time of grace had already begun. The things that happened in the gospels primarily occurred under the law. Galatians 4 verse 4 references this, but when the fullness of the time was come God sent forth his son made of a woman made under the law. So the dispensation of law was still going on, and that affected Jesus' audience. Some of Jesus' instruction, some of the stories, and what was done by the disciples are not done by the disciples, because they were still living under the law until the time of Jesus' death. So we understand this about the Gospels. So those are some of the similarities overall, broad general similarities, we also see some distinctions, some differences of the Gospels We need to understand and and it this is hard to get our mind in, but going back historically to this time, the gospels weren't printed as a four-volume set. uh that was passed out to the church. They didn't have the church say, hey look, we just put this together. It's a four-volume book. Just came off the press. You guys get to have this One of the disciples wrote his book, gave it to somebody, and that person read it, somebody made a copy of it, gave it to somebody else, and that epistle or that gospel began to be published around. And another disciple wrote his his gospel account, gave it to an individual or to a church. That church read it, sent it to another church, it got copied, it got spread out. It didn't come all as one set. Um and so as we see this that helps us understand, well there was Different times of writing, different people writing, different reasons for writing, a different audience that they were intending for this to be given to originally, and that all plays into how they're presenting Jesus Christ. So they weren't originally written and published as a set. They were written by different men to different groups. It's possible that Matthew's gospel was originally written for the church at Jerusalem, and copies of that getting passed around. Uh it's possible that Mark's may have been written for the church at Rome. And then from the church at Rome they began to pass out copies. Luke's gospel we know was written for a Roman man named Theophilus. And it was possible that John's gospel may have been written for the church at Ephesus. This is where these men were serving, and they're sharing these accounts, and we see these audiences come out in their writing. We also see that not only were they written by different men, two different groups, they were written for different purposes. You see, the people, the Jewish people, needed to understand that Jesus was the Messiah and that the Messiah had come. And they needed that truth presented to them and the prophecies fulfilled and to see that. You see that the Romans, they were interested in power, uh, and they would lose interest if they were reading a genealogy. Roman people would not be interested. Jews love genealogies. They want to see where did he come from? What family was he part of? Rome to open up a genealogy? They close it. I'm not going to read that. I got I got bored just like we do sometimes when we get to the book of 1 Chronicles. Alright, I need to skip that one and go on to something else That wasn't what they would have been interested in, it would have losed interest in a long detailed narrative. Greeks were looking for the perfect man The Greeks were were were enamored with with humanity and they were looking for a perfect man and that audience needed to see Jesus as the perfect man, and then the world as a whole needed to see that Jesus is God. And so these gospels were written for these different purposes. and uh based on the different audiences that we're going to be reading them. Obviously they're all going to ultimately come together in the Bible as we have it, the complete canon of Scripture, but as it was initially written You got it and you could copy it and you pass it to somebody else, and that was how the the Bible was shared in the first century. I have a chart that I gave you, and there's a lot of fun things in this chart, but we're gonna Skip it. If we have time at the end, we'll come back to it. Otherwise, you can just read through that and see some of the um comparisons and distinctions there in that chart. So we're going to begin with the book of Matthew. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 1, verse number 1. Matthew is uh is a perfect transition for, especially for a Jewish audience, to go from the Old Testament to the New Testament. There's a break here, we understand, historically, of 400 silent years that God did not speak to his people. But coming from Old Testament prophecy into New Testament, if you would have jumped into any other epistle or other gospel The narrative wouldn't quite make sense. Matthew ties together the ministry of Jesus Christ with the prophecies of the Old Testament. So who is the author of this gospel? The author of the Gospel of Matthew was Matthew. He was one of the disciples. He was also known as Levi. And does anybody remember his profession? He was a tax collector. Uh it's interesting that Matthew brings out the fact that he was a tax collector. He's pointing to what Christ saved him from. When the other gospel accounts refer to Matthew and they're talking about his life before Christ called him, they call him Levi. But Matthew points out, I was a tax collector. And uh and he points out his history and what God saved him from. And this comes out. His profession comes out in his writing. There are ten parables that are unique to Matthew that aren't found in the other gospels Of these ten, five of them have to do with money. The tax collector, it would have been something he was interested in. So when Jesus taught on money, that's something that he took note of. And God shared those through Matthew. So we see the author of the gospel there is Matthew, Levi the tax collector. Then we see the audience of the gospel. Who is Matthew primarily written for? Matthew is primarily written to a Jewish audience. And we see this. The key verse here for understanding Matthew's account is in Matthew 1, verse number 1. The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Now, going back in our minds to a couple months ago, studying, we looked at the idea of covenant. And God had made everlasting covenants with the Jewish nation specifically tied to two men. You remember the two men? Abraham And David. There were covenants that were going to be eternal covenants that God was going to fulfill to the nation of Israel, and those covenants were made to Abraham. And the covenants were made to um David. So when Matthew introduces Jesus Christ, he introduces him as the descendant of David. and as the descendant of Abraham, that ge he's tying Jesus back to the covenant promises that God made to the nation of Israel The focus of Matthew as he deals with his Jewish audience, we see he talks about fulfilled prophecy. More than any other gospel, he references the Old Testament, quotes the Old Testament, and ties Old Testament prophecy back to the life of Christ. There are around 129 parallels between the Old Testament and the life of Christ in the book of Matthew, tying back to showing the Jewish nation that this is the promised Messiah. This is the prophesied Messiah, and he makes this makes this tie. And as Matthew presents Jesus to a Jewish audience, he's presenting him as a king He's the coming king. And the focus of Matthew, as you see it as a whole, referenced a lot is the kingdom of heaven. Kingdom of Heaven. Now that's only found in the book of Matthew. We had a lesson in our rightly dividing series on the kingdom of heaven versus the kingdom of God. And the kingdom of heaven is a reference to the earthly kingdom in the land of Israel promised to the Jewish nation where Christ will sit on the throne of David. It is a earthly kingdom and it And Matthew focuses on that because he's writing to a Jewish audience that Christ is going to fulfill these covenants literally when he comes back to earth and he sets up his kingdom. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. We see that presented throughout the book of Matthew. We see this is a reference to the physical kingdom, this kingdom's fulfillment of the Jewish covenants, and so that's what Matthew focuses on to present Jesus as a king to a Jewish audience. The Jewish audience addressed by Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew, we understand is still under the law. We mentioned that already. They're under the law. They're Jews. They're living under the under the system of the law, the sacrificial system, worship of the temple. All of that that they have going on, and Jesus addresses that as he speaks to the Jewish people, and that's what Matthew highlights in his gospel Oliver B. Green said of the Gospels and of Matthew in particular, the doctrines of grace are found in the epistles, not the Gospels. Now, I'm not suggesting that the Gospels are not for us because all scripture is profitable. And he goes on to quote the verse there. All of the Bible is for all of us. However, it cannot be not denied that in the gospels there is much which belongs to the Jew. And we are guilty of spiritual robbery when we take God's promise to the nation of Israel and give them to the church. So understand as we read the Gospel of Matthew. It's written it's it's it's written to a Jewish audience And the things that took place as Jesus was speaking and teaching and sharing truths was written unto Jews under the law, and a lot of it had to do with the coming kingdom where Christ would be king. This goes back to what we said about how all the Bible is written for you, but not all of the Bible is written to you. The dispensation of the law continued until the death of Jesus Christ on the cross. So we look at the aim of this gospel. It focuses on Jesus as a king. We see the genealogy of a king in verse in chapter one, verses one through seventeen. In Matthew's gospel, the genealogy goes traces it its way down to Joseph, which we know was Jesus' adopted father. God was Jesus' father. Joseph was Jesus' adopted father, but when you have a kingly line the title of king passes from father to son. So if Matthew would have presented Mary's genealogy, then it it wouldn't have established a tie to Jesus' right to the throne of David. It had to go from father to son, father to son, and that's what tied Jesus back, even though Joseph was his adopted father. We see the birth of a king in chapter 1, verses 18-25. We see Gentiles come and do homage or pay tribute to the king in chapter 2. We see the dedication and the anointing of the king in chapter 3. There was the trial of the king in chapter 4. We see the king describe his kingdom in chapter chapters five through seven in the time of the Sermon on the Mount. We see the works of the king being done in eight through twelve. We see the things what things will be like when the king returns to heaven in verses 13 through 20, or chapter 13 through 20. We see the king rejected by his people in 21 through 23. We see the return of the king described in verse chapters 24 and 25. And we see the death and resurrection of the king in chapters twenty-six through twenty-eight. And we mentioned already that the focus of Matthew is the kingdom of heaven. It's only mentioned in Matthew's gospel, and the gospel of Matthew will we use to preach the king gospel of the kingdom. During the tribulation time. During that time it's talked about how there will be uh a testimony and in ver chapter Matthew 24, verse 14, it says this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then the end shall be c shall come. When we look at the um book of Matthew, it's divided into three main parts. We see his birth and the events surrounding that in chapters 1 and 2. We see the public ministry of Christ in chapters 3 through chapter 16, verse number 20, and this is marked in Matthew's gospel with the phrase from that time. So you have Jesus' birth and it says from that time and tells us what Jesus started to do. And then there was an event that took place at that time and that was his baptism. That takes us to chapter sixteen, verse number twenty, and then in verse number twenty-one it says again, from that time, and that leads us to the events surrounding his dirt his death and resurrection. And the event marking that transition of his ministry was the transfiguration. So we have the Matthew's Gospel, Jewish audience presenting Jesus. as a king. Basic uh understanding there, we see it as as as it's being presented there. That brings us to the uh book of Mark. So let's go to Mark chapter ten. Mark chapter ten. I know we're going through a lot of these things uh quickly, but if we can just get the main Matthew, Jesus is the King. We'll get that understanding and Jewish audience that that's going to help us as we as we go from here. If we can just remember who it was written to and uh what theme it had of Jesus, that that is gonna be a a that's gonna be all that's on the quiz. Alright, so when we come out of Sunday school. So Mark chapter 10, verse 45, that's going to be the key verse for Mark's Gospel. We'll get to that in a minute. We'll start with the author, who is the author of the gospel. This was John Mark John Mark was the cousin of Barnabas. The early church met in his mother's house. In Acts chapter 12, verse number 12, it says when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose surname was Mark. where there were many gathered together praying. Mark doesn't appear in the gospel except for possibly in one instance. In Mark's Gospel, there's one event that's mentioned, and it's interesting because Mark Mark, I believe it's 93% of Mark is found in the other gospels of Matthew and Luke. There's only a couple things that are unique to Mark, and one of them is the story of the young man who was grabbed during Jesus' arrest. and had to leave the linen garment and fled from the fled from the soldiers. That young man is mentioned in a story, and a lot of people believe that that was Mark, remembering vividly the night of Jesus' arrest and what happened lived in Jerusalem and that's the he was the only one to include that story. So that's a possibility that he was mentioned there. We see that Mark learned this account of Jesus from Peter. Peter was very close with Mark. In fact, in chapter in 1 Peter 5, verse number 13, Peter calls John Mark his son, uh a son in the faith that he had developed a relationship with, and John Mark was with Peter. uh in Rome and heard these accounts from likely heard the accounts of Jesus' ministry from Peter and was able to record those in his gospel. So who is the audience of this gospel? It was written to a non-Jewish audience. This was Matthew focused on Jews. The book of Mark did not. We see that he often will take time in his account to explain a Jewish custom or a Jewish uh uh ceremony or or a feast and he'll he'll give details in there about what this is because his audience didn't know. If he was writing to Jewish people, they would have already known what he was talking about. We already said that he probably was written it was probably written while he was in Rome and focused on a Roman audience. When we look at the population of Rome, it's estimated that as much as 30% of the Roman population were slaves. And uh and it would have been very f very, very prominent in the church at Rome for a lot of them to be saved slaves. Um, because those would be we understand that it's it's hard for a rich person to get saved, obviously they can, but that's not who makes up most of the church. And this class of people would a would have had a a lot of presence uh in the church there as this um story is being told The Romans, they were interested in power, they were interested in action, they would have no interest in genealogy or long sermons like we find in Matthew's Gospel, which Jews would have enjoyed. It was wrist written with a very fast-paced narrative that would have engaged a Roman audience. And we see the brevity and the speed of the narrative could also come from his youthfulness. He was the youngest writer of the Gospels, and so we see a very fast-paced story unfolding in the book of Mark. What was the aim of his gospel? Well he focused on Jesus as a servant. Mark 10, verse number 45. We see the kind of the theme verse here. It says For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. So presenting Jesus Christ how as a servant? Matthew presented him as a king, Mark presented him as a servant. Some things in his gospel that point to this, there's no record of Jesus' birth or genealogy in the Gospel of Mark. Nobody cares about a servant's origin or family history. The focus of Mark's gospel is what Jesus did and where he went, pointing to his work. Obviously Jesus' words are recorded in this gospel, but the focus is on what he was doing and where he was going. The busy narrative, which would be just busyness of a servant, is seen through the language choices. The words straightway and immediately are mentioned over 40 times. And here's one that really shows you. There are 678 verses in Mark. The word and appears in 594 of them of the verses, and it is used 1,286 times. Mark liked to run on. And and and and and and just the busyness life of a servant, showing Jesus' work and what Jesus was doing and his service and what he was about. We see his the busyness and the focus of Jesus as a servant. Mark's gospel, I have a simple outline here. We have, you know, I changed it in your notes and I didn't change it in mine. You have, because my my outline didn't fit on your page. So you have the outline there in your notes of the presentation of Jesus as a servant from the book of Mark. We're going to go on to the book of Luke now. Luke chapter 1, verse number 4, we read that already, same verse talking about how it was written to Theophilus, but we can go there in our Bibles. Luke chapter 1. Verse number four, we'll get to that in a minute, kind of a theme verse for why the book was written. We see the author of this gospel was Luke. Luke was uh what was his occupation? He was a doctor. He was a physician called the beloved physician. He accompanied Paul on his missionary journeys, kind of seeing his style of writing. He included a lot of medical information. uh in his gospel that's not found in other gospels. That's just his interest as as a doctor. He records four min miracles of healing that were not found in the other gospels. He records medical details about Jesus that were not found in the other gospels, the fact of his birth, uh his circumcision, the fact that he swept blood, his risen appearance to the disciples on the road to Emmaus, when he appeared to the disciples and said Spirits do not have flesh and bone as I do. These details are are picked out in um in Luke's gospel, kind of pointing to the fact of him being a doctor Another interesting thing to note about Luke as the author here, he is the possibly, very likely, the only Gentile author of the New Testament. Um all the rest of the New Testament was written by Jewish people, but when um Paul listed his companions in Colossians chapter four, and Luke was with him at the time He listed his companions that were of the circumcision and he left Luke out. He didn't include Luke as being one of of the circumcision or of a Jewish um Jewish lineage. Also, when Luke is writing to Theophilus in Acts 1, verse number 19, he uses a word and he says, that is of their tongue, meaning this, pointing to the Hebrew language and saying that belongs to somebody else So these two things point to the fact that uh Luke was very likely a Gentile and the only Gentile used to write the new part of the New Testament. And quite a quite a good part. Luke actually wrote more words in the Bible than Paul did if you don't include Hebrews. If you include Hebrews, Paul's got about a hundred or so words on Luke. But Luke wrote wrote them all because of the book of Luke and the book of Acts, he wrote quite a large chunk of the New Testament. We see the audience of this gospel was a Gentile named Theophilus. This was a saved Gentile. We see in the verses that he says the things that you you've learned, verse number um four, wherein thou hast been instructed. You you you have been taught the truth, you've been instructed in it. It seems that he was saved, and now we're going to give you more information to build your faith. Um discipleship. The book of Luke was about discipling this man Theophilus. By extension, his epistle reached a predominantly Greek audience. This is important because Luke was a very um learned man. Uh and the Greek were Greeks were interested in wisdom and the length of writing, the technicality of the writing, the wisdom that's presented, all that factors into his book being written to a uh Greek audience. So what was the aim of his gospel? The aim of Luke's gospel was to focus on Jesus as the Son of Man. He is stressing Jesus' humanity. We saw the key verse already there, describing the life of Christ so that you can know for sure those things that you've been instructed. It was written as a historical narrative to present the historical human, Jesus. He did not ignore Jesus' deity to do this, but the focus was on his humanity. And again, his background as a doctor tied to this presentation. Who is more familiar with a real human uh than a doctor? And so we we see some elements of this that he records Jesus' birth in great detail. He records his genetic genealogy. Mm Matthew talked about his genealogy that leads to him being a king, passing from father to son, even the adopted father of Joseph. Luke gives the genealogy of Mary, which is where his biological um genealogy would have come from uh hit from his mother Mary. He records the only inference to Jesus' childhood uh is described there in the with the story of him at the temple. He focuses on the humil human relationships he just had. He mentions a lot more people by name than the other gospels do. Another interesting thing about Luke is that he references women more than the other gospels do. Uh there are if you combine Matthew and Luke's or sorry Matthew and Mark's Gospels, I believe there are forty-nine women mentioned in the two Gospels total. Luke mentions 46 by himself. A lot of references uh to women and If you consider historically at a time, a lot of the men didn't have interactions with very many women. A doctor did. A doctor would have had more interactions. So Luke noticed the women in Jesus' ministry more than the other disciples did. And kind of an interesting thing to note there. And we see the outline of the gospel, we see his early life of the Son of Man, we see the ministry of the Son of Man, we see the passion of the Son of Man, and we see the victory of the Son of Man. So Matthew, Jewish audience, Jesus is King. Mark, Roman audience, Jesus is a servant. Luke, Greek audience, Jesus was a man, and then we get to John. John chapter 20, all the way at the end, John gives his reason for writing his gospel. John chapter 20 Verses uh thirty and thirty-one. We'll get to that in a minute. So who is the author of this gospel? This is the this is John. Uh he focused on the fact that he was a witness of these events. He included details that only a witness would know. He talked about Nate and Nathaniel sitting under a fig tree. He mentions that there were six water pots at the wedding. In the miracle of the feeding of the five thousands, he mentioned that it was barley loaves and small fish. That's not included in the other gospel accounts. So he points out details to f point out the fact that he was uh eyewitness of these things. He was one of the inner circle. All the events described um by the other gospels about what happened when just Peter James and John went with Jesus were heard second hand. Jesus our John was there. He was first hand witness to these things. And John was one of the sons of Zebedee, a wealthy family, uh fishermen there in um in the area. So we have the author of the gospel, then we have the audience of the gospel. The Book of John was written primarily as an evangelistic gospel with a broad target audience of the known world. This was the last written of the Gospels. Uh this likely is why what so little of what John wrote overlaps with the other Gospels. Matthew, Mark, and Luke are called the synoptic gospels. There's a lot of overlap. When you get to the book of John, there's not so much overlap, but that's because one reason for that, uh John wrote his gospel between forty and twenty-five twenty-five and forty years after the other gospels were already published. And so people were very familiar with the other gospels. They'd been passed around, and John's going to write another account of Jesus' life, and these details were already written. And John had a different motive for writing his gospel account, so he didn't include the details that were already well known from the other gospels. This one reason why it would be different. Um The book of John is very simple and it's very doctrinal. He does not record parables. There are no parables in the book of John. One reason is the parables were written to conceal truth. from the Jewish audience that didn't want to accept that he is the Messiah. If John's writing to the whole world a presentation of the gospel, he didn't want to include Things that hid truth. He wanted truth to be be be clearly seen. He only records eight miracles of Jesus and he used the miracles to teach something about Jesus. After the feeding of the 5,000, he goes into talking about how Jesus is the bread of life. So he used a miracle in Jesus' life to teach the truth about Jesus in order to introduce people to uh to Jesus and to write it in a very evangelistic style. The aim of this gospel was to focus on Jesus as the Son of God. He doesn't start his gospel with the Son of, the Son of the Son of. He starts with the gospel with In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God. He's focusing on Jesus being God. He's the one only gospel that records the I ams of Jesus Christ. John fourteen nine, he that hath seen me has seen the Father. He's presenting Jesus as the Son of God. The reason he wrote this, we see it in John 20, verses thirty and thirty-one There the Bible says, and many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written Here's why I wrote it. These are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life through his name. I wrote the Gospel of John so that you can know that the historical man Jesus is Christ the Messiah and that he is the Son of God. And when you read these things, you can believe in Jesus and have everlasting life through him. So that is the purpose of writing his gospel. It is evangelistic to a wide target audience. He focuses on salvation more than the other gospels do. He has clearer presentations of the gospels than of the gospel, of how to be saved than Matthew, Mark, and Luke deal with. He focuses on three things. Jesus, the man, the Savior. That he is the Son of God and that He is Christ the Messiah. When we are looking at the uh what we do as a church for outreach, and we're going to pass out John and Romans. It's an evangelistic book to teach people how to be saved, and that was what John wrote this for, to present Jesus as God and show the way of salvation. A simple outline of this gospel, we see Jesus and his interaction with individuals in chapters 1 through 4. We see Jesus and his interactions with the multitudes in chapters 5 through 12. We see his interactions with the disciples in chapters 13 through 17, and we see his death in 18 through 21. John also focuses more on the last week of Christ's life than any other gospel does. He gives a lot more detail to that. So as we look at the Gospels as a whole, they're all presenting Jesus Christ. And they're all presenting him in a slightly different way, not contradictory, but complementary. Not presenting him as different men, but as different aspects and focuses of his ministry. None are a total biography, none are contradictory. Each was written by a different man to a different group of people with a different purpose These differences do not discredit any of the testimonies. Instead, they show a fuller picture of our Savior. Understanding how to rightly divide the gospels will open our eyes to a greater understanding of the message that they are sharing. So Matthew, Jewish audience, Jesus King. Mark, Roman audience, Jesus is servant. Luke, Greek audience, Jesus is a man. John, the whole world. Jesus is the Son of God. And all those we get to have in one book. and see a very full picture um of our Savior, uh Jesus Christ. And uh as it's said it said in the Bible, the half has only been told.