We are, of course, in the book of Philippians, so turn to Philippians if you would. We're in Philippians chapter number two. Been studying this. It's been a a fun study for me. I've just really enjoyed uh each uh step of this each time we've looked at a new set of verses. Uh you know, it's just it's amazed me how much the Lord facts into just a few verses if you take some time and and really look at it and and uh I don't want to get bogged down and and you know necessarily take an entire service on one verse at a time and and uh you know be be in Philippians for several years. That's that's not the plan. Uh but I do want to try and glean what we can from it. And uh so we're in Philippians chapter number two. This evening we are going to be looking at verses five through eight, but why don't we just start in verse one just to get us back into the context of what it's talking about here As I mentioned last week, to pay attention to the thoughts with regards to the mind. You'll see the mind mentioned several times in this passage, and that's the direction we're going to be heading tonight as we look at the mind of Christ. But look here in Philippians chapter number two, we'll read verses one through verses He says, If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any vows and mercies, fulfill you my joy, that ye be like minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife for vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things. But every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. This, again, the focus here on the mind and how many times it's mentioned here, this is probably one of my favorite passages of Scripture, and it's just such powerful truths that are taught to us. But uh you understand the mind is where you win or lose battles as a Christian. The mind is where you determine what you're going to do. It is in your mind that you decide you're going to commit to follow Christ or you decide you're going to give up and you've had enough. The mind is where you pursue after something that you esteem to be valuable and worth something and I'm going to try and get it, whatever that might be. Or you say, you know what, it's not worth it. Those things are determined in the mind. The value you place on something, all of that, or the the disvalue or the the the lack of value that you should put on something is determined in your mind, the mind that we are to have as Christians and how we think Is vitally, vitally important. How we think, and we need to think correctly, Brother Hoffmeister says, the problem that afflicts many Christians is that they've got stinking thinking And they need a checkup from the neck up. That's what Brother Hoffmeister says all the time. And it's it's gauging and getting your mind uh in line with the Word of God and with biblical principles. You understand that it's contrary, this world, the flesh, and the devil Everything that comes from that realm is in direct dichotomy to the things of Christ. It is an exact opposite. It is the polar opposites of the things of Christ. And our natural man and our normal way of thinking tends to want to line up with the things of the world, with worldly philosophy. That's the way our mind wants to naturally think A spiritual mind wants to think like Christ. And of course, you know, there's that battle and that warring in our members where we have to uh die to self and and live as unto Christ, so that we can think like him You know that the spiritual-minded Christian, and I say spiritually minded on purpose, because to be the opposite of spiritually minded is carnally minded, and to be carnally minded is to be thinking like the world. Well, we don't want to think like the world. We want to think spiritually. Well the spiritually minded Christian realizes that the there's that that dichotomy there, there's that opposit opposites there between the world and the Christian And everything that i is direct opposites. It's it's amazing when you look at the scriptures and you think about principles that are in the scriptures and how they are at opposite with this world. First of all, the Christian minds understands that we walk by faith and not by sight. We are to walk by faith. Yet the carnal mind, he wants to see I want I want evidence of what this is and and and I'm not going to take a step unless I can unless I know what's before me. I mean I'm not Faith is not going to enter the equation, and that's the carnal mind, but the spiritual mind knows that we walk by faith and we trust God and we follow the Lord and He's gonna work it out in the end. The Christian mind understands that we must die in order to live. Now that's the opposite of the world. Like that doesn't even make sense. Why would you say that? But he says, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain The Bible says in Romans 8 verse 13, For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye live through the Spirit, do mortify the deeds of the body. You shall live. He's saying if you put your flesh down, if you mortify, that is to kill, to die, put down these things of the flesh and live spiritually, you're going to live. We have a new life in Christ, and that's what it's talking about. The Christian mind understands that it's more blessed to give than to receive That's the exact opposite of this world. The world looks at everything as a matter of gaining and getting and obtaining and having all that you can. But the Christian mind looks for opportunities to give, because it's more blessed to give than to receive. Give, and it shall be given unto you in good measure pressed down and shaken together, and running over shall men give unto your bosom. That's what the scripture says. The Christian mind understands, beloved, that we must be weak if we're ever really going to truly be strong. Paul says, therefore I take pleasure in my infirmities, in my reproaches, and necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong. And unless you've walked that road, you don't understand what he's saying. It doesn't even make sense to you. But when you've gone down that road and you've experienced the strengthening hand of God in the midst of your weakness, You say, wow, it is true. When I'm weak, I'm strong because of the power and the might of God. Well, here in our text, we see that Christian mindset is that humility comes before honor. The Bible says to humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, and he shall exalt you in due time. Christ has left for us here an example, an example without equal. Of true humility. He has set for us the standard. He has set for us a pattern. He has become our guide, if you will Of what it is to be truly a servant Paul's exhortation to us is, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. So tonight, I want to speak to you for just a few minutes on the guide of the servant. These verses, Christ is our guide. Christ is our example. He is our pattern. And he's given it to us in these verses. the guide of the servant. Would you pray with me and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight? Lord, we ask we come to you tonight humbly. We come to you and ask you to Speak to us. We're dealing with this subject matter of the mind, and we understand, Lord, that our minds have a tendency to want to go after the things of the world. lean towards the things of this flesh. And Lord, we ask you tonight that you would renew our minds. Lord, that you would clean our minds from that natural man's direction from the from the habit and pattern of our thinking that has been a process of our life, but that our minds would be renewed in and through the power of Christ to think like Christ. Lord we know that your word tells us. And as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And I pray, God, that we would think like Christ. What a privilege to be like Christ, because our thinking is like Him. Lord, we pray tonight that even in this message, even this time around your word, that you would do this for us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you're going to let the mind of Christ be your guide, if you're going to let these passages of scripture show us what it is. That Christ wants us to think like. What is the guide that He's given us? What is the pattern? What do we learn from these few verses? First of all, I want you to see that Christ had a sacrificial mind. Christ had a sacrificial mind. He says in verse number six, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. See, he was God in the flesh. Jesus was God. This word being there, that being in the form of God. Being is is it means existing He was there, he existed, he being in heaven in the form of God, he was present in heaven with God, not like God, but was God. He was all God. He was being God. And in the form here, this word form doesn't mean shape. Like we think about a form. It doesn't mean shape. What it literally means is the essence of The essence of being in the form of God, literally being God. I don't know that I could adequately describe it, but I read after one commentator who tried to describe it this way. He said you might take a picture of somebody. And uh that would be their likess. But when you have somebody that's a skilled artist and they take oil paintings and they're painting the likeness of somebody, What they really somebody that's painting their likeness, they they actually try and get the essence of the person A real artist can bring that out in their eyes or whatever it is where they're capturing almost the personality of the person in that picture where it's not just a cutout shape of them. But it it's it leans towards even an understanding of who they are. And that's what this word form here is that it's not just that he looked like God, but that he actually was God. He was equal with God, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. We of course believe in the Trinity and uh they are equal No, not one of them is superior than the other. I know in our mind we think about a father and being superior to the son and so on in this world, but here they are all three God. Equally God. No one of them having more authority than the other. You've got God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, all of them not any superior or any inferior to each other. But they were equal. Paul says there in verse number five, he he describes him, he says Uh uh how is how is it listed there? Let this mind be in you, which is also in what's the title that he gives to him there? Christ Jesus. Well, we believe in the inspiration of the scriptures, and that everything in the scriptures there for a reason. It's not just randomly decided to call him Christ Jesus right here. And in other places he called him Lord. Or in other places he called him Jesus. Why would he at this point use that descriptive term, Christ Jesus? Well, the reason, beloved, is because the title Christ, according to Strong's, that word, that name, that title means Messiah. means God, Christ Jesus, recognizing that it was God By the way, there are those who teach that in some ways Jesus was created, or that Jesus was not, but then he was born. and given given certain rights or given certain power or certain ability, but that he was not part of the Godhead initially. I want you to know if you hear anybody teaching that, that is false. You have God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. They were all there at creation. And we could take time to teach all of this according to the scriptures, but we don't we don't have time to go into all that. I just want you to understand understand that in light of this idea that we're talking about he had a sacrificial mind, and that is that he was God. You know, he thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Not robbery. He would not be stealing To take those attributes of God. You see, it wouldn't be stealing, it wouldn't be robbing God of any of his honor or glory or value because Jesus was God. And it wouldn't be robbery for him to take those attributes. It wouldn't be robbery for him to have that or to attribute those things to his name. Now we're now again not going to teach tonight on all the attributes of God, but you can name or list whatever attribute of God that you would like to and understand and realize that that could also be applicable to Christ. You see, he was God. But he gave it all up for you and I. He gave it all up. He was God. He was in heaven. He was all God, and he was willing to give it all up for you and I. He held the highest position of any there ever was. He left the glory of heaven to come. And one day walk up, Golgotha, to die for you and I. I think if we're going to have a sacrificial mind, we need to be willing to, like Christ. He gave up his position. He gave up his his glory. He gave up the rights that he had. He gave up everything that would look at as high and lofty and lifted up, and he humbled himself. We, if we're going to have the mind of Christ, we need to be ready and willing to give up. This is contrary to the way the world thinks, is it not? Oh, bless God, I have a right to have this. I have a right to do this. I can. You can't say any different. This is my whatever. But a sacrificial mind is willing and ready to give up those lofty things that you might minister to somebody else. That's what this mind of Christ, let this mind be in you, is a sacrificial mind. He was willing to give up his position or to yield priorities or to change even his personality, even uh the preferences that we have. Are you willing to Give those up for Christ. It's the it's the the common joke in churches about uh you know, well, you have your seat. And anybody sits in your seat, you know, they're you're in trouble. Don't sit in my seat. That's my seat, you know. And that's just crazy to me. I I praise the Lord, I don't know what's ever happened here, but it's it's certainly a joke that people like to sit where they like to sit. You know what? It actually gives you a completely new perspective on the service if you just sit somewhere else. It really does. It's very different. Like if you've been sitting in the same place forever, just change spots. Now the only bad thing is is I think you're not in church. I'm so used to seeing you right where you are, and then I'm like, oh, the tailors aren't here, but they're sitting over here, but I'll be like Tailors aren't there because that's where the tailors always sit, you know. And they are sitting here and I I it won't even register because I get fixed in my mind where you guys are at too. And uh but you know, it's crazy that we wouldn't be willing to give up our seat. When Christ gave up everything for us, what are you tonight willing to sacrifice for Christ What are you willing to give up for Christ? A little bit of time, a little bit of some time in your morning to look and to read and study the Word of God, some time in prayer to have a relationship with your Savior Oh Lord, you asked too much of me. When he gave it all. He had a sacrificial mind. Not only that, he had a true servant's mind. In verse number seven, he says. But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. This phrase, made himself of no reputation, literally means that he emptied himself. He emptied himself. Now, some teach that Jesus had to empty himself of his Godhead In order to come and be born on earth, we don't believe that. We believe that he was God in the flesh That he was God incarnate. Now this is a direct interpretation or uh translation of the of the Greek words, literally means that he emptied himself. And so they look at those Greek words and they say, well if he emptied himself, what did he empty himself of? He must have emptied himself of his Godhead in order to become man. But this is not true. He still was God, even though he was man. Now I know this is hard for our minds to understand, but I want you to understand biblically, he was all God, and he was all man. What he emptied himself of, he did not put off his deity or exchange his deity. He rather added humanity to his deity. We see a small glimpse of this. I don't want you to turn there, but in Matthew chapter 17, the main reason I bring it up is we just read it in our devotions last Sunday. But we see that story or that transfiguration of Christ. We get to see Christ, it says, and he was transfigured before them, and his face did shine as the sun, and his remnant was white as a light. Yeah, Peter, James, and John got to behold Christ for just a moment, a glimpse. Of who he was, of God in the flesh. He was transfigured, and for just a moment that was recorded for us how they got to see Jesus, but also got to see what he was. As God, God in the flesh. When he emptied himself of was his independent exercise of his divine attributes. He emptied himself of the, he willingly chose to put off. his power as God to be man. It was a choice that he made. He still was God, but he chose not to exercise those powers while he was here on earth. He could have called 10,000 angels to destroy the world and set him free. He could have done that when he was on the cross, and we sing the song, and it's not just a beautiful song, it's a biblical truth. He could have called them with all the authority of the Godhead and said, Hey, set me free and destroy the earth But he chose not to exercise those attributes, to be a man for you and I, that he might save the world from sin. He chose to put that aside so he could save us. He surely made himself of no reputation. Understanding that someone that has all power chooses not to exercise that power for the benefit of others Do you know that it takes more power not to exercise your power than it does to do it? You know, in in in our competitive society This this is going to get down where the rubber meets the road here. You have a group of men, how many of you you've all you've been in a group? And let's say there's three or four guys talking in just the course of conversation, you're saying, hey uh man, this week was rough. I I had to work twelve hours this week. And, you know, we did this as 12 hours every day. It's a long week. I'm looking forward to next week getting back to normal. And there's that one guy that always has to one-up everybody. Right? He's like, 12 hours, man. I've put in 14 hours every day for the last month, you know? And you're like, okay. You see, that may be true, but that's with that that's that's showing the picture that okay he could One up everybody? He has the power to do that, where Christ had the power to rule and to reign, but he said, I'm not going to. Sometimes when you're with other people, there's circumstances or situations. Let's say a couple of young people are playing the piano and they're maybe missing a couple of keys. And Akira comes up with all her skill and she sits down and she says, Let me sh let me show you how to do this, you know. And these two that were kind of like Maybe struggling a little bit. Now it's one thing if she's gonna be teaching them and show trying to help them, but just to show her skill, she gets down and plays and says, maybe someday you'll be that good. You know. See I mean, y there's a difference there. And I'm not saying the cure did that, but I'm saying that the the the idea, you know you know it takes a whole lot more power to keep your mouth shut than it does to just say it. Yeah, to just let it out. Come on, Galena. We have the ability sometimes to make somebody look dumb. You could do that. But the better part is to hold your tongue. The better part is to hold your tongue. That's what we're talking about. Christ here, he made himself of no reputation Oh, I could play this and I could make everybody here think, man, boy, I can tickle the ivories. But he made himself of no reputation. He let other people excel. He let other people look good. He didn't have to try and one-up somebody. He didn't have to try and insert a story that was a little bit better than the others. Do you understand what he was saying? Yeah, in our cons in our competitive society, everything's about reputation. Just look at Facebook. You know, it's all about putting out there your best. The best of whatever so that people can see, you know, how how amazing meal you cooked. The only one in the last sixty days, but you you cook this amazing meal and you put it put it all out on Facebook. Now you didn't put on there when you when you cooked macaroni and cheese for the kids. You know, I mean it's it's the idea of our reputation. This is what we want people to think of us. This is what we want people to recognize of us. This is our reputation. But Christ made himself of no reputation. He had all power. He was God. He could have done anything. But he held his peace. That's what Christ did. If you had all power, what would you do? How many of us have said If I was God, I would and you you you fill in the blank. Whatever it was, you know, you've got a neighbor that you can't stand. You know, if I was God, uh boy I would catch his grass on fire or whatever. Uh you know, you just this this frustrating thing and and you you're like, boy, if I had the power of God I could fix this situation. That's why you're not God, amen. That's why I'm not God. There's plenty of people that I would not have had the mercy that God has. That's why he's God. Jesus never exercised that power against us, but always for us. And we see here he took on the form of a servant servant. Again, that form is a literal shape. It's not like he looked like it, but he took on the form of a servant. We're going to see in a minute that contrasted with the word fashion. We'll get to that in just a moment. That's the difference that's just a likeness of. But here, the form is he literally was a servant. He became a servant. Strauss says this. The form indicates that he was What he was. The fashion that we see in verse number 8 indicates what he looked like. My form is me. What I put on or wear on my form is my fashion. Internally, Christ was God. The form that he put on. was i the form was God, the fashion was man, the form was servanthood, the fashion was man. He was not just acting, but truly became a servant. A true servant gives up his will to others The Father gave I mean the the Son gave up his will to the Father, and then he served us. He served us. Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. That's what Christ did This is he's our guide. Do we have a mind like this? Is our mind like that? He had a submissive mind. Verse number eight. And being found in fashion as a man. That is looking like a man, being found as fashioned as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Beloved, we can't yet grasp what Christ truly did for us. I don't think we will grasp it until we get to heaven. He was not only found and fashioned as a man, but became obedient, obedient unto death. He humbled himself and submitted to the authority of God. Now he was all God. But he submitted to the will of God to be able to do that. He who knew no sin became sin for us that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Here again, we see that dichotomy of thought between Satan and Christ. You see, on one hand, Satan said, I will be like the Most High. Do you remember that? I will be like this. He said, this is what I am gonna do. But Christ said, thy will. And these two opposing thoughts, on one hand, Satan, who was the created, desired to be the creator. And yet, on the other hand, you have the Creator who became the created to save us. These exact opposites. And beloved, whenever we find ourselves over here saying, I will, we are displaying the mind of Satan. But when we find ourselves over here saying thy will, we are displaying the mind of Christ. A submissive mind. Thy will be done. He became obedient. I want to develop this for a youth class someday. Never saw this before. Say those words. Became obedient. Say it. He, Jesus, became obedient. He learned how to be Obedient. When he was in heaven, when he was God, when he was there, there was never a need or to exercise obedient. He was God. He was one part of the Godhead. There was never Obedient was not part of the equation. Yet when he came to earth and became man, he learned to be obedient. For us. He learned obedience. And if God can do it, can't we? Can't we submit? Can't we learn how to be obedient to God? Jesus in the flesh became obedient You and I, we need to become obedient. We need to have a submissive mind. We don't need to be saying, Lord, that's too hard. Lord, you're asking too much. Lord, I don't understand that. That doesn't make sense. Why would you want that of me? Jesus said, thy will. Whatever you want, Lord. I want to be submitted to you. Unto death, even the death of the cross. The death of the cross, this was a horrible, horrible death. The if you take in your mind and run over the most vivid description that you've ever heard of the crucifixion of Christ. And I do not believe it will do justice to the horrific scene that was at Golgotha. I remember one of the men of our church coming to me after we had a guest speaker, and the guest speaker was striving to give us a picture of the death of the cross of Jesus Christ. And he tried to go into detail and explain and and and give us those those details of what happened and what it was like. And one of the men in the church came to me afterward and said, as he was describing that, I was getting more and more angry at him. I was thinking, why? Why are you going into all this detail? We don't need to hear all this mess. It's grotesque It's it's it's uh just vile. It's just why would you go through all of that? We don't like to even think about it A man in this church described that. Now, praise God by the conclusion of the service. The Spirit of God had reached in his heart and touched him and gave him a picture of what Christ went through. And he said, God turned that anger around. around to gratitude for what Christ endured for me. But we don't even like to talk about it, do we? Oh, it's so it's so hard. Do you know that uh a a death on the cross, a crucifixion, was reserved. It was so uh brutal, it was reserved for only the worst of the worst of the worst criminals. Actually, Roman citizens by law could not be crucified. The Apostle Paul who wrote this was protected by law from going through what Jesus Christ went through. It was such a vile, brutal thing. They said, listen, this is something they will never do to a Roman citizen. But they did it to Christ. He became obedient unto death, not just death, but death of the cross. That brutal death he went through for you and I. Beloved, if Jesus did all that for us, how can we Say no, Lord. I'm not going to do this for you. Oh, I understand that this is what you want, but it's not what I want. If we're going to have the mind of Christ, Where He here is our guide to true servanthood. If we're going to have the mind of Christ, we're going to have a mind that's sacrificial We're going to be willing to sacrifice some things. Our position, sacrifice our our pride, sacrifice our rights, sacrifice some things. Have a sacrificial mind. What are you willing to give up for Jesus Christ? We're going to have a mind of a true servant willing to serve. Jesus came not to minister, but not to be minister to, but to minister Do you have a true servant's mind? Here's a good test for you. How do you act or react? When somebody treats you like a servant. We say, oh yeah, I want to be a servant for Christ. But what if somebody treats you like a servant? You know, let's say you're in the foyer there and somebody turns around and says, Hey, can you take this trash out? What? I'm a deacon at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Ask one of these kids to take the trash out. You know, it was getting ready for uh anniversary sundae over here, and everybody was at the property working. And uh Miss Trudy was carrying some mulch and Miss Stephanie was helping her. And Miss Trud I came out of the basement door and Miss Trudy says, Pastor, can you take this bag of mulch? I'm not mulching. I'm just walking by She's like, can you take this bag of mulch? But then she said, I don't think Stephanie can carry it. And Stephanie was having no part of that. She's like, I can carry that bag of mulch. She's like, I got you here give it to me. This is nothing. I got the bag of mulch. And I was like, Thank you, Stephanie. How how do you react when people treat you like a servant? I'm the pastor. I don't carry mulch. I'd better be willing to carry mulch. If it bothers me in my spirit that somebody from the church puts a request like that at me, there's a problem in my heart. There's a problem there. Do you have a true servant's heart? You know if you're willing to be treated like a servant. And then do you have a submissive mind? Are you willing and ready just to say, Yes, Lord, thy will be done. Whatever you want, I want it.