We should be turning to Philippians as we have been studying the book of Philippians on Thursday nights. I've been enjoying walking through this. Um and uh studying the m what God has for us in in in these passages and uh tonight is no different. I just really enjoyed the study and the preparation for this evening's text. We are gonna be getting into and dealing with what is the theme verse for the book of Philippians and that's chapter 1 verse number 21 for me to live as Christ To die is gain. That would be the heart of tonight's message as we're looking at the title of the message is The Gain of Christian Living. the gain of Christian living. If you're in Philippians, we'll read together the verses that we're going to cover tonight, Philippians chapter 1, verses 18 through 26. He says, what then, notwithstanding every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached? And I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice, for I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. According to my earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed But that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, that is, the fruit of my labor, yet what I shall choose I want not. for I am in a strait between betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith, that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ For by me, by my coming to you again. This uh section of verses that we're dealing with this evening and the title of The Gain of Christian Living, one of the church members here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church told me. when we got into the study of the book of Philippians that this section of verses, these that we're dealing with this evening, have for so long meant a lot to him. And he has enjoyed reading and studying and getting a hold of whatever he could with regards to these verses and and p contemplating and thinking about what the apostle Paul was teaching, what was he trying to say, what is it that is for us and And he was looking with anticipation at uh us getting to these verses. And uh again, just kind of taking this one section at a time and and And going verse by verse and I don't know I didn't know at the beginning how long it would be. Uh I'm just studying out and seeing what the next section or the next group of verses, how they could be put together into a cohesive thought and presented that way. And uh so tonight we see several things with regards to this passage of scripture. We're not going to take the time to review this evening as we have been, but we'll get right into it. First of all, in verse number 18, we see Paul's disclosure. This really is a kind of a recap of last week and the idea that Paul rejoiced regardless. Paul's disclosure is that he had a heart that was going to rejoice regardless of what was happening, regardless of what challenge he faced, what burden he was dealing with, what trouble he had in his life, he said there's cause and there's reason. to rejoice. He says, Yea, I will rejoice. Amen. You know, really, beloved, it is a decision. It's a decision that we decide that, hey, I'm going to rejoice. I'm going to have a heart of rejoicing, because we certainly can find cause and reason to wallow down in the dumps We certainly can find a purpose or a reason for to to have a bad day, right? Uh you know, a week ago Sunday when I was talking about how Man, I had you know several challenges that week and it started out on Sunday when my vehicle wouldn't start and whatever. I came down from church and one of the church members came up to me and said, Man, I was so glad to hear that you had a bad week I was like, well well, thank you. And they're they said, well not I didn't mean it like that. I meant like I was cle it encouraged me because it happens to you too. Not just me. Like I thought I was the only one that had to do go through these problems and and to hear that you're going through 'em it encourages me that I you know I'm not by myself And uh I said, well I can understand that for sure. And uh so we we certainly every one of us, even though sometimes we feel like we're alone, every one of us can find cause for for discouragement or to be downhearted But it's a decision. I will rejoice. Paul says that I'm going to rejoice. And yes, things might be going wrong. And yes, this problem might have happened this week. And yes, I might have got this bad news. But hey, I have cause to rejoice. Because the gospel of Jesus Christ is going forward, because the message of that the heartbeat of God and the world being reached with this truth, it is taking place, and that is what is of utmost important. It's not about me, it's about Jesus. And I'm thrilled that his message is going forth. Paul's excited about that. And he's determined no matter what happens, he's going to rejoice. That was his priority. But then we see Paul's deliverance in verses 19 and 20. He says, For I know that this shall turn to my salvation Through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. So we see here he uses the term salvation. This logically people look at this verse and they say, well, he is talking here about being freed from prison. He obviously is in prison, and it would make logical sense that he is what he's basically saying is, listen, I know that I'm going to be delivered because of your prayers. And uh that that would make logical sense. And it may be that, but as I've read through this and studied this passage of scripture and see the heartbeat of the Apostle Paul, I believe it's much bigger than that I believe there's a lot more there than that. Now you understand as Christians that salvation for the believer has three aspects You're saved. That is your conversion. That is the point of salvation. That's the beginning. And once you're saved, you're always saved. Amen? And then there is a process that takes place in the Christian life that's called sanctification. And you're to work out your own salvation. This is Sanctification. It's the process through which we become made into the image of Christ. We're the old man is put away and the new man is raised and we're supposed to walk in newness of life and that process of sanctification takes place through our life here on earth. And then the third aspect is glorification. One day we're going to be saved out out of here. Amen. And uh, you know what, if that middle section, that process of sanctification never happens, you're still going to experience a glorification. I mean there are those that that are, you know, they call it a foxhole conversion. They they bowed their head and trusted Jesus Christ just before the bomb hit They didn't have any time in their life to to go through a process of sanctification, yet they experienced glorification. Amen They're saved. They're in heaven. They trusted Christ. They're in heaven. But I think what the Apostle Paul is talking about here about this idea of salvation working in his life Is that there one of two aspects is going to happen. Either he is going to experience further sanctification, or he is going to experience glorification. You see, because he was in prison and the outcome of the trial that he was facing was unknown. There really was, he was charged with treason. A act punishable unto death, and the outcome was unknown. But there's one of two outcomes that were going to take place. Either he was going to have, he was going to be executed Or exonerated. One or the other was going to happen. And the Apostle Paul looked at this and he said, listen, I know what's going to happen. One way or another, God's going to be glorified. Either I'm going to be exonerated and I'm going to experience sanctification. I'm going to be made more into the image of God. I'm going to be able to continue to serve and do what God wants me to do Or I'm going to be executed and now God's going to get the glory because I'm going to be, I'm going to receive glorification. Does that make sense? That's what the Apostle Paul, I believe, was talking about here, his salvation. Then we see their supplication, that is, the saints that were praying for him. He says there, I shall this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer. Beloved, this is our Thursday evening prayer meeting. This is the time where we bow our heads and pray for the requests that are mentioned by the church family and sent in to us via email or text These burdens that are on the hearts of our beloved friends and family, members of the church. This is important. This is part of carrying those knees before the throne of God that God would hear and answer those prayers. And the Apostle Paul said, I know that I'm going to have salvation because I know that you are praying for me. Aren't you glad tonight when you got you know you got people praying for you? When you know somebody's carrying your needs before the throne of grace and the burden that you're carrying by yourself and and sometimes we feel like, man, and I've said it myself, I I've said it, boy, I wish I could do more than pray. But, beloved, prayer is powerful, and prayer accomplishes things, and there is nothing more powerful we can do than prayer. There's nothing I could do in my flesh to ease somebody's burden that I could not do more effectively and more powerfully through prayer. That shows my lack of belief and my lack of faith in what prayer can accomplish. Boy, shame on me for saying I wish I could do something more than prayer. I could never do something more than prayer. Paul said, I know I'm going to experience salvation because I know you're praying. And let me tell you something, beloved. Anybody that's a preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ needs the prayers of God's people. Just as was asked for request tonight for the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church as you go forth to present the gospel and God opens those divine appointments where you have opportunity to share the message of Jesus Christ What a thrilling opportunity that is. But oh how we need God's power and God's direction in those opportunities. We don't just need to be casual or nonchalant about it. It needs to be something where we see and experience God's power in leading in those. Amen. That's what we want, but that takes prayer. We need God's people praying that this would take place. Boy, Paul showed his faith in prayer when he said, Hey, I know I'm going to be saved because I know you're praying. He said it's gonna work because God answers prayers. Preachers need your prayers. Paul is letting them know how much he's depending on their prayers. He said, this is important to me. But I want you to see, beloved, what it is that he asked them to pray for. You know, it's a good thing to let the saints know what you need prayer for. Sometimes you're carrying the burden by yourself, but you don't need to. You've got a church family, you've got people that love you, people that want to pray for you. And they can do that, but not if they don't know. Often I'll tell people that they they send me a text or they give me a call and they let me know something's going on and I say thank you for letting me know so I can be praying with you. Paul tells them, hey, here's what I want you to pray for. Here's what's important to me. And it's not quite what I think we might ask for if we were in prison. This is why I don't think that the salvation that he says there, I don't think that it is referring to him being freed from prison. Because he says, I know that I'm going to be saved because you're praying. And then he asks them, here's what I want you to pray for. And he doesn't say, pray that I get free from prison. That's not what he asked for. That's probably what I would ask for. Pray that I get out of this place. Pray that these people, you know, come to their senses and let me go. But look at what he asked prayer for there in verse number twenty. He says, according to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed. He says, pray that I wouldn't do anything that I would be ashamed of. Man, beloved. What a prayer. If we would live our lives in such a way that we did nothing that we would be ashamed of. Wow. Paul says, I'm in prison and it's not easy. And sometimes I might get discouraged, but just pray that I'll have faith and I'll have strength. In the heat of the moment, in the heart of the battle, I will act like the Christian God wants me to be, and I won't say or do anything that I would be ashamed of when I get before the throne of God That's what he wants prayer for. He says, pray that I won't be ashamed. He says, pray, but that with all boldness. As always, so now also. He says with all boldness, as I always do. I want to do so now. He says, now also, what does he say here? Christ shall be magnified in my body. He says, I want to pray that I'll magnify Christ. Pray that I'll magnify Christ. And he says here, whether it be by life or by death. He says, folks, here's what I want you to pray for. I want you to pray that I won't do anything that I would be ashamed of. I want you to pray that I will have boldness And that what I say and do would bring honor and glory to Jesus Christ, that Christ would be magnified, that those people that are around me and the people that see me would see Jesus Christ in me They wouldn't see Paul, but they would see Christ. They wouldn't hear my burdens and my heart, but they would hear Christ's heart. Pray that Christ would be magnified. And if that is, that they're going to see me set free And that's what's going to bring glory to God, then amen. But if they see that I'm going to be killed and put to death, and that's what's going to bring glory to God, then amen. Wow. That's what his heartbeat was. I want to see Christ magnified. Wow. What a prayer. He says that's what I would pray that you, that's what I would ask you to pray for. Pray for me that I would do these things. As always, now also. Paul made it his life's goal to magnify Christ. Wow. He says also, Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. Pastor Fedena, who pastored in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania for 34 years, uh, I don't know that I've ever met him. But I've known of him for probably 25 years. He's retired now. He's an evangelist. He travels and preaches and very gifted preacher. He said this. The difference is, is are you a microscope Christian or a telescope Christian? You see, a microscope makes things that are very small seem very large. A telescope makes something that is large. Seem even larger. A microscope saint magnifies the circumstances of his life out of proportion They allow the little aggravations of life to dominate them. But a telescope saint magnifies Christ. That is, they make Christ, who is not magnified in the world, to be seen in the world. The question is, is how can a mere mortal and finite creature magnify Christ who is already so great? Well, the stars are much larger than us. Yet the telescope magnifies them by seemingly bringing them closer to us. The believer is to be the telescope that brings Christ closer to the world Magnifying Christ. How can we magnify Christ who's so magnificent? There's people in the world that do not see him and they cannot see him. They need somebody like us to bring Christ closer to them That's what Paul's heartbeat was, to magnify Christ. Christ was magnified in Paul's body. I'm not going to spend much time here, although you could spend an entire message here. Christ was magnified in Paul's body. Okay, the fact of the world is the fact of the matter is the world looks on the outward. How we act The words we use, our conversation, what we look like, how we respond to problems. are this is what people can see. And I know God looks on the heart. But what the world sees is what we are. Who we are, how we act, how we respond. And he, Paul's prayer was prayed that they would see Christ magnified in my body, whether by life or by death. But they would see Christ in me. I hope that's our desire, beloved, to magnify Christ. Yes. Paul was delivered But I want you to consider and think about his dilemma. Paul's dilemma tonight. He says in verse 21, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. This is a peculiar statement that I had to put much thought into to try and bring meaning to it that we could grab a hold of. He says in verse number 22, which really is his exposition of verse 21, his answer, his response, or explanation of verse 21, he says, but if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor, yet what I shall choose, I want not. For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. You see, Paul gives his description here of a life well lived He says, therefore, that verse starts out, for me to live. For means that it's a result of or because of something that's gone on before. Because of the fact that he has suffered, because of the fact that he has gone through all these things, because of the fact that he might be put to death. But for me to live as Christ, to die is gain. And it all he wanted to glorify Christ. So to live is Christ. Could you answer that question honestly tonight? In your own mind, engage your brain for a minute. You know, many times we hear people say phrases like, now that's living. How many of you have heard somebody ever say, now that's living? And usually it's in reference to or connotation, it's talking about some luxurious aspect of life In fact, there's an Australian uh magazine that the title of the magazine is Now That's Living. And in the magazine is There's uh you know talks about cruise lines and exotic vacations and you know uh the luxurious retirement communities and And all these things that people can be a part of. And the whole idea is that that's living. And until you are part of that, you aren't really living yet. Well, so let me ask you to complete the statement, honestly, in your own mind. This statement. For me to live is, and you fill in the blank. For me to live is What do you put in that blank? Do you say for me to live is hunting For me to live is golfing. For me to live is to be on vacation. For me to live is to get married. For me to live is to have kids. For me to live is to reach retirement What is it? Paul said, for me to live is Christ. What he's saying is the most important thing in my life, that which I focus on above all else, is Christ. Christ, this is what I desire above all else. And to die is gain. To die is gain. You see, if Christ is your all-in-all, if he is truly that which you're focused on, Then to die is to gain, it's to achieve, it's to receive, it's to finally be rewarded and reunited with that person, the one Jesus Christ, who you've focused on above all else. I mean, if you have planned and anticipated and looked forward to a vacation for a while And it's been something you've had in the works for some time, kind of like we for almost three years, we we planned and saved money and looked forward to going out to uh Jackson Hole, Wyoming. And that was a vacation as a family we were really looking forward to, and we were anticipating that. And finally we were able to go. And and We got to do it. We finally got to we're here and we made it and man this is awesome and we were enjoying it and having such a wonderful time and and there's nothing wrong with looking towards things like that as anticipation But that's what Paul is or he's saying here. He's saying for me to die is gain because that's what I've been looking forward to. That's what he wants to go. He wants to go be with Jesus. But beloved, when you desire and look forward to and long for something that's here on earth more than heaven, Then you experience or feel loss when death approaches Because you're not going to get that thing here that you were looking for. You feel like, oh, I'm going to lose that. You know, if I could just be honest with you for a few minutes, when I was younger and in college I had some things that I really wanted to do in life before the Lord came back, before he took me home. In my mind, I'm like, yeah, I would really like to Do this, experience that, or I want to do this before I go to heaven. I had some things in this life that I was looking forward to, that I wanted to. But Paul's saying, hey, the most important thing to me was Christ. How about euthanight? Sometimes we think we just can't win. But as believers, the truth is we can't lose Paul was confident that if he lived for Christ, he would be glorified. Whether he died or lived, Christ should be glorified. And Paul was in a strait betwixt two, he said. You see, he had a decision to make. He had a conflict in his heart. He had On one hand, in verse 23, he says, I have a desire to depart. Now I want you to understand this was not a suicidal desire. This was not a, oh, I just can't take it anymore. Life is so bad, I'm so discouraged and fed up with all of this foolishness. I just want to die. That's not what Paul was dealing with here. Paul wasn't dealing with a level of discouragement that caused him to want to end it all. Paul was dealing with a heart of anticipation and of desire to see God that says, I want to be in his presence. I want to go on and be with God. There is nothing here in this world that I'm living for that I desire more than I desire God. He says, I have a desire to depart. You know, have you ever been away from a uh uh your your husband or your wife or your family member and and You think, hey, I'm gonna get to see them next Tuesday. And you got that desire to go see them. You got that desire to be reunited with them. And you know what, we're gonna Tuesday, we're gonna and you're looking forward to it all week and And and Sunday rolls around. It's Monday. It's just one more day when Alicia was coming home for uh spring break. I mean, I was counting them down. I tell Mary, tomorrow, Alicia's coming home Tomorrow my daughter's going to be back in the house. She's going to be here with our family devotions and singing with us and praying with us and just looking forward to it. Today, I get to pick up Alicia today from the airport. Alright, just looking forward to that. Are you looking forward to being with Christ like that? Just desire to depart, desire to be with him. He knew that to be with Christ was far better than anything this life could offer. But then he had a conflict in his heart because he also had a desire to abide in verse number 24. He wanted to be with Christ, but he understood there was profit in his stain. Verse 24, he says, nevertheless, to abide in the flesh Notice what he says there is more needful. What's the last words? Last two words? For you. You see again, Paul wasn't concerned about himself. This guy is unbelievable. That's why he's called the greatest missionary that ever lived. But he wasn't concerned about himself. He says, this is what I want to do. But what God's impressed upon my heart is for me to stay here is more needful for you. And so we see Paul's destiny in verse 25 and 26. He says, and having this confidence. I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith. That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again. We see his confidence here. It's the same confidence that we see in verse number six. He says, Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He had this confidence in his Lord. Paul is confident that God could perform that work. In him as long as he was going to be living. As long as he was going to be around to do whatever God wanted him to do. He had confidence in God's power. Last night I was on a uh uh Zoom call with thirty-four pastors from India from eleven thirty till three thirty in the morning. And we were having uh training sessions. I was teaching them about missions and the call of the church to be involved in missions and leading the church in that. And trying to have that kind of a heart for the world. And I said, here's the thing, preachers, nobody ever feels like they can do it. No man that's really honest before God feels like, oh yeah, I've got this all together. I I can do this. And I said, I I don't know all of you individually. I don't know your backgrounds, your your where you're coming from, I don't know what you're dealing with. But I want you to understand your confidence is not in you. Your confidence is in God. Because this is God's work, and it's what God once accomplished for his people. And so you can lead with confidence in the church because it's God's work. And you have confidence not in yourself, but confidence in the power of God, who has said that He would give you power to do and perform that work that He began in you. Could I ask you, Christians, tonight, do you have confidence in the promises of God? God has given us so many promises. Do you have confidence in those promises? Do you live life like you have confidence in those things? We can live confidently tonight because of the power and the promises of God. We see his commitment to them. It was for them that he was willing to live. He was not living, beloved, for what he could get out of this life, but he was living for what he could give. Do you and I approach our days with man? Lord, what do you want me to accomplish today? Or do we approach our lives with, man, this is what I want to accomplish today. Lord, will you bless it? I mean, amen that you're praying, but we mean we need to think about what it is we're praying for. For him to live would bring the saints of Philippi more joy It's mind-boggling. Paul was willing to go to hell for his Jewish kingsmen in Romans 9, verse 3. He says, oh, that I would be accursed. Paul was willing to go to hell that his Jewish kingmen would go to heaven, and he was willing to put off heaven for the saints of Philippi. For others. He said, Boy, I want to go to heaven. But I realize it's more important for me to be here. There's a reason that I'm here. And sometimes, you know, Ms. Uh Norman got to go spend a little bit of time with Brother Nash this week. And and sometimes you you have the senior saints and the I can't tell you how many times I've had them ask me, Pastor, why am I still here? What am I doing here? What's what you know and I try to assure them that God has a plan. There's a reason that you're here. There's a reason he hasn't taken you home yet. God has a plan and you've got to seek and desire to fulfill that plan while there's time because you know you don't have too much time left So you've got to take the time you have and maximize it and use it for God. But Paul said he was willing to put off heaven that their joy might be fuller. Wow, how are we living? For self or for others He said, I I I just want to see your joy full by my coming to you again. You know, do others rejoice when they see you coming? Or do they run? He says, Hey, I know that when I come to you again, you guys are going to be rejoicing. Like Pastor Jeff is when he sees me. You know. He wants to give me a big old bear hug and he's rejoicing. There's one guy that I know is always gonna be happy to see me. Amen. But hey, do they uh do they look for do are they rejoicing when you come? Well, maybe that's because we're living too much for self and not enough for others. And what an example Paul sets for us in these verses. The gain of Christian living is not for us. The gain is ultimately for the glory of God. That God will be glorified in and through our lives, whether that's through living or through dying. But that God will be glorified. Amen.