And I appreciate your pastor asking us to come. And uh they sent out an email, you know, wanting some missionaries to come by and give updates and I said, man, we're uh we're getting ready to head back over to Israel next week. And uh so I was thankful that he was allowed to work us in right before we head back over. So certainly appreciate your prayers as we Again, we'll be flying out next Tuesday, Lord willing, heading back over. You know, it's funny, a lot of people ask all the time, you know, how dangerous is it in Israel? It's a whole lot more dangerous in Baltimore than it is in Israel. So, you know, I encourage people take a trip over to Israel. It is very safe. You know, just don't go to Gaza. Don't Just make sure that's not on your itinerary if you're going over there, stay out of the West Bank area and you're good. I mean other than that it's very, very safe over there. And uh so I do highly recommend, you know, taking a trip. Taking a trip. It'll bring their Bible to life. It really will. And so if you ever get an opportunity, I encourage you to do that. Well, if you got your Bible this morning, turn it over to the Gospel of Mark. Mark chapter number seven. Mark chapter number seven, and we'll jump right in and uh just go as far as the Lord allow us to, as we got about uh about thirty minutes. Mark chapter number 7. And the subject I want to deal with this morning is, to me, is a very important subject if you're dealing with or understanding Jewish people Uh I mean here in Hunt Valley you are very close to a lot of Jewish people. You know, we do a lot of work in the Rysters Town, the Owings Mills area. uh very large population. You know, Baltimore has a Jewish population of between 200 and 250,000 Jewish people, and that's just here on the north side of Baltimore. And DC's got almost the same. Of course, Philadelphia, you got about 300,000. So there's there's a large concentration of Jewish people, even here in the Hunt Valley area. There's a lot of Jewish people. people here in this area. And you know, if you get out if you go down to Park Heights on Shabbat on Saturday morning and you get off on Park Heights, you know, there's over 20 synagogues in about a five mile area right there on Park Heights. And if you'll drive through there on Shabbat on the Sabbath, you're going to see hundreds of Jewish people walking back and forth to the synagogues. And you know, a lot of times you get down there and you get to talking to these people and you know you're you're thinking automatically in your mind that they know so much about the Word of God. They know so much about the Bible. I was over here at Congregation Bethel one, uh, I think it was a Tuesday night, they were doing a study on uh some of the the what they call the Navayim, the prophets. And we were looking at the book of Daniel. And I remember the rabbi made the statement. It was actually the assistant rabbi then. He's the head rabbi now. Now Congregation Bethel over here is About 1,200, 1,300 family synagogue. So it's a very large congregation. And I remember sitting in there, there's almost a hundred people sitting in there. And the rabbi said, How many people have heard the story of Daniel and the lion sin? Everybody in there raised their hand. Everybody knew that story. He said, now how many of us have actually read the biblical account of Daniel and the lion's den? Me and the rabbi were the only two people that had actually read it. And you know, we think in our minds they know so much about the Word of God, but how important is the Word of God to them? Now you'll see the black hats, you'll see the the extreme orthodox, the uh misnogdim over here is what they call these the group of orthodox that we have in the Baltimore area. But how much importance do they put on the Word of God? Well let's let's look at Mark 7 and we'll jump into that. The Bible says in Mark chapter 7 verse number 1 Then came together unto the Pharisees a certain of the scribes which came from Jerusalem And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is to say, with unwashed hands, they found fault. For the Pharisees and all the Jews except they wash their hands off eat not, holding the tradition of the elders And when they come from the market, except they wash, they eat not, and many other things there be which they've received to hold, as the washing of cups and pots, and brazen vessels, and of tables. Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders But eat bread with unwashed hands. And he answered and said unto them, Well as Isaiah prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men as the washing of pots and cups. and many other such like things you do. And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God, that you may keep your own tradition For Moses said, Honor thy father and thy mother, and whosoever curse his father and mother, let him die the death. But ye say if a man shall say to his father and mother, it is Corbin That is to say, a gift by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me, he shall be free. And you suffer him no more to do aught for his father or his mother, making the word of God of none effect through your tradition, which ye have delivered, and many such like things do ye. So Jesus here in this uh account that we're giving here in the Gospel of Mark, he's uh being attacked by these Pharisees because they're not keeping the traditions of the rabbis before then, the traditions of the elders. Now, these elders that he's speaking about is a group of men that they call the men of the great assembly. These were a series of men. They were five different sets of men. They call in Hebrew zugot, which is literally meaning pairs. And these guys lasted over a period of about 200 years all the way up into the time of Christ while he was here on this earth. Now the last of those two goats was about 33 A. D. So it was right around the time that Jesus was crucified was the last of these Zugotts that lived. Now these men established a very important principle. What took place? Understand what took place if you were to go back to the first temple When the temple was destroyed, the reason that temple was destroyed is because the people living there did not keep the Word of God They did not allow the lamb to rest specifically every Sabbath year. And God had warned them in the book of Deuteronomy that if you do not allow that lamb to rest every sabbatical year, then he is going to send them into captivity. And he will cause the land to rest. And according to 2 Chronicles 36, that's exactly what happened. Because they did not allow the land to rest, God raised up the Babylonians and brought them into captivity. And they were there allowing that land to rest just as God said it would. Now, when they're in Babylon, while they're in captivity, You begin to have men meet together. And, you know, they had portions, no doubt, of Scripture, or maybe memories of it, or something. Not sure exactly how all that went, but people begin to meet together, and when they come out of captivity, these men begin to form together. And that's where we start seeing the book of Ezra, the book of Nehemiah. And what took place there is Ezra and Nehemiah, during those settings, they began to had this concept, let's teach people the Word of God, because what happens if we obey the Word of God? Well, according to the law, God said that He was going to bless them. And so they said, let's teach people the Word of God, because the reason all this befell upon us is because we did not obey the Word of God. Now, so they're teaching people the scriptures. Now, when that generation passed off the scene, of course we read in the book of Nehemiah how they began to raise up disciples. And he began to teach people. And that you see the the mention of scribes and these sulfurem, these scribes, and these are the higher teachers of the law. Later, as that generation again passed off the scene, another generation came on the scene. And this is where we start getting the setting of these Zugotes. Now, these Zugotes, these were Pharisees, the Zugotes were. Now you had two different factions of religious groups, or major factions of religious groups. You had the Pharisees and the Sadducees. The Sadducees were priests, they were of the priestly line, whereas the Pharisees were not of the priestly line. And so you got two different types of groups here. It's almost like a Democrat and Republican. You know, you might look at it in that sense. And I'm serious, the Sadducees were more of the democratic lifestyle That whole mindset. They were very political in that sense. The Republican aspect, and I've never used this illustration before, but the Republican aspect of it was You know, they were more conservative in that in aspect. But you see, the Pharisees, these Zugotes, again were these Pharisees, so uh these zugotes began to teach people the Word of God The Sadducees were against them. They did not like them. They didn't agree with what they stood for. They were against these principles that they were starting to instill in the people. So here's what the Zugotes come up with. They said, we need to do three things. I'm just summing it up. We need to do three things. We need to be deliberate in judgment. That means we need to take the Word of God and let the Word of God guide our lives. It is the perimeters of our life. This is what we said. We are to be delivered in judgment. We are to raise up many disciples. We're not only to obey the scriptures, but we're to teach others also. And then thirdly, we are to build a fence around the law. Now these fence laws and what they would call would be a perimeter that they would put around the law. It's like a safekeeping to keep people from breaking the law. For example, the Bible says Remember the Sabbath and keep it holy. So they said, okay, what does that mean? You see, if you put a fence around your property, what does that do? It keeps people from getting in, right? It also prevents things from getting out. Unless you have a dog like my son does, and the fence does no purpose whatsoever. He likes to get under the fence or over the fence. He gets out constantly. But those fence serves as a protection. to keep things safe. And so that's what they said. Okay, let's let's remember the Sabbath, but let's build this fence around it, because when you cross the fence, it's to warn you you're getting ready to break the law And so they begin to formulate this. Now, here's what those rabbis, those Zugotes, said. Now among the Zugotes, you had two different offices of it. You had the Aveddin and the Nazi. You had the like the president and the vice president of it. Now, these men may disagree, and they said we can disagree with one another. But we cannot disagree with the Word of God. Why? Because it is our authority. Amen. It's our only authority. Now again, we may disagree. But this is our authority. And so what they did was they built that fence around it. For example, like how far a person may walk on the Sabbath day. They put a limit of how far you can walk. You know, nowhere do you find in the Word of God where the scriptures put a limit of how far you can walk. Yet we read in the book of Acts they went a Sabbath day's journey. That's because they put limitations on it. You can go down here into Baltimore, into Owen's Mills, and you're going to find they have a distance in which they can walk. on the Sabbath day. And what some of them will do, and we see this in Israel all the time, they'll leave clothing or something at somebody's house And this broadens their perimeter because their home's not only now here, but it's also over here, so it gives them a little bit further to walk on the Sabbath day And so it it they they it gives them a lim uh uh uh a a limit of what they can do. And that's what these laws begin to do Well, what happened is when that first series of Zugotts passed off the scene, the next series of Zugotts come on, and they said, we need to do three things. We need to be deliberate in judgment, raise up many disciples, build a fence around the wall. Same concept. Now, we can disagree with one another, but we cannot disagree with the Word of God, nor with the rabbis before us. Now see, what had happened is those first series of Zugotes built those fence laws. Now this second series, they building their fence around that fence. And they said, we may disagree, but we can't disagree with what they said. So these fence laws now have become a law. So they built a fence around that fence. Do you know what happens by the time you get to that fifth generation? Of Hillel and Shemai. Matter of fact, we read about Gonliel in the book of Acts. He was the grandson of the last of those Zugotts of Hillel. And so they built these fences, and so by the time you get to Hillel and Shemai, you have over 2,000 laws regulating the Sabbath day of what you can and cannot do. No longer is it a suggestion. Now it's a law. And when you break that, you're not only breaking the Word of God, you're breaking these traditions. And you know which is more important? I hate to say it, but it's the traditions that became more important. Now understand, there's nothing wrong with traditions. We have traditions that we we have a tradition right now, Sunday school. And there's nothing wrong. You have Sunday school at 9 30. You know most churches have it at ten o'clock. Does that mean something's wrong with y'all? You know, we first moved up to Baltimore. I went over to a church one time. We would have Tuesday night services. And so we went out that which was weird. You know, from the south you do not have a Tuesday night service. And I remember going over to a church over in Thurmont and uh I went over there and I remember walking in on a Wednesday night, sitting down, never been there before. Probably a hundred people standing up talking. All of a sudden the pastor gets up to the pulpit. Everybody gets quiet, sets down. He don't say, welcome to Pioneer Baptist Church. He don't say, hey, it's good to have a visitor with us tonight. He says, open your Bible to the book of James. I thought, well, this is different. He opens the Bible to the book of James. He preaches. When he's done, he gives the invitation. After the invitation, the song leader comes up and he leads the singing. And I'm sitting there going, this is weird. This is not how we do it. We sing first, then we preach. We don't preach first and then sing. You see what had happened, it went against my tradition Because this is the way we've always did it. And so I thought, that's strange. Well I noticed after I got to know the guy a little bit, and I noticed Sunday mor Sundays they don't do that, I finally asked him, I said, Preacher, why do you do that on a Wednesday night? He goes, he said, Brother John, he said, we got a bunch of farmers in the church. They've been out in the field working all day. They're tired. He said, they come in. He said, we'll sing a few songs. He said, I get up to preach, and half of them's already asleep. He said, so I preach first, and then we sing. If they want to sleep and sing it, let them sleep in the singing. And I thought, you know, it makes sense. But you see, it went against my tradition. So there's nothing wrong with tradition. But what is what is wrong is when our tradition becomes our authority. And you see, here's what Jesus said. He warns us about them because the danger of these traditions in verse number five, I mean they're asking him, you know, why do your disciples eat bread with unwashed hands? I believe they probably had clean hands, but they didn't do it according to the tradition of the elders. There's a certain way that you've got to wash your hands. You can go in some of the Jewish restaurants here in Baltimore and you'll see it. You'll go up, there'll be a little sink sitting over there, and you're going to have a cup that's got two handles on it. And those cup with the two handles is this right here, exactly what he's dealing with. A certain way that you have to wash your hands. You'll take the cup, you pour it over the hands of the left hand three times, you take the cup, pour it over the right hands three times. Technically the water is supposed to run from the fingertips to the elbows. I mean there's a whole system involved in it. I remember I was in uh May Sharem in Jerusalem, an extreme orthodox area, and had a guy I was witnessing to uh from America that was actually made alive. And and moved over there and I was meeting with him and we was walking through Meshereem. Now, Mayshereen, if you if you pass out a gospel track in May Shareen, they will chase you down And beat the daylights out of you. I'm telling you, Masharim boasts in their violence. Now that's not how Israel is for the most part. But you get in these extreme religious areas and they're fanatics like that. And Mason is the fanatic of the fanatics in in in in in Israel. And so I scared the guy when he got over there. He goes, uh, you got those little pamphlets that you give out? And I said, Yeah. And he goes Please don't give 'em out in here. I mean he was just terrified. We walk into a little shawarma shop getting some food and and I had a because you've got to wear tippas in the area. I mean it's it's it's So I had one of Black Kippah and he uh I normally don't wear them over there but I do in that area. And he goes, uh so when we were ordering our food, the guy wouldn't give me my food till I went over and washed my hands. And I had to go over there and pour the cup and do it according to the traditions of these elders. Now, now again, watch the danger of this. Of course, tradition can pervert the truth. Look in verse number 6. He answered and said unto them, Well as Isaiah prophesied of you hypocrites, that it is written, This people honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. You see, the the danger of tradition is that it can pervert the truth in your heart. You know, here they were taking literally, he's quoting back Isaiah, and he's talking about how the people they'll honor God with their lips. But their heart is far from them. You know, I I I meet people all the time, my wife and I, my my family, we meet people all the time, religious people are Even some religious and some non-religious, even people that used to be religious and have gotten out of the uh Jewish faith because they said, I'm I'm sick of all the laws and regulations of the rabbis. It's all about this. It's all about doing this. You've got to pay the rabbi to get married. You've got to pay the rabbi. And it's it's all about money. You'll see them when I first got over there and was passing out tracts one day in Kiryat Shimona A guy walks up to me and went to give him a track and he he asked me, he goes, uh Kamazi Lalay. And I had not a clue what this guy was talking about. You know, first he asked me Maze, what is this? And I understood that. It's the only thing I knew. And I said, Oh, that's old, it's good. Then he said, you know, Kamaze Olay. And I didn't have a clue. So my son Daniel comes walking up, and the guy asks me again, and so Daniel answers him. He says, Oh, batana, it's a free gift. The guy asks, how much does this cost? Because to him, taking this religious material, you're supposed to pay me, because that's what the religious do over there. You'll see there, they'll have people from their synagogues out passing out literature, and when you take it, you're supposed to give them a gift You're supposed to give them some type of donation to go back to their synagogue. And so I see people all a lot of times over there when you're passing out material, they'll do this. And that's what they're saying. Religion, it's all about money. It's all about money. Took me a real time to realize what they were saying by doing that, because they just hold your hand up and just do this. It's all about money. You see, but we talk to people over there and they'll say, you know, I I was raised religious, but I just really want to know God. You see, they're caught up in the midst of these traditions over there, and they lose focus on what is right. You see, they honor God with their lips. But your heart is far from me. And so you ask them, why do they do the things that they do? If anybody's ever seen that old film, uh Fiddler on the Roof. What a good example. Tevier on it, he goes, why do we wear these funny little things on our heads? Tradition. Because there's no biblical commandment whatsoever in the Word of God. Matter of fact, it's opposite of that. Because Jesus said it dishonored a man shouldn't pray having his head covered. And so, but these traditions started because of a rabbi that said he's not going to take three steps outside of his house without having his head covered. So Rabbi blessed be his name. Several generations later somebody read his writings and said, oh Rabbi, blessed be his name, wouldn't take three steps outside of his house without having his head covered. And I won't either And he had a lot of young rabbis under him. And now it's a fundamental law in Judaism. I mean we'll get in areas and we'll be passing that literature talking and they'll walk up and they'll look on top of my head trying to figure out Where'd you just get that? It's funny, we I was in this little Arab town uh uh where we live and uh I was standing inside the the meat store and uh inside this little Arab community is the one of the only places you can actually buy pork in Israel. I mean it's very, very rare to find pork in Israel. And when you do it's it's costly. I mean bacon's like seventeen bucks a pound. I mean it's it's it it's insane. But I was standing in there, my wife and then was getting ready to come over and a friend of mine had his sister had made a a pork loin one time and uh wrapped it in bacon and I mean it was amazing. I thought, you know, I'm gonna get that and cook that for my wife. So I go in, I'm standing in there, it's wintertime, I got my big black jacket on, my my beard, you know, I'm full, and I'm standing there and Jewish people are standing in there and Arabs are in there and the meat guy knows who I am and he asked me what I want and I told him I wanted a pork loin And so the guy beside me, this Jewish guy, he looks at me. I can see him, you know, in the corner of my eye looking at me like, What did he just order? And so the meat guy sees it and he's laughing, you know, he's over cutting the meat up and then he he comes back and he said, Oh my god, who anything else? I said, Yeah I want to keep a little bacon. And that guy looks at me again and the meat guy is dying. I mean he is just rolling. And that guy looks at me and he goes, he goes, where are you from? I said, I'm from Marta Break, from United States. He goes, no, no, no, no. I mean where do you live here And I said, well, I live right behind this door here. And he goes, oh, oh, you're lucky. He goes, I live in a vegetarian kibbutz down the road. He goes, I'm not even supposed to be in here I mean the meat guy now he is he is crying. I mean he's laughing so hard. We'll get orthodox we get Jews in there all the time buying pork and stuff. They sneaking in there buying it, you know. And I don't know why I said all that, but where that came from in the midst of this message but But anyway, the traditions, the dangers of traditions, it'll pervert the truth in our heart. But it'll also pervert the truth in our worship. You see, in verse number 7, look what he says. How be it in vain do they worship me Teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. So instead of taking the Word of God and saying, Well, this is what truth is No, no, no. They've taken the teachings of men and saying this is what truth is. And this is our doctrine. This is the way we do it. It doesn't matter what the Bible says. Oh my, when we open the scriptures to people over there and start showing them what the Bible has to say. They're blown away. You know, one of the major the first verse I take people to in Israel is Jeremiah 31, 31. Not per se here in America, but over there, Jeremiah 31. 31 is the first verse I like to take people to. And I'll begin to talk to them and I'll say, hey, are you religious? They'll say, no, I'm not religious, or yes, I'm religious. And I'll say, well, have you ever read the New Testament? No, no, no, no, we don't read the New Testament. We only read Tanakh, only read the Old Testament. Really? You don't read the New Testament? No, no, no, no. That's for for Gentiles. It's not for Jews. Really? Well, look in Jeremiah 31, 31. Because in Jeremiah 31, 31, he says, Behold the days come, saith the Lord, I'll make a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Jacob. And here God is telling us that He's going to give a new covenant. I said, well, right here in Jeremiah, it says that God's going to give us the new covenant. And you're to see them. They'll take my Hebrew Bible out of my hands. Now it's not the New Testament, it's just the Old Testament. They'll take the Hebrew Bible out of my hands. They'll flip it over to read the spine. to see, to make sure it don't say New Testament on there somewhere. They it'll say Tanakh, Torah, Nebaim, Kathuzim. It's the three different divisions of the Old Testament. And they're looking to make sure it doesn't say New Testament. They'll flip it back and look at it, Jeremiah again, and they're They'll look at you like, what in the world is this doing in our Bible? Had a guy one time starting to argue with me, he goes, Oh, that's the covenant that God made with Moses and with Abraha I said, well look at the next verse. He says, not according to the covenant that I made with your fathers. And this guy, he's one of those guys that likes to argue with you about everything. And so then I take him down to verse number 34 of Jeremiah 31, and he says, And I will forgive your sins and iniquities. And I'll say it's through this new covenant that you can have a real relationship with God. Your sins can be forgiven. And that guy sat there and he uh he blew me away with the words that come out of his mouth. Again, we argued for 10 minutes and then all of a sudden he goes, looks at me and he goes, you got me. I mean he didn't know what to say, and I was didn't know what to say then. I was speechless. I was like, uh you know, I was already thinking of how he's going to argue with me, and now he's like, wow, this is beautiful. This is beautiful. You see, you can have a real relationship. You see, their problem is their traditions have kept them from truth. I picked up these two Orthodox guys. They very religious guys live right down the road from us and and they were in my car and I'm talking to them and they said I spend six hours a day studying Torah, first five books of the Bible, and the Talmud. That's these traditions. That's these extra biblical things that were added to their canon. He said, I spend six hours a day studying. And you know what he told me? I've never read this verse in Jeroboam. Jeremiah. Never seen it before. You know what? Out of the thousands of times that I've used that verse in Israel, I've not met anybody yet that knew that verse. Now I'm sure some do. I just ain't run across them yet. You see, they these traditions have kept them from the truth. It perverts the truth. Uh in in our hearts, in our worship, in our doctrine. Again, he's quoting Isaiah in in reference to this and how they've They've taken their traditions as doctrine, but it also can uh perverts our perception. You see, very the very thing of what is right and what is wrong uh can be perverted based on traditions Instead of the truth of the Word of God. You know, the it it but then it can prevent the truth. Look at verse number eight. For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men as the washing of pots and cups and many other such like things you do. And he said unto them, full well ye reject the commandment of God that you may keep your own tradition. So literally he's saying they take the word of God and set it aside so they can keep their own traditions. Now, in religion, and I don't care what kind of religion it is, tradition can hold a very, very important place in one's life Let me give an example. We were I was preaching out in in uh Utah, and I was supposed to be preaching in the prisons out there, two services, and I was with out there I was out there with a church planner there, and so we went in and and so the chaplain who of course is a Mormon You know, w he introduced me to him. The guy was from West Virginia, super nice guy. We're talking. Well they put us in lockdown um in the first service. So we're waiting until everything settled down. We're waiting. So I'm talking to this guy. He says, Oh, it's you're You're in a Jewish ministry. He said, tell me something about it. So I'm going through this very thing about traditions. And I told him, I said, now I don't know anything about Mormonism. I I I really don't. I've dealt with Jehovah's Witnesses a lot, but I've never dealt with Mormons a lot. I said, so tell me something about Mormonism. And so he's he's going through telling me how they're they're uh Head guy, whatever he is, he he will get these fresh revelations from God. And so they have an open canon, basically. And so he gets these fresh revelations. I said, well, what if what he gets contradicts the word of God? Oh, it will never contradict the word of God. Never? No, never. I said, so what happens when you die? He goes, well when you die, you you go down to the grave and you have Mormon missionaries there that are preaching the gospel to you. And I said, so why would I want to be a Mormon now then? Why not just wait? You know, if they're going to be preaching the gospel to me then, so why why and he goes, hmm, good question. And that's all he said. That's how he responded, you know, to if he couldn't answer something, he would just say, hmm, good question So I said, okay, so you got Mormon missionaries there preaching the gospel to you. I said, now when Paul was writing, he said to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And he says, yep. I said, so does that not contradict what your prophet has said? And he goes, It's a good question. I don't have an answer. But that's how it was. You see, what had happened is you have in Mormonism, you have a King James Bible, but you have the Book of Mormon. So what happens is you have two authorities Now what happens when these authorities contradict? Which one will you keep? It's the tradition of men. Catholic Church. Church fathers And the Bible. What happens when they contradict? Which one do you keep? Okay, so Judaism. You have the Bible and you have the Talmud. When they contradict, which one will you keep? That's how it is always. Matter of fact, in the Talmud in Sanhedrin 11 it says this, it's better to give more heed to the words of the scribes than the words of the scriptures. Because they'll tell you that you cannot rightly understand the written law without this oral tradition. passed on. So what has taken place is they've taken the Word of God and they've set it aside. So when you look at some of these people here, even in Baltimore, And you start dealing with them in the Word of God, thinking, or maybe you feel intimidated, but they're going to know so much about the Bible, you'll be shocked at how little many know about the Word of God. Well, they may know a lot about tradition. Because to them tradition is so very, very important. And again, there's a danger involved in all these traditions. These guys that I was talking about, these Ugats, I mean, one of them used to be buried at the end of our driveway in Israel. I mean these these guys will come out at all hours, people come out at all hours of the day to pray at their tombs. And they literally go into the tombs of these dead rabbis asking for their blessings on their lives. They'll ask them to bless their jobs, their homes, their marriages, and so forth. You would see them at all hours of the night. You'd hear them out there outside our windows just praying just loud. And I mean sometimes they're coming in drunk. And they'd walk up to you. It's a mitzvah, it's a good deed in Judaism to drink before you go and pray. And they would, too. And I mean they would they'd be staggering, falling over my car. I had them steal my grill one time, they would be sitting out in the yard. That just cheap ten dollar grill. It was forty seconds. cheap ten dollar grill. And a little bitty thing, you know, and and one of them Orthodox youth stole it. You say, how do you know that? Because he sold the grill but he left the grill great. You see, he don't know what I cooked on it. It could be unculture. I mean he I could have cooked pork on it, you know. He don't know, so he left it and stole the grill. So I knew it was him. I was so mad about that ten dollar grill I felt like Jonah in that gourd. I mean it was like let him go to hell. He stole my grill. I was so mad. I had I got in the flesh over that. I mean I was wrong. It was awful But I did. You know, he needs the Lord, definitely needs the Lord, stealing my grill, you know, but ten bucks, you know. But all these traditions. Keeping these trad the danger of these traditions. Again, there's nothing wrong with tradition. Just don't let tradition become your law. Let the word of God be the priority in your life. Father, we love you. Thank you for the time we can spend in the Word of God this morning. I pray that you'll bless the service today, touch pastor, and use them this morning. I pray that every song that's sung, every word that's spoken, you'll be glorified in it. And we'll praise you, Lord, for what you'll do in Jesus' name. Amen