140 in your notes there and we're going to be uh digging into the general epistles here. You see we've dealt with the Pauline epistles uh kind of as we were walking through the book of Acts. We went through the Paul's missionary journeys. And uh as we went through his missionary journeys, we dealt with each of the books that he wrote while he was traveling. And kind of just we didn't dig down into them, but gave you kind of brief overviews of those books And having looked at uh Paul's uh you know Paul's Paul the Pauline epistles, we finished in the book of Acts where Acts ends, and that's with Paul there in prison in Rome, and of course where he r gave us the prison epistles. And we covered those as well. And so the only thing left for us in the New Testament is the general epistles. And we could go through these pretty quick. Or we could be here for another year uh relatively easily. Uh it really would not be hard to, but we're gonna try not to get too bogged down. I wanted more get a general overview we want to kind of see in a New Testament survey. basically where the book fits, uh what the focus or emphasis of the book is, you know, what the motivation for writing it was, and so that we would have that as a foundation as you're reading, as you're doing your own study. But try not to get too bogged down. Obviously we could spend months in the book of Revelation because the general epistles begins in Hebrews and goes through the book of Revelation. And uh so we're we're just gonna kind of look at these. We'll see this morning Hebrews and At least some of James, maybe we'll get through James. I don't know, but that's what we're gonna be digging into and concluding here with uh our New Testament survey w with covering the general epistles. First of all, Hebrews is not necessarily one of the easiest books to understand, uh although it's a very powerful book. But because of its strong ties to the Old Testament, sometimes it can get a little bit confusing or uh what is New Testament and what is Old Testament and how do these tie together? But There's many, many quotes from the Old Testament found in the book of Hebrews, and there's strong familiar imagery that's carried over from the Old Testament into the New Testament through this book. But Hebrews declares for us unequivocally that Jesus is supreme. There's continually looking back at the Old Testament, continually tying into these truths, but also at the same time giving clearly the declaration that Jesus is supreme. Jesus is over that. Jesus is better than that. And continually he gives us That focus and that challenges us to remain steadfast and true in our faith. Faith in Jesus Christ, because He is better, He is supreme So the date of the book here is 65 to 70. Jerusalem fell in 70 A. D. as prophesied. We know that this book was written just before that time. Don't know the exact date, but sometime between 65 to 70, it was certainly before the fall of Jerusalem when Titus stood outside the walls with 30,000 soldiers. It is said that Titus was so uh impressed with the temple and that just the grandeur of the architecture and the magnificence of it, it literally was one of the wonders of the world at that time. And he begged the people, would you please surrender so we don't have to uh sack the city. So we don't have to destroy the city. Would you just surrender? They would not, and so I think it was four or five months under siege until Titus came in and they burned the city and they destroyed the temple as was prophesied. as God said was going to happen. The author of the book of Hebrews, the authorship is unknown. We really don't have a clear declaration as to who wrote the book of Hebrews. Uh it's hotly debated among many people. I personally and there are others that believe that Paul Uh we could give the authorship to Paul and say Paul is the author. I've given you some reasons here. First of all, because of the style of the writing. The style of the writing is very similar to Paul's other books, and so seems like it would be uh fitting with his uh organization of thought and presentation of information. You know, you kind of can see how many of you for several years you read the devotionals that we sent out uh of of a morning and you got to the place where you barely start and you would know this is pastors devotional. This is Pastor Derek. This is Pastor how many of you knew right away who it was, right? You could tell this is Pastor Derek's devotional. It's six pages long. That's Pastor Derek, you know. Ah, you know, his pastor goes, his pastor. Why? Because of the style of the writing. It's very evident. It comes out, right? You could see that. And so you look at the style of the writing, it's similar to Paul's other books. Also, because of the strong use of the law. We know Paul was taught and trained at the feet of Gameleo. He was as versed and understood the law as good as anybody. And and With this being given to a Jewish audience that continually going back to the law really ties in with Paul as far as his understanding of the law and being able to expound that and tie it into the truth of the New Testament. being able to do that, it just seems like it's fitting with Paul. Also because of the closing statement given in chapter 13. Now I need to get over there. I'm not even in the New Testament. But let me get over there. If you're hopefully in Hebrews, look at the very end. We're going to kind of reference a lot of stuff. We're not going to go chapter by chapter through this. We're just going to kind of hit these highlights and make sure we understand the overall theme and purpose. So in chapter thirteen we see the closing statement. He says, Grace be with you all. Amen. This is a similar statement that Paul gives in several other of his epistles. Almost word for word. For instance, in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, verse number 18, he says, The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. So very similar in his concluding statements there, like it is found in 2 Thessalonians, because of his friendship with Timothy. We we look at the friendship that's mentioned here in chapter thirteen and uh verse number twenty-three, so just back a couple of verses. He says, Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty, with whom if he comes shortly I will see you. So that reference to Timothy, his brother. Now, certainly he was a brother to any other believer, and There could be numerous other men who would look at Timothy and call him a brother, but Paul, we know, had that close friendship. Uh if he would have said, My son in the faith, there would be no question We would know for sure that is Paul. But here he just references him as as a brother. And we know Paul, especially at this time of his life, was very close to Timothy. They had a lot of uh time together. Paul was giving him his you know last bit of instruction and trying to help him as his son of the faith and referencing him there again kind of leads towards uh appalling authorship. Because of the familiar reference to his bonds found in chapter 10 and verse number 34. Turn back to chapter 10 and verse number 34. He says, For ye had compassion of me in my bonds. Now, if you are familiar with Paul's other writings, you know often he was put in bonds, and he refers to that. uh having been often put in bonds. And uh in Corinthians chapter eleven the description of of all that he endured having been shipwrecked in beaten and imprisoned and put in bonds. So that familiar reference to his bonds. So there's just several things that kinda add up, uh, that you look at and say, Yes, there could have been somebody else that was a friend of Timothy. Yes, somebody else could have been uh in bonds as well. Yes, somebody else could have closed their letter in similar fashion as Paul. So you can't definitively say a hundred percent, but it looks that way and I would tend to lean it that way. Now here is the overriding question. Because we don't know definitively who pinned the pages of Hebrews, should that cause us to doubt it with regards to Scripture? No. Anybody want to tell us why that wanna expound on that? No, we shouldn't. I agree with the statement. That was kind of pretty much everybody agrees with that Nobody wants to expound on it and you're gonna leave that to me. Basically Uh obviously we know ultimately all scripture is given by inspiration of God and it's profitable for doctrine, for proof for reproof, for correction and righteousness We know that it came from God. Even if Paul was the one whom God used to author to pin it, uh and we see in each of these books how the authors personality came through, their experience came through, but God is the one that gave us the truth, and so we know this being scripture, that it was from God and it's profitable for us. And so when we get to heaven, we'll find out for sure who actually pinned these for us. but we know that it's profitable for us and that God wants to use it in our lives. And so as much as the author is unknown, it's unusual, but also the audience is unknown We're actually not even a hundred percent sure who this book was written to. I can tell you it wasn't written to a coffee shop The Hebrews coffee shop. There there's a bunch of those uh uh popping up around the country as churches are uh adding, you know, little baristas or whatever things in their four years for for people to get coffee on a regular basis and you know they have the Hebrews coffee. Uh you know, and so it's it's not that But uh it's unlike, you know, you have the book of Galatians or Ephesians, you know, or Philemon, and y and there's no question that that book was written to a particular church or a particular group or a particular person, but Hebrews We don't know exactly who it was written to, but we do know that uh it was written to Jewish believers. Um Largely because of the fact that the strong reliance on the Old Testament. As he continually points back to the Old Testament, there's a there's a message trying to reach a group of people that would have that tie. It would not be as effective for Paul to be writing about the Old Testament so much to a group of Gentiles who had no tie to the Old Testament. who didn't understand those truths. They've never been introduced to them. So why would you dig into that to try and tie the two together? But we see here that he does that over and over and over again in this so uh the the message is written to Jewish believers. Certainly we know it's to believers as the context and the continual reference to the brethren, like for instance in chapter 3 And uh verse number one, we'll we'll see that. And when you see that in the Word of God, you know that he's speaking to believers. He says, Wherefore, holy brethren Referring to the brethren. That's that's believers, people that have put their faith and trust in Christ, people that are followers of Jesus, the brethren, are brothers and sisters in Christ. And over and over again in the book he references the brethren. So we know it's to believers. and very likely to the Jewish believers because of those strong ties to the Old Testament. So we don't know that, but sadly it is written to the immature believers. We see in chapter 5 and verse number 11. We see here he says, of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing you are dull of hearing. For when, for the time you ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not strong meat. What had happened here, beloved, is that the first generation believers, and there are no grandchildren in the family of God, but the aspect or the idea of being a first generation believer is that you you have come to Christ and you begin following God and hopefully your children would follow your example and become believers and follow God, they would in the description be a second generation believer. they're gonna follow the Lord. And you might have a third generation believer. But you'll find many times what happens and is what happens here Is the first generation believers, man, they have to take a stand. And some of you, you've done this. I mean you've had to take a stand against family who who question you, who give you a hard time for following the Lord, who who, you know, berade you for wanting to be in church and I mean th they wouldn't care if you went to the bar and got drunk, but because you want to go to church, they're going to give you a hard time and they're going to, you know, say you're foolish and You're taking a stand for the Lord and God worked in your heart and you do that and you you have to lose a lot of friends and you y you know, all of that Really the the road that you hold standing for God, you made it much easier for those that are coming behind you But what happens a lot of times is those that come behind you because they did not have to stand, because they did not have to fight their way through to gain victory like you did, they're very weak. They don't have the convictions that you have, they don't have the the settled mind that you have, and they don't have the determination to follow God that you have, and that's what happened here in the text. You have second generation believers that should have been strong They have been saved or believers for a very long time, but Paul, or the author of Hebrews, says You've been saved a long time. You should know this stuff, but you don't because you haven't pursued it. So I gotta go back to the beginning I gotta give you the the the the little things. I gotta give you the baby truths. I've got to be gentle with you because you haven't grown yet. And that's one thing that we want to guard against. Uh making it too easy for the next generation And they don't have to stand at all. They don't have to declare their faith. They don't have to be strong and they don't gain any spiritual muscles And so it's sadly, but he is writing to the immature believers. The aim of the book, this is where we get into the heart of this, Hebrews has been called the fifth gospel. This is uh Wilmington's Guide to the Bible shares this truth, and it's pretty powerful. It's amazing because Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John give the description and tell us about what Jesus was doing here on earth. Hebrews is called the fifth gospel because it declares Jesus supreme but what he's doing in heaven. It's almost like the rest of the story. It's the the last chapter. It's the end of the book. It declares the final truth, right? And so it's been declared as the fifth gospel. The aim or the theme of the book is the supremacy of Christ. I've mentioned that as that goes through here, the supremacy of Christ, that he is supreme. This great debate over the continuing of following Christ back to or or going back to Judaism In one of the books that I'm reading with regards to this in my study, Grimacki, in his New Testament survey book, he says this. He says, they thus face this question. Shall we go on with Christ and his people, even though it means certain persecution and possible death? Or shall we go back and be identified with Jewish national religious life and thus avoid this persecution? And some had already made their decision. Some had already defected. Some had left the faith. And he tells us in that familiar passage of scripture in Hebrews chapter number 10. He says, verse number 23, 24, and 25 in Hebrews chapter 10, let us hold fast the profession of our faith. Without wavering. You see, the Jewish believers, persecution was on the rise, and they had to decide, okay, am I going to go back and go back to Judaism? I are going to follow Christ? And he tells them here, he says, hey, hold fast to your profession. Nothing wavering, for he is faithful that promised. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works. Not forsaking the assembly of yourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. So he who has found him, listen. I know there's pressure. I know there's persecution. You're either already enduring persecution or you know that persecution is coming. And that is something that puts fear in the heart of man and would cause them to question whether they should continue on this path or not. So the aim was to give them the supremacy of Christ and that he was truly worthy. The aim was to rekindle a dying flame in the heart that had become distracted and discouraged. This persecution was on the rise. This morning when we began, I tried to, hey It's doing what it's doing outside. It's snowing, it's not snowing, whatever it is, we can't change it now. Nothing we can do about it. Let's not be distracted by that. Let's get our hearts and minds here and let the Lord speak to us and I mean it's gonna be what it's gonna be. You're worrying about it and thinking about it all the way through church is not gonna make any difference on what happens on the way home So just put it out of your mind, say, okay, Lord, you know. Uh distraction affects you. And that's what the writer of Hebrews is saying. These believers have become distracted by this persecution that was on the rise And they become discouraged because they're trying to follow Christ and and and now there's problems. And so he's trying to rekindle a flame in them and give them a fervency to go ahead and follow Christ even in the face of this great discouragement and distraction to encourage believers with examples of faith. Hebrews chapter number 11, the hall of faith. He gives them many examples in chapter number eleven. You know, these men that were persecuted, these men that stood for God, these men that did great things in the face of great hardship He's setting them up as examples. Isn't it encouraging not just the those great testimonies that are in Hebrews chapter 11? But the testimonies that you have of friends or people that you know that went ahead and stood and did what was right, you see the faith of somebody that's enduring. even in our church who have gone through cancer, they've gone through loss and and they stood for God and they've been faithful through it all. Isn't that encouraging? It's it it encourages your heart and you say, Man, we see their faith and that's awesome and I I want to have that kind of faith and I I see what God is doing in their life, and that's what the writer of Hebrews is saying He says, man, guys, I know persecution is real, and I know it may end up costing your life. But you know what? Here's a whole group of people that were in the same boat. And they remained faithful until the end. So he gives them that great hall of faith and gives it to us as well that we could be encouraged by that. In the book of Hebrews, he's given the believers six warnings. There are six warnings found in there. And this list is out of uh one of the Bible handbooks. that uh on on the book of Hebrews here. Um so he gives us the warning of neglect, the warning of unbelief, the warning of disobedience, the warning of immaturity. The warning of rejection, the warning of refusal. So some warnings that are found through the book of Hebrews. Some key words here. There are always more key words. Sometimes in some of the books that I'm referencing or studying to put these notes together, uh, you know, they'll have twenty-five keywords. So by no means am I giving you an exhaustive list, uh, but just some of the key words that I I have found that are very pertinent to the text uh as you look at it. Um you know sometimes I've seen the the keyword of in, like I in. because it happens to appear seventy times in the text or something, but but you know uh there there are words that are literally they have great meaning and they're true to us and so These key words that I've given you here, for instance, high priest. The high priest is mentioned in here 32 times. But that's a powerful truth for us, as in chapter four and verse number fourteen, Hebrews four and fourteen. We we we know these verses. You might not be able to quote it by the reference, but as I read it you would know it. He says, Seeing then that we have a great high priest That is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. He's saying, hey, seeing that we have a high priest, this again declaring the supremacy of Christ. And so this high priest, he is our high priest, and so that's a key word. The word better, which we're going to see over and over again as we get down to the outline given to us by Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, uh, but we see a better revelation We have a better revelation. We have better things. We have a better testament. This new covenant, the new testament given to us through Jesus Christ. We have a better priesthood, a better promise, a better country. Uh boy, aren't we looking for a better country? A heavenly country. Amen. We have a better country and a better resurrection. Can I tell you everything with Jesus is better? Amen? Amen. Sweeter as the day goes by. It's better with Jesus. You can try and make it on your own, but everything is better with Jesus. That's kind of the overriding theme here, and over and over again you'll find that word through this text. Some strong truths that are found in the book of Hebrews that kind of give us some overriding lessons for us. First of all, persecution will tempt many to depart from the faith. You understand this is written in the time of Nero, a brutal and horrific persecutor of the church. He had decided that Judaism was going to be protected And Christianity was going to be persecuted. And uh those that would follow Judaism, they would be left alone, but those that followed Christ were going to be persecuted. They they were The the the things that Nero did uh are are horrific beyond measure. I mean I can't even comprehend a man being so callous and hard to be able to treat any human the way that they did uh the way he did Christians Uh so that persecution was on the rise and that would ca it persecution of any kind in any generation causes people to question. And we've seen over and over again that it certainly weeds out those that are serious about following God and those who were just on the edges or the fringes. But persecution is going to tempt many to depart. To remain faithful We need to look at Jesus. We see in Hebrews chapter number 11 that great hall of faith. Where he lists for us Abel and Enoch and Noah and Abraham and Jacob and Joseph and Moses. He lists all of these great men. But you get to Hebrews chapter number 12. And he opens up with this, wherefore, seeing we are also encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and sin which has so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Verse number two, familiar verse, says, looking unto Jesus. the author and finisher of our faith. So he lists all these people in chapter number 11. He says, yeah, these are great examples. But if you're going to be faithful to God, if you're going to remain true through all the persecution that's coming down the road, you need to look to Jesus Don't look to Abraham, he's a great man. Don't look to Moses, he was a great man, and we we commend his faith, and he's an example for us. But what we should be looking to is Jesus. And that's what we want to focus on. He's encouraging them. If we're going to remain faithful, we need to look to Jesus. He teaches us that chastening is evidence of sonship. Chapter 12, verses 6 through 8. The Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And we and we know that truth. And we know that Ties right into what I gave last Sunday on the signs of salvation. But beloved, chasten is certainly evidence of sonship. There is a destructive root of bitterness. through which many are defiled. Chapter twelve and verse number fifteen. Teaching on bitterness and how it defiles many because it roots in the heart and everybody that gets close to it is it's like a a sour odor or poison. It just spreads and and many people are defiled by it. And uh then an outline here, an outline of the of the better things. And this outline, as I noted there, is uh from Merrill Tinney's book on the New Testament survey, page 360, uh and so just copied from them. But what I want you to note the better things that are listed here, but again the idea of the supremacy of Christ. is noted here in several places. And that's the message of Hebrews. So we see that we have a better messenger, the Son, but that he is superior to the angels. We see that in chapter number one This morning as I was reading this, I was reading the wrong chapter. And I'm like, oh I must have put the wrong thing down there, but I was reading in chapter four, verse one, and stap t instead of chapter one and verse four. And I do that a lot. So uh he says here Verse chapter one and verse number four being made so much better than the angels. The supremacy of Christ, that he is better than the angels. The angels, yes, they're Amazing and and we've taught on angels here and there's certainly an interest in that. A lot of people love to to learn about angels and their responsibilities and what we learn about them from the scriptures and that's fine, but certainly Jesus is far better, far more important to learn about than him. We don't spend every Sunday talking about angels, but hopefully we talk about Jesus every Sunday Hopefully he's the focus of the message. Spurgeon used to tell his preacher boys, you you get into a text, doesn't matter what text it is, you find Jesus. And preach Jesus. That's that's the focus of our message, and he certainly is better. He's better than the angels. We see uh better than the apostles We in chapter three verses one through six he talks about the superiority t th of of them of Jesus than Moses. And again, tying back to the Old Testament as he's speaking to Jewish people, I mean who would be more meaningful to a Jewish audience than Moses? But he's saying, hey, Jesus is more superior than Moses. And you look to him, yes, he was an important man, but Jesus is superior than that. Better than the apostles, we see the superiority of the rest that we have in Christ, described in chapter 4, verses 1 through 10. He's a better priest. Chapters 4, 14 through 728. Jesus is better than the priest, beloved. They had to the priest had to continually offer sacrifice to cover the sins of the people. But he is the high priest. And when he gave himself, it was one sacrifice for all. And he doesn't cover our sin, he removes our sin. He takes our sin. away. He is the high priest and he is a certainly a better priest as the author and the gift of salvation. It we have a better covenant through him. Jesus is better than the old covenant, the uh the the law, which the law all it did was show man that they were a sinner and no man could fulfill or keep the law. I it was an impossible task, no matter how much they tried And yet we have a better covenant, a promise, Jesus Christ. And then we have uh the fact he says it's a better way. A better sacrifice and a better way. The better way is faith. Faith in God. Jesus is better. Looking to him the author and finisher of our faith in chapter 12 there in the verses we read already. And then the concluding thoughts here is he he talks about the practice of this faith that we have. and how to put it into into our lives. And so we see these truths, the book of Hebrews, opening up for us the the general epistles. And uh some people would actually put that with the Pauline Epistles because of uh the fact that they would give him that authorship, but most lists He's in the gen this is in the general epistles because we don't know a hundred percent who wrote it. But we're gonna pick up here with the book of James. We certainly won't get through this, but let me just introduce it, we'll give you a little bit, and then next week we will finish it. Um But there are some who say that the book of James contradicts Paul. Like there's this conflict between James and Paul. Because over and over again we see Paul declare to us, For by grace are you saved through faith, and not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast, and then yet James says, Faith without works is dead. And so they're like, what? Did these two people conflict? And here's the problem. Anytime you see what looks like a contradiction or a conflict in the scripture, please note that the problem is in our understanding, not in the Word of God. The Word of God is right, and we just need to get a better understanding of the Word of God and try and figure out what God is trying to teach us because there certainly is not a conflict there. There are millions of people who claim the name of Christ. They have pu professions, but they do not possess Christ. And therefore, this is what James is talking about. The fact of the matter is, is faith that does not produce fruit is no faith at all. That's ultimately what he's saying. He's not saying that you you have to have these works in order to be saved. No, for by grace are you saved through faith. Salvation and faith in Christ is a free gift, and that's all that is, and that is stands alone by itself The thief on the cross went to heaven. Never did any works at all. Works has nothing to do with it. It's all Jesus Christ. But Had he been taken down from the cross and pardoned and allowed to live his life, faith produces fruit And there would have been some fruit in his life, evidences, which is what last Sunday morning's message really was all about, the whole idea of the signs of salvation. What what are some clear signs that you're saved? And I can tell you that God has used that message last week in numerous people's lives And uh we've seen great victories. Last Sunday morning uh Quentin came and trusted Christ concluding that service. During this week I had a meeting. Actually just yesterday had a meeting with another individual who was in the church and I'm hoping that he'll be here this morning, but he trusted Christ yesterday afternoon in in my office as a result of last Sunday's message. Why? Because they looked at that and said, Oh Is that evident in my life? Is God doing that? Faith without works is dead. Faith that doesn't produce fruit is no faith at all. That's the message of James. So the date of this book, this is the first book written in the New Testament. It's not in the order of our books, it's not all the way back before Matthew. But as far as the order of what happens here, this literally was written a few uh years after the Church of Jerusalem was founded. uh twelve to fifteen years afterwards, you know, uh in the book of Acts, they were saved, baptized, and added to the church there in J in Jerusalem. And it was just a few years later, uh, roughly Excuse me, uh 45 to 50 uh A. D. there. And the aim of this book is to exhort the believers to a life that stands up to their lips. A life that stands up to their lips. If they're going to say that they're saved by faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone, the fact of the matter is they're going to have a life that lines up with that. It's going to be evident. So to secondly, to explain the nature of trials and temptations. To explain the nature of trials and temptations. Many are going to endure and go through trials and temptations, and we need to understand what they're for and what God's trying to do and why we do it, uh why we endure those things. to teach us that faith that saves will manifest itself into service. Chapters 2, 24 through 26. To warn concerning the use of the tongue. Some of the strongest teaching in the New Testament on the tongue found here in the book of James. I love the The book of James is such a practical, hands-on, downs-to-earth book that instructs us in daily life and what we should be doing. To describe the nature of godly wisdom. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Godly wisdom and how to use it and implement it into our life. To instruct in prayer And this, of course, is found throughout all of the New Testament, but there's some great instructions on prayer and to guide in the need of restoration, chapter 5, 19 through 20. And so these are the just the aim ultimately what he's trying to accomplish there. We're going to pick up uh with the author next week. We'll dig in dig into that. Uh and I'm sure this section of notes here, the general epistles You you'll note I just have I ended at the bottom of the page, but we're just going to continue on through all the way through Revelation with this section. We're just going to keep adding to these notes and just keep going until we get into the conclusion of Revelation. Sometime in the next six or eight weeks, I'm expecting. We'll be done with uh the New Testament survey. Let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, thank you for this time in Sunday school. Thank you for your word. I pray that This overview of these books will give us an understanding as we're reading it how the message ties to those that was written to. but then how it applies to us and how we can learn and grow from that and it makes makes a difference in our life today. And Lord we know that all scripture is given by inspiration inspiration and is profitable and I pray that it would be profitable in our lives Be with us in the morning service, Lord. May you be honored and glorified. Ask you to give safety to all who are traveling this way. And just bless this time in your house in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Thank you very much. You're dismissed.