He has his highlights and he also has some uh horrific sin. And uh it's all there for us. And uh I think God put it there so we would understand. I mean, can you imagine if there was nothing in the scriptures uh about David's failures, you would look at him and and see this individual And uh, you know, min the way men are, men probably would want to start worshiping him. But he's just a man and uh subject to life's passions as we are. And uh he Fell and endured and had some trials and fell into some sin, but ultimately was a godly man that wanted to please the Lord. What we love about him most is the great victories that he had in his life. From time to time, uh really from the beginning of time in his life, from the time that he was a boy. Uh all the way through it seems like every battle that he got in he was victorious. Uh you know, story after story after story you hear about David and what he did and and he came back victorious. And of course the greatest of these battles is the one we're going to read about tonight. And the strength that David had was not merely a physical strength like that of Samson. I believe David was a man's man. The Bible describes him even as a boy. Uh it says he was a warrior, uh a man of war, and and uh you know he he I believe he was a strong guy, I believe he was a man's man, and I think he had some strength about him. But I don't think it was just physical strength. I believe he had an internal strength, a spiritual strength to stand, uh a strength that was uh given to him and that he relied upon that went deeper than just the ability to lift something or to exercise with his hands. It was a strength that was a matter of his heart. And tonight we want to look at this story, and it's a large text. If you'll follow along with me, I know we're familiar with the story, but uh just wanted to remind you of this. So We won't read the whole passage because it's really long to read it all, but let's start in verse number 21. When the battle was set in array, the Bible says, and we'll read down through verse number 50. And you can just follow along here. But he says, for Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, army against army. And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren. And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion. the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the army of the Philistines. And he spake according to the same words, and David heard them, and all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled for him and were sore afraid. And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man that has come up? Surely to defy Israel is he come up. And it shall be that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel And David spoke to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine and taketh away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God? And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him. And Eliab, his eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men, and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said Why camest thou down hither? And with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and thy naughtiness of thy heart, for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? And he turned from him toward another, and he spake after the same manner, and the people answered him again after the former manner And when the words were heard, which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul, and he sent for him. And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight him, for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock, and I went out after him and smote him and delivered him out of his mouth And when he arose against me I caught him by his beard and smote him, and slew him. Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear And this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. David said, Moreover, The Lord hath delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear. He will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and the Lord be with thee And Saul armed David with his armor, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head. Also he armed him with a coat of mail, and David girded his sword up his upon his armor, and he essayed to go. for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them. And David put them off him And he took off his uh staff, took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook and put them in his shepherd's bag which he had, even in a scrip, and his sling with in his hand. And he drew near to the Philistine, and the Philistine came on and drew near unto David, and the man that bare the shield went before him And when the Philistines looked about and saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair countenance. And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves? And the Ferris the Philistine cursed David by his gods. And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air and to the beasts of the field. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee, and I will give The carcass of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air, and to the wild beast of the earth, and all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. And all the assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you unto our hands. And it came to pass when the Philistine arose and came and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened and ran toward the army to meet the Philistines. And David put his hand in his bag and took thence a stone and sling it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, and the stone sank into the forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth. So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him, but there was no sword in the hand of David And you know, of course it goes on and he draws the sword of the Philistine and cuts off the Philistine's head. And uh in the production they did not show that. Child friendly show. So they did I was wondering how they were gonna do that, you know. Um I do have to say I was a little bit disappointed in the production in that I would like to have seen an actual representation of David and Goliath in scale. They made Goliath about 24 feet tall And uh so he was a massive, massive uh creature, which looked awesome, but it's not to scale Um and uh he the Goliath did fall, they did an amazing job, this huge uh creature fell, and David drew the sword out and then the lights went off. And so you just you just know what happened, right? And so then the next scene came on. Um But this amazing story that we have heard since the time we were little children, and we've all told it to our kids and read the story given in many different forms. to the youth that we've had opportunity to influence in our lives the amazing victory. And we can see here the strength of David. And uh that that faith and that confidence in God that comes through even as he's talking to this Philistine. I mean, it's amazing when you think about the entire scope of Saul's army. And even Saul, who is head and shoulders above all the rest, there's not one man among them that had enough gumption, had enough uh you know just courage. I I don't blame them for being afraid The courage overcomes fear, and there was not one among them that would go face this man, and here David went to face him, not because of the strength that he had in his physical being, but because of the strength that he had in his heart. And uh he knew that he was going in the confidence of the Lord. And so, you know, our lives that we're in, we face many battles. None of us enjoy battles. If possible, we try and avoid the battle. We look for ways to uh uh escape the battle or the struggle, but the fact of the matter is, is battles are a part of life Some of those battles are are not that great and some are are massive. And of course we've all sat under preaching where we've uh likened those battles to the Goliaths in our life and we face and we need to conquer those Goliath, those great battles. But battling in life, I'm not speaking this evening just about the fact that some people are cantankerous and hard to get along with. I'm talking about the struggles that we face, the hardships that we face. The fact of the matter is, is There are there is in the battles, you know, the the Bible well Paul describes for us that he he says, I fought the good fight. And so there is some some good fighting that needs to take place. There's anytime we're fighting for truth and righteousness, anytime we're fighting for God, that's a good fight to be involved in. That's a good battle you may have to be enduring because it's for the Lord Jesus Christ. And we're all going to deal with those battles. We're all going to face those battles at different times in our life. Satan is still a roaring lion, and he is engaged in battle against every believer, and will do all he can to stop us from accomplishing God's will for our life He would involve us in any and every battle he could to slow us down or keep us from getting where God wants us to go. That's why, beloved, we have to fight The Christian life is a fight. If the Christian life wasn't a fight, there would be more people here tonight. If the Christian life wasn't a fight when you got out of bed this morning, there wouldn't have been any struggle or battle with reading your Bible and having your devotion and your walk with God. If the Christian life wasn't a fight, being a witness and talking to people about the Lord wouldn't be a battle in our hearts and minds. It's amazing. Doesn't matter how many times you've done it or how old you get, there's still a battle raging in your soul when you go to approach somebody with the gospel. Is there not? It's just there. You think this is stupid. Like why why do I why am I having this battle? Why is there this struggle? Because we fight not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers of the air. And Satan is the one that leads those. If life wasn't a battle, the Christian life wasn't a battle, you wouldn't have a hard time memorizing Scripture. It's amazing. I can still remember the chorus of rock songs that I knew when I was a teenager But I don't remember any scripture I memorized back then. I memorized so much scripture as a child, it's almost child abuse. Not really. Every single test you took had a scripture on it. Every test for twelve years I had to memorize and write out a scripture verse. in order to pass a test. I don't remember any of them. I mean I'm sure I remember some, but I don't remember that they were on the test, you know. Uh uh just It's amazing the battle that it is, the spiritual warfare that we're in. I want to talk to you tonight about David and how he had this strength that he had. To accomplish and keep going for God and to win this amazing victory here. First of all, I want you to see that he was equipped by the small things. He was equipped by the small things. Look back in verse number 33 through 36. We see that, and Saul said to David, Thou art Not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear, and Took a lamb out of the flock, and I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard and smote him and slew him Thy servant slew both, the lion and the bear, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. What I want you to see is David faced a lion and a bear before he ever faced Goliath He went through some smaller challenges and was successful as he was victorious in those smaller battles and was able to face Goliath with confidence and to go through and have the strength to fight that battle because he had some victories in the smaller areas of his life. He had already faced this lion and the bear. Beloved God tries to prepare you for the big challenge You know, David out there with with the sheep, he probably thought, man, oh there's a lion and and oh what, man, I didn't want to get up tonight. I was resting and Here's a lion, now I gotta go deal with this and save this sheep. And it was inconvenient and it was a struggle, and then ultimately turned into a battle when the lion says here like pounced on him, went out went after him. And uh You know what? He he smote that lion, killed the lion. There's an amazing part in the uh production there where they have this huge lion And uh it's it's up, it's three it's rendered in 3D. And uh this huge lion, uh, you know, David's taking care of this sheep, and this huge lion leaps off. of the top of a rock and it's coming out through the air at David. You know, I mean it's pretty amazing how they make this look so real. And he he he smote the lion. But He thought, well, I got through that finally. Okay. And then a bear came. You ever felt like one thing after the next? Like, come on, Lord. I mean I just got through this thing and now there's something else. But God could be preparing you for what giving you the strength and the confidence you need for the Goliath that's coming down the road And so you've got to look at today's challenge and today's test not as a nuisance, but as a preparation for the next test. as the ability to be able to be victorious when the Goliath comes. Oh, we all want to fight the Goliath and be victorious and have a parade. But you'll never fight the Goliath if you don't first fight. Getting out of bed and reading your Bible. Dealing with those things that we look at and say, oh, it's small. Beloved, we all start out small. Anybody that wants to run a marathon doesn't get up tomorrow morning and run 26 miles. They might have to start by walking a couple miles. You don't just start by that. You don't go to the gym and just say, oh, I'm going to bench press 250 pounds. No, you start, well, let's let's let's test it out with 45 pounds. Let's see. See if that doesn't crush me. I'll start there. Okay, we can go to 65 and and you kinda you work your way up. Well God does the same thing for you, man. If we got hit with the Goliath on day one, boy, we would be taken out But God says, listen, Satan's coming. He has desire to sift you as wheat. He wants to destroy your life. And I know when you get here, Satan's going to attack you in such a violent and powerful way that you need something to build some strength. So I'm going to bring a little challenge in your life right here, a little lion. I'm going to bring a little bear right here that you might build the strength you need. So when you get over here and Satan comes with his Goliath to take you out You'll have the strength and the confidence you need to stand for God. That's what we're supposed to do. And God does that on purpose. David didn't start out being a king, he started leading the sheep. Young people today, they want to be king. They want to start, you know, first day on the job, I'm the president, right? No, you start leading the sheep. It prepares you to be what God wants you to be down the road. God made David Saul's armor bearer In preparation for the day when he would be king. God made David put him in Saul's presence Where he would be playing his heart for Saul. And I imagine in that scenario, he probably learned some things about how the kingdom ran. He probably learned some stuff about what how situations were dealt with and what was proper etiquette in the in the kingdom and in the throne room and so on. He was being prepared for the day when he would stand there. How many other boys in Israel got the chance to be in the throne room with the game? But David did. Because God knew where David was going to be one day. And he says, I see you down here, so right now I'm going to put you in that place so you can learn what you need to learn. So you can have the strength that you need to get. So the day when you're sitting on that throne, you'll be prepared. You'll be ready. And beloved, God brings into our lives challenges. He brings into our lives opportunities, situations which are meant to prepare us, which are meant to get us ready For what's coming down the road, whether that is an attack of Satan or a placement by God for something he wants us to accomplish. You know, he was David was made captain of an army. And because of Saul's jealousy, he demoted him a little bit and made him a captain of a thousand. But David learned how to lead men. And how to go into battle, each thing in preparation for where he would be. What do you think God might be preparing you for? What lion and bear has God allowed into your life to build and prepare you for the next step? David did not start out following every single command, he started out following his dad's instructions. Get up and go feed the animals. You see that's a test. We don't have any kids in here, but those of you that still have kids in the home, you might want to instruct them, teach them that realize the the importance of doing that small thing. A lot of times we look at the small stuff in our life and we think, well, it's not a big deal if I don't do, if I don't really do this. It's not a big deal if I'm not successful in this area or that area because that's not the big battles. But you see, those things are what prepare you to win the big battle. That's what you've got to remember. Today's challenges may seem small, but beloved the Bible tells us he that is faithful in that which is least is also faithful in much And he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much. You see, God is saying those little things matter. Oh, it doesn't really matter if I read my Bible today because that's not the great battle. That's not the big battle. That's not the Goliath. But we won't be ready for Goliath if we're not winning with the lion and the bear. We want to have the strength that we need when Goliath comes. We've got to be winning with the lion and the bear Oh, it's not that big a deal if I if I'm not really at church. If I'm not really engaged in the services. It's not that big a deal if I'm not really paying attention. But it's a lion and a bear that we need to be victorious in so we have the strength to fight Goliath Now sometimes, and I'm sure you've heard people say they're going through the same thing over and over and over. Sometimes that happens because we're not passing the test. God keeps bringing this challenge into your life, whatever it might be, because you're not passing the test. You you don't get to go on to algebra two until you pass algebra one. And God's saying you've got to get enough discipline in your life, you've got to get enough understanding of biblical principle, you've got to get enough spirituality in your life to pass this test so that you can go on to the next test. So that you have what you need. You'll get the strength you need to defeat the enemy. You know, when you defeat the enemy, you gain confidence. Can I say you gain faith? When God allows you to win a battle, your faith is increased. I mean, can you see David standing before this man That everybody else is afraid to even go talk to. And I don't think David was just talking smack because he was a punk kid. You know what I'm saying? But he's looking at the man. He says, listen, bud Uh I killed a lion and a bear in the power of God. And today we're gonna not I'm not even just gonna kill you. I'm gonna cut your head off and we're gonna feed you to the birds. Okay, just letting you know. I mean, you talk about the confidence of this young man when everybody else was afraid. And he came up with that. Why? Because he had defeated the lion and the bear, not in his own strength, but with something that he knew came from God. A confidence rooted and foundational in God. And he came to him in the power of God. He said, You come to me with the sword and spear, but I come to you in the name of the Lord God Almighty. And he is going to win this battle today. Bob Humphries is speaking tomorrow morning. Really wanted to go to the funeral, but just travel times and flights, I couldn't I couldn't make it happen with everything going on this weekend. Obviously I have to be back here for Sunday, but Uh so I'm not gonna get to go to the funeral, but Bob Humphrey's gonna be speaking at the funeral, and I was telling him, you know, that faith casts out fear. That's what faith does. It casts out fear. You think about David here, like, weren't you afraid, David? Weren't you? And he says, is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? The cause and the in and God was was more important. Faith in God was stronger than all the fear. I have to tell you that sometimes in the middle of our court case, I was taken with fear. I was looking at what we were up against and wondering, okay. But faith in God cast out fear. Oh, that familiar passage of scripture. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, what is it? I will fear no evil. Why, though? For thou art with me. You see, faith in him cast out fear. It removes it. Not faith in self, but faith in God. David said to him Verse number 46 here he said, This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand. This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand. He had strength Because he was equipped by being victorious in those small things. Listen, the little things are important, and we've got to win those victories We've got to realize that their preparation. We can't just say, oh, this is not that big a deal. Because you won't ever Win the victory with Goliath until you're winning over the lion and the bear. Then I want you to see that David was empowered by the Spirit. He was empowered by the Spirit. Now you have to turn back to 1 Samuel chapter 16 to see this, because this is where he was anointed by God, and the Spirit of God fell upon him. But in 1 Samuel chapter 16, verse number 11. We you know the story. I know all of you have read this and many of you even told this to the kids, but and Samuel said unto Jesse Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him, for we will not sit down till he come hither in the production uh of David and Goliath, all the all the brothers were standing up there and you know the prophet is on the ground and standing with father and and one of the boys sits down. And he's like, I said we won't sit down and the boy comes up, you know. I don't know why that's included in the in the Bible here, like why why that was important. I guess nobody's gonna rest until they find out what God wanted, but he says, We will not sit down. And he sent, and he brought him in. Now he was ready, and with all of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look upon. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. The Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. Now you know, beloved, in the Old Testament, the Spirit of God came upon people. Like he came upon Samson. The Spirit of God came upon an individual by special anointing of God to accomplish a purpose for God. Do you know in the New Testament The Spirit of God dwells in us. And that Spirit of God is not, I think sometimes people, especially in your You know, more Pentecostal type movements. They they they look at this special second anointing or second baptism or the ability to get more of the Holy Spirit. Listen, at salvation you got all the Holy Spirit you're going to get. And what it boils down to is how much of the Holy Spirit how much of you does the Holy Spirit have? That's what it is It's not that you get more of the Holy Spirit, or that at some point you can get a special anointing like here in the Old Testament, where he was anointed with oil and the Spirit of God came upon him. The Spirit of God dwells in you. In the New Testament. And he is there and he's with you all the time. The Bible is clear, beloved, if we're going to have victory, it comes through being filled with the Holy Spirit. The Bible says in Ephesians 5. 18, and be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. I ask you today, are you filled? David was empowered by the Spirit. Strength to live the Christian life comes from being empowered by the Spirit of God. It's not something that we have, an ability that we have, a strength that we have in our hand. But it's an empowering of the Spirit of God that comes from being filled with the Spirit. You know, it's not really that the spirit gets stronger in you I think what it really is is that the flesh gets weaker. You guys have all heard the story of the Indian with the two dogs. And for whatever reason he he would he would bet on his dogs and he would always win. And somebody asked him one day, how do you know which dog's going to win every week? He said, It's easy, which one I feed. The one I'm starving is the one that's gonna lose. And that's where we are as Christians. What are you feeding? Are you feeding the spirit? Are you feeding the flesh You want to be strong and in the power of God's might, then you need to feed the Spirit. How do you feed the feed? How do you feed the Spirit of God? Well, you do those spiritual things, you spend time in the Word of God. You be at church and spend time fellowshipping with God's people. Anything that you do that falls in line with God's will for your life is feeding your spirit Good Christian music is a great way to feed your spirit, to strengthen your spirit. And anything that you do that's contrary to God's plan and God's will for your life, it grieves the Spirit and weakens his ability to empower you. You remember there was a time when the Spirit of God was on Saul But he lost it. The Bible says in chapter 18, verse number 12: Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him and was departed from Saul. The Spirit of God had left. Now, we don't the Spirit is dwelling in you. He's not going to leave you. You're not going to be 100% without the influence or power of the Spirit. It's there But you can so grieve the Spirit of God that his ability to strengthen you and his ability to help you is so diminished that it's like he's not present You won't feel his presence. I've I've sat with many Christians. It's just like, I just don't even know if I'm saved. Why? Well, because I uh it's been so long since God has stirred me in any way. It's been so long since God spoke to my heart It's been so long since I've been, I just wonder if I'm even saved. But it might just be they've so grieved the Spirit of God that they've quenched him and they've just about put his fire out. You need to feed the Spirit. When the Spirit came upon people in the Word of God, miraculous things happened. Not things in their own strength. I mean, you think about Gideon with his 300 men. Those 135,000 men that he won a victory over? Was that because he was such a great soldier? No. It's the Spirit of God How are you and I going to be victorious through the Spirit of God? Pentecost, 3,000 people got saved? Was that because of the eloquence of Peter? No. It was the Spirit of God. It is the Holy Spirit, being empowered by the Holy Spirit to live this Christian life. Many people want to win the battle. But the problem is, is they've undermined their ability to fight by starving the Spirit. Would you turn your Bibles to Ephesians chapter number five? I want you to see this, and maybe if you don't have it underlined already, maybe you want to underline this in your Bible, but there's three characteristics that are present, telltale signs for somebody that is filled with the Spirit. They're given to us in this powerful passage, or we know here it tells us I read to you verse number 18 earlier where it says, and be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit And then the next sentence gives us three characteristics that are present in any Christian who's filled with the Spirit. The first word of each verse is those characteristics. If you don't have them underlined, you might want a circle, be filled with the Spirit, and point to or draw a line to these three characteristics. One is verse number 19, the first thing is Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. So speaking praise, and then giving thanks. Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and then submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of the Lord. Somebody that's filled with the Spirit is going to be doing these things. These are going to be present in your heart and if you're like in your life. If you don't have a song in your heart, if you don't have the joy of the Lord in your heart, Listen, if you're always grumpy, it's a pretty good sign that you're not filled with the Spirit of God. Because the Spirit of God is going to give you a new song. The Spirit of God is going to give you some joy. And not that you don't face a battle, not that you don't ever wake up and and and don't feel good and have a bad day. As a general rule, you should have a song on your lips. You should be singing. You should speak to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. You know, somebody that's filled with the Spirit is going to be giving thanks. If you're always complaining, if you're always finding a problem, You're not filled with the Spirit of God. Because that's not the way the Spirit works. The Spirit is praising, the Spirit is thanking God, giving thanks always for all things unto God the Father in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting one to another. Submitting one to another. You know, if you have a problem with authority. You're not filled with the Spirit of God. And in today's world. You know, I've talked to a lot of young entrepreneurs. And you know what the number one reason why they want to have their own business? I don't want a boss I don't want anybody telling me what to do. What they don't realize is when you have your own business, you have a whole bunch of bosses. You don't have just one, you have lots and lots of bosses. Everybody you work for is a new boss, and that's just the way it is. But they you know they learn. They'll figure it out one day. They want to be their own boss The Bible says somebody filled with the Spirit of God, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. It's amazing when you see the Spirit working in somebody's heart, in a home, between a husband and wife In a church, between a pastor and and and members. Listen, there's nothing special about me. You know that I am not That I do not think I've had people tell me before, Pastor, stop saying bad things about yourself from the pulpit. We don't like to hear it. Because I'm not anything special But it's amazing to me when the Spirit of God causes men in the church that I look at, they're more spiritual than I am. Men in this church, they're successful. Men in this church that that you know have have done it right and I and I look at them and say, man, Why would they bother submitting to me as pastor? I mean, who am I? Why would they do that? It doesn't even make sense to me. But the Spirit of God does that. And it's not about me. It's about God. And honoring God. And the Spirit of God is what makes that relationship work. And it's just when you see that working out in people's lives, it's an amazing picture. And you look at it and say, man, God is amazing how He does this. You know, beloved, if we're going to win the battle, we've got to be filled with the Spirit. They kept saying in in this production, they kept saying, the battle is the Lord's. Now they said it a lot louder than that. The battle is the Lord's. The battle is the Lord's. The battle is the Lord's. The thing is it's not, it's not really our battle God's bringing it through it to help us prepare and be ready for the next thing. But the battle is the Lord's. I've told you before about my best friend when I was growing up, Jaime, little Mexican guy who was about this big on me. And we were best friends and we went everywhere together. But I told you about his older brother, Chewie, whose name fits him. I mean he was he was a big guy man. He you know had to be three hundred pounds and about six four, six five, and uh he was stout And there were several times, more than once, that we were getting into a scuffle, and we would call Chewy We say, Chewy! We would run and get Chewy and and Chewy would come out and somehow that had a calming effect. We would stand behind Chewie and be like, yeah, you go go, you know. We would be like, get him, you know. Chewy would uh he would walk out there with his bat and ready to go to town and uh we would stand back and just be you know, we'll be all tough behind behind Chewie, you know. Like, yeah, now I'm telling you, and we just hope we don't run into those guys again when Chewie's not around, right? But The thing is, is I had a lot of confidence when Shui was there. Had a lot of, you know, a lot of strength and boldness when Shui was there because that battle wasn't mine anymore. And the battle is the Lord's. And you have confidence when God's the one fighting for you. And you know that. You can stand up and say, get thee behind me, Satan. Because God will bring the victory Listen, I'm gonna hurry through this last point here, but I want you to see that he also he was embarrassed by his sin. He was embarrassed by his sin. You have to turn to Psalms 51 for this. I mean we could turn to 2 Samuel chapter 11 and read the story of Bathsheba, but everybody here knows the story of Bathsheba, and you know what took place and happened there. But ultimately the Bible records for us this tragic event in his life, and we see that he was just a man. And that he did fall. But even though he fell into sin and allowed this to come into his life, and we know that it was uh about a year's time where he struggled and battled with this, but ultimately you know that the prophet came to him and the prophet stuck his finger in his face and said, Thou art the man And David's heart smote him, and he humbled himself before God. He was Embarrassed. He was ashamed. He humbled himself because of his sin. Listen, Christian, none of us are going to win every single battle. None of us are going to live this life and and never sin again. I mean man, wouldn't that be amazing if we could do that? But when sin comes, we've got to humble ourselves. Acknowledge that sin like David did in Psalms 51. Not going to read the whole thing, but just hearing these words again. David, when Nathan the prophet came unto him after he had gone in to Bathsheba, he says, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness. According unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me Against thee, and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest and be clear when thou judgest. David committed sin. He was caught. Be sure your sin will find you out. He was caught in his sin. We know the story. We know he was chastened because of his sins. God will chasten you. Beloved, you don't have to wait till the chastening comes. You can acknowledge and admit and turn from that at any time. Allow that embarrassment to be there, that shame before our Holy God, against thee and thee only have I committed this sin. And that strength of the Lord Jesus Christ can be restored. He confessed his sin. And God forgave him. And God will do the same thing for you and I. The questions for you tonight, the challenge, is having the strength of David to fight and win those battles. Because we've we face we all face battles. Allow the small things to equip you, to get you ready for the big battle. Live empowered by the Spirit of God. We've the battle is the Lord's, it's not ours. But we need the Spirit of God to fight for us. And beloved, be embarrassed, be ashamed when we sin against him. Confess and forsake it. Get back up and go for God in his strength. And you'll have the strength of David