Your Bibles this morning, turn to the book of Genesis. Genesis. We're gonna be in I'm going to give you some scripture before we're there in a little while, but Genesis chapter number fourteen is kind of our main text as we get into it this morning. Last Sunday we opened the Word of God to the book of Genesis, chapter number one, and we read in the very first four words of our Bible, we're introduced in the beginning, God. And we looked at that title of God given to us there, the Elohim, God, the Creator, the Powerful One, the One who is the Creator of the Heaven and the Earth, the strong one. We we studied that word out just a little bit, Elohim, and realizing the beginning of it comes from the root word the E and the L together, L, which literally mean means God, the strong one. We we looked at Elohim as the the plural entity of that and uh described how it speaks to us of the of the Trinity, the God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. looked at that word and recognized as an individual that we must first and foremost uh see God As Elohim, before we see him as anything else. He has to be the great authority in our life, the God, the Creator, the one we acknowledge and recognize And we're going to be look at some other names of God this morning. We want to look at the name El Elion. El Elion Understanding these names of God gives us an understanding of who God is Himself. C. H. Spurgeon said this. The highest science, the loftiest speculation, the mightiest philosophy which could ever engage the attention of a child of God Is the name, the nature, and the person, the doing and the existence of the great God, whom he calls Father There is something exceedingly improving to the mind in a contemplation of the divinity It is a subject so vast that all our thoughts are lost in its immensity, so deep that our pride is drowned in its infinity. No subject to contemplate will tend to more humble the mind than that of God. Well the subject humbles the mind. It also expands the mind. For he who thinks of God will have a larger mind than the man who simply plods around on this narrow globe. The most excellent study for expanding the soul is the knowledge of the Godhead. Nothing will so enlarge the intellect. Nothing so magnifies the whole soul of man as a devout, earnest investigation of the great subject of deity. Plunge yourself into the God's Head's deepest, immense wealth of knowledge. Learning about this person God. And beloved, I could not possibly do justice this morning to the magnitude of the name of God. that we're gonna try and look at. I I don't know how to bring to light or to paint for you a picture that would anyway uh come close to giving to us a picture of who God is and his power and the blessing of God for us, but I want to this morning uh have us look at this name El Elion. It literally means God, the most high. El meaning God, and Elion, a reference to the Most High. We see first of all, I'm going to give you three points this morning. His position is supreme, his power is sovereign, and his plan is sure. And I hope to, we won't be very long, but I hope to uh draw us into his presence this morning and I pray that the magnitude of this and the importance of it will settle in your heart and mind. First of all we see that his position is supreme. El Elion, that that name Elion, that word Elion is used to describe the highest of things. It is, you know, the best of the best. You see two kids arguing, uh, you know, well, my dad's stronger than your dad. Well, my dad's stronger than your dad. Well my dad can pick up a car. Well my dad can pick up a bus. Well my dad could pick up a building. You know and and the idea of the highest the there is no higher. That's what Elion is. It literally is a description, a definitive, a top of the line. This is the highest, the utmost. It's used in several different ways in the Old Testament to describe several things First of all, as Joseph was interpreting the dream, he mentions uh the difference in the baskets in Genesis. Don't turn there, but I'm not because I'm going to move real quickly here, but in Genesis chapter 40 and verse number 17 He says, and in the uppermost basket there was all manner of bakements for Pharaoh and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head. So he says, hey, in that uppermost basket, that word uppermost is translated from the word Elion, that same descriptive term. describing the very top basket, the basket that the birds would have had access to that they could have eaten out of. And he says, in the uppermost basket, Elyon, the highest, the top basket. Um in Daniel chapter twenty-eight and verse number one. Daniel describing the position of those who are obedient. He says, and it shall come to pass if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God. to observe and to do all his commandments which God uh which I command thee this day that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. He was telling them, listen, if you as God's people will observe and obey and keep the commandments of God, God will lift you up. He'll set you on high And he said on high, but he said above all the nations of the earth, and establishing the fact that that that word high there was literally translated from the same word that we're using to describe God. El Elion, Elion, that word means highest, the upmost, and he's saying, listen, as a nation, you'll be the highest because you're obedient and following God. When used with the conjunction or in conjunction with the word El or El Elion, it is God the highest. God the utmost, God the most high. And we referenced that in Sunday school briefly as we were talking about how oftentimes in the New Testament demons or any time a demon or Satan himself came in contact with Christ, he would refer to him as God the Most High or as the Son of the Most High God that same reference or in in uh recognizing and acknowledging them God to be the greatest and the highest Now you should be in Genesis chapter number 14. This is where we want to look first of all here as we are considering the fact that his position is supreme, that God's position is supreme. Now in the Old Testament here, this is where if you had uh hopefully you were in our Old Testament class last year and some of this stuff will be reviewed for you. But you remember in in Genesis chapter thirteen that Abraham and Lot had experienced great blessings of God, that their their flocks were growing in abundance and and things were going really well and they're going so good that you know these two neighbors didn't have anything to do except to fight with each other. And so they said, Oh no, we are our you know, uh our herdsmen are having problems with your herdsmen and and to save uh the problem. La why don't you choose which way you would like to go and whatever you choose, I'll I'll take the other. You just do whatever. I mean And so Lot lifted up his eyes on some well-watered plains. You remember that? And Lot moved towards the city. What was the city he moved towards? Sodom and Gomorrah, remember he moved towards that city. These well-watered plains, he moved towards the city of Sodom and Gomorrah, and and uh ultimately he finds some some you know, uh camaraderie with the people there and gets involved in that city and this is not a study on that per se, but we see that he is there in that region. Well in that region Uh there were nine kings that were having a little bit of a spat, and there were four kings of of Canaan and five uh adversary kings and And these kings rose up, four of them rose up against the five, and and uh they came in and said, we're gonna defeat these kings. And so they came in and they they uh attacked and this little bit of a civil war squimish broke out. Now this is the first record in the Word of God of a war taking place. This is the first in the you know the book we're only at Genesis chapter 14, so this is the first one recorded for us in the pages of scripture. And this little battle takes place. Well what's notable for our story today is that in the midst of this battle, they defeat the king of Sodom and Gomorrah. And they take everybody captive in that area, which who is living in that area? Lot. The problem is that they did not realize that they had taken Lot captive and God had not given them permission to take Lot captive. And so what happens here in the story is Abraham gets word that they took Lot. And Abraham says, wait a minute. Yeah, no, we're not going to do that. God the Father looks down from heaven and says, Okay, you guys can run around here and do this if you want to, but Lot here is one of mine And I didn't give you permission for that. So Abraham, I want you to go get him. So Abraham, okay, here we're talking about kings. We're talking about these these uh essentially you know men with armies and large groups and they just defeated other armies and they took captive an entire people but Abraham says uh hey He gets 118 of his servants, and he says, guys, let's go. We're going to go take care of business. And uh they go with 118 of his servants, and they defeat the armies that just won these battles and they get Lot back and they get all of the possessions back and the other people that were captive of Sodom and Gomorrah and they bring them all back and they're coming back into the city and these people are are coming back into the city and they're oh yeah and and the king of Sodom and Gomorrah is there and he's like Well how why are you guys back? And they're like, oh Abraham came and got us. Uh yeah, he's out there. You should go you should go see him, you know And uh so we see here now if if you're there, look in verse number 18. These kings come out to see Abraham, and he says, And Melchizedek, king of Salem Brought forth bread and wine, and he was a priest of the most high God. And he blessed him, and he said, Blessed be Abraham of the Most High God, possessor of heaven and earth. So we are introduced here for the very first time in the pages of Scripture, this particular name of God, El Elion. the Most High God. Introduced to us here as this group comes back, you see, this nation thought that they were in control. This nation thought that they had this plan. But the fact of the matter is, is God is in control, the Most High God, he is supreme. And we're introduced here not just to the king, but this King Melchizedek uh is a type of Christ, a picture of Christ, because Melchizedek here is a prophet, a priest and a king, a position only held by Jesus Christ himself, so he's a picture of that. And being the King of Salem is the King of Peace. And of course Christ is the King of Peace. And so we see that picture drawn for us in a secondary way, but the idea here is that we are introduced to God, the Most High God. El Elion. His position is over all of heaven and earth. He is a God, possessor of heaven and earth. His position is supreme. He is above all. Above every everything. There is not one that is greater or above above him or has more power than he has. Psalms 115, verse number 3 says, But our God is in the heavens. He hath done whatsoever hath pleased Whatsoever yet pleased, he did whatsoever yet please, God is supreme. He is supreme, he rules supreme Because of that, his power is sovereign. He has the sovereign will to do as he would like to. He rules in the affairs of men. You know, people talk about uh how the the best-laid plans of mice and men and you know how they fall apart and uh how people in in their mind's eye, well, they they had a plan, they had set an agenda, this is what I was going to do, uh, but then those plans went all awry. You know, many times uh it would behoove us to say, well if the Lord wills This is what I'm going to do. Because ultimately we we know that God reigns sovereign. He is supreme in the affairs and leads in the affairs of men and in our lives. And many times you may have an agenda, you may have a plan, but beloved, we are subject to the Almighty God, to El Elion. You remember, if you would, turn over to the book of Daniel. In Daniel, there's several stories where we see the sovereignty of God. First of all, regarding three Hebrew children. The three Hebrew children, they had been told that they needed to bow or they were going to burn. You know the story. Nebuchadnezzar lifted up in pride. He built this. Great statue. It says you guys gotta all bow down to this. And everybody bows, but Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo, they don't bow. And and and of course their the tractors, their enemies, they come and say, hey, those three Hebrew children, they didn't they didn't bow. And he says, well, let's give them another chance. Bring them up. And he says, now I know you guys probably didn't understand the instructions Okay, the instructions were when the psaltery plays and when the trumpet sounds, when the music begins, you guys bow like everybody else. Okay, does that make sense? Uh because if you don't bow, um You're gonna burn. And they look at the king and they say, Well, we're we're not gonna bow We're not going to bow to uh why because we serve El Elion, we serve the Most High God, we're not going to bow to a statue that you've raised up that you've set up and and and and and of course the king is angry and he says, heat the furnace seven times hotter and uh they say, well we're not gonna bow and and and so They end up throwing Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego into the furnace. But now look in Daniel chapter 3 and verse number 17. In Januar 3. 17 he says, they say, if it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us. But you know they said, listen, we know that God can deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And they said, He will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. They had no doubt about that. One way or the other, they were going to be delivered from the king. And then verse number 18 he says, But if not, be it known unto thee, O King. That we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. Because they were subject to El Elion. They were not subject to the sovereign will of Nebuchadnezzar. They were subject to the sovereign will of God Almighty. They heated the furnace seven times hotter, and you guys know the story that the men that cast them into the fire ended up dying. The guys that that just threw him in got so close to the fire that they ended up dying. And yet then the king standing back there and He's probably thinking, okay, we're done with that. And then they look and have you ever seen inside of a really hot stove or a really hot pipe or something where you can actually see through the metal I remember the first night I moved into my house in Loganville. Uh the heat wasn't on yet, and uh they had sold us that house and they had sold it as a working fireplace. And the heat wasn't on yet and I had just moved in. I was there all by myself. My family wasn't there yet. And so I lit the fireplace for some heat. And it's about twelve thirty at night and I'm talking to Mary on the phone. And then after a few minutes I tell her, I gotta go, the house is on fire. And I put the phone down. And I turn I turn around and they had used the wrong kind of chim chimney material. So the chimney, I had started to fire in the fireplace, and the chimney had fallen away from the wall, and the pipe, I could see through the pipe, I could see it was so it was red, red hot, I could see see through the pipe and I could see the embers flying through the pipe. I can still picture them today. The problem is because it had fallen away from the wall, all the embers stuff was not going up the chimney outside. It was going into the room and starting fires all around the room. And so all the stuff I had just moved in there into that space was now there's little fires popping up inside the room, things catching on fire. Very first night we moved into the house, but I still remember it like it was yesterday, looking at that chimney was red hot and I could literally see through it and I could see these embers inside that pipe. Now I got the fire out and everything was fine. Uh I did call Mary back later. Uh she was pretty worried for a little while. Um but So I can see the king here looking at this fire that they had heated seven times hotter, and now they could see into it and look in the word of God with me at verse number 26. Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace, and he spake, and he said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abindigo, ye servants of the Most high God, that is El Elion. Come forth and come hither. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abinago came forth in the midst of the fire. They came out, they came, and we know, of course, that they had not even that didn't even smell like smoke. Because why? Because of the sovereign power of the Almighty God. What's mind-boggling is you just one chapter later, Nebuchadnezzar, if you read this, the end of that verses right there, you'll see Nebuchadnezzar talking about how Man, this is God the Most High. Everybody in the nation needs to worship this God. And nobody can say anything bad about this because there is nobody that has this kind of power. And yet you just go one chapter later And we see the pride of Nebuchadnezzar called into question. Look in Daniel chapter 4 and verse number 30. Daniel chapter four and verse number thirty, then the king spake, and he said, Is not this great Babylon That I have built for the house of the kingdom by the mighty might of my power and for the honor of my majesty. While the word was in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven saying, O King Nebuchadnezzar, to hear thee is it is spoken, the kingdom is departed from thee. And they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beast of the field. They shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and seven times shall pass over thee until thou know that the most high ruleth in the kingdom of men El Elion. Nebuchadnezzar, you plucked up with pride. He said, Look at the kingdom that I built. Oh, look at what I accomplished. Oh, look at how I did this. And God looked down and says, oh, I hear your your proud uh flaunts of your skills and abilities. I hear you Praising yourself, Nebuchadnezzar, you're going to walk around on all fours. You're gonna your your nails are gonna grow like the wild beasts of the field. You're gonna eat grass off the ground for seven years You're going to do this because of your pride and no acknowledgement of El Elion, the most high God and beloved, can I tell you this morning You in your life you may think, oh, look at the business that I built, look at the bank account that I've acquired, look at the education that I have gained. Oh, look at the family that God or that I have. Look at how well uh look at how good of a dad that I am and God saying you better look out You better look out because it's not you, it is the El Elion, the Most High God, and his blessings on your life. And his ability that he's given you to learn, and his ability that he's given you to work. And we as God's people have to humble ourselves and submit ourselves to that the supreme sovereign will of an almighty God can I tell you that God's plan is sure he has a plan for you. You're fearfully and wonderfully made in the image of God. And he has a plan for you just like he has a plan for this family down here. He has a plan for your life. And you and I need to be ready and willing to submit to God's plan. Whatever that plan is, too many of us are taking life by the tails and doing what we want to do and forgiving about El Ilion. Forgetting about God the Most High. Forgiving that He is supreme, that He is sovereign, and that His will is to be done on earth as it is in heaven. We need to submit to him. He has a plan for your life. Beloved, are you willing? Are you ready to acknowledge to the sovereign will of God in your life? I wonder, does God have to take you or I as low as he did Nebuchadnezzar? It's a sad thing, but you guys know it to be true that many people will not respond to God until God takes them through the fire. God can call their name, God can use a still small voice, God could use the song of an angel, but they ignore him and ignore him and ignore him. And it is not until the life of their loved one is laying there in the hospital bed, or until they themselves find all the things that they value in this world are on the brink of being lost. that they'll pause and say, okay, God, I'm not in control. You are. Lord, what would you have me to do? And so I'm asking you this morning, don't wait for God to get you down on your back. Don't wait for God to take the life of somebody that you love or care about. Don't wait until that has to come into your life Submit to God's will right now and say, God, I see you as El Elion. I know that you are supreme. I know that you are sovereign. I know that you are the most high God. And I acknowledge that in my life. I yield to you and to your will for me. Understanding beloved, he has a plan for you. Are you willing to acknowledge his sovereignty in your life? He is high and lifted up. Boy, it should give you an eye that know God. It should give you confidence. It should give you peace. It should give you strength to know the sovereignty of God is at work in your life. Like the three Hebrew children. They said, hey, God's going to deliver us. We know God's going to deliver us from your hand, but if not We're not going to bow. What I'm saying is they had some confidence because they knew God. Those of you that have that relationship with God and you know God, it ought to give you some peace in your life. Regardless of the storms or the heartache or the trials that come, we know who's in control. We know that God is still on the throne, He's still sovereign, He still rules in the affairs of men, and not one hair of your head can be. Be harmed, except that God, your heavenly Father, who loved Himself and gave Himself for you, allows it to come It ought to give you confidence. It ought to give you hope. It ought to give you great peace in your heart in this tumultuous world where people have no peace. That you can go through it and say, hey, it really doesn't matter what happens in Washington. It really doesn't matter what happens in Annapolis, because I know the God who's in control of it all. And He is my God. And he loves me. And he's taking care of me. But you can only claim that when you are submitted to him. When you know that you're under his hand of protection. What a confidence we see that we should have because his plan is sure, acknowledging his sovereignty. Lastly, this morning I would implore you here, if he is not your God, that you would accept his salvation. God's plan first is that you would see that his son came and died for you and gave his life, that you could know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. That this sovereign God, the one who rules over heaven and earth, El Elion, the Most High God, humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross, so that you and I could have our sins forgiven So that we could know and be restored into a right relationship with God and know that our sins are forgiven If you're here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you've never asked Him to forgive you of your sins, I would implore you to do it today. Just acknowledge who God is. I mean, I can't imagine the hubris of somebody who would want to say there is no God. I think we all know there's something a whole lot bigger and a whole lot smarter than us in control of things. There's something way beyond our capacity that's keeping things running. And you might not have the doctrinal wherewithal or the theological background to try and express it or explain it, but in your heart of hearts you know that there's something out there and it's a it's a God-shaped hole in your heart and it can only be filled when you put your faith and trust in him and restored in a right relationship with him. That's God's plan. He sent his son so that you could know his forgiveness. I ask you this morning. Most people, if they believe in God at all, they believe in some false God Some God they manufactured in their own mind. Why would you want to serve a God that you can manufacture in your own mind? I mean, if I can build it with my own hands, why in the world would I want to bow to it? Why would I want to serve it? If it's something that I have the power to make, how is that going to help me? I need something bigger than me. I need El Elion. I need the Most High God, the one with the power to change things. For many, it is only when the greatest tragedy of life strike. That we're finally brought to the place where we realize we're not in control. But beloved, we could acknowledge that, admit it now. And submit to God Almighty, El Elion. God the Most High. You accept Him as sovereign in your life. You accept Him to rule over the things of your life. of your life, the pattern and path of your life, submit to his rule and submit to his will. But the joy is if you do that, you also get to rest in his arms. Come unto me, all you that are labor and heavy Laden, for I will give you rest. But it's only when you've seen him as El Elion and when you come to him in submission that you get to rest in his arms. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed