And uh this morning what we're going to talk about, the tale of the tongue, uh, is a tale that is told. Uh it's the tendency that we have uh in the flesh to And it really is something that we deal with a lot. And you know, obviously we communicate a lot, we talk a lot, and And you know, the scripture says in much word there there wanteth not sin. In much speech or conversation, I don't know the exact word there, but it talks about When you do a whole lot of talking, you're probably going to be sinning. I mean it's just it just wanteth not sin and somebody that's talking all the time. And um so that's something that we deal with And we want to look this morning, the tail of the tongue, uh, referring to this speech process. This little member of our body, even though it's small in size, uh has great ability to sway the hearts and of men and women. We can bless them and we can curse them with our tongue. We have the ability to In the same breath, praise Almighty God and curse God. And you know, it's within our ability and power to do that, so we have to exercise control and use uh godly language and godly communication as we do this. So this morning we want to look at the i the impact of the wrong kind of communication. What does it mean? And look at some of the things that we are given to. in our sin nature in the flesh to communicate uh and we want to look at that. So first of all, the idea of the control of the tongue That would be the impact that the tongue has, the control that the tongue has on on us as individuals. Turn your Bibles to James chapter 3. James chapter 3. Our text verse for this series is Proverbs 1821. Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof. Just the idea that the the great power that there is in the tongue, death and life, or in the power of the tongue. But if you're in James chapter three, that very familiar passage, and really I would say I that key text with regards to the tongue. We're going to start reading in verse number three because that's where it deals with the control of the tongue. The idea that the tongue can control us. And here it says in verse 3 through 5, he says, Behold, we put bits in the horse's mouth that they may obey us. And we turn about their whole body. Behold also the ship, which, though it be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm. Whithersoever the governor listeth. Even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth So we have these examples here and I know I'm not giving you anything new if you've been in church at any time, uh length of time at all. You've heard and And discuss this idea that, you know, a bit, the example of a bit is given to us, and that this little bit can uh move a horse. It can turn a horse about. Now I tried to look up an average weight of a horse, but there's so many different breeds of horses and so many different kinds of horses, nobody's has an average. They say a horse can range from about eight hundred and fifty fifty to twenty five hundred pounds. And it depends on the breed and and all of that. And so there's not really an average in there, it just depends on the you could get an average of maybe a particular kind of horse, but not of of the of the horse species. And anyways, you think about that idea, even if it was, let's say, a thousand pounds, uh, this thousand pound animal is turned about and moved with just this little, you know, probably one pound bit that uh m moves him about. And that control that that exercises over us, that's a very small part of our body, but has the ability to do great things. I mean you think about it how How just a word of encouragement can brighten your day. I mean, just somebody speaking a word of encouragement or just somebody expressing some gratitude to you And you just wow. I mean I wasn't expecting them to to to really ex say thank you. I wasn't expecting them to recognize that, but man, that means a lot. I I really appreciate that and it brightens your spirit. Just a word of encouragement I mean, I know that you've all heard the stories about people that have been on literally on the brink of suicide. And somebody calls, somebody stops by and speaks a word of encouragement and brings them back from the brink of suicide. Now In the same respect, just a simple word of criticism, a simple negative word, a derogatory comment Can also have a great effect on somebody. Somebody whose day was going good and feel you know they were feeling fine and the sun was shining and they were enjoying themselves and somebody comes by and just says, now why did you do that? Why'd you do it like that? Anybody knows you don't do it like that. And then all of a sudden They're just despondent, just like man. I was trying to help. I was trying to be a blessing and and they didn't appreciate it and they didn't even like the way I did it and Man, just that quick. Yeah, just with the word, all of a sudden our whole spirit and demeanors changed. And that's the power that the tongue has To be able to move us about. Just us individually. Then he steps it up a little bit and he gives us the example of the rudder there, the helm of a ship And uh, you know, how that this ship uh is moved about with just a little helm. And I think that the example and the increase there could be a liken to you've got one person on a horse and the power to move this horse and you and But then he likens it to a ship. And think about that, how many people can get on a ship? And how many people can be impacted by our tongue and moved about with the tongue, the power of the tongue? And he even says there, you know, the wind blows, the storm blows, the fierce wind is blowing, and yet still the ship is able to keep its course because of the little helm. And the winds of life can blow against us? And we can endure, but sometimes somebody with a tongue speaking in a derogatory or negative way Could discourage us to get off us off course. Just turn us aside. We can endure the strong, fierce winds, but the helm. And we can stay on course with the right kind of words. And so the tongue has the power to affect not just one, but to affect many. And then he gives us the example of a spark. He says there in verse number, even so the tongue is a little member and boasts of great things, but how great a matter a little fire kindled it. I know that you guys have all uh at one point or another At least I think. It's happened to me more than once. I imagine it's happened to some of you have lost control of fire. Uh had a fire going somewhere, doing something, and the fire kinda got out of control. I mean And the you know, first time I was pretty young and uh we were burning candles in a in a fort that me and my friends had had and the fort was inside of the church garage. So we were in the attic of the church garage and we had candles up there which we obviously were not supposed to have. And uh one of these candles tipped over and started burning and we were a long ways from water and I don't know how how old I was, but I know that Like I had to stand on top of a bucket on top of the hood of the lawnmower to get into the loft. And so I jumped down and I ran to the church and filled a bucket with water and ran back And my friend was up there, you know, like trying to stomp out this fire and uh I mean I thought the thing was gonna place was gonna burn down. And I stood up on top of this bucket on top of the lawnmower, holding a bucket of water, trying to get it up through the hole to him And he was able to put it out. And I don't know if Dad ever ever found out that that we almost burned the church garage down Um, but there's other times, you know, burning burning things in the yard, the the the brush kinda catches the grass and the grass starts, you know, spreading. If you didn't see it, you know, who knows how far it would go. I remember one time My sister Melissa, for five or six years, she worked at the post office in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. And she would ride the bus to work every day, and she loved that. She loved getting up. And she's like, Oh, I gotta go to work and she would get her stuff and she'd go stand at the bus stop and uh exercising some independence and going but in the evening when she got off about nine thirty. I th I think the bus wasn't running, but either way we didn't want her riding the bus home at night like that. And so we would pick her up. And one night, uh, you know mom or I or somebody around had to go get her and bring her home and I went to pick her up. And as I approached the post office, there was this orange glow in the sky. And you know, I I immediately I thought something is burning. And so I went to the post office and I was a few minutes early and so I drove like a block and a half a down the road to see where this orange glow was coming from and there was a huge brick building uh that was on fire. And this brick building, uh the flames trying to get air were literally I mean the building was engulfed. It was a huge building. I mean it was probably about the size of this building And there was fire coming out all the windows, and the brick had started to separate from the building itself, and there was fire coming up between the roof. and the brick out the top of it. And while I sat there, um the firemen were starting to go a little bit berserk. They saw what was happening. and they got into their fire trucks and started driving away a little bit because the side of that building was about to fall. And they were they got the truck moved just enough and the side the whole side of that building Ultimately the next day when I picked up Melissa went by there and looked at it and there was just a pile of rubble there. And later that week we saw in the newspaper that It was a faulty uh circuit in a wire. Uh it was an older building and the electrician messed it up. You know, some old thing, you know, who knows a rat ate something or whatever happened, but a little wire caused this little spark. And then this whole building was destroyed. And a little fire, you know, the fires out in Tennessee and California that just consumed how many acres and how many homes You know, behold a little matter, a great matter that a little fire kindleth, and that little spark can do great great damage And one small word can destroy a testimony, can tear a a church apart. One person carrying about news that shouldn't be carried about, our tongue directs our lives. And all too often our tongue is unconscious. Controlled and it directs our lives into turmoil. Directs our lives into uh trouble. And uh we've got to be very, very careful with that. The control of the tongue, it exercises great control not over just us, but those that are communicated unto Then I want to look at the corruption of the tongue. And all through the scriptures we see principles with regards to the corruption of the tongue. Turn your Bibles to Psalms 64. Psalms 64. I was gonna read a uh short passage here and talking about the destruction of the tongue and He says in Psalm 64, Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer, preserve my life from fear of the enemy. So you've got the attack of the enemy here. He says, hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked, from the instruction of the workers of iniquity, who wet their tongue like a sword. So the enemy, here's the attack of the enemy. What does he do? Hey, he wets his tongue like a sword and bends their bows to shoot their arrows even bitter words. Bitter words are like arrows to the heart of somebody. And somebody with a malicious spirit uses his words that way, that they may shoot in secret at the perfect They stand from the background, they whisper around the corners, they stand in secret and whisper these things at those who have a perfect heart, and suddenly do they shoot at him and fear not. They encourage themselves in an evil matter. They commune of laying snares privily. They say, who shall see them? They search out iniquities, they accomplish a diligent search, both the inward thought of every man of them and the heart is deep. Verse number seven, then you see the arrows of Elohim here He says, but God shall shoot at them with an arrow suddenly, and they shall be wounded. So God will defend you. But here we see kind of a description of somebody with that kind of a heart. And we've got to be careful there is much corruption in the tongue and the tendency of people uh to go back towards corrupt communication is something we must guard against. The sins of the tongue. The sin nature. These sins are among the most devastating that there is. Look in Proverbs chapter number six. We're going to kind of flip around some different passages here as we see what uh uh God says about the tongue, but in Proverbs chapter number six, it's interesting here. We have a list of things that God hates. And uh I know you're familiar with this list, but note how many of these things deal with the tongue. The things that God hates in chapter 6, uh verse number 16. He says, these six things doth the Lord hate. Yea, seven are abomination unto him. A proud look. Okay, what's the next one? A lying tongue. So there's the first thing. Hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked imaginations, feet that be swift and running to mischief. What's the next one? A false witness. And they to speak lies. Three of the six things that the Lord distinctly hates deal with the tongue. I mean that's pretty strong when you think about that. The things that God lists that He says, hey, six things does the Lord hate, yea, seven are abomination to them. And And three of those deal specifically with the tongue. And we have got to be careful about our uncontrolled words Proverbs 21, 23 says, Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles. If you can just keep control of this, you can save yourself a lot of trouble. And, you know, I had to uh apologize to somebody recently uh for, you know, he came to me and asked me a question and And my response to him wasn't very good. What I said. I had been dealing with some things, and his question was directly along that line, and I just told him what I thought about it. And I'll tell you what, the later that day the Holy Spirit just really is like, that guy did not deserve that and why did you unload on him? He he does not know what happened before and and he was not part of the other situation and and And then you unloaded on him. And man, that bothered me for a long time. And I said, you know, I just gotta get a hold of him and I gotta apologize for the way I communicated to him. Because that was not he did not deserve that and the Holy Spirit wouldn't let me let it go. And so, you know, but we just sometimes You know the old saying, open open mouth, insert foot, right? We just let it out, and uh we've got to control this this thing of the tongue. And uh so there's many things the Bible talks about that is is the nature of man to go back to and uh I wanted to look at a at a at a few of those and just consider some of those this morning as we we talk about this but uh the idea of The sins of the tongue are listed through the whole scriptures, and I've got a list of them here. First of all, what about backbiting Backbiting is slander, deformation of character, communicating against somebody. Look in Psalms chapter 15, verse number 3. Psalms 15, verse number 3. I should have had a bunch of people look these up for the sake of time. So in 15, verse number 3, he says, He that backbiteth not with his tongue. Nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. So who is that that doth that? Well, the first verse tells us, His Lord, Who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? And then you list those that will do that. And the kind of person that's abiding in the tabernacle, the kind of person that's dwelling in the holy hills, the kind that uh backbiteth not with His tongue. He doesn't use his tongue to attack others, to uh slander or um you know hurt other people. Um we have The idea of a false witness of a false witness took it look in Proverbs chapter 19-9. Proverbs 19-9 You know, a false witness. That'd be lying about people, uh, saying something untrue. Even if you believe it to be true If you don't know it to be true and you repeat it, you're bearing false witness. You know, um you can really hurt somebody and it doesn't even have to be true. I mean I could just say anything I want about Joe. I could get up and say, well, you know, Joe never combs his hair You know? People are like, man, I can't believe Joe never combs his hair. That might not be true at all, but when you start so But just I c you know, it doesn't even have to be true to do hurt, to do harm. And just stating it uh and putting it out there, um there will be some that will believe it because it's their nature to And uh here, what verse I give you, Proverbs 19, 9, he says, um a false witness shall not be unpunished And he that speaketh lies shall perish. A false witness, bearing false witness. They uh they spoke false witness against Stephen in Acts And Paul again in Acts uh there they spoke about him and said false things and we know that they spoke false things about Christ and declared many false things uh about him and y pretty Pretty much in the book of Matthew, you could read and see over and over again where they bore false witness against Christ. So backbiting and and bearing false witness. The idea of perjury is listed in the scriptures. We won't turn there, but in 1 Timothy 1, verse number 10. This is the idea of lying under oath, you know, perjuring yourself. And it's not going to be unpunished, God says. Um and then just out flat out lying. Look, you're in Proverbs, so look at uh let's see Proverbs twelve, verse number twenty-two. In Proverbs 26, 28 says, a lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it. In Proverbs 12, 22, let's see, I've got back a couple here. There you go. Lying lips and abomination to the Lord. Um this is uh the one of the sins of the tongue. Um and the idea here is that uh a lying tongue. If you are willing to lie about somebody, he says here in Proverbs 26, 28 that you hate that person. Whatever the motivation, whatever the purpose, God says it it does such destruction uh to somebody or against somebody that that it it's like you hate them to lie uh against them There's the idea of dissimilation. In 1 Samuel, you don't have to turn there. 1 Samuel 21, 13, is dissimilation is the idea of faking it. Um and in there you have the king who was afraid that he was gonna be killed and so he started acting like a crazy man. And scratching the gate and you know, pr they're they're pretending he's that he's he's out of his mind with you know craziness. And uh so the idea of faking it. And we as Christians, you know, we probably don't have to go that far, but to get a little closer to home, what about calling into work and saying, Man, I'm sick today. I just don't feel up to to working today. Uh uh and you know you can you can kind of halfway make yourself not feel so good so that you can do it without lying, right? Uh man, I just don't feel so good. But then somehow around lunchtime when you were supposed to be out out doing whatever you want to do that day, you're starting to feel a little better. I'm glad I'm feeling better today. You know, I I really wanted to do this. Uh dissimulation, uh uh communicating things that aren't really so uh about us, kind of faking it and letting people believe something about us is It's not true like that. Um, the ideal of tail bearing. Look at Proverbs chapter 11, verse number 13. In Proverbs 11, verse number 13, he says. A tailbearer revealeth secret, but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter. Tail bearing. Repeating that which you've heard. You know, tell to just and tail bearing is is repeating things that people wouldn't want repeated. I mean I still told everybody in here that Joe doesn't comb his hair. And so that's kind of a negative and derogatory thing. And whether it's true or not, then a tail bearer would say, man. Pastor Caleb and everybody knows Pastor Caleb, I mean he he's he's said w he said it so it's gotta be true. And you know, he's Joe doesn't comb his hair. And they're tail bearing. They're carrying that bad tail away. And then and then they're you know somebody else is on on the phone talking to some other church member three weeks from now. And man, you know, uh we need to pray for Joe. What? Because I mean it's just you know, we're concerned about Joe and the testimony of Christ and and And you know, it's important that a Christian look like a Christian and and Jove doesn't comb his hair. You know. I mean, oh we couch it in in spiritual terms and we we we lay it out there as we're really concerned, but then we we We share the tale, don't we? And uh that's what we've got to be careful of. I mean we've gotta in our mind ask God the Holy Spirit to set a what's that verse, John John? Set a watch about my lips. What's the ignore of my lips? Set a watch before my mouth, keep the door of my lips. Ask God, you gotta help me. When we start to say something, hopefully the Holy Spirit will say, Hey That's not helping. And if somebody you're talking to is either is not part of the problem or part of the solution then you're tail bearing, then you're then you're gossiping. You're carrying a story that does not have anything they don't have anything to do with it. And there's no reason to be communicating it to them. And we've got to get the sensitive about this. And we can make it spiritual and whatever, but we've got to be so careful about this because the devil will use it to hurt people. And even in your mind, you may think, well, I wasn't trying to hurt them. The enemy is not you. The enemy is the devil, and he's going to use you if you're not sensitive to this and careful about it and say, Lord, you've got to help me. Be sure I'm not doing this, that I'm not tail bearing. Um evil whisperings, Proverbs chapter 16, verse number 28. I'm just I have four or five verses on each one of these. and uh don't have time to look at them all, but Proverbs sixteen twenty-eight, uh he says There you go. A forward man soweth strife, and a whisperer separateth chief friends. A whisperer. Somebody whispering, just separate separate us chief friends. I mean I hopefully we grow beyond this. But how many of you have Walked into the room or been someplace and there's a couple people whispering and in your mind you're like, they're talking about me. I we've all felt that. We've all been okay, they just looked over here. They don't want me to hear their conversation. They're talking about me. And one of those persons might be I mean whispering separate us chief friends, the biblical principles are true. And so if for no other reason than the fact that it's rude You gotta be careful when somebody else comes in the room, you if if you see like I'm standing before you and I'm talking, let's say your brother Taylor, and we're just talking, there's nobody else around, so we're not talking very loud, but we're just talking, and Joe comes in. I will I'm very conscious of the fact I will try and tell Joe, hey, we're talking about the court case and what we uh you know just to let him know and and invite him into the conversation. And you say, well, our conversation's private. Well, then you need to be in a private place. Because that that whispering puts things in people's minds. And so we've got to be careful about that. And if you're standing there talking to somebody and there's other people around, you don't want to be this is not for them to know, then you need to go somewhere where they're not at. If they're there, they need to feel like they're part of the group, part of the conversation. Another thing you shouldn't do is is like try and, you know. Turn your back to somebody like if I'm talking to Brother Crane and Fres right here, I don't go like this. So, you know, you I just cut him out of the conversation. That's that's rude. And that's offensive. He got the message. He oh well I guess I'm not wanted here. But instead if I'm talking like this and he's there, I should turn like this. Open that up to him So that he feels welcome and is part of the conversation. Because those things can separate even chief friends, including people that are there and that are around Slander. I'll give you a couple of verses. Psalms 101, verse number 5, Psalms 50, verse number 20. Let's look at Proverbs. Since we're in Proverbs, look at Proverbs 10, verse number 18. Um this talks about slander, Proverbs 10, verse number 18. He says, He that uh hide hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth a slander with is a fool. I mean that's strong language. Somebody that would slander somebody else, the Bible says you're a fool. That's that's crazy. Um the Bible has a lot to say about Words that we speak. What about just speaking foolishly? Just speaking foolishly. A lot of things that people find humor in today is just foolish talk. He in Proverbs 15, verse number two, the tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright, but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness. Just talking foolishly. Proverbs 15, 2 Tongue of the wise useth knowledge of right, but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness. And we've got to be careful about that. That's just some of the things with regards to sins of the tongue that the Bible talks about, and it's not a conclude. I know you could come up with any other words that deal with that. But let me give you, lastly, here in the time we've got left, the cry of the tongue. The cry of the tongue. And what I'm saying here is that the tongue tells on you. The tongue tells. And uh I I think of a One time in Kansas we had for a missions conference, the missionaries were all going out to dinner, right? And we went to a Chinese restaurant. And one of the missionary families, Mrs. Smith, um, we were at this Chinese restaurant and she picked up the soy sauce. And you know the soy sauce have the red lid on the top and the red lid have a hole on each side, right? And she thought that the lid was that the lid was on and she picked up the soy sauce on the counter And she began to shake it to stir it up. Then she was going to take the lid off and put some on. However The guy next to her, the other missionary, who was wearing a white shirt, was getting showered with soy sauce every time she's like she's like going like that and soy sauce goes And he's like, Whoa, wait, wait, what are you doing? Well the rest of the day he has toy sauce all over his shirt E everybody that saw him it told the tale that he was a slav and he didn't know how to eat, you know, he had a hole in his chin or whatever Now it wasn't even his fault. But I mean it was obvious to everybody that he spilled, right? And uh he's like I gotta go change my shirt. He probably stained it. I I don't know how much so he saw stains, but It was hilarious. Of course she felt so bad, you know. It w it wasn't her husband either. Her husband was there, but he was on the other side, so he lucked out. Some other guy got the brunt of that. But what I'm saying is that our tongue tells on us And what comes out, like what was coming out of that bottle, told everybody that he got it all over himself. And our tongue, what comes out, uh tells everybody You know, it's not as popular anymore, but it used to be really, really uh part of the first things that they would do when you went to the doctor, they would say, Okay, stick out your tongue, say ah, and they would look at the tongue Because the tongue was significant, it it showed a lot of times what might be going on in the body. If there was an infection or if there was something there, it would reveal itself on the tongue. And that's the case spiritually. If there's something going on inside that's not right, it reveals itself in our tongue. That's one of the reasons we've got to guard this so carefully. Keep a right heart. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. And if we're keeping a right heart, what's coming out of our mouth will be right. But when the heart's not right, when there's uh things inside that shouldn't be there, when there's bitterness, when there's malice, and we're going to talk about a lot of this next week as we get into how to tame the tongue. Is understanding the root cause of this? Because it's not just what comes out of our mouth, there's something underlying that causes that. And we've got to deal with that if we want to fix it. But we're going to get into that next week. But I'm telling you that the tongue tells. And what we're saying, we've got to be careful how how it comes out because it lets everybody know that uh what's on the inside. Matthew 15, verse number 11 is a powerful verse. Christ said this. He says, Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man, but that which cometh out of the mouth defileth a man. I mean you think about that. We think, man, I can't eat this because it's going to defile my body. But God says what comes out of the mouth defiles the body. Defiles you. Sins of the tongue. Um we don't have time this morning to turn there, but if you want to look at it and read it, Ephesians chapter 4, verses 17 through 22. And then you can read down through the end of the passage, verse number 25 and verse number 29, talks about the idea that when we're Christians, And we talk like that, we are reverting, we are going back to the ways of the old man. And it gets to the place where this world can't tell us apart. From a Christian and a non-Christian, because of our communication, because of what we're saying. And when we communicate in any of these ways that we listed today, we communicate harshly, we communicate Rudely, we communicate lying, we communicate falsely. These are a telltale that we're reverting back to the old man. And it's getting hard to tell that you're a Christian. So we got to be careful. This thing of the tongue is very serious. God really gives us a lot of warnings concerning it. And so it would behoove us to learn about the sins of the tongue and then ask God to help us, to help us with it. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and your love for us. We thank you for the opportunity to study this topic of the tongue. And Lord, we pray that uh you would help us, Lord, as uh in Psalms it tells us to put a watch, Lord, over our mouth, Lord, to to just I pray that as we uh begin to say something that might be false or might be uh tail bearing, might be uh gossip, Lord, that you would touch our hearts and we would be And say, Lord, don't let the devil use me to create harm in your church or to other people. And uh Lord, I pray you'd give us uh people that uh desire to please you and that are in control of our conversation. And what we say and what we let come out of our mouth. And we'll thank you. Go with us now in the morning service. Please be with every single mother that's here. May they feel the love of Christ and the love of the people of the church here. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.