Be great joy. Do you know, beloved, that revival always results in rejoicing? Now I know initially revival brings repentance, and sometimes repentance can be painful. Repenting of our sin. Repenting is changing 180 degrees, turning from what we were doing to what God wants us to do. But every time you find revival taking place either in the Word of God or in our uh society today you'll see men repent and then comes rejoicing. Rejoicing always follows revival. In the midst of this, right here in the beginning, God's doing this great work. Philip is preaching, and people are being saved, people are being free, but we see the power of Satan. Satan, beloved, is going to come on the scene, and because he could not crush the church through persecution, he decides he would try and corrupt the church By bringing somebody in that was not a true believer, somebody that was not saved, but they professed faith. And yet they really weren't a believer in Christ. We see that we're introduced here in verse 9 through 11 of Simon the sorcerer. But there was a certain man called Simon, which before time in that city used sorcery and bewitched the people. Meloved, can I tell you that there is, Satan has power. And many times people would believe that Satan has more power than God because the power of Satan is put on display. Satan will use his power directly and allow people to have abilities, allow people to do supernatural things. And others will believe in that power because it's present, because it's visible. Satan has power, but he doesn't have all power. God has all power. Satan's powerful, but not more powerful than God. But Simon, the sorcerer here, was desirous of winning people to himself. Using the power of witchcraft, the power that Satan was giving him, bewitching people, and that is what he ultimately desired. And he was seeing the power that these apostles had that Philip had as a deacon and he thought, wow, that's awesome. Boy, I could use that. That would be, I mean, if I could free somebody, if I could, if I could make a lamb man walk, if I had power to give sight to the blind, if he was thinking, boy, this would be very beneficial for me So he was looking for his own gain, really. There's every every indication in the scripture that Simon made a profession here, but never had possession. So we see that to whom, verse number 10, to whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, even this man is the great power of God. So they believed he had power from God. And to him they had regard, because that of a long time he had bewitched them with sorceries. But when they believed Philip's preaching, The things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. Then Simon himself believed also. And when he was baptized, he continued with Philip, and wondering, beholding the miracles and signs which were done. So Simon the sorcerer, he's he's got all these people bewitched He's got all these people believing in his power, believing he had power of God, but he realizes and he knows in his heart, you know the person who knows they're a fraud more than anybody The fraudster. These these faith healers on television. They know they're lying. They know what they're doing is is 100% false. They're up there slapping somebody in the head and and they they work up this big emotional high and and uh they they put it out there and and then they move the camera away. They say, Rise up and walk and and if the guy doesn't move, they move the camera and they go on to the next guy, you know Uh a i i they know it's false. They know in their heart that it's fake. And Simon the sorcerer realized he did not have that tower and he thought, Boy, I would like to get this. And so he says, Well I'll I'll take that. I'll believe And he believed and he professed faith in Christ and he's following them and he's watching the power that they had and put on display and he's he's amazed by it He desires it, but you see, Simon believed God's power could be bought. Look at verse number 18 And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money. Saying, give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost. He said, That's power that I want. I'll tell you what, hey, let me let me give you a little bit of cash and you give me that power You see, you understand it wasn't about repentance for him. It wasn't about a heart change. He was desirous of the power that God had given uh Philip here and reaching and ministering to people. That's all that he wanted So that he could win people, not people to Christ, but people to himself. Peter is not happy. Look at verse number 21. Well, verse number 20. But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money. You know, beloved, the gifts of God, this you know, I I I hope there's none in Hunt Valley Baptist Church that think this. that because we put gifts or contributions in the offering plate that God owes us something. That we are getting oh I put this in the offering and so God uh is going to give me uh this power, or God's gonna give me this answer this prayer, or whatever it is. Uh listen, the gifts of God are not purchased with money. There's a broken and contrite heart that God will not despise. There's an following God and honoring God and God blesses you. But it's not something that you purchased because you gave a certain amount. You know, he tells them here in verse number 21, Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter. He's saying, listen, you have nothing to do with this, for thy heart is not right in the sight of God. Repent, therefore, of this thy wickedness. And pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee. You know Philip tells him he needs to repent. Tells him he has no part in this. Listen, what you what you're seeking, your whole ambition and desire is not right. And beloved, we need true Heaven sent conviction and heartfelt repentance when men and women come to God We've got to be very careful about this idea of one, two, three, pray after me, and you're on your way to heaven. It's not so hard to win people to heaven as it is to see people saved from their sin. What I'm saying is people are excited a lot of times if it's just about Getting what you can, which is what what Simon the Sorcerer here was looking for, or we could even say getting out of your current mess. But not really repentance and realizing that your mess is what put Jesus on the cross and repenting of that sin. And being forgiven of that sin. If it's just about getting out of your current mess, that's not salvation. And sometimes people will desire, like, oh yeah, I'll call on God because, boy, I want to get out of this mess. I want to uh you know be freed from my current troubles, all this turmoil I have in my life. I yeah, I want to be done with that. But listen, just getting saved doesn't doesn't even true salvation doesn't fix all your problems. You still have to work through those problems, but you got somebody to work through them with you. And you got the power of God to help you now. So that We praise the Lord for. But we got to be careful about just one, two, three, pray after me. Okay, you're on your way to heaven. Bless God. You know doesn't matter what you do now for the rest of your life and you can what whatever. We we need to make sure it's true repentance and that's what Peter is telling him here. Would you repent? You see, he i if he would have had true repentance he would have been praying the prayer of the publican. Oh God, forgive me. Forgive me for my sin. Be merciful to me a sinner, the the publican said. Be merciful to me a sinner. Not get me out of my mess. And we've got to be careful about that. Simon asked, we see Simon's heart again in verse number 24, because what Simon asked is that none of the judgments would come upon him. You see, he wasn't repentant for his sin. He just didn't want to be judged for his sin. You see, in verse number 24. I'm reading the wrong chapter here, verse number 24. Then answered Simon and said, Pray ye to the Lord for me. So he didn't pray. He just said, hey, would you pray to God that none of these which he has spoken come upon me? He said, oh, pray, pray that I don't Have any of those judgments. Pray that God does not judge me for my wicked heart. See, he wasn't repentant. And we need repentance Many people like Simon here, they want to be freed from the consequences of their sin, but not freed from their sin. And that's what real repentance is, is freed from their sin. So Philip goes on and he preaches to the Samaritans in verse number 25. And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans. So the gospel is going forward, reaching out to other people, and the work of God is being done. They have preached now in Jerusalem, they preached in Judea, they preached in Samaria. And so the only reaching out to the uttermost is left in to fulfill the Great Commission and go out there and do that. Philip is called to preach now to the Ethiopian eunuch in verses twenty six through thirty eight. You know, sometimes God calls people, like he called Philip, to preach to the masses We saw that in the beginning when he first began to preach. He preached to the masses. Great multitudes were coming to Christ. Many things were happening. And in the midst of that, you would think, well, why would he, you know, leave that? But God calls him and says, hey, there's one that is ready. There's one that is looking. There's one that needs to meet Jesus. And I know where he is, so Philip, I'm going to send you to preach to the Ethiopian eunuch here. And uh we see that take place here in verse number twenty-six. And the angel of the Lord spake to Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south, the way that goeth downward from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is deserts. And he arose and he went, and behold a man of Ethiopian, a eunuch of great authority, this Ethiopian eunuch here. A man of authority, a man of power, a man of prestige, but a man who came to Jerusalem and saw what God was doing. Well we don't know if his journey to Jerusalem was something uh diplomatic or something he was supposed to be there for or if he was drawn to Jerusalem to see the works of God, but somewhere you see he wasn't a Jew He didn't grow up learning about God, the God of Jacob and Isaac. No, no, he he somewhere he had learned about this and he began to read in Isaiah and he began to read the Old Testament and he began to search and to look. For God. Maybe he saw what was taking place and he thought, man, I sure would like to know this God. Beloved, this story illustrates for us God's desire to save even one soul. Even one soul that's willing and longing, God will send somebody. God will find a way that they could know the truth. Miraculously, God will get somebody there so that they can know the truth, and the truth will set them free. So God sends this deacon down there to witness to him. And the eunuch, of course, we know here, trusted Jesus, and ultimately was baptized. And uh follow the Lord in believers' baptism, that first step of obedience after salvation. Well, in the midst of all this, we see the conversion of Paul. We come into chapter number nine now with the conversion of Paul. And Saul yet breathing out notice, beloved, that we are, notice how quickly this happens. We see here in verse number one. Breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and desired of him letters to Damascus, to the synagogues, that if he find any of the way, any any of the way that's Christians, if he finds any of them, where they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. So Saul's breathing out threatenings Here's the long-suffering of God, the compassion of God, the goodness of God. How many of us, if we had the power and we saw what Saul was doing to the church? We would have said time to take care of Saul. Time to kill Saul He's wreaking havoc in the church. He's causing he's breathing out threatenings. He's throwing my people in jail. Boy, we need to just kill him. But see, God loves Every man, woman. Every one of us. Even you know, you look at them, you say, man, how could God love that soul, that wicked, wretched person? But God loves them. And God sees the potential, not just the problem. And Saul here was breathing out threatenings, but in the midst of that, he's got these letters. He's on his way to go get as many as he can and bring them back to Jerusalem. And what happens? Verse number three. And as he journeyed, he came near to Damascus, and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven. And he fell to the earth, and he heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecuted. It's hard for thee to kick against the pricks. So we see here The conversion of Saul, just a little bit about his background, we're not going to turn to these passages. I've given you references for all this, but he was born and raised in Tarshis He was of the tribe of Benjamin. He was a Hebrew of Hebrews. He was taught by Gameliel. He was a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee. He was passionate about his beliefs and pursuing them. And uh, you know, we see that same passion that he had, you know, he went house to house throwing Christians in jail But you know, after he got saved, he went house to house making Christians, winning the lost. There is no greater picture of the transforming power of the salvation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Than the life of Paul, who went from, in a matter of verses, being the most passionate and zealous persecutor of the church to the most passionate and zealous preacher for the church. You know, that's beloved, that's one of the reasons why, you know, parents with stubborn children we tell them, listen, if you can get that stubbornness pointing in the right direction. I know it's hard. I know it's trying at times, but if you can get that stubbornness pointed in the right direction, they'll be stubborn for God. Amen That they they'll take that same stubbornness and stand for the Lord instead of uh being so wishy-washy. And we see that same passion and zeal that uh Saul had was still in him as a person when he became Paul and he preached for the Lord. He persecuted the New Testament church after he consented for the stoning of Stephen, we saw that We saw that he wreaked havoc in the church in verse eight, chapter eight, verse number three. He went house to house hunting for believers. uh to throw them in prison, but now he was going to be hunting for lost people to make them believers. He sent believers to their death. Uh he beat believers. He tried to get believers to curse Christ in Acts 26, verse number 11. He was passionate about it. He did all that he could to undermine and to bring about the destruction of this people of the way, Christians. Getting them to curse Christ. During China's Boxer Rebellion in the early 1900s, uh I read this uh story in the book uh commentary or book on acts um from uh striving together publications. Uh and anyways during the Boxer Rebellion They had a hundred college kids that they had in a little encampment. And they had a fence around them, and they set up a gate, and they laid down a cross in the pathway of this gate, and they told the students, if you'll walk across the cross, You can walk to your freedom. If you will not walk on the cross, essentially deny Christ, walk on the cross, you're gonna die. We're gonna shoot you. Well the first group, trembling and fearful, but afraid for their lives, they walked across the Planks at the cross there and they were allowed to go free. However, there was a young lady there Who came to the edge of the cross and she couldn't bring herself to do so. She refused to deny Christ. Instead of walking across the, she knelt down in front of it and declared her faith and asked God for power and strength. And she stood up and was escorted to her execution. A beloved Strengthened by her example of faith, the remaining 92 students also walked to their execution unwilling to deny their faith in Christ and what God had done. You know, we in America haven't known persecution like that We haven't had to stand like that. We see that Paul here persecuted people that were in the way. But he goes from being a persecutor to a preacher. And Paul understood what it meant when he said he was going to be a follower of Christ. When he denied what he was. You see, he was the one in on it. He was the one throwing people in jail. He's the one that watched Stephen get stoned. He's the one that was part of this persecution. So when he Stood up for Christ, he understood where he was standing. He understood he was not going to walk across the cross, that he was going to be willing to walk to his execution. His conversion here we read powerful coming of Jesus Christ to him in verse number three there. God's light shines into this world and convicts the hearts of men who need Jesus. We see the light of God comes and shines here on Paul. uh who was Saul at the time. And that light convicts men of their sin and they realize that they need Jesus Christ. His faith is seen in his response in verse number 6. And he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Beloved, that's the heart of a repentant sinner. What will thou have me to do? What do you want me to do, Lord? Whatever it is, I understand my position, I realize I'm a sinner, I'm lost, I'm undone, but Lord, I'll do whatever you want me to do. We make him, as they say, Lord of all, or he's not Lord at all. And that's what Paul did. He made him Lord of all, Lord of his life. He was going to be a follower of him. He was sent on to Damascus, where God told him there was some discipleship lined up for him. Ananias was sent to help him in verses 10 through 14. Beloved, God wants us to follow up. on those that get saved. The Great Commission is not done when we get somebody to the point where they realize they're a sinner and they bow their head and trust Christ. That's just the first step. And uh churches like ours, and I praise the Lord for our discipleship ministry, uh and we need to keep that going and we need to Both be being discipled, and once you've been discipled, you need to move into the discipleship ministry. You need to disciple other people. That's the pattern that God set up. And uh But churches like ours for a long time have been woefully inadequate in the second half of the Great Commission. It's been all about let's get them saved, and then we forget about them. Yes, they do need to get saved, and praise the Lord that changes their eternal destiny, but how are they going to grow? How are they going to learn? How are they going to know what it's like to have a relationship with God if somebody doesn't teach them, if somebody doesn't show them uh the way that they're supposed to walk. And that's what discipleship is for. And God had set up somebody here right away to begin working with with Saul who is going to become Paul. uh to lead him to give him disciples to discipleship right from the get-go. And then God commissions him immediately, look at verse number fifteen and sixteen. So he gets his sight restored and he gets some direction. For the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles and the kings and the children of Israel. So God tells him, listen, you're going to go. He's going to bear bear the name of Jesus Christ. He's going to bear it before the Gentiles. This is directly God sending the gospel to the Gentile nations, and he's going to bear it before kings. That means the classes of people wasn't going to matter. It was going to be from the lowest of the low to the highest of the highest. He's going to bear my name before these men. And God didn't forget about his people. He said he's going to continue to preach Christ to my people, which rejected me, which crucified Jesus But he's going to continue to share the name of Christ with them as well. So God commissions him, sends him out, sends him to the Gentiles to preach to kings and to all of Israel, and then he tells them he's going to suffer. For the name of Christ in verse number sixteen, for I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. And so Paul begins to preach, and so we see quickly here the preaching of Paul He is filled with the Holy Spirit in chapter 9 and verse number 17. And I went as his way, and he entered into the house, and putting his hands on him said, Brother Saul, And the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in this way as thou camest, hath sent me that thou mightest receive thy sight and be filled with the Holy Ghost. So he's filled with the Holy Spirit. He was baptized in verse number 18. And as I said, beloved, uh we don't have persecution here, but when believers at this time got baptized and declared themselves to be followers of Christ, they were putting themselves between the crosshairs. They were declaring to the world that they were Christians, followers of the way, and they were opening themselves up for persecution, for being attacked, for being thrown in jail, even stoned, even killed. And uh listen, it's it's it's true faith when uh men will stand. And it it's it's sad a lot of times that people won't follow the Lord and believers baptism when when all it is is To publicly declare before a group of people that you're a follower of Christ. There is no persecution. There is no by doing this your family is going to reject you. Now there uh that level happens sometimes even here in the states where families don't want you following Christ. So that does happen here and some there may be even some in here that your family rejected you when you decided to follow Christ And praise God for your testimony and willingness to just continue to do what God wants. But by and large, we don't know the kind of persecution. And so taking that step of obedience shouldn't be hard for us. These men understood that by doing that they were going to probably be killed. And yet they still did it. He followed the Lord and Believers' baptism, and then he began to preach Christ. Verse number 20 there. Uh and he is now moved among the persecuted. Verse number twenty-three and twenty-four. Look at this. So quickly he moves. We we haven't even really covered the A chapter that we see here in verse, and after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him. But their lying in wait was known of Saul, and they that watched the gates day and night to kill him. So he is now among the persecuted. He's now hunted and going to fossil be killed because of his faith in Jesus Christ. We see, lastly, here the preaching of Peter, verses 32 to 43, there's a time of rest given. In verse number 31, we see that for some reason God allowed there to be a little time of rest. Then they had then had the church rest throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria, and were edified and walking in the fear of the Lord. So they had this time uh where there was multitudes coming to Christ, there was a time of rest, there was not uh prevalent or prominent persecution, they were able to work, and Peter takes advantage of this opportunity to go and minister to the churches that had been raised up. And we see that Aeneas is healed, and many turn to the Lord, 33 through 35, and then we're introduced to Dorcas. a woman known for her good works, in verse number thirty six. I've known many ladies that were named Tabitha. Uh have any of you ever met somebody named Dorcas? I have heard of people named Dorcas, but there's it's bl less prominent And I can see why in today's society, uh, can you imagine the kind of uh bullying that that child would have gone through, named Dorcas as a child? But uh Dorcas uh was uh A translation of Tabitha, so you can name him Tabitha and get away from that, but nor she was known for good works. And beloved, it's a good thing to have uh a good name. A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches and to be known for good things. And Dorcas had a testimony. People understood and knew that she uh was full of good works. Uh the Bible tells us that she was uh from Joppa. Uh not Japan, Maryland. Uh I I've been in Joppa, uh in Israel, and uh she was from she was from Joppa and uh you know there was the Bible tells us about somebody else that was running from God and they they ran down to Joppa. Do you remember who that was? Jonah ran from God and ran down to Japha. So that's where uh she was from. Um and so it's a wonderful thing, beloved, that the testimony that this lady had and we should all inspire to have a testimony like that. We see that Dorcas gets sick. Verse number 36. Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which is interpreting is called Dorcas. This woman was full of good works. and alms and deeds which she did. And it came to pass in those days that she was sick and died. You know, beloved, bad things happen to good people. That's part of life. But God doesn't leave you alone in the midst of those bad things. We see in this situation that God calls the man of God, Peter, to come, and Peter responds to the need. Verse number thirty-nine, then Peter arose and went with them. He he heard about Dorcas, this lady of faith, this lady of good works, who was sick. People were distraught over it, and he rose and he went. He didn't just say, Well, there's nothing I can do. He said, I'm gonna go and I'm gonna try and strive to minister. So he does, and he kneels down and he prays, and Dorcas is raised from the dead, and he presents her to the people uh alive and God uses that uh greatly to see more people come to him. So uh we can aspire to Be like Dorcas, but understand that good things happen to people that are even doing even sorry, bad things happen to people that are even doing a lot of good. But God is there with us in the midst of that. So here we see the persecution of the church opening the door for the expansion of the church, which is going to take place. We'll get into that next week. Let's close and we'll be just Lord, we love you. We thank you for Sunday school time together. Ask you, Lord, that you would go with us in the morning service. Speak your hearts. Draw us into your presence. Do the work that only you can do. God, people gather in church today. Uh Lord, to hear from heaven, and I pray God that you would do that for them in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed