Right, that was wonderful. And uh I think now that uh Miss Mary you have to go on the road with us everywhere we go and make that a duet. Anyway, it's good to be here, good to see all of you. I mean imagine all of you uh that you would be here tonight and um yeah we're assuming it's the best attendance and uh we are very thankful that you would go through the difficulty and uh maybe uh it feels more comfortable in your couch but um and uh it makes you realize as we did through the twenty twenty year that our church is so very important. And most important thing that happens in a community is what happens in its local Bible-believing church. And so turn to Philippians chapter two, we'll get right to the message. I have a Number of things here to speak about concerning this topic. And uh we want to uh be a blessing to you and to your church, and I'm gonna pretend that you all say amen. Now oh yeah, right, thank you. We they always have to yell at me to turn that off of mute. So my mic is on, so you're able to hear And uh let's say we have Tim and Alicia, Calum, Pastor and his wife, Debbie. And if you need their phone numbers, we'll scroll them on the screen and you can Text all of them multiple times and say amen. And the guys up in the sound booth afterwards I went up there and said, You all need to say amen. We were saying amen. Yeah, I know you have a deaf pastor up here and uh I have my hearing aids on and You know, so um they have to yell amen a little louder. So all right to make up for the absence. So if you uh want to do that again, Pastor's got his phone, he's ready. If you text me, my phone is on airplane mode. So if you have my phone number, I won't see the amens till later, but afterwards I'll see them and say amen out loud for you In uh verse twenty-five through the rest of the chapter in Philippians chapter two will be our topic for to this evening, and um you know it's my prayer that it'll be a blessing to you. This is one of my uh favorite epistles the the book of philippians is tremendous and I hope this is a help to you so look at verse 25 through 30 Philippians chapter 2. He said, Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and companion in labor. And fellow soldier, but your messenger and he that ministered to my wants. For he longed after you all And was full of heaviness because that ye had heard that he had been sick, for he indeed was sick nigh unto death. And uh that's a very interesting s um idiom. It's a Greek idiom which means next door neighbor to So when it says nigh unto death, it means he felt he was living next to death, next door neighbor to death. He says it twice in this passage. Okay, so again, uh verse 27, for indeed he was sick nigh unto death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I sent him therefore the more carefully, that when ye see him again ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such in reputation, because for the work of Christ he was next door neighbor to death. He was nigh unto death, not regarding his life to supply your lack of service toward me. A very interesting passage I want to preach on this individual. who has a funny name, Epaphroditus, not a n name I've heard. Anybody in our church circles in our country ever adopt this name for one of their children. And uh there have been a lot of Paul's, lots of Timothy's, lots of Luke's that we spoke on this morning, but we'll leave this one right here where it's at. But I believe there's some things to learn here tonight. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, I thank you so much for the opportunity to be here. I pray your Holy Spirit would be evident and use this in an instruction to us, maybe teach us tonight. And encourage the believers and in some ways maybe even convict. I pray we would evaluate, always looking in our lives to say, Lord Where are we compared to where you want us to be? So please guide us in this in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen. You know, Philippi was an interesting city. It was um really because of its silver mines that were in the hills surrounding the plains that make up the city. It was a a much desired piece of real estate. It was annexed to uh the Kingdom of Macedon by uh Philip, Philip of Macedon, Philip the Great, before Alexander, he's the father of Alexander In three fifty-six BC. And the plains are known for their battle that happened in the Second Triumvirant where Octavia Octavius, who is um Caesar, uh Augustus, and Antony defeated Brutus and Cassius. And in that battle it was said many times that the Roman Republic breathed its last breath. on the plains right next to this great city. Um uh uh Augustus made it a Roman town, meaning it had citizenship like Paul living in being ra raised born in Tarsus was a Roman citizen. All that were born here then later became a Roman citizen and um in those years preceding the coming of Christ. Now Paul got here after we read in in Acts chapter 16, and you can go back and reference this. An amazing story of how when he wanted to go south from Troas into, let's say, Asia itself, or to go across into Bithynia, the Spirit forbade him. And uh at night he got a vision. We call it the Macedonian vision, or what we call the Macedonian call. And uh it was a a person in Macedonia crying out, Come over and help us, and he realizing that it was sent from the Lord He went over into Macedonia, really from Troaz. It's only 125 miles by boat to get to Neapolis, which is the main port that would lead to Philippi. And uh it was this kind of uh calling that moved the gospel in a tremendous and a marked way from being an Asian gospel and uh its first steps across the Dardanelles into Europe. So Acts chapter 16 then is pivotal like Acts chapter 10. So in Acts chapter 10, we have the record of the first Gentile conversion And all of us mostly are non non-ethnically were non-Jews, and so we praise the Lord for that. But we also have in chapter sixteen the crossing over into Europe. And by that movement, then the gospel kept going west, and eventually throughout all Europe, the gospel has been preached. And by Paul, I mean, even at the end of the book of Acts, we find him in Rome living in his own hired house and but he was sort of in house arrest. And we believe by the by the information that you can glean from the later epistles of Titus 1 and 2 Timothy, Titus, and Philemon, that Paul was then let loose again, going as far as we believe, even into London or Londonium, as they called it, and even into Spain. And then coming back, going all the way back, and then coming through Troaz one more time when he is arrested one more time and taken and killed. So this book is actually written uh right at the end you'd say of the book of acts while he's in his first incarceration. And he's writing to the people that we're really a people of miracles because he goes there to Philippi and there is no synagogue. So I think you realize that in you read through the book of Acts that Paul's plan, his general method was to go into a city and find the synagogue. And go into it and preach. And in that s in that setting, he would find a group of Jewish people who were at least familiar with the Old Testament scriptures. And He would find as it was very common at the time, a lot of proselytes, and meaning as I discussed this morning, there were lots of people in the Roman Empire that and and uh looking at what their worship was, which was very immoral knew that wasn't for their family and had joined themselves to the synagogues. And so the synagogues were well populated across um the Roman Empire. With people that were ready to understand the gospel because they knew the Old Testament. But that wasn't the case when Paul got to Philippi. It's a pagan city. It doesn't have a large Jewish settlement, not even enough to have a synagogue. And he goes down by a river and finds Lydia, who is there Gathering people together to pray and he joins her and then if you remember the story, then this demon-possessed woman comes out and follows him and he eventually looks back and he casts the demon out of her and And uh she uh she no longer is able to produce a funds for those that were owning her. And uh then they stir up the m the people of the community to throw uh Paul and Silas into prison. And there they are in the jail in the middle of the night when the miracle happens, a true miracle. And so Uh, you know, when you have an earthquake, and we used to in Belize at Guatemala, that region has a lot of earthquakes, and so we would sometimes feel those earthquakes, you know, shaking the peninsula where we were And so uh earthquakes never produce order, they always produce disorder. And uh in this case, in in Acts chapter 16, there was an earthquake that did something. It knocked off the stocks that were on their feet. It it loosened all of the locks on their hands and and it opened the prison doors so that the jailer thought he had to kill himself and You know that story, and he comes in after Paul says we are all here, and he falls down and says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? After all, he had been listening to the gospel being sung and preached by Paul and Silas in the jail. A tremendous story, one of the epic stories in the Bible. His family is saved. It seems like all of them hear the gospel and they're all baptized that night. And this is a church that is founded upon that. So here is Paul riding in jail from Rome, and he's got a Paphroditus with him who is from that congregation and serving for them as a minister. And Paul sends this letter, he writes it, and in his mind and in his heart are the people of these kind of miracles. So look at chapter 1. And you'll notice what he says in verse number three, he says, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, for you all making requests with joy, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day. So he's thinking of that little place by the river and uh thinking about the jailer that got saved and all the miracles. And he's sending this letter back. And he's sending it with a definite theme. Most commentators agree that the theme of Philippians would be to rejoice or joy. It's mentioned so many times. It's mentioned in every chapter. But uh the joy is going to come when they fix some problem in the church. And so go to chapter 1 and verse 27, and you'll notice that the problem of this church is that They are lacking in unity. There's been some problems. And so Paul has to address this. He says, only let's your conversation, which means behavior. Be as it becometh the gospel of Christ, and whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit. With one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. So there's a problem in the church And it's kind of addressed as you go along in this passage, and chapter 2 is very integral to that because he gives you a really a recipe to fix the problem in the first verses of chapter two. In verse number uh two, notice that he's dealing with this issue of joy that comes from fixing this problem. It doesn't do any good to create a false joy. There's a lot of churches you go to and they want to pump you up and they're not dealing with your sin or dealing with the problem that causes your difficulties in life. But you come to church and after raising your hands and and and then being puffed up you go home and all the problems are still there. You might feel good for a few moments, but you haven't dealt with the problem. There is no real joy until there is a cleaning up of the problem within this church. Much like what your theme is, and I had no idea when I was preparing to preach this that that was your theme. But look at verse 2. Chapter 2, verse 2. Fulfill ye my joy. So joy is going to come. That ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. And then he's going to give you two verses here that deal with how do you become like-minded. Well, first of all, you've got to get off yourself. He at verse number three, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in loneliness of mind. Let each esteem other better than themselves. So you gotta stop worrying about what's yours. Your your your parking spot, your and you can have all the parking spots today if you were here. If you just come out you can have any one of choice. You might have to shovel it though, but And uh your spot on the pew, and there's plenty of room here today. We it and and and even in some more serious issues, we've got to get over ourselves. And uh there are going to be when you put humans together, sinners, saved by the grace of God, but we're still sinners. You put us all together to join in one accord in one mind. There are going to be problems within that because we're human and at some point with the problems that come along you have to just get up. Live above it. Don't worry about it. In other words, it's not that big of a deal. And uh he says, get over yourself. Verse number four then he says the other uh uh recipe, other part uh element that you need to involve is look not every man in his own things, but every man also on the things of others. So He says, first of all, stop thinking of yourself too much. Secondly, begin serving one another. And these two things produce the joy that you're looking for because This unity in a church is not just to give the pastor an easier time to preach and pastor the church. The problems in the church are a very weighty matter upon the heart of a pastor. He begs God. He's praying. He's working. He's laboring in the Word. He loves every person. And then Sister So-and-So and Brother So-and-so and Sister So-and-So get at odds with one another because of some seemingly un unimportant issue, it creates the heartache that breaks the heart of pastors and their families. I remember as a child when my dad pastored and some someday you'd have all your friends together and then the next day you see your friend at the store and now they can't talk to you And as a kid, I wondered because their parents got mad at something in the church and walked away. As a kid, I wondered, as a pastor's kid, what did I do? They won't talk to me anymore. It's a difficulty. That disunity will stop and blunt the work of God. Nothing gets done. Everything stops. People get hurt. And it's and and there are whether it be the person that perpetrated the problem or the person that was hurt by the problem, or usually what I call the innocent bystanders, they get hurt and are run off the church that are just there. They're not part of the problem, they're just sick of the problems coming around. And much of this would be taken care of if Christians would live humble lives and would dedicate themselves to serve God and serve others. Now, in this passage, we're going to find out that from verse 5 until the end of the end of the scripture, end of the chapter, The Lord gives us three examples of this kind of living. And he's going to use three examples. But before I get into that, I want you to go to chapter four. And notice in verses, the first three verses here, and number four, we always re- we talk about verse four, rejoice in the Lord always. I mean that's a very popular verse, but before you can have joy, there's problems that have to be dealt with. Therefore, my brethren dearly beloved. So think of Paul's heart. He's going to say dearly beloved twice in the same verse. Verse number one, he says, Therefore, my dearly beloved brethren, I am longed for. Your pastor has love for your heart and wants you to do what's right. My joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord. My dearly beloved, don't give in. to the disunity. Don't give in to the sin that produces this. So if you can imagine this, they're all gathered around, if Aphrodite has arrived. With a letter from the great apostle that he says was scripture, given by inspiration of God. And the people are gathered and they're listening there with the candles burning and In various places around whatever meeting hall or barn or whatever they could get together to meet in Philippi They're all waiting with bated breath or hoping their name is mentioned. They want to hear, but then Paul in this letter, as Paphroditus is reading it, he's addressing the disunity and Wait a minute, that's not so good. I like the joy part, Paul, but I'm not sure if I'd like the attention of disunity and the problems that come up, but they're all sitting there listening and Then he gets to verse number two of chapter four, and he stops playing about the the circumference of the problem, and he goes right to the heart of it, and he says, I beseech or beg. Be odious. So then he repeats it. I beg, he says it twice, I beg, Sintichi. So now, without with going with the principles of unity that produce the joy, he now comes to chapter 4 and he from Rome with the Paphroditus' help under the inspiration of Scripture, points his finger at two of the women in the church and says, let's get to the heart of the problem. And could you imagine that the the sudden gasp as they hear their names mentioned in such a fashion? And then later as they read verse three, the tears that should have followed, and hopefully some repentance. In verse 3, and I entreat thee, also true yoke fellow, and he names Clement here, help those women with labor with me in the gospel. They used to be part of what's happening here With Clement also, and with other fellow laborers whose names are in the book of life, but you've let a problem come up in your life, and you've gossiped, and you've caused disunity in the body. And he has to beg you to get right. It's kind of frightful that the it'd be kind of like and it would be hard it would you know, names here tonight, you know, it'd be like Preaching and saying, hey, but at least uh you've got to stop your gossip. And uh today people are so sensitive they say, well, that preacher, man, he is just too coarse. He's too personal. And and we preachers try not to do that. We try to be polite and loving in our delivery. But the fact is that this is a serious problem in sin. that can upset the work of God, that can halt the salvation of souls and the continuation of raising people up to be what they ought to be, literally stopping the work of the Great Commission In Philippi and beyond, simply because somebody doesn't like how somebody else dressed in the church. It isn't just petty, it's very serious Paul has to call these three individuals out, and he really they are inscripturated I mean, there this is under inspiration of the Bible. So that forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. And so for eternity, as as we pass the eternity, the admonition or the reproof, the rebuke That is given here to name these people publicly will remain forever. Forever. Notorious for what? What are they known for? For causing a division in God's house. And it's not to be. Go back to chapter two, and then I'll have to get to my lesson here as this is all introduction, but If you look at chapter 2, verse 5, and go down from there to verse 18, you have the greatest of these examples of unity through humility and service by saying, hey, let's look at Christ. In verse 5, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. We have here one of the greatest verses, passages about his incarnation, about the person of God, what we call the theanthropic person, the God man uh everywhere uh found in Scripture, but he he was a man who was in the form of God, which means he's God. You cannot be in the form of God without being God. You cannot be omniscient without being God. There can be no runner-up to omnipotence. If you had two people that claimed omnipotence, somewhere we have to find out which one really is omnipotent One that is a runner-up. And so Jesus, in the form of God, thought it not Robert to be equal to God, but made himself of no reputation. He became humble as the example of those who in unity was there to produce a purpose, to die for the sins of all mankind, and he could never look to his own needs He had nowhere to lay his head. He never thought of what he needed in this life. And he served humanity in a way that nobody else has ever seen. So in a general sense, he continues that thought all the way to verse number 19, where he brings up a second servant of the Lord and says, Let me tell you about another one. He says, But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy is shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort. He's going to bring back joy and comfort when I know that it's fixed. I know that it's all right at the church at Philippi. Verse 20. Now notice what it says about this man. For I have no man like-minded. Oh, that's pretty pretty awful. It's pretty awful that in all of the Roman Empire and all of Christianity at its time he could only find one man who naturally cared for the state of the people. That's an unusual man He says, now the Lord ought to be able to call on each one of us and say, hey, our heart is so dedicated like Timothy. That God could call on us to do whatever task He wants, very big task and what people think as a menial task. Hey, call on me, God. I am here ready to serve. Because I naturally care for their sake. But instead of that, look what he says. He gives the testimony in verse 21 of what really people are like. He said, For all seek their own Not the things which are Jesus Christ. So the problem is again addressed. Here's the example of a man who is not thinking of himself, but has preferred God's people and preferred the things of God above his own natural needs. And he's saying we need to be like this more. And then in the third instance, beginning in verse 25, where we read our text and will occupy our thoughts for the next few minutes. He brings up this individual with this funny name. Now that name, Epaphroditus, beginning in verse twenty-five, is a name that was uh a commonly used name in the Greek Empire. It's not a Jewish name, it's a Grecian name. comes from the goddess Aphrodite. And she is the goddess of sensual love, there's no question. But and originally that's kind of the borrowing from that term But in their day, by the time this man comes around, it is a name that was really called defined by the word lovely. So his name is lovely one. And tonight I'm going to bring out three things from his life and ask you the question: Are you a lovely Christian? Do you have to say, hey, no, I'm not a lovely Christian. I'm I'm really a problem Christian in the church. I'm a Eodius or Sentici or Clement. I'm one of these that cause the problems in the church. I'm not really interested in the mission of the church and it's in its course in the world, in the world missions, I'm interested in myself. But here is a lovely Christian. And if that sounds a little bit on the girly side of things, you can also look at verse number 25. Where it says, yet I supposed it necessary to send to you. So Paul uses this terminology here to say that he is indispensable to the people of Philippi. He said, I thought it necessary to send. So you could say our our message today are three elements that make you a lovely Christian, or you could say three elements that make you indispensable to your church. Things that are very important to the work of God. And the first one of this is found in verse 25, and I'm going to call it faithfulness. But I want you to see it through these titles that are given to Epaphroditus, where he says, My brother and companion in labor, fellow soldier, and your messenger. Okay? So there are there are really four different things that are said about him. His position is that he is one of the preachers within the Church of Philippi. It seems like he had gone to see Paul. ministering unto him, and then he got sick. Stayed a while, probably longer than he expected, but now he's sent back to carry this letter back to the church at Philippi. Brother is an interesting thing to say. It is the word Adelphas. It's what we know like Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love, but it literally means from the same mother, from the same womb. What is Paul doing here? He is making an equality between him and the average person. So the idea of laity and uh clergy is not a biblical model in the scriptures. We have those that are called as pastors to lead, to feed the flock, but we are servants of God. We we make the distinction that we don't work for the people of the church. I'm I'm employed by people that are at our church when I've pastored those churches. They pay their tithes and it pays a stipend for the pastor to live. But I don't work for them. I work for God. But God's number one calling, and it has to be that way, and his number one calling for a pastor is that he might serve the needs of his people. So I'm here to serve the needs, not to make I'm not a people pleaser. Your pastor is not here to make you happy and get you to like him. He is here to serve the spiritual needs. You say, what is he going to do to do that? Well he says reprove. Rebuke and exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. He's supposed to preach the word. These things sometimes make you uncomfortable, and if you're living in sin, if you've been uh uh uh negligent of your Christian duties or your Christian life, then you ought to feel uncomfortable if the pastor is doing his job. But he's making this claim that as a brother in Christ, that's what we are. I might hold a position as pastor who has to lead the church. But what I'm made of, the material right here, is that I'm equal level with everyone else. An interesting title Now the next two titles are really what I'm talking about concerning faithfulness. When he says companion in labor And the word fellow soldier. There's a phenomena. You know the Bible was originally written in Greek, and there's a linguistic phenomena that happens in the Greek language with a prefix. So Sometimes we have prefixes. You have the word gress, and sometimes we put progress or congress or something like that. And uh so in this same way we have the word for labor Uh is where we get the word ergonomics, and we have the word for soldier, and we have a prefix that's put before them assimulated into the word, you know, sun ergas and sunstaras, or whatever the soldier word is. And uh these words are combined because it carries with it the concept of being tied together, that word soon. ties the person together. In other words, what he's saying here, this man is yoked with me. You took two oxen together to pull a cart. There has to be unity. And if you're not present for duty, who's pulling the weight? And this man he could be relied upon because he's not just in name somebody in the church, but he is pulling his share of the weight. He is next to me with his shoulder into the into the the work of God. He is going toward a purpose that is the same as my purpose. And because of this unity, we are sowed together, and that's going to require a faithfulness. People that are not present for duty cannot do the work of God. You want to get the Great Commission finished, then we have to be Companions in labor. Not just that, we are common to be those that are tied together in their old fashion. It was a Grecian thing when they went tie their shields together in a line because we have an enemy that's trying to penetrate and get to the people of God Your pastor can count on you to be one of those that are defending the truth and standing for righteousness and keeping your home clean, keeping your heart clean, and you can come and stand next to your preacher and say, hey, no matter what comes at the church To protect the work of God. I am right there, present for duty. So this was that kind of man. He was quite a man that way. He is your messenger. He is your minister who came and ministered to my wants. Faithfulness. Amen. The next point we have here is the point of compassion. Notice the next two verses, 26 and 27. For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he'd been sick. You know, most of most of us, when we get sick, now my wife is the kind, when she gets sick, she wants to be alone. But I'm a typical guy. When I get sick, I wanna Debbie, come feel my forehead if I have a fever. Is it any worse than five minutes ago? You know And uh help me, I need some food. I need you to sit here. I mean, we guys become little babies when we have a little bit of a fever. But this man wasn't saying, hey, uh I feel bad because I'm sick. No, he was full of heaviness because they had found out. He didn't want to be a burden to the people to whom he ministered. And as a result, it broke his heart. And he had a longing for them. And he was full of heaviness. Now, that word heaviness is our attention for this point. This compassion. I already mentioned that he had been nigh unto death, as we find in verse 27, and then in verse 30, that he had become the next door neighbor alongside of A neighbor to death. But notice that word full of heaviness. This is a word here that we only find three times in the Bible. It's not a common word that was used. Paul is quite an educated man. He understands these things and he not only was educated at the feet of Gamelios, he gives uh in Acts, he tells us this, so he had the greatest uh religious teachers before he came to Christ. But he grew up in Tarsus, which had a reputation in all of the all of the Roman Empire as one of the greatest libraries in the secular education for its young people So that Paul could do things like he does in Acts chapter 17, where he freely and on the spot quotes from great of the poets or great historians like he does there with Epimenides and others He does the same thing as you'll find in the book of Titus, quoting from the Cretans. He's an educated man and he's using that education under the inspiration of God. to produce these words of God and he uses a word that's only used in two other places, this word heaviness, and you'd have to go back. In Scripture to the Gospels and to Matthew's account and Mark's account there in Matthew 26 verse 37 and 38 in Mark 14 verse 33 and 34. And you'd find our Savior as he is approaching that place we called Gethsemane's garden, that olive press where really the battle for The souls of mankind was one. He looked into the cup of God's wrath, all of God's anger upon sin, and he he said in his humanity, he said, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And uh what was in the cup, but all the sins of man and the God's judgment upon that. And he said that the second time, not my will, but thine be done. And in so doing, he drank the judgment of God for all of man's sins, in a point where it produced in him an agitation and a heaviness. That caused him to sweat great drops of blood. He drank that, and then rose to go to judgment, arrest and judgment Torture and crucifixion. He won the crown of redemption through the horrible experience in the garden. And what is said in those two accounts is that when Jesus approached that place, the Bible says he became very heavy. And that word is used only in those two synoptic gospels, Matthew and Mark, and then we find it spoken about for Epaphroditus, and what we could say is that this man He approached coming to his compassion, to the compassion of the Lord Jesus Christ, where Christ absorbed the sin and judgment of God upon all of sin for humanity, past, present, and future. And Epaphroditus of all the men in Scripture came utterly close to that same compassion. If you want to be a lovely Christian, if you want to be indispensable to your church, get on board with the compassion The direction, the burden, the theme that God has put upon your pastor The works, whether it be the things that you're doing in the future, like eventually it's going to warm up and you'll have vacation Bible school again and The things that are being done at this church to say, I want to not only participate nominally, but I want to get the compassion That God has given to our church and to our pastor, and may I reach as close as I could ever be to the compassion that Jesus had when he bore our sins on Calvary. This is that kind of man. His name is only mentioned here and then in chapter four in all the scripture. That's all we know about him, but He was a man whose faithfulness is spoken of by Paul and and really as an example to all of us and whose compassion has to be rewarded, and I'm sure by God in heaven, rewarded in his entry into heaven. Here comes the man whose compassion was nearest to the compassion of Jesus. An amazing thing. Something else is said about him. So that if you want to be a lovely Christian, you need to find this faithfulness and compassion, but you're going to need also a little bit of courage I take this from an idiom that you see in verse number 30. We see there that he says he was nigh unto death because for the work of Christ. He was nigh unto death, but notice those next words not regarding his life So there's an idiom that in the Greek language that was really from a funny location. It came from the gambling houses And uh this is what Paul employs here, an idiom that is used that was borrowed from there. And as I said, he's a very educated man and He knew how to use the language that was available to him and he comes to this place where he asked you talk about this man and his courage for God. And he says, I know what I'm going to use. I'm going to use this idiom that has to do with a man who it means to throw down. It literally interpreted would be throwing it, casting his life down. But what it referred to in their culture was taking everything you owned, your house and your your your uh your s your your house note All of your money, all of your possessions, something that represented all of that in a promissory way. And to put it on the gambling table And to be able to put everything you have on the throw of one die or dice Gambling is not a modern issue, and the Lord is not condoning gambling. He's not. He's borrowed an idiom that, in this context, would be more appropriately put. That we take everything that represents us, our heart, our soul, our mind, our education, our family, our friends, and our location, our house, and our possessions And we put on a promissory note before God, and we write down all that I am, and we throw it down on God's great table called His will. And we say, God, it's all yours. To lose or to gain. And it's an amazing thought. That his current, his courage, made it that he would voluntarily hazard his own welfare. Exposing himself to danger, to place everything he had as if it were on the roll of a dice, but in this case. into the hands of something more secure than anything in the world, into the hands of our Savior. So again, this man was saying, whatever God wants to do with my life. I have thought, well, what if we get to Chicago, right? And it doesn't go well. You know, I'm going to an area that's largely Eastern Orthodox and Catholic and They're generationally involved in this. I knocked on one door and and uh Ukrainian fella came to the door didn't speak any English And uh I was really excited that day. I was I've seen God change people. Like you go knock on their door and you see them for the first time and then later One day you're gonna see them as a deacon in the church and it blows my mind that God can do that. And so I was out there knocking on doors that day and and uh in in Portage Park and I knocked on the next door and I was saying, Lord Maybe this is the one who's going to get saved and become a deacon at our church. And a transgender answered the door. So you there's all sorts of things like that. But what if we went to Chicago and it didn't go well? Are you willing to follow the Lord to seeming in the world's eyes to be a failure? To wrap up everything that we have and everything that we are, to leave our family aside and come in into a country that really the city of Chicago has some elements that I've been calling it a communist city I mean the rules there and the restrictions and just finding a place to rent to start a church has been a very very difficult process. And I said, what would you do if it failed? And uh the answer is I would just love God because I want to follow this pattern. That whatever this is, whatever my reputation is, whatever my education is, whatever my life, I'm 51, so maybe I've got Years left or whatever the balance of the days that the Lord has, I want to be this kind of Christian that says, Lord, whatever you want out of my life. Good or bad, success or failure in the eyes of man, I'm going to put it into the hands of God and say, God, it's totally and completely up to you. This man did this not regarding his own life, so that wherever God wanted him to go, whatever God wanted, he said God wanted him to be sick. To be a next-door neighbor to death. To cause the loved ones in the church to be at uh at um sorrow because of his illness. I'm sure he did not want to be sick. Whatever God wants to do, whatever cost, to be a lovely Christian means This life and everything it entails belongs to Him. A lovely Christian A man who in Scripture is often overlooked. I've never, I haven't heard many sermons on this man's life. But he stands as one of those examples of somebody who says God uses to say here's how unity is produced. When at some point you stop thinking of what's mine and my rights, and start having this attitude of faithfulness. And of the incredible compassion and of this courage to let God have his way. To take my children and put them on different places around the earth. Right now all my children are serving at one chur. But maybe one day they'll serve at all different churches. Maybe it will be infrequent that we get to see them. Let go of your family. Let God have your life. Let Him have your children. Let them have everything that you have. So we like to think well of ourselves. We tend to have a view of ourselves that we are doing well as Christians. But according to God's measure, here's what we could do to say, do we measure up to being a lovely Christian? This is what God esteems. He inscriptorated this. This is what God esteems as making comprising a lovely Christian. You want to be indispensable to your church This is how you do it. And may God help us to make the changes that we ought to make. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, I thank you for your scripture. I thank you for what we can see. We're amazed that even in Philippi they were dealing with similar problems than churches have today of disunity. selfishness within the church and you had to address these things and I sometimes wish I could say I'm sorry Lord for the times that I've been selfish thinking or Not serving like I should. And Lord, I sure don't feel like I measure up to apaphroditis, but God, I want to be That's where I want to be, every day of my life, Lord, coming before you and saying, Search me, O God. And if there's anything left of Don Whitaker that you would crucify him to the cross and Let me walk not as Don, but as Christ through Don, that everything I am given to you with a compassion that would come as close as this human life could ever come To what you experienced, that we might love you in portion at least of how you love us. And to love your people. to keep the unity of our church intact so that the Great Commission can continue. Bless this invitation we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Pastor, if you'll come.