So this morning we're looking at the focus of missions. Last week we looked at the foundation. So turn with me to Matthew chapter number 18. The last chapter in the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter number 18. Um Brother Joe, it feels very warm in here. Are you guys warm? Yeah, I don't want to uh everybody to be going to sleep. Can you make it feels like the heat's still on? Can you bump that down if you Um gets too warm and it's hard for me to breathe, you know. Uh we're used to being pretty chilly in our room because it's a long ways from the wood stove. And uh you know get used to sleep in that well in the in the room that we were staying in it had one of those like a hotel room where you have the heater right there. And uh it was only set on sixty three but uh it felt hot in there. Uh because it's used to being much cooler. I'm like, man, I need to shed some of these blankets in here. Um but So Matthew chapter number 18, let's uh follow along with me as I read this passage of scripture, which gives to us the great commission, a familiar passage of scripture. But let's read verses 6 Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee into a mount where Jesus had appointed them. You know we ought to go where Jesus tells us to go, amen. They went to do what God had said, they where Jesus had appointed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and he spake. Oh, what? Oh, Matthew twenty eight. I'm sorry, you're mad. You guys you guys should have known that. You should have known uh the Great Commission wasn't in Matthew eighteen. You should have said, Pastor, Great Commission's not in Matthew eighteen. Uh And so I messed Pastor Augusta up twice. I I don't know what I was thinking. I I copied it out of my notes. Uh I typed it up and put it in my notes and everything, the wrong passage of scripture. And I saw this morning there was the wrong thing and I went upstairs to tell them and I told him the wrong thing again. So maybe I didn't get as much sleep as I thought I did. Uh I don't know. But you should be I said the last chapter of Matthew, didn't I? I said Matthew eighteen the last chapter, but that's not the last chapter. So we're getting there. We're getting there Alright, so you guys are following along, just making sure you're awake, right? After that l hour we lost last night So here we are. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee into the mount where Jesus had appointed them. It's good to go where the guy tells you to go, right? Even if it's the wrong passage. Uh so and when they saw him they worshipped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto you. to the end of the world. This is the Great Commission. We're going to look this morning at the focus of missions. What is the focus of missions? Some ministries, some churches get a little bit off on their focus of missions. And as a church, we want to be sure that our focus is correct. We looked last week at the foundation and uh what that starts with, and then this morning we want to look at the focus. Let me have a word of prayer ask God to bless. Lord, we thank you for today and the opportunity to be in your house. Lord, I pray you'll be with us all. Give us ears to hear. Lord, I pray that we would uh be able to overcome the the lack of sleep. The hour that we lost last night, some up late doing different things, and Lord, this morning we've come into your house and we need your strength to be alert and awake. We need you to feed our hearts and our minds from the Scriptures this morning, Lord, I pray that you would help us as a church, as individuals, to have the right focus in our missions and endeavors here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Well, thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. The Great Commission here in this text gives us a threefold mission that we need to do. The Great Commission puts us on a mission. We need to teach all nations, baptize them, and then teach them to observe all things. In reality, the church is not involved in missions, but it is carrying out a mission. Accomplishing the mission that God has given us to do. Our mission is to plant churches within every nation and equip them to do the same thing. We want to uh be involved in missions That are reproducing more missionaries, that are accomplishing what we're doing here. We want to be involved in something that goes beyond just the next day. The goal of missions is always an indigenous, self-propagating local church. That's the goal, to s establish an indigenous, self-propagating local church. So first of all, we see to evangelize every nation. Evangelize every nation. That's our goal. He says, go ye therefore and teach all nations. So there's a couple things there. We got all people groups, all nations, everywhere in the world that is included in the all. And we are to go to all nations to the best of our ability as God gives us meaning. As God gives us missionaries, as God gives us the ability, we're to try and reach every nation. The activity of this mission is evangelism. You see, the activity of missions is going to be evangelism. It's going to be reaching the lost with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Evangelism is presenting every person an opportunity to trust the Lord. somehow getting to them, whether that takes translating the scriptures into their language, whether that means uh translating a John and Romans or a track or or maybe getting somebody to interpret for you as you might be able to to speak one of the hardest things to do is to speak through an interpreter. First of all, you gotta gotta cut all your messages in half because it takes twice as long to get it done. And uh the hardest thing you say something and then you gotta wait until he says And then you say something, you gotta wait till he says it. But finding any opportunity a way to present a uh understandable presentation of the gospel to every group of people. It's evangelism. It's reaching the lost with the message of Jesus Christ. That is the activity of missions. Any mission endeavor that does not include and focus on evangelism is Not missions. Now it might be a they might be on a mission, they might do some good things, but it's not biblical missions There are a lot of great humanitarian aid programs out there. There are a lot of groups that go into third world countries and they may provide medical services. They may go and provide uh food and clothing. They may go and and provide a secure environment for the kids to grow, or they might provide education and give the kids an education. Those are all good things, and I'm not going to minimize or say that they they don't have a place in the world, that they don't go and help and minimize the suffering of a group of people in other nations. That's not missions. Missions has at its heart the objective and the goal of reaching a people with the gospel. Now there might need to be Some humanitarian aid as part of the tool that's used to accomplish the goal. I mean there's nothing wrong with that. If I'm if I am a doctor and I have the ability to go to a third world country, it would be foolish of me not to use the tools that God has given me to try and read. I could open a little clinic and be a help to those people and provide some good medical services for them. But the aim of opening the clinic and providing medical services for them is not just to help them with their stub toe. It's so that when I help them with their stubbed toe, I can say, hey, have you ever heard about Jesus? You see, we need to be a part of missions, programs around the world that have as their aim, as their focus, evangelism. You see, it's reaching the lost. I mean, there's great things that that are being done in a humanitarian way around the world But we only have so many missions dollars at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And regardless of that number, whether that number is small or maybe that number is really, really big, We need to understand that our aim, our goal, our focus is not just to provide somebody with a shirt. It's to provide somebody with a savior. That needs to be our focus. And although we may buy a whole truckload of shirts to send to another country, they better have John three sixteen written. They better have something that can be used to to reach the lost with the gospel. I mean there's a purpose, there's an objective behind the tool, just like we provide pop tarts on the bus. They go out and uh and they provide Pop Tarts to the kids on the bus. We don't do that because we believe that breakfast is the most hearty meal of the day and it's very important and you oughta have a good hearty Pop Tarts is a good hearty breakfast, amen It's probably slightly better than a Mountain Dew, which is usually what I have for breakfast. But it's not because we really want the kids to have breakfast. It's because we want the kids to be able to get here to church, not have to worry about that, to be excited about, hey, we're gonna have, you know I don't even know what kind of my kids like these fudge pop tarts. I mean it's like having a fudge popsicle for breakfast. I don't know what kind of Pop-Tart it is that they like, but they might be excited about man, we've got fudge Pop-Tars today and they'll jump on the bus for that. But then they get presented with the truth of the the gospel. It's not just to provide them breakfast, it's that we would get them here to church and be able to love on them a little bit, show them the love of Christ, and hopefully win them to do Jesus Christ. You see, every mess every mission's endeavor needs to include evangelism. Now that method of evangelism Evangelism can be done through several ways. We see some examples of this in the scriptures. And I'll give you these texts. You're welcome to turn to them or write them down. But in Acts chapter 14, verse number 21, we see that public preaching. is a method of evangelism. In Acts 14, 21 he says, And when they had preached the gospel to that city and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra. They preach the gospel to that city. Public presentation of the gospel, preaching. And sometimes you have evangelistic meetings. Or you bring a visitor to church, and the goal behind getting them to come to church is that you can, they might hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. I mean, on most Sunday mornings, I will try and at least incorporate the gospel into the message. in some way. That might not be the entire focus of the message, but on Sunday mornings especially I try and have what you would call an evangelistic type Presentation of the gospel. Somewhere it's reached, at least if it's at the very end, it might be a message really directed towards Christians, which this morning's message we're going to have really is directed towards Christians. But somewhere there's a there's a tie in, there's a presentation of, hey, if you don't know what we're talking about this morning, or if you have never had a chance to trust Jesus Christ. If you if you look at it and say, I want to know God the way that they're talking about knowing God, a presentation of the gospel to draw people in because this is the service where we have the most visitors that come to church. People tend to bring visitors on Sunday morning. And so on Sunday morning we try, as we present the truths of the Word of God to the church family, we also try and present the message of the gospel. to a lost world. Public preaching is one method. Private instruction in Acts chapter 8 verses 20. six through thirty-five, this familiar passage of scripture uh where Philip um is called out to go talk to one person. And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise and go towards the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem to Gaza, which is desert. And he arose and went And behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority, under kin's queen of Ethiopians, for he had charge of all her treasures, and had come to Jerusalem to worship was returning and sitting in his chariot, reading Estes the prophet. Then the the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself to his chariot. And Philip ran thither to him and heard him. Read the prophet Isaiah and said, Understandest thou what thou readest? And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come, sit with him. The place of the scriptures which he read was thus. He gave some some private instructions. Here we have a man following the leading of the It's why it's important as Christians that we follow the leading of the Holy Spirit. Missions is not just something that we do across the world. It's something we do here at home as well. And God is going to touch your heart. God is going to say, hey, you ought to invite that person to church. Hey, you ought to give that person You ought to uh tell them about the website and point them towards a place where they can hear God's gonna prick your heart and and stir you and and say, hey, there's An Ethiopian eunuch that needs a private presentation of the gospel. God will touch your heart, and that's part of mission. Not just around the world, and we expect our missionaries to do it. Amen? That's what we're sending them over there for. But it's not just the missionary's job, it's our job. To be Giving out private presentations of the message of the gospel. It is also through a personal presentation of your testimony. In Acts chapter 26, we read of Agrippa and the Apostle Paul. And if you read through that story, you see where the Apostle Paul is telling Agrippa about his life and what God did to him, and he tells him how he was on the road to Damascus and what God did and how he knocked him off his uh mule or beast of burden there and and that God called to him from heaven and God saved him. Paul gives him a presentation of the gospel by giving his testimony. In Acts 26, verse number 22, he says, Having therefore obtained help of God, I continued unto this day, witnessing both the small and great. Saying none other things than those which the prophet and Moses said would come. Apostle Paul says, Hey, obtaining help from God, I've continued All I've given is the truth of what the prophet said was coming. And you know what? When you are presenting the gospel, you have help from God. You say, Man, I'm not sure I can do that, or I don't know how to do it, or I'm not real eloquent, or there's a lot of things that uh we look at ourselves and feel like we're not adequate or like you know we're not gonna be able to do Do it very good, but you've got help from God. The same God that helped Paul is going to help you. And uh then you have that well-known verse where Agrippa says, almost Thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Almost thou persuadest me. Paul was trying to persuade him to become A Christian. And that's what missions is all about. The focus of missions. Each of these means of sharing the gospel Communicating the truth through human instruments. Today, there's many efforts that we can use. There's many ways to get out the gospel. There's media that's available today that we never had in the past. There's social media. We ought to use our social media to give the gospel. We do a lot of other things with social media and we take pictures of And we take pictures of where we're at and take pictures of the ball game and take pictures of the gun show and take pictures of all this and put all that on the on social media for everybody we come in contact with. out there? You ever use social media to to say, hey, just want everybody I I know, everybody that might have a chance to read this, that God loves you And present the gospel. You say, well, that wouldn't go very good with most of the stuff that's on my social media. Well then you need to change some of that stuff, amen Because we're Christians and we're supposed to be Christians all the time, not just on Sunday, not just in church. You've got radio and television and we've used uh radio here. And we support a missionary that puts up radio stations around the world. There's lots of different methods that can be used to accomplish that goal. We have the printed word that we can use, whether that's a gospel tract. But all of these methods Still do not remove from us the responsibility of personal presentation. You know, even Jesus Christ, who was the Word, and dwelt among us, didn't just rely on the printed word. He presented truth to those those he came in contact with. The aim of missions is evangelism. The priority is all nations. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. The priority is all nations. We need to, that's why we have a missions conference, to expose us to other nations, to give us a glimpse into other nations And we would become a participant in joining together with a missionary going to that particular field and send them in our place where we cannot go. We got to get it to all nations. We've got to get it to every creature. As we establish valid witnessing among every people group, That every single person would have a chance to hear the gospel. We cannot say that we have established a valid witnessing Outside of a planting of an indigenous local church. Because the Great Commission doesn't stop with just when the To Christ. It doesn't stop with just get them saved. You've got to baptize them and you've got to teach them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. And our goal is not to just fly over to a to a country and and hey we're gonna have a uh blitz and we're gonna reach a lot of people with the gospel and and we we see a bunch of people saved and then we get on our planes to fly home. Now praise God for those that got saved, but who's going to baptize those people? Who's going to teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you? What happens to the new babes in Christ now? We need to be part of a missions program that goes beyond just a blitz. I would call those helps ministry. And there's a place for those. You know, like let's say there's an evangelist that has a tent and he flies over to a foreign country and and he goes out and he sets up this big tent and holds a meeting. and has lots of people come and God has gifted him to be able to draw a crowd. But he would be used in conjunction, put together with a missionary on the field. So that when they draw the crowd, that missionary now has a whole group of people he can work with, that he can begin to disciple and see baptized and then hopefully grow so that they'll get to the place. Where they will take the Bible and go out and tell their friends. You see, when they're first saved, they they they don't understand the commission. They need somebody to teach them. They don't understand what God wants them to know all about the scriptures yet. They need somebody to teach them. So our mission, the focus of our mission needs to be be not just that we would see all the world saved, although that is the foundation of it. I mean that's the the the starting point, but that Great Commission doesn't stop there. You've got to see them baptized. And that authority of baptism goes to the local church. You can't just, you know, Andrew can't go out and start baptizing people. I mean you've got to have a local church set up to be able to baptize people and bring people, nurture, and train and grow them. Reaching every every person So, evangelize every nation, establish indigenous churches. The priority of the local church. The local church is the center of God's plan For this age. Jesus loved the church and gave himself for it. We know that. And this is the center. This is God's tool for reaching the world. God's tool for teaching His people, God's tool for motivating, encouraging, strengthening, building his people to go and do the job of reaching the world Jesus promised that he would build his church and that he would preserve it against all opposition. Matthew 16 And I say also unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. The church is the body of Christ, a visible presence of the working of God on earth today. So we need to be, I'm talking about the focus of missions. As we consider missions that we want to support and missionaries as a church that we want to try and take on and be a part and get behind and join with to accomplish something. When they come and present their work, uh a lot of times they might use great ideas, and I'm all for all of the ideas and somebody maybe He has been gifted. Um we've got Brother Hall coming uh for our missions conference. And you can tell he's a younger man. He's very engaged with video and uh he has these uh little little cards that he gives kids. and it's a uh it's like a factoid about um Thailand and it's this little card and if you go to his website and you enter the code on there you enter the code on the card then like a two minute video pops up about something interesting about uh Thailand. And he's got a bunch of different ones and so the kids get these and they get to go home and look it look it up and type in the code and they get a little video. That's a great idea. It's a great tool. I mean it's awesome. Wonderful. Nothing wrong with that. I mean that's that's wonderful to give people a vision for what's going on in in that country. And We need to use those, but not outside, not without, not at a neglect, I should say, of establishing a church His goal is to go there and to establish a church. It should be the ultimate objective of any merch of any mission work, that people would be saved, baptized. And added to a church. Added to a church that they could that they can grow. You know, Brother Barnhouse was just here and you heard you heard him talking about going out into this village. And doing what? Establishing a church. Out in the middle of nowhere, there's these people. They're saved. They know God. They've been praying for years that what? That somebody would come and teach them That they could hold the church services, that they could grow in the Lord, and he's like, Here's another village right here that there's no church. Here's another village that there's no church. There's nobody to go and reach these people yet in a star. a church. That's what the focus is. That people would be discipled and then begin to reach other people. people. This is the pattern that we see in the New Testament in Acts chapter 2 verses 41 to 47. He says, then they that gladly received the word were baptized in the same day they were added. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and the breaking of bread, and in prayers, and fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the children. Apostles, and all that believed were together and had all things in common, sold their possessions and goods, imparted them to all men, to every need, as he had need. And they continued daily with one accord in the temple, breaking of bread from house to house, and did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart. So they gotta go. They gotta get organized. They gotta get organized that they might have a church. That the chur people that are saved and baptized could be added to it and be instructed. Once they're organized, the goal is that they can do outreach. That they would Go out and reach more people and bring more people in to the church. That the church would be self-propagating, that ultimately uh the church itself would grow. And then that church would itself be involved in missions. Just like Brother Barnhouse when he was here, he went and he started a church. But then those people organized and he trained some young men and every Sunday he's got four men that get on a motorcycle and drive out into the bush sometimes a couple hours away To hold a service, to have church with more people. He didn't just go and get content and say, okay, here we are, we've got some people, and I got some people I can teach and and we're good. And we're happy. No, they've organized and then they go to outreach and get involved in reaching more people. And that's what the missionaries should be doing. That's what we should be doing. There can be a little hope of reaching every person in every people group with the gospel if the responsibility of evangelism is not taken seriously By every church. When we follow the New Testament pattern, there's going to be a time when the missionary can move to a new area. Entrusting the responsibility of evangelism in that area. To those that have been saved, baptized, and added to the church. That's what Brother Whitaker has done. Belize and started there the church in Belize and he trained people. Uh they grew up in the church. I'm saying grew up as far as in their spirit and when their knowledge of the scriptures And he discipled them and brought them along to the point where uh one man was able, Brother Blanco, uh was able to take on the responsibility of pastoring and leading that church. And then he stepped down and says, God, what's next for me? Where else do you want me to go to reach more people? And that church is there, is thriving. I just read their missionary letter and got an email from Brother Whitaker about their anniversary Sunday that he went back for six year six year anniversary and the church was doing good. Doing strong. And he said without him there, the church itself went out and reached more people for their anniversary Sunday, knocked on more doors than they ever did under his leadership. They went out and did that on their own. And he said, they're going for God. And that's what's supposed to happen. And he's on to what God has next for him. So then we want to equip every believer, uh just like Brother Whitaker trained and taught uh Brother Blanco uh to be able to get in the scriptures and study and be able to teach and help others. I want to equip every believer to be able to do that. Last week after Sunday morning service, somebody in the church came up to me and said, Pastor, um do you have uh cheat sheet? And I said, What? He's like, Do you have a cheat sheet for like leading somebody to Christ? Like, people come and talk to me and I think I ought to tell them about Jesus, but I'm I'm not really sure what to say or I get all kind of like tongue tied and I just if I had a cheat sheet and I says I certainly do I have something that'll kinda give give you some direction. And then I just happened to be talking to one of the other members of the church that I knew had one in his Bible. And I said, you know what? He has one right here. You can just get his. Well there's just something to help guide him through the steps. Just something to help help him learn how to do it. Something to help him to be able to reach others often And that's what we're supposed to be doing. We want to equip the believers. And if that means giving him a little chit cheat cheat and saying, hey, this is kind of a step you can do until he gets confident, until he gets his own illustrations until he gets his own understanding of those passages of scriptures. There's nothing wrong with him saying, Hey, help me do it. I'm glad he wants to do it. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not Christians ought to be able to read the word and rightly divide the word. As you get into a good church, like I hope this one is, you ought to be able to start to really be able to understand and rightly divide the word. And the longer you're here you oughta the the spirit should bear witness and when you hear somebody preaching something that's not you ought to your spirit ought to say uh That doesn't sound quite right. That doesn't line up with what Jesus said over here. There ought to be something in you that says, you know what, that might not Let me look a little bit deeper. I'm not saying that that when you first hear something you might say, I'm not sure about that. Then you ought to say, I need to look. I need to look in God's Word. What what does God's Word say there? And maybe maybe God does say that. Maybe we need to change our thinking a little bit. But sometimes the word has not been rightly divided, and we need to be able to do that. We need to equip the believers to be able to know the scriptures enough That they can not just rightly divide the word, but that they can defend their faith. That they can defend their faith in Elisha's school. uh i the school that he attends in Indiana. Um they have like during study hall or something they they have a time where The teacher will say, uh, okay, we're going to play defend your faith. And the teacher will ask a question and say, why do you believe this? And and they'll discuss it and find out if they can defend their faith. Can they give an answer? Can they turn or point to the scriptures and say, this is why we believe this? This is why we do this. Can we can you defend your faith. Anyways, it's funny because he's been doing that with my kids and my kids are getting irritated at him. He's kind of putting him on the spot. And he's like, well why do you believe that? Well I don't care what you think, what does God's word say? And I said, Well you gotta look it up and they're like, He won't tell us and uh so he's been challenging them to be able to defend their faith. Christians, we ought to be able to defend our faith. Why do we believe what we believe? Does the Bible have an answer? If it does, we ought to be able to point to it. Every Christian should know how to present The sc the the a reasonable presentation of the gospel and how to defend the that which they believe. We want to equip the believer to study the scriptures. We want to equip the believer to walk in the Spirit. Galatians 5, 16 through 18. This I say, then, walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that you would. But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. Every Christian ought to be led by the Spirit and know how to let the Spirit reign in their life. And we want to equip the believer to do that, to get an understanding of how that works. Yielding to the Spirit in their life and doing what God wants them to do day by day. Seeing the fruits of the Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit. coming through their life, equipping them to do that. A spiritual life is not the result of doing good things. And not Spiritual life is not just a result of what I do. The spiritual life is a life that is a result of being led by the Spirit. Of God. Letting God lead you day by day. Letting the Holy Spirit control your life and yielding to Him. That is Spirit. Christian life is not just a list of do's and don'ts. The Christian life is yielding to the Spirit of God, letting Him reign in our lives And teaching them to win souls. He that wineth souls is wise. The fruit of Proverbs eleven, verse number thirty. The fruit of the right Righteous is the tree of life, and he that wins his soul is wise. First Thessalonians 2, verse 4. But as we are allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel. We've been put in trust with the gospel. God has given it to us. He's made us stewards of this, the message of his love, his death, his burial, and his resurrection. Even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God which trieth our hearts. We've been put in trust with the truth of the gospel, with the message of God's love. How bad would it be if we took that message and buried it? And then when he comes again we say, Oh yeah, I have it. We never shared it. We never spoke as we are supposed to, reaching every person with the gospel. This is the focus of Mr. Missions. Try to give you kind of an understanding of the heart of the focus of missions. What is it that the missionary is supposed to be doing out there as he comes and gives his presentation? What is important to us? It's important that he's going to go out and give the gospel. That he's going to see people saved, baptized, and then establish a church that they can be taught to go and do the same thing. Same thing again. That they would be self-propagating local church. That's the focus of missions. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for the Sunday school hour, for allowing us to look at this And uh Lord, things not new this morning for anybody that's been in church for for some time, but maybe just uh as we approach this missions conference and this time of year where we consider Missions as a church, maybe just refocused our mind on what is the most important thing that our missionaries should be doing, and what should we be doing as Christians Christians here. We get distracted by the world and by our lives and by the things that eat up our days. Lord, we've been entrusted with the gospel just as much as any missionary. For we too are missionaries here in our neighborhoods and in our homes. And Lord, I pray you would help us to be about the Master's business and reaching this lost world. In Jesus' name. Amen.