We have been in the book of Galatians. You can turn to Galatians chapter number four. Galatians chapter number four tonight. We are studying this. Paul is continuing with his instruction. With his uh systematic laying out of fact and information, teaching them that uh it we are justified by faith in Jesus Christ alone and nothing else is needed uh the insufficiency and uh the emptiness of the law for those that would strive to attain their relationship with Christ by the measuring it through the the law, of course, was insufficient. So Paul is just continuing to present those arguments. We're going to get right into it tonight. As we will see in verses 1, 2, and 3, hopefully this evening we'll get down through verse number 7. That's my plan. as I bring uh what the section that I've titled this, the Precious Adoption, a Precious Adoption, which is seen here in chapter 4, verses 1 through 7. So beginning in verses 1 through 3, he says, Now I say That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be Lord of all. But is undertutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. Even so we When we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. So we see here, first of all, a past affliction. The past affliction is the uh bondage that they were in, the slavery, the the contrast that Paul uh describes here or teaches on the uh that he's giving to them is the contrast, the difference between an heir, a son, and a slave. And he's teaching here in the beginning some some known principles for them, maybe a little less known for us, but teaching on the the fact of the matter is that a child in that type of a home would be in a condition where he was little more than a slave. He did not have the right or privileges of a full child, a full heir, until a certain time. It was something that was recognized as Roman custom was You know, maybe a man and uh woman would have a number of children born into their family. These children would be given to different servants the servants would be uh charged with watching them, caring for them. Each servant many times would have different roles or responsibility. One might be a type of a nursemaid or a care like that. One might be the schoolmaster. One might be what would be, we'll see in a minute, a governor, uh, which is more like over the estates or the affairs of the child, in in a maybe broader or more global type sense. But this is how they would live, often spending the majority of their day or their time with the servant or the servant's kids And so he was saying, listen, the the real truth of the matter is, is even though he's an heir, here he is playing in the yard with the servants' children. Here he is under the care and the instruction of another servant He's existing as an heir, but living like a servant. There's really is no difference there. He says, hey, as long as he's a child, he differeth nothing from a servant. He said, though he be Lord of all Even though the fact was he was an heir, he was not until the time appointed of the Father when he would be recognized for that. Now this word child here, he he gives us here, he says, as long as he is a child, is slightly different than the word that was used in chapter number three. If you remember chapter number three, I described the fact that it literally meant son. And as we go through this lesson today, you're going to see the validity or the importance of that word being son. This child is like we would think of a child as somebody really, really young. Actually the the Greek word is almost has the implication of an infant child, a a very young child. And so we would look at as a child as somebody very young, incapable of maybe even caring for themselves, certainly under the direction and control of other people. His life was not his own He was under the control of the servants. He was under their guidance. Their life was directed completely for him. He says here that the child is still under, the word used as tutor and governor. The tutor was a guide. That's somebody that would function as a guide for him. Obviously, tutelaging, I mean just teaching him, somebody that was guiding him. But the governor was the person who would be over his affairs. as a whole. He would be uh maybe not really concerned with the day-to-day stuff. The governor might not know what he's wearing today. He might not know what he's gonna eat today. He might not know what he learned today. But the governor knows where his investments are The government the governor knows uh how the estate is doing and and he's safeguarding the inheritance that the boy will one day receive. And so that governor was given direction that way and he says, Hey, as long as your child, the child's not making any of these decisions. The child's just he's he's living, he's existing, but he's very little different than a slave. He's just living under the care and direction of his guides and his governors. Paul, you remember, beloved, is dealing with or teaching Gentiles here People that would have grown up in this type of environment, people that would have known how society functioned in he's not dealing with the Jewish people, he's dealing with the Gentiles. that were under pressure to try and become Jewish because they wanted that relationship with God, then he's saying, listen, you don't get it by following Jewish tradition or by observance or following the law You get it by a relationship with Jesus Christ. It's faith in him and faith alone. They existed and lived in this type of background or in this state until the time appointed. That would be the time that the father directed that they would change from existing in as a child to sonship, to becoming a actually recognized heir, a son that the Father was going to bestow his goods on. Now, beloved, it's not like today in our society where we have put a age, a number, uh, you know, it's it's eighteen. That's the child becomes an adult at eighteen. Regardless of how he acts, you know, it's uh regardless how mature he is, uh eighteen, you're an adult now, or or you know, we told Andrew, 21, man, you're going to jail. We messed up. I mean, you just turned twenty-one, your your birthday. Uh now uh your decisions have adult consequences. As a child you can do things sometimes and and you know you get a little pat and say, hey, you shouldn't do that. But as an adult, now it has an adult consequence and and it's much heavier and you've got to be cautious and careful about that. But in Greek culture, a child was the became of age similar to ours as around the age of 18. In Jewish culture, you guys are familiar with, and and I'm sure you know that that was typically around the age of twelve, they would recognize and he would go through a ceremony and would be recognized as changing from childhood to adulthood and moving in that direction. In Roman culture, it was really based on maturity. It was up to the father. He would determine how mature the child was. You might have somebody that's 25 or 30, and the father is still not recognizing him as an heir. Because he's saying, hey, you you don't have your head screwed on straight yet. You you're not doing right yet. You're you're not in a place where I'm going to recognize you as my son as the one that's going to have all of the what I have been given or I have done or accomplished is not going to be passed to you. You're one of my children, but you're not recognized as a son yet. You're not recognized as an heir yet. And so it could be somebody younger, it could be twelve, thirteen, fifteen, eighteen, but it could be older as well because it was really based on maturity. And that's not a bad idea, I think. Because we've all known some people that were by age. uh considered adults. Uh but by maturity still not. And I think maybe we've allowed this spirit uh this idea of adolescence and oh I'm just a kid to infiltrate and to carry on for much of people's lives and and they just don't want to grow up Because when you grow up you have to take responsibility and you have to uh do what you know you're right to do and you can't just oh well I'm just a kid, I get to just play all the time and and my life doesn't have to be that serious and I don't want to wait and the burden of of being an adult. So even though I'm twenty-one or twenty-five or whatever it might be, they they still want to live like a child and just play all the time Uh and we need to encourage our young people to grow up and to mature much younger, much younger than they are today because a lot sadly, many times young people are past college before maturity hits them, and that should not be the case. It really could be much earlier than it is today. But it was recognized at that time when the boy was seen to be mature and could handle the position of sonship with all the rights and privileges that come with that. Now this was done through a ceremony called the toga viralysis. Now I don't I don't speak Latin, so I'm not 100% sure that's correct, but that's what I'm calling it, okay? Um now he he would take off the toga protexta. which was an which was a toga that had around the very bottom of it a uh purple line signifying he was still a child. So he could run around and play, he could do whatever. He had this this toga and people a recognized him. He was just a child. But at that ceremony, at the time appointed when the father recognized him as an adult, they would pull him in. They would have literally a very formal ceremony where he would take off this child's robe and he would put on the adult robe and signifying he was a full heir, a son of this father as directed. And then they would take him down in a very public forum and introduce him to everyone as a full son. So what Paul is teaching here is that in Christ Beloved, you enter the family of God as a full son. Yes, we are born into the family of God, and we become in, and we are children of God, but He's teaching the fact that listen there's not a trial period. There's not a period where you're put under a test or where the law is going to determine whether you make it or not. No, at the moment of salvation, when you put your faith and trust in Christ Right then you're recognized as a full sun. Right then you are given the position of sonship. Right then you are recognized, and that's why the difference of the word between chapter three and here is so important because in chapter three he's saying, hey, you're recognized as a son. Here he's saying this is the difference from a worldly perspective, how people view it. There was a time frame when although he was technically an heir, he was existing like a slave. And so now he's recognized as a full son. He says, So when we come into the family of God, you're cut you brought in as a full son. With all the rights and privileges, immediately. You haven't learned all of the doctrine that's in the Word of God yet. You can't quote that much scripture yet. You don't know half of what it is that you are supposed to be doing and half of what it is that you're not supposed to be doing. That's something that the Holy Spirit has to guide us unto all truth. But you see, that comes through maturity, through time. But right away you're recognized as a full Son of God. Amen. That is exciting to think and ponder about that. We're not brought in as a little child that must grow and prove himself. This is the picture that's given to us so powerfully in the story of the prodigal son. You remember when he came home? The father ran out to meet him, but the father meets him, and the father puts a robe on him. That is a symbol, a recognizing of this principle of, hey, you are my son. A full son, having all the privileges and rights of a son. You've returned and you've come home, and immediately he says, Hey, I recognize you as my son. A very strong and powerful picture that people would have known and understood. So we see here the illustration that he gives to us, that contrast between the slave and then the son, and then he gives us some insight into it in a spiritual aspect, a spiritual way. He goes back to the discussion that's at hand with the law and grace, with faith alone. A time there was a time when they as a nation were infants, when they lived under The law or under the elements of the world. He said in verse number three, even so we, when we were children. He's saying there was a time when we were children, when we existed under the elements of the world. We were in bondage. He said, we were in bondage to that. We were tied up to that. We were locked under the law. This word elements there literally means rudimentary. the very beginning, the very basic. It has been likened unto the ABCs. Like going back to the basics, like uh taking kindergarten all over again. And he says, hey, there was a time when we were children that we existed and we had to function in the realm of the law where we were dealing with the very basics, we had to be instructed on the details, but that time is no more. Now the time had come that they were no longer under the tutelage of the law, but they had been made sons And so we see the promise of the Savior, the promised answer that is given to them, the answer to the problem, the solution to obviously being freed from the bondage of the law was the Savior in verses four and five. He says in verse number four, he says, But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. So we see first of all the revelation of the sun there in verse number four. The time had come, the fullness of time. An artist once drew a sketch of a Drury twilight evening. The trees were laden with snow and a lonely house sat desolate in the middle of this snow-drifted field. It was a very bleak and depressing picture. Yet the artist, after having completed the picture, all of the drawing, you look at it, it was it was almost sad But then he grabbed his yellow chalk, and in a matter of just a few strokes, he put a light in one window in that home And the light shined out of that window, and the effect on the entire image was magical. All of a sudden Instead of being a depressing, hopeless scene, it was a scene that transformed into a vision of comfort and of cheer. And beloved Jesus Christ is the light that was sent into a dark world. The light where Jesus stepped out of eternity. And entered this world as a light that brings hope. That is the imagery that he's giving to us, the idea that when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son. I want you to see that it's God sent forth his son, that God did this. It was initiated by God. It was God's plan and God's design. Beloved, it was not random. It was not by chance. Christ came at just the right time. And I remind you tonight the Lord knows the right time for everything. Sometime his timing doesn't line up with ours Sometimes we we look at things and think this was not the right time and oh I'm not ready for this or that was too soon or this is this is it should have happened already or it didn't happen yet. We look at it and sometimes we're impatient. Solomon tells us in Ecclesiastes chapter number 3, there is a time to be born, a time to die, a time to plant, a time to pluck. There is a beloved right time. to do everything. And for us, often the struggle is just finding the right time. You know, you can say the right thing at the wrong time and really mess it up. I mean you can say the wrong thing at the right time and mess it up too, but I'd say sometimes it's a matter of just getting it right. And for us as humans, uh, you know, it seems like sometimes the The harder you try, the more you mess it up, and and certainly not on purpose, but that's what happens. But can I remind you tonight that God never messed it up? God knows the right time. And it says here, when the fullness of time had come, God had a plan, and by God's plan, Jesus came at just the right time. There was in the world at that time the Greek language gaining in popularity and strength, spreading across the world, the Greek language which gives us our New Testament and the preciseness of that language. The fact that it could have been written and recorded for us and saved and preserved and for us all the way till today, it was the right time. There was not another time in history before that that there would have been that in place ready. It was during the Pax of Roma. That was an unparalleled time of peace. That was given to the Roman Empire. It was 200 years of relative peace. That the Roman Empire experienced, do you know that that Pax Romana began 27 years before Christ was born? What are the chances of that? Take into the rest of the world the dispersion of God's people and the the exponential growth of the church during that time of peace Now the church was persecuted and there was other things going on, we understand that, but we're talking about how there were they could they had borders that they they weren't they weren't bound by, they could travel into other countries, they could visit and see one another They could go the word God came at just the right time. It was a time, beloved, of moral decline and spiritual hunger. You know, we've reached the place of moral decline in our country. I don't know that we've reached the place of spiritual hunger yet But can I tell you that if we continue down this road, there will be, we will reach, if God doesn't come back, the Lord Terry's just coming, I believe we'll reach a point. where men begin to realize how empty the world is, how empty and meaningless uh religion is. And there will be a great hunger. We've seen it down through history uh where men traveled down the road towards uh just the depravity of man and they just kept going that way, but ultimately they get to a point where they realize how empty and meaningless this wickedness is, and there is a spiritual stirring in the heart of men for God again, and then God raises up uh his church preachers the word of God to reach people in in a very powerful way and uh I believe we'll see that again if God tarries his coming But we see that God sent his son. It was something that God did, but also he sent his son. And I just remind you tonight that Jesus was the Son of God before he was the Son of Mary. That He is God in the flesh. John chapter 1 and verse number 14 says, And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory. The glory is the only begotten of the Father. Man, what a day that must have been. I think about the times in my life where I had to send my kids off to college, knowing that they were going to come back. In a few months I've got to send my daughter off with some guy. That's right. We gotta you know sin sin I mean this this time of you know I mean I tell people I just don't think about it and if I don't think about it I don't worry I I snot but when I get to thinking about it my heart sinks and uh You know, I get all uh depressed and like, oh, she's gone, you know. And uh but I just think about God the Father sending his son into the wicked world To take on flesh. To take on flesh. It says there that God sent his son to be made of a woman To be made of a woman, to take on flesh and ultimately to die for you and I. Can I remind you tonight that For the first time in all of history, and the only time in all of history Here was somebody that was made of a woman only. Every other child ever born in all of history was made of man and woman. But here by God's divine will, here we have Jesus Who was all God? Somebody somebody said this. What a very poetic way of saying he was As much God as if he had never been man. And he was as much man as if he had never been God. You see he was all God and he was all man. There are a lot of people today that try and turn that around or change it or say he was one or the other, and I don't know how to explain it. I don't know how to say, well, how could he be God and still be tempted in all points as we are and how could he be you know be all man and still do the miracles that he did because he was God and how does that all fit? I just believe it because the Bible says it. I can't explain exactly how it's all possible, but I believe what God said that he was God in the flesh that dwelt among us. Man. He was made under the law. He came in under the law and he lived under the law. He abided by and kept the law as a child. That's why we find him in the synagogue. And then he paid the penalty that the law demanded. And that's what we see in verse number five. We see the redemption by the Son. Redemption by the Son. He says here in verse number 5: to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. You see, beloved, this is why he came: to redeem us. Why would anybody want to go back under an insufficient means of redemption when Jesus came to redeem all those that were under the law? He came to redeem us that we might receive the adoption of sons. Now when he's speaking about adoption here, he's making a point to say of sons, the adoption of sons. Again. This is a very important thing because I never fully understood the power of this statement until this study. Because I always looked at this verse and the verses in Romans 8, verse number 15, and others, where he says, For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again unto fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption Whereby we cry, Abba, Father. I've always looked at that and thought about that, well, I know that I'm a part of the family of God, and so I'm adopted into the family And and I've always expressed it that way, but in this study I've gained a whole new understanding of what he's saying because of the culture that they were in. You see, beloved, the fact of the matter is that the Bible is very clear that we are born again So if I'm born again into the family of God, if I'm quite literally by the power of God and His miraculous way, I have been born into the family of God, then what need is there for me to be adopted? So there is a difference here in our thinking where we think about adoption is somebody that doesn't have kids goes over here to a house that has extra kids and says, here, I'll take care of one of those and one of them are brought into our family and they're adopted. But again, what he's teaching here is the principle of sonship, where you are recognized as a son. You see What he is saying, this word adoption literally means the Greek word, I can't pronounce it, so I'm not going to try, but it means to place as a son. It is literally that ceremony where a child who was already a child, but he was recognized and given the position of sonship. Where he was all of a sudden seen as a full and complete heir of all that the Father had to offer So it is slightly different than we in our minds think about maybe just being born into the family or adopted into the family, but it goes beyond that into the position in the family where you're recognized as a full and complete son That's what God gives us. He redeemed us that we might receive the adoption of sons, being given that position. In as a son, having with it the full and complete rights of the father or of a son in the family, an heir. So we see in verses six and seven a present advantage. A present advantage for us. He says, and because ye are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of his sons into your hearts crying Ah the Father. Wherefore thou art no more servants, but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. So we see this reward of sonship, the reward of receiving that position, being adopted into it. And the reward, beloved, is that the Spirit of God comes and lives in your heart. The Spirit of God and all that the Spirit does for us. The Spirit of God does many, many things for us as believers. We've taught on this, we've discussed it. I gave you some months ago a I think a little piece of paper that had like 20 things the Spirit of God does for you on a little handout on a Thursday night some months ago. I was just talking to Pastor Derek this week, and he discussed and he talked to me about the fact that he uh has been teaching on the Holy Spirit every Wednesday night since the beginning of January. I said, oh really? He's like, yeah, I don't know how many more lessons I'm going to go, but uh, you know, listen, the w the Holy Spirit does a lot for us as believers. And that's something that's in the heart of us. It's something that bears witness. We know that we're a child of God. Why? Because inside of our heart the Holy Spirit cries out, Ava Father. That relationship is present. And beloved, there should be no Christian, no saved believer who has put their faith and trust in Christ who doubts the position they have with Jesus Christ. Because the Holy Spirit is in their heart. The Holy Spirit is there giving them that peace. The Holy Spirit is there recognizing that relationship, saying, Abba Father, knowing that He is your Father. I hope that's something that you have settled without question, without doubt, without any doubt, knowing that He is your Father. Because the Holy Spirit's inside, and the Holy Spirit just settles that for you It communicates that to you over and over again. The Bible says he beareth witness. That word Abba would be akin to our word daddy. It is a compassionate call. It is a a confirmation of the relationship. No Christian should wonder or doubt if they have that. The Holy Spirit should be sealing that for them, knowing that they have that relationship with the Father. It is the reward of sonship. It is the relationship that a son has with his father. Beloved, when we come to him in prayer. It is amazing when you consider in a few minutes we're going to bow our heads and we're going to come to the Creator of the universe, the God of heaven and earth. We're going to bow our heads and we're going to call upon him and we're going to ask him for our desires. As one individual in this world of eight billion people, and we're one person Such a small speck in time and eternity. And yet we come to God and we can ask of Him, and He hears and He answers. Because you're a son. This last week we needed to get some uh well a couple weeks ago we we were talking and staff were like, okay, here's stuff we needed for anniversary Sunday, and we're going through the list of stuff and And uh I said, boy, I I think I asked Matt to look up getting, see what we can rent some golf carts for, because Brother Glover won't let us use his anymore. And no, I'm just kidding. He he will. His batteries are are broken, so it doesn't work. But we so just see because I I think it would really be nice to have something to be able to move things around or to help older people get to and from their car and and uh just to make it comfortable for everybody and and brother uh Brandon he speaks up and he says, Well Mount Zion has some. And I'm like, Amen. I said, well you know what? Um they might loan it to me, but Brandon, why don't you call? Say Brandon, why don't you call down there and see if they're available? You see he's got a connection. He's got an inroad. uh there. Uh they were like, no, sure, no problem. Come and get 'em. When when do you want 'em? We went and picked 'em up yesterday. And uh they're sitting down here ready, ready to go. But what what I'm saying is that relationship You have that confidence to just come and ask. And that's what we have because of Jesus Christ. He says, hey. Because you are sons, God has sent forth his spirit. Because you are a son, you have the Holy Spirit in your heart. You cry, Abba Father. Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son, an heir. We have that relationship. Beloved, you and I are no more servants but sons. And here's the thing, as a son, we are guaranteed all the rights and privileges of a son. But as I bring this to a conclusion, I want you to just consider one thing. We have been given all the rights and privileges of a son, and we love to talk about that. And we should, this quite literally is what Paul is addressing here But can I remind you that with all of the rights and privileges of a son, also comes some responsibilities You see, the Father at the time appointed would recognize his son and put that uh toga on him, recognizing that position because he was at a place in his life where he said, hey, I see That you can do this. I see that you're going to make wise decisions. I see that you have grown into manhood, that you are going to uh do what you should. Now we are given the privileges and the rights immediately. But that ought to even more so put a pressure on us, a desire on us to do the right thing. To fulfill the responsibilities that come with being a son of God. I mean there's some responsibilities that every family has on their children, whoever whatever family it is and wherever they are, it r there's some responsibilities. They'll say, well hey, uh stars don't do that. That's not how a star acts or reacts or talks or dresses or whatever the and you could take your name and stick it in there as well and and I mean Any parent that's raised children is at some point voiced that in some degree to their children, uh, listening, we don't act like that. I think sometimes the Heavenly Father is looking down at us and says, Yeah, you're one of my sons. You have all the rights and privileges of it, boy, I wish you would assume some of the responsibility. And take it serious