We want to take a few minutes this evening and I want to talk to you about the value of vision. The value of vision. I found it a little disconcerting this last week when I read a post by a Baptist preacher ridiculing, disparaging churches that have adopted what he called this new vision movement. This he he mocked and made fun of. He said, I'm shocked at all the Baptist churches that over the next few weeks will be hosting what they call their vision night. In quotes. And he went on to mock the pastors who would get up and say that they got a vision from God and of course uh portraying it and putting it out as as though something uh you know beyond uh you know like like you saw some ghost at at night or or something or somehow there wasn't an ability for the pastor to get direction for God or for the church family. I read he's an independent fundamental Baptist uh preacher. I just was shocked at uh how he wrote this and posted it out there. I want you to understand something. First of all, it's not a new vision movement. It's not new at all. For as long as I can remember, Christmas every year would come, and shortly thereafter, the new year. And for as long as I can remember growing up, my dad had a New Year's Eve watchnight service. Every single year we had a New Year's Eve watchnight service. would start at seven or eight o'clock. We would have a service, have a preaching time, then we would have supper, and we would all eat, and then we had a bunch of games and activities, and we would play until about eleven 30, maybe 1115, 1130, and then we would gather back in the auditorium and we'd have a testimony time where people would praise God about what they had done over that year, and Dad would then pass out those disappointing slips. those New Year's Eve resolutions that people had made the previous year. He would keep them in the safe all year and that night they And of course some people might rejoice and some people were sad uh at uh what they didn't fulfill. And then he would hand out a new piece of paper and give everybody an opportunity to write there in the service Set some new goals, set some new ambition for the year. Decide what you want to do for God and have a little challenge on that, and everybody would fill them out and turn them in. And then that night, Dad would talk about what he believed God wanted the church to do that year. Listen, I'm talking about over 40 years ago uh this has been a part of my life every year that uh God gave the pastor some wisdom some directions that hey this is what I believe that God would want uh the church with God's help With God's people's commitment to strive to try and accomplish. Not only is it not new, I want you to understand that it's biblical. The idea of having vision is biblical. I mean, I I'm I'm shocked because it's so clear in Proverbs 29-18, he says, where there is no vision, the people perish. There is a clear imperative given to us here that an imperative is a command, an imperative is something that demands attention. There's an unavoidable obligation, a requirement And there's clearly an unavoidable obligation here to have vision, for God's people to have spiritual sight. God's not talking about where there's no vision, the people perish. He's not talking about our eyes, amen. He's not talking about being able to see He's talking about having spiritual sight, to be able to see lost and dying worlds, to see the fields that are white unto harvest, to see the needs of our common man and what we might be able to do for them to see what God would have us do. We, as God's people, it is critical to the goal of rescuing the perishing and caring for the dying that we have vision. That we see this world. Vision, beloved, gives direction to the journey. A ship without a rudder is just adrift. And an individual, a Christian, somebody living their life without vision is just a drift. And that's part of the problem with a lot of people in our world today, is they're just drifting through life. They don't have any vision. They don't have any direction, any ambition about what God would want. People with vision, without vision, they lack purposeful direction in their life. Anyone who lacks purposeful purposeful direction is going to end up being discouraged. You know, one of the hardest things about being sick All of us just about have been sick in recent days. Well the hardest things about being sick is just being in bed so much. I mean you're sitting there and you feel like a lazy bum. You feel like Your day is being wasted and you think, man, I ought to try and do something and so you get up. And the spirit is willing, but the body says, Nope You ain't doing that. And you're just like, oh, it feels like this there's no I mean what this is such a waste. I'm just laying here in bed day after day and you're like come on I gotta accomplish something. I gotta get something done. And sadly many people live their life like that without vision. Listen tonight, vision is not something spooky. I'm not talking about having vision in the middle of a night of a demonic or even angelic activity. It's not even the idea like Ken Copeland and others who stand up before their congregations and pronounce that they've been given a vision from God, insight from God that's not available to anybody else. They have been given special sight to be able to see what God would want. I'm not talking about like that. Ken Copeland got up in December of 2019. and t on on his television program and told everybody that 2020 was gonna be a year, I mean 2020, it it it just means 2020 vision And with the special insight that God had given him, with this 2020 vision into 2020, he said 2020 was going to be a year of prosperity. A year beyond prosperity like we have never seen. It was going to be a year of great victory, and he went on with all these different things. Uh I'm not sure what happened there. Uh, you know, um but listen, nobody has any any special insight that others can't get. We all can get alone with God and say, what does God want us to do and communicate with him? We have the priesthood of the believer, amen. We can all go to the throne of God and talk to Him, and nobody has a corner on that. Nobody has a special insight on that that others don't have. And you can get vision from God for your life. What does God want you to do as we talk tonight about the different areas where you can get involved in your mind's eye? Can you picture yourself being part of the track team? Can you picture yourself getting ten tracks out and seeing what God might do in that? You're getting a vision for what you could do, for where you could get involved and what God might have for you to do. Beloved, really it's Vision, what I'm talking about is a mental picture of a desired future. A mental picture of a desired future. You know, when we got ready to go to Massanutin. We were planning to go skiing and the kids some of them outgrew some of their ski equipment and so I mean weeks and weeks in advance they got it down and they listed it on Craigslist and they sold this ski equipment and then they got on Craigslist with the money that they made on that and they're gonna buy some new ski equipment so that we're ready to go skiing and they got it all unpacked and they got all the ski gear and the snow gear and all the stuff for skiing and loaded it all in the car and drove all the way to Massanut. And I mean we're we pictured ourselves on the slopes. We pictured ourselves going down and that speed and exhilaration and oh this is going to be fun I mean half of the fun of vacation is the anticipation. Amen. It's the planning and seeing yourself there and saying, oh, we're going to do this and we're going to do this. That's what vision is This is just getting a picture of a desired future. Something that you believe that God would want you to do and would want you to accomplish. We wanted to go skiing and found out that Brother Bishop's description holds true. At least this time of year, it's not mass of nothing. It's mass of nothing. Uh but we hey, we went on there before and had a great time. It's just the time of year was bad, they didn't get any snow. A picture of what you would like it to be Just like someone might get a vision of getting out of debt. They can picture themselves not having that credit card payment anymore. They can picture themselves not having that car payment anymore And say, boy, we're going to work hard and we're going to be disciplined and we're going to strive to reach this goal because we want to get to the place where we have that little bit of free uh Money that's not committed yet. We actually have a little bit of breathing room in the budget. Oh, it's gonna be exciting. We'll get that credit card paid off and get this credit card paid off and then and then we're gonna get the car paid off and oh it's gonna be exciting. And you picture that. You know, that's that's the thing, beloved. Vision gives you direction. Vision gives you direction. Direction is something that is specific. It's an area. Here's where we're going to go. This is what we're going to do. This is why we're doing it, how we're going to do it. We're not just saying we want to reach out That's the overriding vision, but we're not just saying, hey, we want to reach out. We also are given some direction. Here's how we're going to do it. We're going to set up some track pack teams and everybody can get involved in passing out some tracks. We're going to put out a Bible, gift Bible program, and and people are going to call and we need some folks that are willing to take that Bible and hand deliver it and try and present those folks with the gospel. Here's areas where we're going to reach out this year and we laid those out. You've heard people say that life's a journey. Well beloved journey a journey has a destination. And sadly, many people are drifting through life without a destination, and that's why they're so unfulfilled. That's why they think it's life is so empty. Without purpose or meaning. But beloved, God gives us purpose. God gives us meaning, gives us direction. When we have a vision from Him and what He would want us to do, your life should have some direction in it, given to you by God. Yes, some overriding guidelines that inform and shape the decisions that you make. God told the children of Israel when they're going to promote they're going to go in and possess the promised land. They knew that's what they were supposed to do. They had an overriding vision. But your vision for your life each year is going to change a little bit. You know, we still have kids at home for a while longer. We the vision for our family and for Mary and I right now in incorporates them a lot. In a few years Like about well, whatever. We're gonna w they're gonna be gone. The kids are gonna grow up and leave us. Which is what's supposed to happen. They're supposed to go out and do what God wants them to do. Our vision for those years will be different than they are now. So you've got to have vision for what God wants you to do right now in the space and the time and the area of life that you're in and what you're doing. And God will lead you. God will direct you, but like we preached this morning, the most valuable thing you have is the treasure of time that God has given you. And don't forget that what you do with your time tells a lot about what's in your heart. This coming year there's a lot of opportunities to get involved. Where are you going to spend your time? Are you willing to pray and ask God for what He would like you to do? You've got some overarching goals for your life, but then year by year you you narrow it down, and maybe even week by week. Each of them kind of Going back to and following the overarching goal, like let's talk about the children of Israel going into the promised land. They were going to go into the land and possess it, but ultimately they got to this place called Jericho. You remember that Well, in order to conquer Jericho, they had some specific plans given to them, some details that they had to follow. This is what they had to do, and if they wanted to be victorious, they had to do it God's way. And if you and I want to be victorious in our Christian life, although we have some vision, the vision better be set aside and directed and appointed by God. He is the one. We yield to him. Do what he wants us to do. Vision, beloved, is valuable because it gives us direction. Vision is valuable because it gives us desire. John 4. 35, he says, Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for their white are ready to harvest. Christ was saying, listen, do you see them? And he wasn't talking about, do you see this wheat field? He's saying, do you see the souls of men? Do you see this lost and dying world? He's saying, would you look with spiritual eyes? Would you have some vision and see this world? In Lamentations, he says, my eye affecteth my heart. And beloved, I'll tell you what, vision motivates. Vision. stirs us and and when you get a vision it can create a desire in you like I just talked about a minute ago about somebody getting a vision of getting debt free And it puts that desire inside. And you know what? I want to get that free and we're going to sacrifice. I mean we're going to as as Rush Limbaugh says we're going to eat uh beans and what's the other thing? Beans and bread Rice and beans, yeah. Rice and beans, rice and beans, you know. Beans and rice, rice and beans. That's what we're gonna eat. I'm gonna sacrifice because I I've got a vision, I've got a goal, I've got a place I want to go, I want to accomplish this. It it gives you that desire. And you say, that's what I want. We want to have vision that gives us a desire, stirs in us a desire, you know, vision that's profitable, it's born of faith. We of course know that everything we do is supposed to be born of faith. Faith and vision are very directly net linked. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. We know that. We're talking about being the the idea of saying, okay, I know this is what God wants. It looks like it's going to be hard. I'm not sure I could fulfill that time commitment. I'm not sure I could fulfill that this regard or whatever, but this is what God wants. So I'm going to by faith do it. Because this is what God wants me to do. Vision is going to push you beyond yourself. Vision pushes you beyond what you can do into the realm of what God can do because we know that with God all things are possible. If God wants you to do it, Christian, He'll enable you to do it. Amen? He'll enable you. He'll give you what you need. Because I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. Yeah. It's gonna be let me just move on here. I want you to understand that Not only does vision valuable because it gives us direction, because it gives us desire, but because it allows us to see the need and the importance of determination. To have the determination that's needed to follow through. You decide what God wants and so you persevere. First Corinthians 15, 58 says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. I love that verse, because there are a lot of things in our life that are vain. There's a lot of labor that we invest in that's vain. It's empty and meaningless, but the labor we do for God is not in vain. It has a purpose. It's for an eternal value. And every bit of it is sending on an investment up ahead that will come back profitable. And uh praise God for that. Listen, Satan's gonna work to sidetrack you. He's gonna work to try and discourage you, but vision will keep you focused with the determination that this is the goal, this is the direction, here's what we want to keep on keeping on for God. Far too many victories are fortified, uh forfeited, sorry, because People quit right before the end. They give up. They don't have the determination to see it through to the end. Just to see it to the end. You know, they quit digging three feet from gold. We gotta have the determination. This is the beginning of the year and we laid out some things and some of it might have been overwhelming to you and actually When you split it out over a whole year and divide it up into e extra events and things, it's not too bad. We're gonna be busy. There's a lot to do. But I'd rather be busy, amen. I'd rather be busy than just sitting around doing nothing. Because, beloved, lastly tonight, vision brings the possibility of delight. Vision is valuable because it brings the possibility of delight. Listen, there's nothing like victory. There's nothing like accomplishing the goal. Brother Anthony, were you excited? Did you have joy? Did you have delight when you and your wife finally got debt free? That that goal was set. That that purpose was there. And for a long period of time they worked feverishly and consistently to bring that to pass. And I remember him coming to me. And An Anthony, you know, we're kindred spirits. We're kinda neither one of us get too excited, you know. He he comes to me and he's like, brother, I got something I want to tell you, you know I got debt free. Now if Miss Trudy was saying that, she would be like, whoo, hallelujah. I got debt free. Praise God. I mean I mean it's fun sharing things with Trudy, you know. Yeah, hallelujah That's great. But I was rejoicing with Brother Anthony. There's nothing like victory of seeing the goal accomplished. Man, our church, we were so thrilled that we had the Whatever it was, September, October when we finished the uh fifty thousand Ghana Romans, all those invested in that and time and energy and everybody going out and finally we were able to say it it was done. We we met the goal Hallelujah. Amen. Praise God. It's exciting. You have delight in seeing the goal accomplished. And there's nothing like that. This year as we push forward in these different areas, we strive to reach out. We have that July 2nd community cookout. It's going to take a lot of work to get that set up. It's going to take some expense to buy the food. It's going to take a lot of time to clean up after it's all done. But the the the door of opportunity that's open to be able to minister to so many people. Praise God. Man, we'll look back when it's done and think about all the presentations of the gospel that went home with with feet with people and the conversations we're able to have and today at at uh To pull late for lunch. I walked up to the counter to get some salt because they didn't have any salt out there. I was standing there waiting for the salt and next in line, next coming up there was a police officer And uh the lady came out with the sultan, I took the sultan, I says, Hey, as long as he'll allow me to, I want to pay for his lunch. And uh he's like, Oh no, no, no. And I said, Oh yeah, yeah. And I reached in my my pocket here and I grabbed a gospel track and I said, I'm the pastor of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And I want you to know Hunt Valley Baptist Church loves the police. And there's people that hate you, there's people that despise you and don't like what you go, what you do, but there's some people that appreciate you. And this is a small little thing that I can do to say thank you for your service. And he said, Oh, thank you so much. And uh you know what, that's just opening that door. This coming year when he sees a flyer from Hunt Valley Baptist Church for a cookout, he'll be like, Man, I wanna I wanna go to that. And maybe one of us will get an opportunity to stand there. and present the gospel to him. That's what we want to do. It might take a little bit of sacrifice, but man, the victory The joy, the delight come the end of the year. I'm excited about the chance month after month, the first Sunday of the month. I'm excited to hear the testimony some of the church family about giving out their gospel tracts. And you know what? Some of us are gonna have those Yeah, I gave it to the guy and he cussed me out. Don't share those in church, okay? We don't we don't want to discourage anybody from getting involved. That that does happen sometimes. But I'll tell you what, most people are kind. Most people are like, okay, and sometimes God will bring you those divine appointments. Where he'll open that door, and there's somebody that is looking that needs something, and they'll be shocked and they'll say, I didn't know what I was just asking God to bring me something. And you'll say, Well, he brought me, and here's the gospel. We don't know what God will do, but I think if we'll be faithful and try it, God will do some amazing things and we'll have great delight because we follow through. Wow. I'm excited about it. What this year is going to do and the possibilities. Vision is valuable, Blood, and because it gives us direction. It stirs desire in us to do more than we would necessarily do on our own. Maybe motivates us to have the determination to be faithful because we know that if we're faithful You will reap if you faint not. And you'll be able to have delight in the victory that God brings