For that. Would you turn your Bibles this morning to Philippians chapter number four? Philippians chapter number four. I've been to Rome. I've been to the Colosseum. And I've been to the maritime prison where Paul was Imprisoned for his faith. I've stood there and looked through the bars into the cell that they believed held Paul. Would you allow me to for a moment just paint a picture in your mind's eye before we read the text today? There in Rome, not far from the Colosseum. Is a maritime prison. It is a brick building held underneath a new structure today You'd have to enter the prison, go through the upper jail to get down the narrow steps. That descend to the lower cells. As you descend into the belly of the jail, a dark and damp area, You have to walk bent over because there's not enough room to stand upright. On your right, you'll see a few empty cells, but there you can notice A man who bears in his body the marks of many beatings, a life of hardship of trial and of test. As you draw even closer, you notice that he is struggling as he leans over a makeshift desk and he's striving to write by the light of a single candle. You ask to be let into the cell and you make your way in and look over the shoulder of this individual. You see his hand laboring to write and in that dark and confined space. You're able to just make out by the light of a candle the words that he is pinning. Look in Hebrews, I mean sorry, Philippians chapter 4 and verse number 10. You look over his shoulder there of Paul, and you see as he writes these words in that prison. He says, But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again, wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound everywhere and in all things. I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ. Which strengtheneth me. We see Paul writing these words, this powerful truth communicated to us by him as he is locked. In a prison. Just over a week ago we arrived back from the Philippines. We had privilege to spend time with Pastor Tesson and Hope Baptist Church and a privilege to spend time with Brother Hardeker and the members there of Mount Hyan Baptist Church of Tig City. What stuck out to me as I walked those streets and beheld the lives of these, the members of those two different churches and the national churches that we were able to see up in the mountain. I was struck with the fact that the believer's joy is found in his ability. To observe the command given to us by God to be content It is directly tied to our contentment in this life. Last Sunday night we gave an update of the Philippines and the service. Ran long. I was unable to bring this message, but I would like to speak to you for a few minutes this morning on our command to contentment. The contentment command that we see in the Word of God. The fact of life is that it rains on the just and the unjust. Sometimes, beloved, the sun is going to be shining, and sometimes rain is going to be falling. We truly must learn, as Paul did, to be content in whatever state we're in. Beloved, it is only through a heart of contentment the sighs are turned to smiles. Each and every one of us must deal with this. For we live in a digital age that pushes us ever towards more and more discontentment. Our market-driven society causes us to be motivated by the new, to be drawn to the latest, to desire the best of everything. It doesn't matter that what we have still works fine, we have grown dissatisfied with it. Most today are living in a continual state of discontentment. Not speaking simply or only about the possessions that we hold This idea of discontentment, beloved, creeps into every area of our lives. The job that we have had for less than a year has lost its luster. If we have the privilege of being in a relationship today, we quite possibly have come to the place that we think it's not all that we thought it was going to be. It's not as fun as it once was. If you're not in a relationship, you're discontent with being single and Looking nonstop for that one. Oh, your church is okay, but As you look at your church, you can find ten ways in which it falls short of your expectations. You're frustrated with your family and Wish they were like so-and-so's family or your husband was like somebody else or your wife was as somebody else or your kids would do something different No matter how much we have, it's never quite enough to do what we want to do Our dreams are filled with being taller or smaller or smarter or more beautiful. We live in this state of dissatisfaction on one level or another. Completely forgetting the command of God to be content. Webster's dictionary says that the state of contentment or contentment is the state of being satisfied. Could I ask you this morning, are you satisfied? Are you completely and wholly satisfied as a child of God who is assured of your home in heaven? Is your satisfaction found in Jesus Christ? Beloved, our satisfaction is not attained by the acquisition of your dreams. Satisfaction is attained by adjustment of your desire. For far too long we've been sold the desi the the bill of goods that if we could but acquire this, or if we could gain that, or if this fulfillment of our dream would be accomplished, boy, then we would be satisfied. But you and I both know that satisfaction is fleeting. that it is only held on to for but a short time because very quickly we become dissatisfied even with the acquisition of our own dream. So beloved, it is not the acquiring of more goods, but the adjustment of your desire. God wants each and every one of us to be content. Can I give you the perspective of contentment? This command that God has given us. This is not going to be a all-encompassing study. We don't have time to look at everything the Bible says about contentment, but in Matthew chapter number six, if you would turn there, I can show you a couple of verses. that talk about this idea. We see in Matthew chapter 6 and verse number 25. He says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life. What ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body what ye shall put on? Is not life more than meat and body than raiment? Jump down to verse number thirty Chapter 6, Matthew chapter 6, and verse number 30, he says, Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, Shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Therefore, take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? After all these things do the Gentiles seek? He's saying those that are lost, that don't know God, this is what their life is consumed with. But he says, For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. We see in 1 Timothy chapter 6 those very powerful statements given to us, but godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world and is certain we can carry nothing out. And he says, in having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. You know, beloved, we are so richly blessed in this life here in this society that we have surpassed having food and raiment. A long time ago. We've got so much greater than that, so much beyond that, and the Bible says God tells us If you have food and raiment therewith, be content. He says, Listen, your heavenly father knows what you have need of. Understand that he's in control. Put it in his hand and be content with where you are. That's what he says. Be content with what God has brought into your life, how God has directed you. There is a false doctrine being promoted out there, this doctrine or idea of prosperity. That if you're a Christian and you love God and you have enough faith that you'll be wealthy, that God's desire is for you to be rich, and if you're not, it's because you don't have enough faith or whatever Can I tell you that that is false? The entire word of faith movement, the idea you hear people talking, is very popular today where they talk about they're going to speak into your life. Prosperity. They're going to speak into your life good health. They're going to speak into your life good things. Listen, if you hear anybody talking about speaking something into your life, turn them off. They are at the very least doctrinally confused, but quite possibly uh heretical all the way through Because the Bible does not ever say that the Bible gives anybody the power to speak something into your life That's not biblical. As a matter of fact, this entire idea, let me just read for you 1 Timothy 6 and verse number 5, he says Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds. Okay, this is perverse disputings, men with corrupt minds. What are they disputing about? And destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness. From such withdraw thyself. The Bible tells you very clearly, this is not the words of Pastor Caleb, if somebody is telling you that godliness equals gain, the Bible says there, withdraw thyself. Don't listen to them. Don't go after that. Boy, those churches are full today. Those congregations are large and everybody loves it. You know, we were in the Philippines and uh brother Hard Ecker said that we were out preaching on the street, and we had all these, I mean, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people passing, and we're preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Repent and be saved. Jesus Christ died so that you could know your sins are forgiven. All you got to do is acknowledge the fact that you're a sinner. Trust Jesus Christ, shed blood for you on the old rugged cross And you could be saved today and people walking by and taking tracks, large groups of people coming and going and coming and going. He says, you know, if we stopped and said we were having a healing service If we were going to lay hands on somebody, he says we would have a line all the way down the street. He says not only that, people all the way down the street, he said, there's people that have no money at all, and they would be opening their pockets and they would be giving us money Because they think they've been sold this bill of goods that if they give, that they'll be planting this seed and somehow they would be healed of whatever ailment they have or they'll have prosperity This idea, this prosperity gospel has spread across the Philippines. And he said, boy, we could have a crowd if we just held a healing service, just start anointing people with oil and saying, boy, you're healed Bible says, from such withdraw thyself. God has called for us to be content. Just because you have money in the bank doesn't mean you're godly. And just because you don't have money in the bank doesn't mean you're not godly. Godliness with contentment is great gain. That's what the Bible says is gain. Godliness with contentment. The greatest asset that you can acquire this morning is godliness. A lot of it godliness means that you're sleeping on the floor in a one-room house, choose godliness. If godliness means you don't have as many friends as you would like to have, choose godliness. If godliness means that you're not invited to the work party or you're not going to be able to go up the corporate ladder because you're standing for godliness, then choose godliness. If godliness doesn't mean means that you don't advance at work like you could, then choose godliness. If godliness doesn't mean that you're going to Means that you're not going to be as close to your family as you would like to be, choose godliness. Because godliness with contentment is great gain. Beloved, every positive thing in this life has a negative aspect to it. And every negative thing has a positive aspect to it. Just like every beauty of a rose comes with a thorn. Every man has a cup that's half full or half empty And it is not contingent on the cup or what's in it. It's how you look at it. The one who cries the most will laugh the most. The one who has known the deepest love will also feel the deepest heartache. The joy of the maternity ward is going to be balanced by the pain of the mortuary. Those that have much have much to lose. The one who has many friends will know the pain of losing many friends. You see, every every aspect of life, there's things that are positive that can have a negative, but there's things that are negative that can have a positive. We've been given the command to be content. Could I tell you that is a possibility? I know it seems very hard and very difficult for us, but it is a possibility for us to be content. Paul said, For I have learned. In whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. This tells me very clearly there was a time when Paul was not content. Where Paul struggled with his own desires and his want-to's and uh his uh desire to have or to acquire or to be something that he wasn't But he learned through the process of life and the power of the Lord to be content in whatever state he was in. It is something that Paul learned. That means it's something that you and I can learn. We need to learn how to let go. of the things we want. And beg God to give us a heart of contentment. When you and I can come to the place where we can honestly say, I'm content in the Lord That's all that I need. You see, Paul learned it, and we can learn it. It is available to us all. Beloved, every single one of us here has the same access to happiness. Oh, we don't have the same access to finances. We don't have the same access to homes or uh the same 401k or the same Roth RRA. We don't have the same access to different things in this life, but we have the same access to happiness. You see, this world looks at it differently. The world loves to promote the victim. Everybody loves to be a victim and talk about, well, I'm not happy because you have what I want. But it's not a matter of what you have or what I have. We need to learn whatsoever state we are in to be content. We all have the same access to happiness. Every situation we face has advantages and disadvantages. The content individual has learned how to look at the advantage Allows his heart to be drawn to the advantage instead of being consumed with the disadvantage. Can I tell you that the grass on the other side of the fence still has to be mowed? We're so consumed with looking at the grass on the other side of the fence instead of looking at what we have It is the human nature to desire and want things that we don't have or be dissatisfied with what we've got. Boy, the young envy the old and the old envy the young. The rich in envy the simplicity of the life of the poor. And you're saying I'll let them have it Boston College did a study on wealth and philanthropy, and one man said he fears that his kids growing up in a wealthy home will grow up entitled. That they will cease to have any empathy or compassion. Wealth has its own problems. Wealth has its own disadvantages. And you see, because you're not in that camp, you look at it and say, boy, I would love to give it a try. Just last week, I was listening to an interview with Mark Kubin, and he said they asked him the challenges of being rich. He said the number one challenge is you get sued a lot. He said there may be ten people involved in an accident or a problem, but you know who they're gonna sue? They're gonna sue the guy with money. They're not gonna get anything out of anybody else. He says, I get sued all the time. There's another you know you didn't think about that problem. Happening to be in court all the time, have a lawyer on retainer, be pay all the time because you're getting sued all the time because you've got money. You know, when you have money, you are constantly the point of attack. You're always on guard because uh everybody is going to come and request from you. I read several articles this week. They these with people with wealth said it's it's hard to even have a relationship because every relationship is suspect. You wonder if they're not there for just one thing, what they can get out of you. It's hard to even get close to anybody because it seems like you find out before long that all they they want is your money. And so you isolate and isolate and isolate. You don't know any real true friends anymore. The problems of having wealth. The children of the wealthy are a constant target for kidnapping? The problems can go on. What I'm saying is, those that are poor envy the rich, but the rich look at it and say, Boy, I wish I didn't have all these problems. Those that are tall wish they were short, and those that were short wish they were tall. Can I tell you this morning that no matter where you are in your life, no matter what's going on in your life right now, No matter who you are and no matter what problem you're dealing with right now, can I tell you that there are 10,000 people in the city of Baltimore that would trade places with you in a heartbeat? You look at your life and you say, Man, thinking are so bad. I wish I could just get rid of this and I would stop this and I could go do that. There's ten thousand people in this city that would trade places with you in a heartbeat. We need to learn in whatever state we're in to be content. Contentment begins when we are able to be thankful for what we have. Looking at what you do have and thanking God for it. Stop investing so much energy and pondering all the things that you don't have. Could I tell you, every single person in here this morning has the ability to cry themselves to sleep tonight Every one of you could cry yourselves to sleep tonight with the struggles or burdens you're facing. But on the flip side of that, every single one of you here have the ability to shout. For the glory of God and his goodness in your life as well. It is just dependent upon what you choose to look at It boils down where your focus is. We tend to be like the guy I read about this week. He said, I had no shoes, and I pitied myself until I met a man with no feet. I took his shoes. That's how we are. You see, we've all heard that statement before. I pitied myself for not having shoes until I met a man without feet. I was really worried about not having glasses until I met a man without eyes. You see, it just depends on what you choose to focus on. Contentment, beloved, is not found in an adjustment of your holdings. It's found in an adjustment of your heart. So many today feel, well, I'd be happy if I could just. You fill in the blank You fill in the blank. Whatever area of discontentment that rests in your heart and where you say, boy, I could be happy, I could, I could be satisfied if I could just fill in a blank. But beloved, when you change the circumstances without changing the heart, you have not changed anything. It is not an adjustment of circumstances that we need. Your ability to be content has nothing to do with your holdings. I think it was J. D. Rockefeller that they asked, How much is enough? And he said, one One more dollar. One more dollar. Contentment has nothing to do with how much you have. It has to do with your heart. And you can know the joy and peace of contentment. You would follow the biblical command to be content, to learn to be content. Paul said, not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed to both be full and to be hungry, to abound and suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me, beloved. I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me We love that verse. And we talk about it and we apply it to many areas of our lives. And it can be applied to many areas of our lives. But can I tell you in context here, he's talking about contentment. You too can be content. Whether you are in a place of abundance Or whether you're in a place of need, you can be content. You can learn to, like Paul. Can I tell you, lastly, this morning that there's great profit in content? There is great profit in contentment. You see, beloved, the content stop complaining. Money will buy a bed, but not sleep. Books, but not brains. Food, but not an appetite. Finery, but not beauty. A house, but not a home, a medicine, but not health. Luxuries, but not culture, amusement, but not happiness. Religion, but not salvation. You see, acquiring more is not the answer. There's great profit when we come to the place where we realize God is good all the time. And being content with what we have. As I walked the streets of the Philippines and sat and talked with Men and women in churches there and looked at their lives. I saw the joy of the Lord. I saw the happiness in their hearts. The blessings of God. And beloved, they don't have a fraction of what you and I have. It's not about how much we have, it's about a condition of our heart. The joy of being satisfied. Satisfied in Christ. Oh, like that Samaritan woman who was at the well, and Jesus said unto her. Whosoever drinketh this water shall thirst again. That's how the world works. Do you know everything that Satan offers? It's not going to satisfy. Everything that you look at and say, boy, if I acquired that I would be happy. Finally I would be happy. If I got this or I got to do that, or if I whatever it might be, you know that satisfaction, that that Quench thirst is only going to be quenched for just a moment. Jesus said, Hey, whoever drinks of this water is going to thirst again. But notice, he says, But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. This is the contentment we find in Jesus Christ. It is only found at the foot of the cross. It is only found in coming to an acceptance that God is in control and we can put our lives in His hands. The circumstances of our lives continually change. Each and every one of you here will know different times of poverty and prosperity. You're going to know and endure times of sorrow as well as times of joy. You're going to experience blessings and burdens. It's going to be days of rain and days of sunshine. Do you know, beloved, the warmth of a sunrise is only enjoyed because of the cold of the night? We have to learn that whatever state I'm in to be content, I can do all things through Christ. The empty wanton feeling of discontentment that seems to abide in the heart of so many today that leaves them frustrated. Do you know, beloved, many times people talk about an idea of, they talk about discouragement, and one thing beyond that goes into depression. I believe that there is an aspect of depression that by that that when we're trying to treat the depression, what we need to do is get to the root of the problem. And the root of the problem is all the way over here where we are living dissatisfied, discontent with where we are in life With who we are. People need to learn who they are in Jesus Christ. You are fearfully and wonderfully made in the image of God. God has a plan for you, but so much of our society today is discontent with who they are. Oh, I'm not this and I'm not that and I've got no reason to be happy because I'm not tall or I'm not smart or I'm not fast or I can't do this or that my limitations and and they live discontent with who they are and that discontentment flows into every part of their life and then they get all the way over here to the place where they're consumed with depression But if God would give us a heart of contentment, being satisfied with who we are in Jesus Christ, and what God can and wants to do through us. We could know the joy of the Lord and live satisfied lives instead of living in a continual state of discontentment. Oh, it's a futile endeavor to remove this discontentment on our own. We need the Spirit of God To work in our hearts, only in contentment with what God has brought as their true joy. Whether you're living in a big house or a studio apartment. Trust God. Whether you're driving a Mercedes or a mistake, trust God. Trust God. Whether you have what you feel you should have or not Whether you make ten thousand a year or a hundred thousand a year, that is not where your contentment is going to be found. I know even just saying that, it's hard for some of you to accept. Say man if I made a hundred thousand a year I'd be content. I don't think so. You see, because contentment is a condition of the heart. It is not in how much you make. We need to ask God to help us have a condition. Now listen, if God blesses you and multiplies you and and uh enlarges your tent As the Jabez prayer, asking God to enlarge our tent, enlarging your area of influence, giving you more. Praise God. Paul said, I learned both how to abound and how to abase. God can do that. But if you're not content where you are right now, you won't be content with ten more dollars, or a hundred more dollars, or ten thousand more dollars. Contentment is found in the condition of your heart. When we learn to accept whatever God has brought into our life, when we can truly pray, not my will but thine be done, Lord. Give me contentment. The poet said, I counted all my dollars, while God counted my crosses. I counted gains while he counted losses I counted my worth by the things I gained in store, but he sized me up by the scars that I bore. I coveted honors and sought for degrees, but he wept As he counted the hours on my knees. I never knew till one day by a grave how vain all the things that we spend our life to save. I did not know till a friend went above. The richest is he who is rich in God's love. The invitation today is: are you content? Are you satisfied with what God has brought into your life? With where you at today, would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed