You can turn your Bibles tonight to Matthew chapter seven. Matthew chapter seven. So we have here In Matthew chapter 7, just three verses for our text tonight, beginning in verse number 13. Well, just two verses, sorry, just verse thirteen and fourteen. Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. And many there be that go in thereat. Because straight is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. In August 1915, Robert Frost published his poem in The Atlantic Monthly under the title The Road Not Taken. I, like I guess many, believe that title to be a road less traveled But I was educated when I was looking it up that that's not actually the title. Uh I'm like, where is the road less traveled? And I'm just searching for it and found out that it actually uh re references that in the conclusion of the poem, which is where many people believe that that is the title, but the title is The Road Not Taken I'm sure many of you have heard it or read it, but let me read it for you. Two roads diverged in a yellow wood. And sorry I could not travel both, and be one traveler, long I stood, and looked down one as far as I could, to where it bent into the undergrowth. Then took the other as just as far and having perhaps a better claim because it was grassy and wanted wear, though as For that the passing there had warned them really about the same. And both that morning equally lay in leaves no step had trodden black Oh, I kept the first for another day, yet knowing how way leads upon way, I doubted that I should ever come back I shall, by telling this with a sigh, Somewhere age and age hence, two roads diverged in a wood, and I took the one less travelled by. And that has made all the difference. Robert Frost here describing the journey of life, the path. It was not the beginning of the road for him, and it was not the end of the road. It was a point in the road where he had to make a decision. Where he had to decide uh which path he was going to follow, which road he was going to take. He ends up making the choice to travel down the road that was less traveled, understanding that one path leads to another. Realizing the likelihood because how life progresses and you take one path and that path leads to another path and that path leads to another path. And it's very unlikely you're gonna be back to the same place you were. You don't get a second try. You don't get a do-over. Well, we went to buy Timothy's motorcycle. We uh stop and we're talking to the individual about it and uh Timothy want to take it for a test drive? He says, sure, and I told him, I says, hey, we need to err on the side of caution. Like You break it, you bought it. So uh you know just be careful, be cautious, you know. And so he got on the motorcycle and he drove it down the block, went around the block. I don't know, he rode around a little while And uh he enjoyed it and brought it back and he said, Dad, do you want to drive it? And I said, sure, I'll take it for a spin. So I got on it and I took it for a spin. Well it wasn't very long and I was three, four, five blocks away Uh actually I got far enough away I wasn't sure that I was gonna find my way back because Timothy drove there. I wasn't really paying attention and so now I jumped on this motorcycle and just took off and I I'm like, wait a minute. I know we passed a school, so I need to find the school. And so I'm like running around finding the school. And then I know after the school we turn left. And I almost missed a second left that I forgot about Uh but then I saw us there and I pull in and Timothy looked at me and he says, I thought we were exercising caution. I said, well, I've got a few more years experience. Like we had to make sure it ran right, you're good, you know. So we we had a good time with that. But literally in my mind, as I got further down the road, I thought, Whoa I might not know my way back. And the fact of the matter is, is life tends to be that way. Life tends to, one trail opens to another, one path to another, and the likelihood of you ever being back to that point of decision is very small. So we must make those choices wisely. And Robert Ross said here that it was the decision To choose the less traveled path that made all the difference. So tonight I would like to speak for just a couple of minutes here on the road less traveled. We read in our text this evening, and I would have you see first of all that it is a different road. There is a call there. There's actually a call from both sides of this trail, of this path, but he says, Enter ye at the straight gate. There is a call from our Savior that is bidding you to come down that narrow path. And I know that by and large this is applied to the idea of salvation and choosing to trust Jesus Christ and those that don't trust Christ are choosing damnation. But I would like to apply this to practical Christianity into our Christian lives and choosing the road less traveled and I I tell you that Jesus Christ in his compassion is sitting there and he's bidding you, he's calling you, he's saying, Listen, would you please Come down this path, the path less traveled, the path that maybe doesn't look as appealing, that maybe is not as exciting, that Maybe doesn't have the glamour or the lights of the world to guide you, but there is indeed a light that guides you. It is the word of God that is a lamp to your feet and a light to your path. And the Lord, our Savior, He bids us and He calls upon us to make a choice. And he says, please don't go down that broad way. Please come and choose the narrow path. Like Joshua of old, who stood there looking at the children of Israel and saying unto them, hey. I'm about done. My time of leading you and encouraging you and exhorting you is coming to a close. So he looked in the eyeball of the children of Israel and he said, Choose ye to say whom you will serve. Make the decision to follow God. As for me and my house, we are going to serve the Lord. And he led by example and said, we're going to choose God. We're going to choose the road less traveled. We're going to choose to do what's right. And I implore you, would you choose the road less traveled? Are you tonight going to choose the road less traveled? Or go along the easy path? Follow the crowd. Follow the crowd to destruction. Because we see here that wide is the gate and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. You see the narrow path takes space. But the broad path looks easy. There is on one side the Savior bidding us come, but can I tell you that on the other side there's Satan And he too is bidding you come. He too is putting before you that which appeals to the flesh and the desires that you might have, and he's saying, Boy, would you just come and choose this? puts every kind of temptation and allurement in front of you and says, yeah, just enjoy this for a season. He calls you down that broad path. It is, I would say, even. Our own self-will that calls us down that path. For it's a path that leads toward every man doing that which is right in his own eyes. It is a path that men go down because it's my choice and it's my life and it's my decision and I want to do what I want to do. Oh, the way of the crowd. It's the way that everybody is doing it. That ought to be a pretty good sign. That's probably not what you should be doing. It's a path of convenience. It's the easiest thing It's the easy path. It's probably the path that lends itself to the least amount of stress. It's a comfortable path in your comfort zone. But can I tell you, beloved, every individual has to make up their mind. Young people, those that are well, teenagers up into Really probably mid-20s, maybe even thirty. I mean you you you you're still kind of making up your mind. You're still kind of choosing. Deciding. I would implore you tonight to choose the narrow way. Choose the road less traveled. Yes, it's different than the world, and yes, it's maybe different than in your mind the direction that you wanted to go, but it is indeed, I can tell you, the better path. Oh, there is pleasure on the other path. There is no doubt about that. And we see that oftentimes a narrow path is a difficult path. He says, because straight is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth to life, and few there be that find it. Yes, it's a difficult path, and because of that, many people decide they would rather not go down that road. Boy, the Broadway is a path of pleasure, popularity, enjoyment. At least that's what Satan's selling. But can I tell you tonight that the Bible tells a different story? Proverbs 13, 15 says, Good understanding give us favor, but the way of the transgressor is hard. There is on the surface a measure of pleasure that's to be able to have for a season. But when you choose that path, can I tell you the pain and destruction is at the end? It's pain and destruction that you don't see up front. There's people in here tonight as I look around and they have taken some time and have gone down that path for a ways. And if they could, as part of the service, stand up before you tonight, they would tell you it was hard. That it is a path of destruction. That it sucks the very life out of you. In one hand, you feel like, oh, you're just doing what you want to do, but in the other hand, it's it's just killing you a little bit at a time. Going down that broad road, but God is up front with the believer. God tells us without question, yea, all that live godly shall suffer persecution He told us up front that there's going to be some trials, there's going to be some tests, there's going to be some so that the way may be bumpy. There's gonna be some hardship there. But choose it anyway. I was talking to Pastor Angel this week. He is booked for our Marriage Matters conference in 2027. Yeah, because next year's six, so he's the following. In 2027. But uh I was talking to him And somehow we got onto the idea of raising kids. And he said, you know, Pastor Caleb, I can tell you That many people want the product that you have, but they don't want the path that got you there. He said, I've been in the ministry long enough. People will talk about, oh that's what I want. I want my kids to be like that. I want my kids to honor me. I want my kids to honor God. I want my kids to to uh you know be faithful to the Lord and to be respectful to adults and and to be hard workers but they don't want to make sure that they're in church. They don't want to get them involved in the activities. They don't want to allow other people to have influence on their children. Listen, no parent has all of the answers. Yes, you are God's parent and authority in that child's life, and God gave that child to you. But can I tell you that you ought to sei the opportunity and be grateful and thankful for the other people that are willing to invest in your children. That starts in the nursery and goes all the way through college. Unless you're planning to teach advanced calculus. You say, oh well, I'll have a teacher do that. Yeah, but for some reason a lot of a lot of parents think that they know everything their child needs. And they don't want anybody else to have any influence over their child. Can I tell you that's not correct thinking You need to be thankful for. And I know you hear the horror stories, you know, oh, this teacher did that or said this or that happened. And so I'm going to shelter and protect my kid from all those influences. Yeah, you're also going to ruin them There you know, people homeschool gets a hard rap because they say, oh, they're not going to be well adjusted and they're not going to know how to talk to people. It's not homeschool that does that, it's parents that don't know how to raise their kids that do that. Your kids can be well adjusted even if they're homeschooled, if you know how to allow them to be engaged, allow them to go around other people, allow them to be influenced. by others. Teach them how to talk to adults and to other children. You need to let them be involved in activities. You need to discipline them. No, it's not easy. No parent likes disciplining their kid. Not just the fact that you as a parent are effectively hurting your child. Like it's like there's just something about that that's like, man, this is wrong. But man, is it inconvenient. It is such a pain in the neck to stop what you're doing and take time to go discipline this child again. But you're gonna ruin the day that you didn't. Your children need to obey. They need to obey voice commands the first time. If they know that they don't have to obey until you raise your voice Then they won't obey until you raise your voice. You're the one training them. You can train them When you say, hey, I want you to come here, you train them, they will come. But if you have trained them to ignore you until you raise your voice, until you come over there When you come over there stomping mad, and then they stand up and they're like, Oh, I'm coming, I'm coming, I'm coming. Well, that's not the kids' fault, that's mom and dad's fault. You need to train them. See, pretty many people want the product, but they don't want the path. You've got to choose the path, the narrow way. And although it doesn't make sense, it's what the Bible says, discipline them. It's a difficult road. It's a hard world, but that's the road that leads to joy, that leads to happiness. The narrow road requires sacrifice. The narrow road requires submission. The narrow road, you're saying, God, what would you have me do? How would you have me live? What would you have me watch? What would you want me to listen to? How would you want me to handle this situation? It's a road of submission. Instead of doing your own thing, you're doing what God wants you to do. But the joy, beloved, is that it is also a road that has at its end a divine reward. Because straight is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life. Life. Not just life eternal, which we know choosing Jesus Christ gives us life eternal, but I'm talking about the abundant Christian life. That God would have for all believers. He wants to lead us all into that joyous, abundant Christian life where we know the joy of the Lord and we have His presence and we have His leading. We experience God's blessing on a regular basis. That doesn't just happen because I claim the name of Christ. It doesn't just happen because I came to church on Sunday. It happens because daily I get out of bed and I choose the narrow road. And God blesses that. It is that which leadeth unto life. We spoke about it this morning, but just an acknowledgement and realize God has blessed us with everything that we have. All of your talents, your strengths, your brains Every ability that you have, your church, your home, your job. We could go on and on, but these are all gifts from God John 10, 10 says, that the thief cometh not but for to steal, to kill, and to destroy. But I have come that you might have life, that you might have it more abundantly You see the broad road is a thief. And he'll trick you. Yeah, come on this way. You don't have to be so worried about walking with God. You don't have to be so worried about your prayer time. You don't have to be so worried about the Christian life. It's not that big a deal. You can just be a casual Christian. Take the broad road. And you'll get what the broad broad road leads you to destruction. Well, Jesus came that you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. That is the divine reward that lays at the end of the narrow road. Yes, sometimes it's uphill, but he promised to give you strength. Yes, sometimes it's bumpy and you'll know pain, but he promised to give you grace. Yes, it at times is stormy. And the way may be dark, but he has promised to be with you. The life that he's calling to you is a blessed life. Life where you experience and know the blessings of God. Through even all of the challenges and struggles that life has. Beloved, it rains on the just and the unjust. Everybody that is born and has breath knows trouble. They have Have struggles. But the joy of knowing Christ and having following Him is that you have His promises and you have His blessing on your life, even in the face of those hardships. Proverbs 1022 says, The blessing of the Lord it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it. God's blessing you, and you can enjoy the rich, abundant life that He would have for each of us. I wonder tonight: are you ready to answer the call? Do you hear the Savior calling? Softly and tenderly calling you. Calling you. Choose the narrow road. What are you going to choose? How long are you going to halt between two opinions? Maybe there's some young man or some young lady in here, then your heart and mind you're not really having really made up your mind I mean you're still in church, obviously. You're with mom and dad, and you have to be. But I wonder, if mom and dad weren't here tonight, would you be here? Have you chosen the narrow road? You see at some point you gotta make that choice. The Savior's calling. Satan's calling. Oh, it's a hard decision, but it has a glorious destination. If you'll choose the narrow road. If you do, when you get down in your life a little ways, like as far as Brother Taylor, you know Get down there every few years. You can look back and you can say, you know what? Way back there, I chose that narrow road It looked like a hard road. Wasn't the popular decision, but it made all the difference. Would you stand? We'll have an invitation tonight.