This mor this morning, the fifth commandment. Somebody tell me which one that is? Honor thy father and thy mother, that's correct. Honor thy father and thy mother. That's just for the sake of review because repetition is the key to learning. And we've got a few visitors with us today. Appreciate all of those that are visitors. Boy, you must have just brought all this snow, you know. I don't know. Uh Joan here, uh all the way from Alabama, she comes down here and we get dumped on. We haven't had any snow all winter. And now she's here, but uh Joe's sister, good to have you. You know the comments you made about your foot. I mean about your uh well my weight, yeah. She broke her toe. Oh. Yeah. Well I don't wanna I don't want to put that on me, but yeah. Um I got to meet Nick and Amanda, appreciate you guys being being with us. And uh And then Sam brought a couple of uh his friends today, uh Eddie and Silas, uh sitting with Sam back here. Appreciate you coming and joining us today for Sunday school. And And uh hopefully God will bless everybody as we look in at this. Let's review the Ten Commandments. We've got some actions that help us uh remember these. Uh number one, with a f with a finger pointing to the sky is thou shalt uh No other gods before me, right. There's no other gods before me. And uh number two, if you take two fingers, take one finger and it bows down to the other finger, this is two. Right, they'll set up to the no graven image. Then number three, three fingers, put it to your lips. That is the same one I try to say. I think you guys had it in the in various uh things here, but thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Uh number four, four fingers, put it together like a church. Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Number five that we're doing today. Honor thy take five fingers and salute. Honor thy father and thy mother. Uh number six, five fingers in this hand, one finger in this hand. And you shoot that hen, thou shalt not kill. Uh so that one's easy easy to remember. Uh so that's number six. Uh number seven. Take these two thou shalt not commit adultery. Take these two fingers, put them together, and lay them in this hand. Thou shalt not commit adultery. And then uh number eight, take these five fingers and grab this hand and pull away. Thou shalt not steal. Right, thou shalt not steal. Then uh number nine, um take your four four in this hand, five in this hand, that's nine. Thou shalt not thou shalt bear false not bear false witness. I s this I swear on the uh the word of God to tell the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth. Thou shalt not bear false witness. And then number ten, ten fingers grabbing and pulling to you. Thou shalt not covet. Right. So those should be relatively easy to remember with those even if you don't uh you know you're out in public doing that, people might wonder what in the what's that guy doing? But you'll be able to uh maybe they'll think you know sign language or something, you know, but you'll be able to remember those commandments. So this morning we are looking at the fifth of these commandments, and that's found in verse number twelve of Exodus chapter 20. Exodus chapter 20, verse number 12 says, Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. So this command here sets as the centerpiece, as the hinge pin of the four commandments that teach us how to love God above all else. and the following commandments that teach us how to love our neighbor as ourself, which summarize is what is given to us in the New Testament as has the two uh you know greatest commandments, all of the ten commandments can be summed up in those two. So you have the four in the beginning that deal with how we're to love God above all else, and the six But the fifth and the five after that deal with how to love our neighbor as ourself. And this hinge pin, this point that points both to the first co four commandments and calls you to follow clearly the last five is uh Does both simultaneously. And the reason is is because you can't be right with God unless you're right with your fellow man. And you have a very hard time being right with your fellow man unless you're right with God. And so this these these preceding commandments that deal how to deal with your relationships with other people. Deal with the very first relationship that we face as humans. The relationship with our mother and our father. The first person that you come into, the first time in your life that you're going to be dealing with somebody else, with others, is the relationship that you have in your home. This hinge pin, this command deals with our fellow man. And the first fellow man that you come across is your parents, and you're told to honor them. The family is the basic structural unit of human civilization. And all other relationships are affected by How this relationship is allowed to go on. Every other relationship that we have in our lives is affected by, influenced, by the relationships that take place in the home. And how they exist is how a lot of our other relationships and other things are going to be uh influenced or impacted because of that. CL C. S. Lewis said this when I have learned to love God better than earth my earthly dearest. I shall love my earthly dearest better than I do now. Insofar as I learn to love my earthly dearest at the expense of God or instead of God, I shall be moving towards a state in which I shall not love my earthly dearest at all. When first things are put first, second things are not suppressed, but increased Understanding, loving God with all of our heart puts us in the right place to love others correctly. So f following these commandments in order and And observing them is a great help. First of all, I want you to see the demand of honor, the demand of honor. This year obviously is one of the ten commandments. And there is a demand, there is a command here that we honor uh our father and our mother. And do you know that uh that goes contrary to some of the beliefs and uh ideas that are prevalent in today's society. But we still are to honor our father and our mother The fourth and fifth commandment are alike in a couple of ways. They're both positive in nature. The other commands are thou shalt not. The fourth command is positive in saying thou shalt or observe the Sabbath and keep it holy. And then the fifth command is honor thy mother and thy father. They're also alike in and that the f they both deal with our uh social relationships. And There's two things that have to do with the Sabbath day that uh in our last or previous lesson that I didn't tell you but uh or get into. But one of the principles that is key for us as New Testament Christians is the principle of first fruits. In the Old Testament, uh they worked six days and on the seventh day they rested. But we are under New Test in the New Testament and we are under the first fruits, and you you give your first to God, you give your best to God. And so we start our week by observing a time Or the principle of Sabbath on the first day of the week. And by doing this, when we observe the Sabbath, we are in fact raising ourselves above a slave. You see, because a slave doesn't have a day of rest. A slave doesn't have a day off. And I don't want to reteach the previous lesson, but you know that they were slaves in Egypt. And they didn't get a day off when they were slaves. They had to work seven days a week. But it raised them up as a people, as a nation above slaves. And also, it is one of the best things that you can do for your relationships. Husband and wife relationship, family, whatever you want, when you observe the Sabbath. Because you take one day out of seven. I m how many wives have said my my husband's a workaholic. If he would just give me one day, if he would just give me one day, I would be happy. Let's let well observing the Sabbath makes that possible. You can go to church together, you can eat lunch together, you can rest and spend some time talking. Um, you know, uh A man that's gonna work seven days a week, whether it's a job or or whether it whatever it might be, he's just a slave to that job. He's a slave to the almighty dollar. And observing the Sabbath brings you up above that. And what I'm tying this to is the fact that this deals very heavily with our relationships. and observing the Sabbath, having a day of rest, and taking that time away from the rush of life. I mean if you're going to take a day off, it's very likely going to be spent with family and friends, correct? And how much is your family and friends going to benefit from you taking that time greatly? And if we realize that it's a command of God and we do it as a matter of obedience, we still reap the rewards of it. And that is that we have healthy relationships This command deals with our relationships as well, and as I said, every other relationship in our life is affected by how our relationships to happen in the home. This is a demand of honor given to us by God. This command is found many other places in the Bible. Let me give you a couple of those. Levit Leviticus 19, verse number three. Ye shall feel you shall sh you sh what you Beep start over. You ye shall fear every man his mother and his father, and keep my Sabbath, I am the Lord your God. Deuteronomy 5, verse number 16. Honor thy father and thy mother as the Lord thy God commandeth thee, that thy days may be prolonged, and that it may go well with thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Proverbs twenty, verse number twenty. Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness. Proverbs thirty, verse number seventeen. The eye that mocketh his father and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall uh pluck it out, and the young eaglets shall eat it. Very descriptive Ephesians six one through three, very familiar scriptures. Children obey obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right, honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee. and that thou mayest live long on the earth. So this is a demand of honor. It's given to us that this is what we're supposed to do. And uh it's not a situation where some people, especially today, would uh say that, oh, uh Honor is earned. And bless God, they, you know, uh they they they need to earn the honor, and I'll honor my parents when they deserve it. Well, that's not what's found in the scriptures here. And I know there are some situations where parents are less than honorable and they'll answer to God for that. But you as a as a child will answer to God for how you honor your parents When you go into the judge and you stand before the judge, somebody that you've never met, you look at him and you address him as your honor. You might not know him as honorable or not. You don't know him at all. But you address him why? Because of the position he's in. And that is what God is telling us, the position that our parents are in, because of the fact that they are your parents, you are to honor them. And s sometimes the way parents act make that very difficult. And shame on the parents. But that doesn't negate our responsibility, the command that we have to honor our parents. And we will reap the rewards and the benefits of doing what God says, even if our parents are dishonorable. But we still reap the benefit of that. And we should uh observe it because it is a a command. This is not this is for everyone, not just children. I know we read this command and we look at oh, you know, little kids, yeah you're right, they're supposed to obey mom and dad, definitely. Uh amen. But this is for all of us We are all commanded to honor our mother and our father. Who are we to honor? Let's look at that. We're to honor our parents. That is the authority in our life. God has established authority in every area of life. Government, church, home. God is the one that set that authority up. And it is the responsibility of the parent to teach the children To honor them. It is it is a re responsibility of mom and dad to teach the parent the children to honor their parents. Because then when the when the child grows and They get to another situation in life. They end up in the workplace. They end up in the church. They end up out in civilization. They will transfer that respect, that honor that they gave to the authority in their life at home, to the authority in their life at work. But when we cease to teach that at home at all and kids go through, they grow up and they're not giving any honor to their mom and dad, they have no respect for their mom and dad, they go to the workplace and it's the same thing. And then they can't get along with their boss. And then they can't get along with the uh police. And then they can't get along with the government. Because they haven't been taught to honor. It starts when they're very young. Recognizing that there is a moral authority over them for which they answer to. And if they're taught that, see people don't think that today. There's no authority over me that I have to answer to. I am my own God. That's a philosophy that's in being embraced uh by much of American culture. And it's sad. And then we need to teach our children that there is an authority over them, which they are that's the answer to, and it's learned in the home. Now, parents obviously have the responsibility to be honorable. And And we're not going to spend much time there, but you need to, as a parent, you need to be kind, you need to be consistent, you need to not provoke your children to wrath. You need to be balanced. with praise and correction. You need to be an honorable parent. But the command, the demand is that we honor our parents. And that responsibility is on us. Not on them. And we can't be responsible for what somebody else does, but we are certainly responsible for what we do and what how we respond to them. So we there's a demand definitely to honor. Now there's a dividend to honor. Aren't you glad that God when he tells us things uh he He tells us why, and many times he rewards us for it. He says, Hey, if you do this, you're going to be rewarded. And there's a dividend. There is a reward for honoring your Father and mother, whether they're honorable or not, you get to benefit the reward of it, uh, because you're doing what God says. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. And when you sow good fruit, you reap good fruit. And that is in the area of honoring your uh father and mother as well. So this this reward is twofold. Um In Deuteronomy chapter 15, verse, I'm sorry, Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse number 16, the Bible says, Honor thy father and thy mother as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee, that thy days may be prolonged. And that it may go well with thee. So there's a two-fold dividend or reward. First of all, your days are going to be long. You're going to have long life, and that it will go well with thee. Or that word well is prosperous, that you'll prosper in what you're doing. You get the benefit of that. You get long life and prosperous days when you honor your my father and your mother. The individual who honors his parents becomes the object of God's grace and God's blessing because you're doing what he wants you to do And you are being God's grace and God's blessing is being bestowed upon your life. You know, your days may be long. Uh you're gonna get long life. I mean that's maybe partially because your parents won't kill you. When you're honoring them. Now in the Old Testament that's what they did with uh dishonorable, uh rebellious children. Uh they were put toget to to death to death. And that of course is not something that that we do or would want to do today, but children should be punished, disciplined. When they don't do right, when they don't obey. And that is biblical. Proverbs 4, verses 10 through 13 says, Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings, and the years of thy life shall be many. So he's t talking to his son and he says, Listen, if you do what I say, the years of your life shall be many. I have taught thee in the way of wisdom, I have led thee in a right path. When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straightened, and where thou runnest thou shalt not stumble. Take fast hold of instruction. Let her not go. Keep her, for she is thy life. You know, parents can save their children from a lot of heartache If children would observe what their parents say. It's just like some days when I was living in Pennsylvania, you know, thirty-two miles one way, driving home all the time, uh some days uh when I was getting ready to leave. I would receive a text from Joe and he would say, hey, there's an accident on 83. Don't take 83. Go home another way. He's saving me from getting stuck in that mess. Well what this is saying is is parents have been down that road. And they're telling their children, don't go down that road. It's gonna lead to a mess. And when child children observe that, when they honor their mother and father and they're they avoid that heartache of life, it has direct impact on them. They get the benefit of that. And their life's going to be long and their life is going to be blessed because of it. Think of it as more than a reward, even more than a promise. Think of it as a reason. When children grow up in an environment where they are made to honor their father and their mother, society is more stable, the home is stronger. and you all reap the benefit of it. Now a lot of today's society disagrees with even adamantly opposes uh the fact that we should demand honor. They they don't want to honor. Um they would even a parent would seek uh love from their child Instead of honor. But do you know when you seek after love, you have no honor and you lose love. When you seek after honor, honor comes And love follows. When you put the first things first, second things are increased, not diminished. As we read from C. S. Lewis. When we do it God's way, we get the benefit both sides, both ways But when we seek after love ourselves, you see any man or woman who um is not honored in a home is only a peer in the home. They may be full-grown, they may be an adult, but they're an adult peer to a four-year-old And sadly, that is what is taught or encouraged. Hey, you want to be their buddy? You're their parent. You are supposed to instruct them. And we should not seek after or desire to be their peer, but to be their parent. It is through the act of honor that every child sees there is a moral authority above them for which they are accountable to. And that authority gets transferred to any other authority in their life Parents start that by teaching them when they're two and three years old. And they'll use that through all of their days. The likelihood that a child will one day honor God, who has not first been taught to honor his dad, is very slim. Very slim. Now God can overcome some things and God can draw a man or woman back to him, but the likelihood of him doing that is far greater when he's been taught to honor his mother and father. So what is the definition of honor? What is the definition of honor? Or we could say, look at it like this, how do we honor Honor. And I know uh we will touch on obedience, but there's a lot more than that. Um in the Old Testament, the uh word that is The Hebrew word that's found in the Old Testament that's translated honor in our Bibles is it means to attach some weight to. To attach some weight to. You know, you've got some men that you respect, some ladies that you respect, and and uh when they give you a comment or they say something to you, you you might even say, you know what, I weigh their advice very heavily. You you've attached some weight to what they say. And and it means something. And there's some some measure of respect there that is translated into that In the New Testament, the Greek word that's uh translated honor in our Bible is to place great value upon. To place great value upon. So very closely associated to the same thing um Hebrew found in the Old Testament and Greek in the New Testament, but uh to weigh heavily or to place great value upon The parent needs to teach this in the home with consistency. You see what happens uh a lot of times um is when a parent says to his child just seeing if you guys are awake he says quit quit hitting that piano And then two minutes later, the parent says, Hey, hey, I told you to quit hitting that piano. And then two minutes later he says, If you don't stop hitting that piano, you're gonna get it. You see that child attaches no weight to what his mother and father say. He feels that what he's doing is more important than what his mom and dad are saying. Honor means what mom and dad just said is a whole lot more important than what I'm doing. And I'm gonna stop. And you teach that through instruction. And as parents, it's our responsibility, and it's very, very important. Not only will it make your time at home so much more peaceful We never experienced the terrible twos. People have talked about it like, man, the terrible twos. We never experienced that. It was the terrible threes for us But teaching your kids to weigh what you say heavily They ought to think, oh, that's that's mom's voice. That's dad's voice. In the foyer of the church, everybody's talking and playing, your son's running around. You ought to be able to say, Caleb. And there's a whole room full of people, and your your kids' ears should be tuned to you. That's dad's voice. I weigh that heavier than every other voice in this room. And I stop and respond to it. That only comes through instruction. Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he's old, he will not depart from it. It doesn't just happen. You have to train that into them. Some people will invest more time into training their dog to get a newspaper than they do in their children. And you may not like it, but training is training. And you say, I don't like thinking about it that way, like training, like I'm training the dog. Training is training. When you a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. You let your children just run, they're going to bring you to shame. If you train them To get the newspaper, then they'll get the newspaper Now I'm not tying them into and associating with them with the dog. But I'm saying training is training. And pick too many parents just let it go. Just whatever happens. Don't do any training until they're in your hair and you can't stand them anymore, and then you blow up and they know, okay, I've finally reached the point that mom needs to be responded to. When she reaches this octave, I know mom's mad. And then I gotta stop. Until then, I'm free to do whatever I want. But we can train them. Where mom or dad says that's enough, then that's enough but that takes a lot of work a lot of effort on our part now I ran down a long rabbit trail there but uh this is more than just obeying Obeying is a very small part of honor. It's to hold the honored person in high esteem, to elevate them to a place of importance and reverence It's more than being courteous or deferential. It's a total respect of all relations with the honored person. Now, in the formative years, this reveals itself or exposes itself largely in just obedience And the formative years, obedience is how you're going to show honor. But as life goes on, it gets to be much greater than that. We know that children are to obey their parents. Jesus honored his parents. We know that disobedience is wicked, wicked sin. Romans 1, chapter 29, verse 32. Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, malice, full of envies, murder murders, debate, deceit. uh whispering, backbiting, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, and disobedient to parents Being disobedient to parents is listed with all of that other wickedness. It's a very important thing, and it's on us as parents to teach our children not to be disobedient. D. L. Moody said no man has who who dishonored his parents has ever prospered. So what is it beyond just Obedience, especially for this group in here, we're talking about uh a lot more than just obedience. Today our relationships have have gone beyond just obedience. So let me give you a couple of things. First of all, we communicate with them We honor with our lips praise, not cursing. Some people, their relationship with their parents is so bad that all they ever do is talk bad about them. Um that's not honoring them. They may not be that honorable. But as old grandma used to say, if you don't have something nice to say, keep your trap shut. You don't have to say all that bad stuff about them. You can honor them maybe by just being quiet instead of letting everything you know about them. The Bible says let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. With your communication, gratitude instead of complaining. Watch how you speak to them, how you communicate with them, talk kindly. Um consider them. Consider them. So communicate with them, consider them, seek their counsel, think about them, where they're at. Uh Proverbs 1, 8 and 9, my son, hear the instruction of thy father and forsake not the law of thy mother. Consider what they say. Weigh heavily. Get their advice on things. That would mean so much to your mom and dad. You know, just call and say, Hey We're going to buy this car. What do you think of this kind of car? You know? Just consider. Consider what they what their thoughts are. And support them. Support them. First Timothy five, four through eight, but if any widow have children or nephews, let them learn first to show piety at home and to requite their parents. That word requite means to repay, to repay their parents. Um we should support our parents. The time comes where the role reversals take place. And uh we become the caregivers. And that's the way it's supposed to be. But in today's society, many people are too busy to take care of their parents, to spend any time time with them, to call them, to check on them, to see how they're doing. And it's our responsibility as a measure of honor for our mother and father to care for them. when those role reversals change. The neglect of the elderly today is one of the great tragedies of our society. So take time for them. Lift them up in your kids' eyes. I know that they've done some dumb things. And you never have, but I know your parents have done some dumb things. And uh they've done some things that weren't honorable. They did something when you were fourteen and you never forgave them for it. You know, I I don't know what it is. But do you realize when you tear down and destroy your parents to your children that you are instilling in their heart? That fruit that one day they will do it to you. You reap what you sow, and by lifting up your parents, you are instilling in their heart that character trait and that principle And they're seeing you give honor even when it's difficult, even when it's hard, even when mom and dad are just really stressing you out. But you're still in control and Delivering a measure of honor, you're teaching your children. And they will do that for you one day. And even today, as young people, seeing you doing that for them. So let me remind you that your children see your honor, and a whole lot more is caught than taught. And what you do, very largely, impacts what they will do, not just what you say. And let me just throw this out and we'll be done. Um how you respond to each other is just as critical. The honor that you give to each other. You want your children to honor your wife. But you speak to her like she's a dog. You don't weigh heavily what she says. You disregard her opinion. You talk bad about her. You tear her down. You say, oh man, she did that dumb thing again. What are you teaching your children? And by the way, it goes the other way as well, ma'am. You want your children to honor and respect him And you want him to come into the house and fix a problem with the kids. Can you take care of these kids? They have been holy terror all day long. But the rest of the week you've been tearing him down in front of them. You've been telling them that, you know, he made a stupid decision and he did this dumb thing and your dad doesn't ever do anything right and and whatever. We've taken the honor that they had and threw it out the window. The the honor and respect you give one another will in a very large way influence how much others Especially your children, honor and respect your mate as well. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, thank you for today. Thank you for the truths of your word and how powerful they are. And uh how important this uh commandment of honoring our mother and father is for even us as adults today, and the impact it has on uh those that are around us and even our life, Lord. You've given us the promise that our days would be long and that it would be well with us if we would honor them. And God, I just pray you'd be with us as a people to get back to the principles of your word. And uh Lord, to follow them instead of opinion of men. And uh go with us now as we go into the morning service. Lord, may you speak to our hearts. May you give us a great time in church today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, thank you. You are dismissed. And we have church in about seven