This is the fruit of the Spirit, and all nine of them are fruit that are brought forth in our lives by the working of the Spirit of God in us We've got to be led by the Spirit. Follow the Spirit. That's why he says here, let us walk in the Spirit. Let us also walk in the Spirit Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another, or envying one another. Come on, we need to be led by the Spirit. Amen. And we're following the Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit will be evident in our lives. The fruit is for one purpose. It comes from one source, the Spirit of God, and it's for one purpose, and that is to glorify God To bring honor and glory to God. In our life, the fruit of the Spirit that's manifest is not so that we can be puffed up It's not so that we can all of a sudden uh you know get man look at brother Bob boy he really knows how to to love Carol. I mean he just look at how he shows his love and his compassion for her And she told me to say this, Bob. And look at how just look at how well uh and it's not so that everybody can think the the greatest thing about Bob Is so that when we display the fruit of the Spirit and we love like we should, people know, man, God's doing something in their heart. God is working in their life. Look at look at how God is is manifesting himself in them. It's for the honor and glory of God. And fruit is to be part of every believer. Every believer. We looked at that last week as we talked about the uh fruit of the spirit uh or the vine, the fig tree that that didn't bear fruit, they're supposed to be fruit. And uh as we looked at that parable last week, we saw that's supposed to be part of every Christian. Um regardless of whether we think there's one or nine, we know it's supposed to be in our lives. And the sad thing is, is that today, in today's world, uh Christianity, this, the fruit of the Spirit, is Is lacking drastically. If it's evident at all, it's lacking. And partly, I believe, it's because there hasn't been a real importance put on it from the pulpit. We haven't maybe really talked about it. We haven't given it the preeminence it should have in in our lives and And the importance that it is that we are supposed to be bearing this fruit. This fruit is supposed to be evident. You know, when we have an ailment. When we have a limb that hurts, we tend to it. I mean it can be something as small as a paper cut, and man that paper cut is frustrating. This whole body is distracted by a paper cut And I just it's so every time I touch something, man, it hurts. And so what I put some ointment on it and and I get a band-aid and I put a band-aid on it to cover it up so that I can function without that distraction. Or if you have a a limb that's been injured You go through physical therapy and they they work that limb so that you can get that strength back in that arm, so you can use it like you're supposed to, so you can do what that arm is supposed to do. Well, we need to do the same thing spiritually. When we see an ailment, where we see a weakness, we see a place where maybe a little bit of effort would be good, we need to do the same thing. We need to go through some spiritual therapy. Amen. We need to spend a little bit of time and some effort and and work towards seeing this come to fruition in our lives. It's important because a fruit that I'm sorry, a tree that no longer bears fruit. is turned into firewood. We're going to look at several passages in in John in a minute, but in Matthew 3. 10, he says, and now Also, the axe is laid unto the root of trees. Therefore, every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. You see, an orchard doesn't have trees in it just to look at. They're supposed to produce fruit. If they're not producing fruit, they're going to get hewn down. They're gonna end up in my smoker. We're gonna go use them to cook some meat. We're gonna use it for something uh that's profitable. Get that apple wood or that cherry wood, you know. Uh and You you're gonna use it for something beneficial. But in the orchard it's not doing what it's it's not bringing any profit to the to the owner of the orchard and he says, Hey, that tree's taking up space, let's cut it down. We can plant something there that'll that'll do what it's supposed to to do that will bring forth fruit. This is important. So let me talk to you in a general way first about the fruit of the Christian. The fruit of the Christian. We, general things here I'm going to give you about fruit in general. Just the idea, God gave us this picture. this vivid picture about fruit that we're supposed to bear fruit in our lives and and and there's different types of fruit and we're gonna look at these nine uh manifestations of the fruit of the spirit in our lives over the coming weeks, but he gave us this vivid picture to emphasi emphasize spiritual growth. In our lives. And why is that? So there's several things that I want you to understand as we get into this and to think about with regards to bearing fruit. First of all, to bear fruit is a sign of maturity. To bear fruit is a sign of maturity. As we talked about last week, and and listen, I I don't have a green thumb in my body. I I just I've had the hardest time getting any I plant grass and I water the dickens out of it and I come out and it's dead. I'm saying, what happened? I mean gr grass is supposed to grow by itself. I mean You know, it grows in the driveway by itself. Why can't I get it why can't I get it to grow in the yard? And I I mean I don't have a green thumb, so I don't do a lot of planting and growing, and those of you that do you you understand these things a lot better than me, I'm sure, but from my reading in the study I told you about how uh a fig tree being planted as a as a sapling or a small little bush. It they don't expect fruit out of it its first year. It's using all of its strength just to survive. But if it if it gets rooted good and strong and starts to draw nurture new nutrients out of the ground and it's stable and it can endure the storms that come throughout the season, it's its foundation is good Th then it's not fighting for its life, then it can start to bring forth fruit. And they say two or three years uh uh it takes for a a fig plant to to grow and and then Bring forth fruit. I know that I had an apple tree in my backyard in Loganville. And that tree dropped so many apples. I mean one year we probably got 10 30 gallon trash cans of apples off that thing. And it draws bees like crazy. And we were picking up apples all the time and we're mowing over 'em all the time and they're they're they're throwing apple shavings everywhere and the kids are playing and you know batting them. I mean we're doing everything with apples And I said, this tree is out of control. I'm going to trim it back. You guys are shaking your head. Well, let me get to the end of the story first, okay? So I get up there and I I trim this tree. You know what? I decided if I kill it, I don't care I'm tired of picking up apples. So I trimmed this tree. I mean this was a ma it was massive. Apple trees aren't supposed to get that big. They don't produce good fruit when they're that big The it was the apples weren't really good. I mean we tried to turn some of them into applesauce and did some different things, but they weren't that good. By the time you pick through anyways, I trimmed this tree down. I mean I cut it. I thought I killed it But it came back the next year. But do you know what it didn't have any fruit on it? I know what you guys were thinking. You guys were thinking you trimmed it and then uh oh But I mean I trimmed it. I I for lack of a better term I wounded the tree. And the next year there was no fruit on it. And I thought, Hallelujah! No fruit. Maybe I stopped this thing, but you know what happened More fruit in the future. But what I'm saying is that time of recovery, that tree was recovering, it wasn't bearing fruit. And we're going to talk about that a little bit more, but you y you don't expect fruit out of a baby. It's got to survive. Fruit is a sign of maturity. You know it only only when there becomes a flower. Is fruit seen. The blossom comes first. The first couple years there might not even be much of blossoms on it, but then the blossom comes, and then fruit comes. So it is in a Christian's life, a baby Christian gets saved and they start to learn about God. They start to learn who God is. You see the blossom of faith start to come out in their life. They start to trust God and who he is and what he can do, and they begin to take steps of growth, and they begin to follow him. And then you get to start to see some fruit coming. But it takes a little while. It's a sign of maturity. It takes time. As Christians, we glorify the Father and we prove that we are His when we bring forth fruit. So fruit is a sign of maturity. Also, fruit has appealing. It has a shell. It usually has some kind of an outer wrapper around it given to it by God. You know, that does two things. First of all, it keeps the bugs and animals from being able to get into it. It keeps it clean. You know what would a orange be like if you didn't get to peel that off and and uh you know i it'd be exposed to the elements and to the dirt. You get to take the shell off and uh the peeling off and the inside is kept moist. And soft. So the peeling, the shell there protects the fruit from influences from outside and it keeps the heart of it soft. You know, as Christians, we're supposed to have a soft heart. We're supposed to be moldable and pliable. We're supposed to be able to be uh moved by the hand of God. Some Christians are so hard God God uh can't get Can't mold them, can't change them, can't can't do what he would love to do in their heart. Fruit is attached to the vine. It receives its nourishments from the vine. It continues continues to grow as long as it's attached to the vine. It comes from that. This is the fruit of the spirit. We know it comes from the from the spirit. Spirit of God, not from us. It's from being attached to the vine. Fruit grows out on a limb What am I saying? I'm saying the fruit is out where people see it. It's an outward showing of an inward work. Okay, now I know that in today's world people love to use the verse that God looks on the heart, and man looks on the hour. And they try and use that verse as if somehow that gives them an excuse to just forget about the outside and forget about what other people see and it doesn't matter what anybody else sees. Do you understand fruit is an outward showing of an inward work. It is supposed to be evident. And yes, God looks on the heart. But I think we've turned that verse around on God. You know, we we show it to say, well, what's on the outside doesn't matter because what other people think doesn't matter, what what the world thinks doesn't matter because God looks on the heart. I think we turn that around a little bit Because people do look on the outside. This is one of the reasons why it's so important that the outside be right. That the outside that fruit is evident for people to see. It glorifies God. If there's never any fruit there for others to see, how how are we glorifying God? Another thing, there are seasons of fruit bearing. Some seasons are greater than others As I talked about that plant that apple tree that I trimmed back, that tree was wounded There was some recovery time needed before it could really bear fruit. And this is the same in the believers' lives. There's times where we're going to bring forth fruit. But maybe sometimes we're in recovery. Sometimes some plants will bring forth uh an abundance of fruit and other other seasons not very much. Those of you that have gardens, you you you you understand that sometimes them tomato plants, man, they just like they just say keep spitting out tomatoes. You're like, wow. And other years you're like, where's all the tomatoes? Well how come there's no tomatoes coming up and I don't know whether it's the the the the moisture and the sun and how much humidity is in the air and how good the soil is and how warm or how cold the spring was. External things that happen that cause there to be seasons of great fruitfulness and seasons of less fruitfulness. And I think that's the same in the Christian Life. There are some seasons where we'll see great fruitfulness, and there's some where we'll see less fruitfulness, but there stood, there should be fruitfulness in our lives. Fruit contains seeds. New life. The seed is a new life. The ability to reproduce itself I want you to see, turn to John chapter 15. I want you to see that in a Christian's life there are four degrees, four levels of fruit bearing that we see. In John chapter 15, verses 1 through 5, we see there's four levels of fruit bearing that is evident in Christians' lives. He says in verse number one, he says, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit. So first of all, the first level, the first, there's there are those that These are branches that are in Christ, but they bear not fruit. John chapter 15 and verse number one. They bear not fruit. So the first level are those Christians that aren't bearing fruit. But what happens to those? He says, here, every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. He taketh away. And we saw it very clearly last week in the in the The parable that we looked at is the fruitless fig tree. That when a tree is not bearing fruit. And and after a period of grace, after a time, I mean you you you remember the parable that he gave it three years Three years he came and he looked and he watched, and we have a long-suffering and forbearing God and he gives us ample opportunity and ample time, but understand that at some point God says there's supposed to be fruit here And when there is not fruit, he heweth it down. So there is first the first level is those that do not bear fruit. they're not bearing fruit at all, then we see here, um, and every branch that beareth fruit. So first level here is there's there are some that bear fruit. Amen. We begin to start to bear fruit in our lives. And what does God say here? He says he purchased it. He purchased it. He does what's necessary, what that it may bring forth more fruit. So you have those that don't bring forth any fruit. then you have those that begin to bear fruit. And if they allow God to purge them, to clear out some things that are in the way. You know sometimes you have a plant that's that's there, it's growing, and um now tomatoes need sun, right? So so maybe you've got that planted in a place where you think, man, it's not getting as much sun as it should. And so you you see some other plants that might be away and you cut those back so that it can Maybe some fertilizer needs to be put down, maybe some things are in the way keeping it from from d producing all that it should, but but the the goal is is that it would bring forth more fruit. So you have no fruit, fruit, more fruit. And then I want you to see the fourth level here. He says He purchased it that it bring forth more fruit. Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. The word of God is what God uses to purge us, to clean us And he says here, abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine. No more can ye, except ye abide in me. I am the vine, and ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him the same, bringeth forth what is it? Much fruit For without me you can do nothing. So you have no fruit, fruit, more fruit, and much fruit. The four levels of fruit-bearing, but you understand this from that this last level here is a level of fruit-bearing that comes as I study this passage of scripture out. It's not a it It's not even necessarily something that we are searching for that we're going after, like, man, I want to bear more fruit. I want to bear more fruit. I want to know what this level of fruit bearing comes from I want to know God. I want to be with God. God, give me an understanding of you. Lord, abiding with Him. And a byproduct. Maybe not even sought after, maybe not even realizing that it's going to happen, but from at as a result of spending time with God, of being with him, of being in his word, abiding with him. You are gonna bring forth much fruit. You see the first couple levels there, you bring forth fruit because you're a plant and you're supposed to And then there's some cleaning that needs to be done, some purging that needs to be done, some work that needs to be done, and that that's going to help bring a little more fruit. But what produces the Much fruit is just abiding in him. Not even necessarily going after fruit. Not necessarily searching that you might have fruit, but just abiding with God. Spending time with Him, abiding in his presence, and you'll bring forth much fruit. Now I'm going to walk through these uh fruit of the Spirit. Now we're going to spend time and look at these individually, so I'm not going to spend much time here. We're just going to quickly give them to you and hopefully help introduce your understanding and help you with these. The fruit of the Spirit are grouped into three three different categories. There's nine fruit that are grouped into three groups of three. These nine fruit. First of all, there's the inward fruit. Fruit that deals with us from an inward aspect. Love. We like that one. Love The word love is used 320 times in the New Testament. Love is foundational. It's the beginning Love is the ground, the foundation, the root, the the source, the outflow of all of the other You look at this, abide in me and I in you, and you'll bring forth much fruit. You see, if we love God, The rest of the fruit, much fruit comes. The other fruit is is uh almost gonna gonna follow this loving like we should. There's joy. Again, these are focusing inward. Love and joy. Joy. Joy or rejoice is used 132 times in the New Testament. This is the function of a Christian. We should be functioning in joy. We should have joy in our heart and the joy of the Lord on our face. And as we go about our day and talk to people, we ought to have joy. Too many of us Christians are down in the dumps. We're discouraged and upset about life situations. You know this too will pass. Whatever you're going through today, the storm that might be outside today is going to go away and it'll be sunny again tomorrow. But we allow the circumstances of our lives to dictate our spirit too much. We ought to function as a Christian. It ought to be the way we function is just in joy. Having joy. Whatever's going on, praise the Lord and shame on the devil anyway. Having joy, we ought to have the joy of the Lord. You know, the bad times are endured with joy, and the good times are made awesome with joy. With joy. Then peace. Peace is used 112 times in the New Testament. And peace is favorable. Peace is favorable. We should want peace. Isn't it nice to have peace in your heart? Isn't it nice not to to to be overrun and and you know just consumed with turmoil? To have peace. It's certainly preferred over the alternative. But much of this world doesn't live in peace. And I'm not talking about, you know, wars and rumors of wars. I'm talking about peace in our heart, peace in our life, peace in our home. Just having peace in your home. You know what that would do for you? You talk about people living in all the anxiety they have and all the mental health problems they have. Do you know how much better people would be doing if they could just go home and have peace? For a few hours every day? I mean, I know the world's chaotic and you deal with that chaos as you go throughout the world, but I'll tell you what, if you could be home and it was peace for a few hours every day, you could refresh your spirit. But most of the world doesn't have that. They know when they get home, it's a whole different battle. At work, it's a whole different battle. And we are supposed to pursue peace. So these three, these first three are inward. They deal with us, with the inside. Then the next three deal outward. They they deal with other people. The next one is long suffering. Long suffering. Patience. Having patience. Gotta have patience. Forbearing. This is forbearing. Never losing hope. Never losing your temper. Right. Having patience. Long suffering. Then gentleness. Gentleness is is is a kindness about us as Christians. We're supposed to be kind. Be kind one to another. Gentleness kindness demands that we forgive. That we forgive Kindness demands that. It's an attitude of our heart. Goodness. We're to be good to people. In a general way, I mean in a practice, as as as Christians uh people shouldn't have to be looking over their shoulder to to see when you're gonna stab them in the back, right? I mean it we're supposed to be good to people. It's a way that we're supposed to uh be living our life and hit to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not as Christians You know, we really ought to be doing good things. I know that as Christians we have a whole list of thou shalt not. We're going to talk about those again in the morning service as we look at the second greatest commandment But we ha we know the thou shalt not, but you know we're also supposed to be there's some some thou shalt. We're supposed to be doing some good things and so we're supposed to be long suffering in general and good and And then uh the last three are Godward. These deal with our relationship towards God. So you have the first three deal inward, our heart. The second three deal with our relationships out with other people. In the last three here deal with our relationship with God, we're to have faith. Faith. We're to be faithful, loyal servants of God, committed to Him, to His church and following Him. We're to have meekness. I know you know the definition of meekness, it's power under control. It's a grace about us. It's a humility about us. The greatest example of meekness This is Jesus Christ who was the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. All God and all man had in him the power to do whatever he wanted, yet exercised and displayed a level of meekness that that is just unheard of today. He answered not a word. I think of that. Man, how hard is it for us just to keep our mouth shut When somebody says something that we disagree with, even if it doesn't have anything that you know what, we chime in on conversations we're not even part of. To let our voice be heard. To say our top you know, we we just wanna uh you know, oh yeah, well uh we're they look at you like who are you? We weren't even talking to you, you know. We just chime in You know, he answered not a word, even at the direct accusations that were false and wrong against him. The level of meekness As Christians, my, it would do us some good to try and exercise and develop this in our lives. Temperance. Temperance is self-control. Our world is out of control today. I mean we are as even as Christians, I mean we're we're at a place, I mean, self-control. We can't control our spending. We're spending ourselves uh and and purchasing things way beyond our means and putting ourselves in in uh a bad way and uh then We we can't control our our eating? You know, I think that this thing of uh many of us as a church, I mean forty-six people in church committed to to be continue to fast, I'll tell you you want to find out how much self-control you have? Fast! Somebody came and talked to me and said they did they they did a a screen fast. You know how I was talking about that? Anything that you do on a regular basis that you enjoy could be something that you fast or give up. They said they did a screen fast and they said that was hard. They said, man, that was hard. I mean just not using or touching a screen for a day or whatever. You're just like always like, oh let me oh I can't you know I mean, self-control. This is great exercise for a Christian fasting. It's a di discipline in self-control. There's so many areas. We we just don't say no to ourselves. We don't have control of it. As Christians, we are supposed to. Temperance, self-control. So uh let me talk to you lastly as we close up here this morning about our focus. How are we supposed to focus? You know when we focus on the wrong things, we learn the wrong things. When we focus on the wrong things, we we emphasize and put effort into When we focus on the world, it stifles your growth. In Matthew 13, 22 he says, he also that Matthew 13, 22. He also that receiveth seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word, and the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. We become unfruitful because the cares of the world, because the other things that we're focused on. We like to today focus on spiritual gifts. Think about the spiritual gifts we have that God has given to us, but it might be good for us to focus on spiritual fruit. In Matthew 12, 33, he says, either make the tree good and his fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt and his fruit corrupt, for the tree is known by his fruit. We've gotta make the root. We've got to fix the root. And it will bring forth the right fruit. And that starts with a focus. It starts with a plan. As we focus on it and say, this is, I would like to be walking in the Spirit. I would like to abide in Christ. And this fruit will be a byproduct of that. If we you can't just, I think sometimes Christians think, well, if I just, you know, pray, Lord, uh, give me the fruit of the Spirit. Then then it'll happen. It it starts with a plan. We gotta have a plan to see this come about. There's sixty-seven verses in the New Testament that have to do with fruit. Fifty-four of them come from the Greek word harpesdo, which translates to catch, to seize, to take by force You see, 54 of the 67 verses that talk about fruit have as a foundation the idea that you seize it, that you grab it, that you get a hold of it by force. Fruit bearing is something that is worked out. That's worked on. But nothing is more fulfilling to the Christian. than seeing that come to fruition in your lives. Colossians 1, verse number 10 says, That you may walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. So fruitfulness is a result of faithfulness. Fruitfulness is a result of You know what? We've gone out the last several weeks uh knocking on doors, and God has allowed us to see some fruit from that. We want to knock on fifteen thousand doors this year. You know it's not going to happen unless we continue. The fruit that may come of that is going to be a result of the faithfulness that we have in it. And sometimes I know that we get tired and we and we we say, Oh, I don't really feel like it today, or I don't want to do it now, but do you understand the fruit comes because of faithfulness? When we continue and do what God has called us to do, then just as a byproduct of being faithful, God will send fruit. And we know that God is looking for fruit, as we looked at the parable last week in Luke chapter 13. And he spake this parable unto them. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came and sought fruit thereon. God is looking for fruit. He sought for fruit. God's looking for fruit. And he's looking for fruit in us. Are we? Do we have the fruit of the Spirit? Over the next few weeks, we're going to look at these individually and what they mean, how we develop them, how they are displayed in our lives, and we will ask God to give us a plan To help that fruit grow, and that we are uh seeing the fruit of the Spirit manifest in our lives as believers.