The earth bringeth forth fruit of herself, first the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear But when the fruit is brought forth immediately he putth it in put it in the sickle, because the harvest is come Now I have titled this uh parable the sower and the sickle. Uh that is uh unique to me. It is not if you try and look that up uh as far as parables that are out there, that is not going to be one of them It's more commonly known the growing seed. Many people would refer to this as the growing seed. So if you look in a book for the parables in the book of Mark, you'll have to either reference it via the text Um and the text, you know, Mark chapter 4, verses 26 to 29, uh, or uh the title or the name of the growing seed that a lot of people look at. But this parable um The sower and the sickle, uh known as the growing seed, is one of the two parables that are unique to Mark. There's some debate as to how many parables there are in Mark. Uh, you know, there's different people that look at there's some that would say as few as four, uh just four parables, but there is some that would say that there's as many as eighteen. And uh, you know, that just depends on on how people classify or what they look at as to be a parable. That's the reason why there's so much debate about how many parables Christ taught in the New Testament. If you look, there's some people that might say he only taught about 26, 27. There's other people that would say he taught as many as 70 parables in the New Testament. And I don't know that either of them are necessarily wrong. Uh it's just what they want to include in the classification of parables. Like there is uh what they would call per proverbial proverbial, uh you know, the proverb type parable, which is just a verb, uh or just one verse or just a a kind of a a phrase and if they include all of those, they can get up to seventy. And so, you know, there's very, very short things like that. We typically would look at a parable as something a little bit longer, although we did look at one a while ago that was only, I think, 35 words. But uh, you know, the the shorter they are, they turn into what you want me many people would qualify or classify as a parable, uh I'm sorry, as a proverb. and not a parable, but some people include those together. That's why there's so much variation on how many there are. But of the forty-four parables taught by Christ, some some appear in as many as three of the gospels Matthew, Mark, and Luke. They would appear in all three of them. But the parable that we're looking at today is unique to Mark. It's not found in in any of the other Gospels. Due to the fact that it's found only here in Mark, there's some who would try and say that this is not a new parable. This is just kind of a rephrasing, kind of Mark's way of saying something that happened in a r- one of the other parables found in one of the other gospels. However, I believe, and uh most scholars, most Bible scholars uh that you would read after believe that this is a unique parable to Mark and it is uh teaching a different principle. uh than the other s parables that deal with sowing and reaping. Uh and so it's unique to Mark and it is a unique parable as well, not just a rendition or another kind or copy of of one of the others This parable al although it is very supportive of the other parables dealing with sowing and reaping. And this Parable given to us here, we see where it's located in between the parable of the sower and the parable of the mustard seed. That's located if you read the the balance of the chapter uh before it, we have the parable of the sower in the beginning, and that the parable of the sower appears in all three Gospels, and then the parable of the mustard seed, and it's in between that. So there's definitely um The idea that this was uh given to us during uh the early part of Christ's ministry. This prayer was given to us. Now G. Campbell Morgan believed that this was among the first, very first of the parables given. If not the very first, it was certainly among the first. And many would believe that. In our list, if you have your parable list with you, from the big from our introductory lesson where I gave you all 44 parables in a list. It's not listed as as the title that I gave it today, but the text would be there. But in that list it's number five. And uh it's number five in in that list that we have between the wheat and the tares and the mustard seed. So as far as the course of events when Christ gave this, it was very early in his ministry as he He's teaching the disciples and those that were followers of him about the kingdom of heaven. Certainly we know that it's given that it was given to us at the time of those parables given to us in Matthew chapter 13. There's eight parables in Matthew chapter 13 and all of those dealing with the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. And this is given to us in that timeframe along with that and supports those truths that are presented to us there. So the characters of the parable. What are the characters of the parable? First of all, uh the sower, the sower. You see the sower. There's somebody that comes out and sows. Now in some of the misrepresentations or misinterpretations of this parable, they believe the sower to be Christ. Now looking at the parable itself, can somebody tell me uh what is it in this parable that would lead us or give us a pretty clear understanding that it's not talking about Christ, that Christ is not the one sowing. Would anybody as you read that does anything stick out, Ms. Green? Not the only one that's done the seat. Okay, so there's more than one sewer. There's one one idea. What about uh anything else from the text? Yeah, it says um the first place, it says that the bees bring up spread up and grow up and even right out. That's right. Christ knows how. I mean it wouldn't it wouldn't be talking about Christ if uh uh you know it says that he knew not how. Christ knows And he knows how it's growing and he knows the work that it's doing. And so it's definitely not talking about Christ. One other thing in the text there that gives you it says that he sleeps. In the text it says he sleeps and he rises up day and night. Well we of course know that uh Christ is God and and that he doesn't sleep, that he's always alert and awake and uh watchful. and uh you know they're interceding for us. So there's some principles that show us very clearly not Christ. But uh if it's not Christ, then who is it? It's the saved. It's the saved, those who are sowing The seed. Those that are sowing the seed in the hearts of men. So the saved, those who are willing to go and sow the seed in the hearts of men. So you have the sower, uh those sowing the seed, and they have the seed. The seed is the word of God. In this parable, unlike other parables, we don't get a lot of times the disciples will come up after the parable and say, Christ. Tell us what you mean by, and they'll ask for explanation of that parable. And uh, you know, a parable is just a a window, a doorway into some principles or truths that God was trying to teach. And you understand that parable that window or doorway kind of masked or hid the truth from those that weren't interested or didn't really want it. But those that wanted it, they had the ability to come and to peer into that window a little bit further. To walk through that door and say, Christ, what are you saying? What are you teaching us? And then he would expound on that some more. So in this parable, we don't have the benefit of Christ's direct explanation But because there are so many other parables that deal with sowing and Christ did define what was what, it's very clear that the seed is the word of God. And uh there's no question about that, that the seed is the word of God. This seed that is presented in the other parables and very clearly taught so by Christ. The seed is the word of God. This seed is an incorruptible seed. Praise the Lord, we have an incorruptible seed Uh people would try and change it, but the word of God is incorruptible. Uh so then you have the ground or the soil. The ground or the soil is the human heart. This the starting place of the kingdom of God is in the heart of men. The start where that where that starts is in the heart. That that ground. And we we of course have seen that in the parable of the sower where they sowed seed and into the hearts and some fell on good ground and some fell on stony ground and uh some was fell among the weeds. Uh you know, the the different types of soil that's there in the human hearts. Then the growth. This is the mystery, the mystery of this. How does that growth take place? What what how does it happen? I mean none of us understand we take something that's dead, that's all dried out. Maybe it was put in a bag two years ago. Take it out of the bag, put it in the ground. How does that happen? How does life come from that? How does that all of a sudden change and then Sprout up a plant. We can't we can't explain it. We can give you some scientific definitions or explanations, but we can't make it happen. Brother Keller. And have kept dry and And when they're playing it, they go super capsule as there and it's not filmed by the time. Wow, yeah. Thousands of years ago the the uh The Egyptian pyramids were somewhere around 2000 uh uh BC, uh is when they were put in place somewhere around there. Brother? I heard the same thing. So you're dead right on that problem. Yeah. And it seems really first seven hundred years old. Yeah. Yeah. That's amazing. We don't we don't understand it, but we know it happens. And the same is true with the seed of the Word of God and how that it grows in the heart of men. Uh it's unseen and understood. Then you have the harvest. Harvest time is determined by ripeness, not by the day or the hour. Not by uh oh it's it's the twenty-seventh, it's time to harvest. Uh no, it's by ripeness And who determines when the when it's ripe is God. And for the individual, harvest time comes at the end of our days when God says it's time to call you home. As a church, we know that harvest time from the parable that we taught about the wheat and the tares. You remember that parable where he you know the the somebody went out and sowed the weeds among the the wheat and you know the the workers came and said, you know, do you want us to go and to pull that? And they said, No, no, no. Christ said, Don't don't go pull those, 'cause in pulling up the terrors you might pull up some wheat Let's just wait till harvest time and then they'll be separated out. In the harvest time uh as a church will be at the rapture. And uh some of us will get the privilege of But the day will come when the harvest is here and the harvest is secured. It's brought in to the fold. It's brought into the barn. It's kept safe. And uh that time comes. Then you have the sickle. The sickle is the hand or the angel of death. They God sends the angel to come and carry us home. Uh and when that time comes, God says he puts that it's harvest time. And when he's ripe, he puts the puts the angel out there with a sickle to bring in the harvest when it's time. So the truth of the parable Christ here by his opening statements guides us into the proper interpretation of this. He said the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God. We know that this is dealing with the kingdom of God. There's some that would look at this parable and and apply it and teach it to other things. And we're as we talk about the translation, we're going to look at a couple of those uh false interpretations. But we know this is dealing with the kingdom of God. So the sower This is the truth of parable. You know, I told you that parables teach one main truth, one main idea. This is the one main idea here, not separated out in my notes here very well, but this is the main idea. That is that the sower labors in the kingdom of God, where in his time, with a capital H there, we're talking about God, in his time and by his power. We can see the fruit of our labor grow. We sow, we don't understand how, and we don't know when, we don't know how quick it's going to happen, but we know that it's in His time and by His power. that seed that was sown grows and God does that. Understanding that God has chosen to use men to do what we can do. And then God does what he can do. We cannot grow that seed. I mean, sometimes as a pastor, I'll see a young Christian And they're growing in the Lord and I mean if I could uh somehow take the the years of Bible knowledge and the the instructions that I've had and and the teaching I had and if I could just say here take this pill and you'll have all that I have I mean I want to give you everything I can and help them as much as I can to facilitate that growth. But I can't do that. God has to grow that individual. And God is the one that does it, but he wants us to do what we can. God has in his wisdom decided that we should be The sowers. We should be the one to go out and cast the seed. You know, the Bible says that if God willed, He could have had the rocks cry out, and it would have been their job. But that's not what God chose. He chose that we would cast the seed. So we have a responsibility here in partnering with God Almighty to do our part in giving that seed out. But then we don't our responsibility is done. We cannot make that seed grow, and we cannot uh nurture that seed somehow and and and facilitate it, make it happen. God is It's clear in this parable that God is the one that does that. So in the translation of the parable, just a couple of misinterpretations that are out there, and there there are others. Uh but the gr the growth here they believe are interpreted to be the growth of the earth. It's amazing that those who try to uh you know they wanna have biblical evolution. They want to put God and evolution together. They want to embrace their sci their their uh false teachings about evolution and still be a Christian. And they try and find ways to put that together. Well, in this parable, they have taught that this is a an example of evolution taking place. And how that that growth of earth came. First the earth was just a seed, just a little microorganism, just a seed, and it was there and then all of a sudden it sprang forth into a blade and then to a full ripe kernel, you know. I mean th they they teach that from this and it's obviously a misinterpretation. There's no uh I mean you have to stretch it pretty far from from the text to Another misinterpretation is that this is dealing with the growth of the church in the earth. Now you might be able to apply it to that, but uh it's not the interpretation of it. But the application is, you know, that this is uh like in the New Testament when Jesus first had him and the disciples and he, you know, g give gave them the job of preaching the word unto the world and they went out. The church was just a seed. It was something that Christ planted. It was just the beginning. And then they went out and the church grew and people didn't understand how it grew and there was persecution and it was put down and yet it still grew bigger and bigger and the church continued We know that the gates of hell will not prevail against the Church of God. And we understand that. So there's that application, but it's not the interpretation of this passage. One must understand the key to understand the parable. The key. Each parable has a key, and many times Jesus gives the disciples the key. He tells them that in their in when they come and ask him and say, Jesus, what it what are you saying by this? And Jesus will turn that earthly story. into a heavenly application as he gives him the key to the parable. And the key here is that the seed is the word of God. The seed is the Word of God. So when you start with that and you know that the seed is the Word of God, then you interpret the rest of the parable from that base knowledge, understanding that, then it limits how far we can go in our application because it gets so far beyond where the word of God is what is planted. And so that helps greatly in keeping us on track. Understanding that the seed is the Word of God. If we think the seed represents money, you miss the parable. If you think the seed represents love, You've missed the interpretation of the parable. If you think the seed represents a level of hard work, you've misinterpreted or misrepresented the parable. Only by understanding the key is one able to understand the parables of Christ, and most of the time the key is clearly given to us by Christ Himself The power is in the seed, not in the soil or in the environment. That's an amazing truth when you think about that. It's not in the environment. It's not it's not in the uh uh You know, the the sower's responsibility. The power is in the seed itself. And uh there are other things that that apply to these and you can look at them and stretch it out, but Understand the powers in the seed. Now, the teachings of the parable. The teachings of the parable. There's many things that we can learn and glean from the teachings of this parable. Many have applied this uh to the growth in the Christian's life and it certainly can be applied to that, to our growth as spiritual Christians, we need to be growing. From from the seed, from the just the seed being planted to a full grown ear of corn to growth in a Christian life. We know that we are to grow in grace. We are to grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, our verse for the month. That's what we're supposed to be doing. And we know that. Lockier points out that uh it does not say grow into grace And he gives the illustration that you can no more grow into grace than you can swim into the ocean. You you get in the ocean and then you can swim in the ocean. But you don't you don't start out on the sand and just dive. And swim out into the ocean you don't swim out into the ocean. You get in the ocean and then you can swim. And you don't just uh swim or or work your way into grace. Grace is given to you as unmerited favor from God. But we're to grow in that grace. Once you're in it, then you can grow. We see here in this parable the compassion of the sower He rises night and day with concern for the seed. You see that compassion, that concern, that that heart that the sower has? He's rising night and day. I mean how many of you have a garden A little less than half of you. Uh you know, I know if you're normal at all, once you plant that seed the first few days you water it and you're looking at it and you're just waiting for them sprouts. Like, is it gonna come up? I mean is it gonna work? And y you're tending that seed. There's that care. There's that compassion. That that desire to see it grow. My daughter Alicia did some science experiments with beans and p put these beans in different uh types of moisture and and under different light situations and controlled environment and uncontrolled environment and And did this science test for for one of her high school classes and uh you know seeing which thing could produce and start to sprout forth a new plant and which ones died and withered away and which one's molded and so on. Just science experiment in the basement for about two months. Seeing it sprout, looking for it, that concern, that compassion. And as Christians, we're to have that kind of concern for the seed. for the compassion for those that we get the privilege of sowing the seed to, checking on that, and uh laboring in love for it. But we also cannot help but notice the helplessness of the sower. The helplessness of the sower In contrast to the parable of the sower, which clearly emphasizes the human's responsibility, the parable of the sower, you know, with the hearts the different grounds, the having a good heart that hears the Word of God and takes the Word of God in, uh that talks about the responsibility of the of the person, of the soil, of the heart of man. But here, this clearly illustrates the divine power involved. And it's not on not on the individual, but on God. The seed must have power all of its own The helplessness of the sower is seen here that this is God that does this. We can't do it. He rises, but for all of his rising and going to bed and waking up early, you know The watch pot never boils. And you know you get up every early every morning and walk out there and check that garden. Not gonna make that seed come out of the ground any sooner. It's not gonna ha you're not gonna come out tomorrow just because you checked on it twice today. Maybe if I check on it three times it'll grow tomorrow. It's going to grow on its own. You still have compassion, but it is all in its own power. We see the fate of the sower. He looks for the promised growth. As he goes out there, you know you look at that garden. Sometimes, I mean if you're like me, I don't have very green thumbs. I wouldn't have much faith that what I put in the ground wasn't going to grow I would kind of wonder if it was going to happen or not. But uh, you know, the fact that he's continually checking and looking for that growth is uh a explanation of his faith that God is gonna see it come to pass And you know what? Some of you have loved ones that you've planted the seed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And maybe it was some years ago, maybe it was different time and You wonder what's going to happen. I would encourage you to have faith. The Word of God said it will not return void. Have faith in God. We also see the patience of the sower here. That he waits for it to grow. You might have to have some patience. As you're waiting for that to grow. You're working with somebody, you're encouraging somebody on their walk with God. You've got a co-worker at work you've been talking to and trying to get them to see the need for for a Savior, or you've been trying to invite them to church. Have patience. Have patience. Keep the compassion. Have some faith. And then wait. Wait on God. We see the patients well, but here we see the stages of growth, the blade and the head and the full kernel, and that's been applied in many different ways, the different stages of growth that take place uh given to us in this parable. And we know that the power is in the sea. It's working when no one else can see it work. In the dark of night and in the light of day, the seed is working because it has life. Aren't we glad that this seed has life? This word of God has life. It has the power to bring somebody to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. It's amazing when you think about it. Sometimes just last week down at the mission they had somebody saved, right? The helping up mission? Yes. And You think about it, they they had to take everything that they thought or believed to be true for the entirety of their life. And say, you know what? That's not true. What I thought is not right. What this Word of God says is right. And put their faith and trust in this. That's a big ask. But it's the power of the Word of God that does that in the heart Because it's alive, because it's quick, it's powerful, it's sharper than any two-edged sword, it has life, it can help us to grow, 1 Peter 2, 1 and 2. It can indeed save your soul. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. We see our responsibility with regards to the seed as well. We're to receive a seed into our heart. We know that, according to Scriptures, we're to receive the seed with meekness, James 1 21. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness. The engrafted word. We're supposed to receive that word and let it work in us, the seed of God. We're supposed to receive it with good and honest hearts, Luke 8. 15. We know we're supposed to receive it as babes in Christ. Desiring the sincere milk of the Word. We're supposed to uh want it, to desire it, to look after it, to search for it, to be hungry for it. And our responsibility is not just to receive it into our hearts, but to sow it into the heart of others. This is one of the things that I've tried to do. We're talking here obviously in context of this. We're talking about sowing the seed in the heart that has not trusted Jesus Christ, giving them the opportunity to make that decision Being a sower of the seed, whether that be uh putting out a gospel track or handing somebody a John and Romans or uh asking somebody the question, have you if you died today, do you know for sure that you would go to heaven being a planter of the seed. But do you know what? It goes beyond that. As the seed of the Word of God grows in our heart, we're to be sharing it with others. And this is why I asked the question, hey, what'd you get out of your devotions this week? Did God speak to you? Did God give you anything that challenged you spiritually? We ought to be sharing that with our brothers and sisters in Christ because we're supposed to be edifying one another. We're supposed to be encouraging one another. Not just me standing up here talking And giving you from the Word of God what God gave me, but we as brothers and sisters in Christ are to be encouraging one another, edifying one another. Not just talking about the uh the ravens. And whether they won or lost, I don't even know when the last time they played. But that's I mean, it's nothing wrong with casual conversation, but if that's all we ever discuss We ought to as a church be a little bit deeper than that. We ought to be able to talk about the things of God. And what God is doing in our heart, and how God is challenging us, and how God has stirred us. And I know in a public setting like this there's some people that they're just It doesn't matter if God sent them a revival and they saw fire fall from heaven, they're not going to talk in public. They're just not going to do it. But hey, do you ever do you ever tell your wife, look what God showed me in the Word of God today You ever talk to your husband about it? Do you ever share something with your kids or with or with your uh with a close friend? We need to be sharing the seed with others, sowing it everywhere. And waiting for it to grow through divine power. The Bible tells us that some sow and some water, but that God must bring the increase. And uh we just gotta wait for God to do it. We don't know what our task is in this. Sometimes we think, man, I thought they were ripe and ready and they didn't make a decision. Maybe we just water it a little bit and wait for God to allow that to grow in their heart. Our responsibility with regards to the seed