You turn your Bibles to the book of Jeremiah in our Old Testament uh survey. We've just gone through this and we're just looking at these prophets. major and minor prophets. Um you get to Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah. And uh so if you get there you can just go a little further, you'll get to Jeremiah. If you get to Ezekiel and Daniel, you you've gone a little too far, you need to back up. And we've been looking at these Prophets and so it just provoked a little bit of study on my behalf in in some of these books and some reading and there's obviously so much in these books that There's no way that I could uh address it all uh even in a lifetime, let alone in a service or two. Um but I was really challenged with the thought that uh Jeremiah brings in Jeremiah chapter 5. Jeremiah chapter 5. Look down in verse number 21. We're going to read down through verse number 24. Where Jeremiah describes the foolishness of these people and why he says they're acting this way. He says, Hear now this, O foolish people, and without understanding, which have eyes and see not, which have ears and hear not. Fear ye not me, saith the Lord. Will ye not tremble at my presence? Which have placed the sand for the bound of the sea by a perpetual decree that it cannot pass And though the waves thereof toss themselves, yet can they not prevail? Though they roar, yet can they not pass over it? But this people hath a revolting and a rebellious heart. They are revolted and gone Neither say they in their heart, Let us now fear the Lord our God that giveth rain both the former and the latter in his season. He reserveth unto us an appointed weeks of the harvest. The Bible is clear here, as Jeremiah describes the foolishness of these people, that it is a fool who hath said in his heart, There is no God. It is truly a foolish man who would try and live his life in such a way. The world today is full of people that are living their life as if there is no God. I gave an illustration to the men at the prison on Friday night about uh really dealing with gratitude, but uh uh the secondary application was illustrating that there's somebody behind the screen. And the illustration was this, a lady uh that had to go to the bank uh was on her way to the bank but the bank teller was looking out the window and I know nowadays a lot of banks don't have windows but those of you that are older you remember it used to always be a teller at the window And uh anyways, the sun was shining right in her eyes. And it just was getting unbearable. The sun just shining right in her eyes. So she pulled the shade down. And so as this lady pulls up to the bank, the shade's down, there's no teller there, and so she assumes that there's nobody there, there's nothing happening. But as she pulls up, sooner as soon as she gets there Ding, the thing dings, the little door opens and the and the tube is ready for her to put her check in. She puts her check in and sticks it in there and pushes the button. And wouldn't you know it in in just two minutes or so her check came back cash and the cash was in there, it was all done, and she said I know this is automated, but thanks anyway. And and she she begins to pull away. And that's when the teller from behind the screen said, Oh, you're welcome. And uh she was kind of shocked. She's like, oh, my Oh, I I didn't think there was anybody there. And the fact of the matter is there's a lot of people in the world today that are living their life as if there's nobody behind the screen. As if there's not a God in heaven who works in the affairs of men, if there's not somebody that's going to hold them accountable for the deeds done in our body, whether they be good or bad They live their life as if there's nobody there. But can I tell you one day they're going to be shocked. They're going to be stunned when the Bible tells us every knee is going to bow and every tongue is going to confess that Jesus Christ, he is Lord. They're going to realize there was somebody behind the screen. They think the world is all just a matter of chance and circumstance and what is, is, and what will be, will be, but we know that God the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord That God is leading. We don't believe in chance. We don't believe in luck. We believe you're blessed. Amen? You've been blessed. And it's God's leading and God's working in your life. Well, it's a sad thing that there are many in this world that live their life as if there is no God, but it is even a greater tragedy that God's people live their life as if there is no God. Dear friend, this is heartbreak for God. Jeremiah in our text tells us here that the people of God would not acknowledge it. He said, you're being extremely foolish. You've been warned over and over again, Jeremiah, that weeping prophet, preaching to them about the coming judgment that God was going to hold them to account for what they had done. And still they would not yield to him, still they would not respond to him. Why? Because there was no fear. You live without a fear of God. They had reached a place in their life where they did not fear him. They did not tremble in his presence. I saw a video this week of a young lady who disregarded the warnings at a zoo and she climbed over the fence. There was two layers of fence. There was a fence that the people were supposed to stay behind, and then there was a secondary barrier that kind of an extra safety, and then another fence that the animal was behind, and there was a tiger in there, and she climbed over the fence and uh put her hand inside the cage of the tiger to try and pet the tiger. Well, I don't know if she actually lost her arm or what, but the just one swipe from that tiger almost ripped her arm off You say, boy, that was foolish. That was stupid. Why why would she do that? You know, uh people don't heed the warnings They disregard it. You know, in the past 26 years, there have been 256 injuries by animal attacks in zoos, with 33 of them resulting in death. In 2005, Haley Heidelbrand was mauled to death while trying to take her senior photos standing next to a Siberian tiger. We read it and say, man, how foolish just for a picture from what you think's gonna get some likes and get some some thumbs ups on on Instagram, you're gonna You're going to put your life in danger, you're going to avoid the warning signs, and you're going to go stand next to a Siberian tiger to try and get some cool photos, and it ended up costing her life. Why? Because there was no fear there. It was just foolishness. It was just living as if there was no danger, as if there was no reason to be concerned. But, beloved, can I tell you there was cause for concern? One company did a study on how effective the warning signs in zoos were to deter the unsafe behavior that many of the uh public were participating in and they tried to put out different types of warning signs and see do people respond better to to pictures, picture graphs, or do they respond better to uh text or what kind of a sign do we need to have to try and get people to stop doing this foolishness. And what they found is that people will tend to do what they think is right. Regardless of what the sign says. People will tend to do, well, I thought it would be okay Well the sign clearly tells you you're not supposed to do that. Why would you do that? Well I thought it was going to be fine. I I mean I've been around animals a lot, and I've seen, you know Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And that's what Jeremiah is describing here, so I would like to speak to you for a few minutes. On the fool that will not fear God. The fool that will not fear God. Would you bow and let me pray and ask God to speak to our hearts as we dive into this text? Lord, we come to you right now and Or this is not a pleasant, exciting message that's going to encourage the hearts of your people, but it's a needed message. A message that you've given to us in your word to be faced with the reality of the fact that you are a thrice holy, just God who loves us, yes, but You also will stand one day in judgment of us. And I pray God that we would have a renewed understanding of these truths and a renewed fear of the God who is the creator of the universe. And I pray the Savior of our soul, God, will we be faced with that today and be reminded of how important this is. In Jesus' precious name, amen. I would ask you first of all this evening, I really this morning, sorry, I only have two points, so don't expect we'll be here very long, but the question is, is do you fear him? Do you fear his person? To Jeremiah he described to them, uh he says, Fear ye not me, saith the Lord? The question was asked, God was saying, hey Do you fear me at all? Is there any reason for you to be careful what you do or what you say? Or you're just free to live and do whatever you want? He said, Is there no fear of me? Beloved, I want you to know the fear of God is foundational in our relationship with God. We enjoy talking about the love of God, and we enjoy talking about the provision of God. the protection of God and the presence of God in our life. And these are all true statements and they are precious things that we can hold on to, but those things are all built upon the fact that we have a fear of God. Who he is. Do you tremble in his presence? Psalms 38 says, Let all the earth fear the Lord. Lest all the inhabitants of the world, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. Do you stand in awe of him? Are you aware of n enough of God and who He is to be in awe? Oh, I could speak for the rest of the hour on who God is and not by any means do any justice to it. But do you know Him well enough to be in awe of Him? Have you contemplated and considered the power of God, beloved, as he spoke the world into existence? With just his voice, with just his words, he commanded the sun, the moon, and the stars to be in their place. He established the land and the sea. He uh gave us uh animals and the fish and the fowl and uh just with his words he spoke the world into existence. This is the God we're talking about the power that he has. He describes it here in our text. He says, boy, uh listen, I have set the bounds Of the sea by a perpetual decree. You know, he set the bounds of the sea. Have you considered his power Have you considered his purity? A thrice holy God? Pure and right in everything that he does Modern science, beloved, has allowed man to do and accomplish so many things that I think we have become in awe of ourselves. Instead of in awe of God. We are in awe of what we can accomplish, in awe of what we can get done, in awe of the magnificent edifices which we can construct or the the programs that we can write or the technology that we can develop but understand all of that ability came from God. And it is not even a drop in the bucket of the power and the strength or the wisdom of God Himself. And in in our best day, we're just men. We have elevated ourselves to where we are in awe of ourselves instead of being awe of God. Or maybe we've brought God down to our own level. with much of our casual Christianity today. You know, with the mentality of discussion, people talking about the big man upstairs. That kind of casual conversation and talking about a holy and all-powerful God in such a careless way. The kind of honk if you love Jesus, Christianity. Where it's all just fun and games and love and Light, but we know that God is an all-powerful God. He set the bounds of the habitations of the water. He says there The bounds of the sea by a perpetual decree that cannot pass. Though the wave thereofs were tossed themselves, yet they cannot prevail. Though they roar, yet they cannot pass, oh beloved, for six thousand years the waves on the shores of the oceans around the world have beat upon those shores, and yet still they are inside their bounds. The waves of those oceans, uh oh, they they there's a hurricane or there's a storm, and and they may rush forward, they may roar against the sea, against the land, but what happens in a few weeks? That water recedes back down into the bounds that were set by God at the foundation of the world. God is the one that has established those bounds. And he holds it by a perpetual decree. When I was a boy growing up in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, we were two blocks from Lake Michigan, and we loved going down there to Lake Michigan. and uh playing at King's Park. Well there was another park and uh not too far away that we could ride our bikes to and There was a guy that my parents allowed to babysit us. Again, we left Wisconsin when I was nine, so I'm not positive how old I was when this happened, but I remember my parents being probably as upset as I've ever seen them. This guy took us kids down to this park In the middle of a storm, and we went out on a pier on Lake Michigan. And the waves from the lake were so strong they were coming through and they were hitting that pier and they that that massive amount of water would rush over the pier and hoosh down the other side. Well the power of those waves was so strong it would have swept any anything on the pier off. We had to run to one piling and wrap ourselves around it. And then the wave would crush and it would rush over us and then we would let go and then we would run to the next piling. And then we would wrap ourselves around it and wait for the wave to to crush over us and then we would run to the next piling. When my parents found out That guy is still living, but I'm surprised. They were not happy. It is something that comes up often at our, you know, family gets me the crazy things that we did as kids that they didn't know about. But that you know what that park is still there. That was forty some years ago. The beach is still there? The piers are still there. The bounds have been set by God. The power of God he describes here, and he says, doesn't that not cause you to think and be have some fear for who God is? Do you know that same God that set the bounds of the sea has set the bounds of your habitation? He is the one who gives life and takes life. He is the one who knows the number of your days that you're going to be here on earth He is the God who knows when your last breath will be, when you've reached the end of your time and your journey here on earth Does that not give us pause to think and ponder and say, okay, maybe I need to prepare to meet thy God? Maybe I need to be ready. Maybe I need to ponder and think about do you truly tremble in his presence, the one who has established everything that we behold here on this earth, as beautiful as it is. Let's think about the architects behind it. God the Creator. And do you know, beloved, all of creation follows his commands? The winds and the waves obey his voice when he says, peace be still. It is only you and I who exercise our will against that God. Oh, the winds and the waves, God says, peace be still, and it happens. But you and I re rebel against that, the will of God. We would stand up against that. And God says, do ye not fear the Lord? Do you fear his person? The winds and waves obey his will, but what about you and I? Do we obey his will? You see, beloved, if we fear his person, we are going to follow his plan. God has a plan for your life. And if we fear his person, we are going to desire to want to know his plan, and we're going to do what we can to follow it. That's going to be paramount to our living this life. We already said it here, but in our text, he has set the bounds of the habitations of the sea by his perpetual decree. By the word of his mouth. Can I tell you that he's given you and I a perpetual decree as well? He has given us his word, the word of God that lays out for us his will. How valuable is this book to you? Beloved, this book is not just a collection of nice stories. It's not just a book of exemplary truths that are good to live by. This is the Word of God. We need to give back to having a understanding and a belief in the fact that when we are reading these pages, we are reading the words and the commands of God. And then live in accordance with those words and with his will. Would you turn to Psalms chapter 19? Turn back to the book of Psalms, to Psalms chapter 19. He has written this down for us. This word should be valuable to us. The word of God should be precious to us. Yet many of us don't bother to pick it up between Sundays. He says here in Psalms 19, beginning in verse number 7, the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimonies of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord are pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever, the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned. And in keeping of them there is great reward. These statutes, these principles, these precepts, the decrees of God They are more precious than gold, the most valuable thing that we have here on this earth, the Word of God, to be able to learn from and and to know what God's will is for our life and to be able to live in accordance with those decrees. Beloved, uh Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, but standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in seed as scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. Do you delight in the book? Do you delight in the word? Do you see it as the commands and the communication from our God in heaven? The creator of the universe, how precious are his words to you The fool lives without any fear of God and rejects the statutes and the precepts and the commands of God that are given to us in his word. So many men refuse to live in submission to the law, the law of God, God's commands. Instead, they would choose rather to be the masters of their own destiny, to decide for themselves what is right. Even though the warning sign has been up and it's been posted for a while, they say, wait, I thought that I could run my life this way and it would be okay. I thought it would be all right if I did this. I mean, after all, this is how my family's always done it. But what does the Bible say? What does God's word say? It's not about your tradition, it's not about your family heritage, it's not about what's acceptable in society. It's not a well it's not about what the masses say is okay. It's about what God said is okay. When we live our life doing our own will instead of the will of God, we're not living in the fear of the Lord. And it is sad, but I would say the majority of Christians in the world today live their life according to their own will. They do what they want to do. They decide what they want to practice and what they don't want to practice. They decide what they want to believe and what they don't want to believe. They decide what they want to follow and what they don't want to follow. The Lord has given us so many clear-cut commands, they're not even really open for debate. I know there are some areas that are kind of gray and we we we don't know exactly, God didn't tell you specifically, but that's where we we rely on precept and on biblical principle to guide us. But there are so many things that are very clear. And yet men still just do what they want to do. God tells you how to have a home, how to have a family. But people are like, well, I don't like that. Don't tell me I have to be submissive to him. Don't tell me I'm supposed to lead. She's better at this than I am. God tells you how to do it. But we say, no, I I want to do it my own way. You know, one very telltale sign is that a lot of people that call themselves Christians could take it or lead it. And I'm talking about church. I have people ask me, they they would argue with me about whether they need to be in church or not. God says, forsake not the assembly of yourselves together as the manner of some is, and so much the more as you see a day approaching. And Christians would say, Well, I don't I don't have to be in church. I mean after all in in the Bible they only had church once one day a week. Well that's not really true. The book of Acts says that daily they went from house to house. Um but the that's not what the command says to observe church like they did in the Old Testament. The command says, forsake not the assembly of yourselves together. And yet many Christians just say, well, I disagree with that. You see, we're living our lives without fear of God, where we get to decide what we want to do and what we like and what we don't like, and then God has to live with it. Now I know I'm right down where the rubber meets the road today. And it's uh awful quiet in here. But I'm just trying to get you to realize if we're going to really fear his person, then we are going to follow his plan. That's the facts. And that I know sometimes we don't know what his plan is. We're not sure what his will is or what he would want us to do. But that's why he's given us a di a decree for us to get into and for us to learn and say this is okay, this is what I need to be doing, then I need to change so that I'm lining up with this Not the other not the other way around. We don't look for ways to get this to line up with us. We try and get us to line up with this as best as we can. And and we're just human. Not one of us here, including the the wretched sinner that's in front of you, is going to be perfect We're not going to get it right every single time, but we should desire to the best of our ability to walk in accordance with the Word of God. And when we find we are in error, we should come and confess our sin, and he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. God would have us fear Him. And you know, beloved, it's only in obedience that we find satisfaction. You see, everybody wants the promises of God. But here's what they want. They want the results of obedience while they're living in disobedience. Turn back to Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy. That's all the way in the beginning of the Word of God. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 11. I want you to see the promise that God gives us for obedience here, for following his plan. And men want this result. But they don't want to be obedient. Look what he says here. Deuteronomy 11, verse 26 and 28. He says, Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse. A blessing if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you this day, and a curse if you will not obey the commandments of the Lord your God. But turn aside out of the way which I command you this day to go after other gods which ye have not known. You see, this is God talking to the children of Israel, and he's laying out for them, and he's saying, Hey, I want to bless you. And if you will follow my commands, if you will follow my plan, if you'll do my will, I will bless your life. But there's also, if you will not follow, I will curse your life. And Christians want to live their own life, but get the blessings of God. But it doesn't work that way. We saw it over and over and over again in the life of Israel as we've gone through the Old Testament history and just Over and over again, where God's people experienced the blessings of God when they were obedient and following Him. And that as a nation they prospered. As a nation they grew. As a nation, they were blessed beyond measure. But then the same thing, when they weren't following God as a nation, they were judged. There's two choices on the shelf, pleasing God or pleasing self. The man that fears God is going to want to please God. What we need to do is get our will in line with God's will. So that pleasing God will be pleasing self. You know what, beloved, we need to stop acting like it's such a sacrifice to do right. We need to stop acting like it's such a sacrifice to do right because beloved, when you're doing right, you are in the blessings of God. And he will bless your life in so many ways that you you will stand in awe of him again. I wonder, are you in awe of him? If we would submit to him, we could be I'm gonna ask the pianist to come and prepare for the invitation and as she does I want to ask you, would you be willing to today to say I'm willing to bow my heart to an Almighty God, realizing who He is. I'm willing to say, yes, Lord, I fear you. I recognize God's authority in my life, and I'm willing to submit to that authority. I wonder if that you today would you say that say that you would be willing to do that? Somebody here may need to submit in the area of this area of salvation. God has told us how to know for sure our sins are forgiven and we can go to heaven when we die. But so so many think, well I'm gonna I'm gonna earn my way there, I'm gonna work my way there, and this is how I believe I need to do it. But see God has told us how to do it. If we're going to submit to his will, then we just need to swallow our pride and say it's not about me. It's what Jesus has already done on the cross. All I need to do is accept him. Maybe you just need to submit and accept the sacrifice Jesus made for you on the cross. Some of you might need to surrender in the matter of of just submitting to his will for your life, whatever God wants you to do. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed, a master pianos to play? If God spoke to you this morning, would you come? Are you yielded to Him? Are you submitted to Him today in His will for your life? Or have you been living maybe a little bit outside of His plan? Outside of His will for you