Turn your Bibles tonight to Luke chapter nine. In Luke chapter 9, verses 51 through 56. We won't be very long tonight on the message here. We're going to move right into the uh kind of aspects regarding vision for this year. As when we conclude the message, we're going to move right into that. But we see in Luke chapter 9, in verses 51 through 56, and it came to pass when the time was come that he should be received up He steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. And he sent messengers before his face, and they went and entered into a village of the Samaritans to make ready for him. And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem. And when his disciples, James and John, saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elias did. And he turned and he rebuked them, and he said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of. For the Son of Man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another village. We see here Jesus functioning inside of his role that he knew God had for him. Verse number 51 there says that he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. You know, life is a journey, and every one of us are headed towards a destination. Somebody said that everybody ends up somewhere. And a few people end up there on purpose. Everybody ends up somewhere, but a few people end up there on purpose. Uh just Friday night. I was running to the house in the middle of work party to go grab something And I was just absolutely I was thinking about what we were doing and I gotta grab this from the house and get back and then we've got to get this done. And I drove right past Miller Just driving down Cuba like I'm heading home. You know, just not even I mean just I I can't tell you how many times I've done that when my mind is not really focused. I'll drive just as a creature of habit I I bet you I've done it ten times that I just drove past Miller, I'm not paying attention, and then I I I register somewhere before I get to the little church there and I'm like, ah I got at least they got that parking lot to turn around in. You know, a ship that is adrift is tossed to and fro because it has stopped. Driving towards a location. It is stopped pushing towards a particular destination. It has no purpose. And the life that is lived without vision Is a life adrift. A life that is not pushing towards a particular goal or destination. And beloved, a church without vision is adrift. Back in 2014, when I started leading the congregation, I I was not even the pastor yet, and quite frankly had no intention of becoming the pastor. I just wanted to serve. I cautioned the church during that time that although I'm not the pastor yet, and if those of you that were here you remember, I told you as soon as a pastor comes in, we'll let him set the vision We'll let him set the goals and and we'll get behind it and support him one hundred percent. But until we have somebody doing that, I I I don't know any other way to be than to to set a direction We need to we need to set a vision. We need to have a goal, something that we're reaching towards. I continue to and it has continued to be my desire even though through th through these years to set some type of goals for the church, to set some vision and direction for what we're going to accomplish over the next twelve months. Have we met every goal over the last twelve years No. There's been some we didn't quite reach. That's always disappointing, but you know what? We got a whole lot further than we would have had we not set the goal. Had we not endeavored to strive to uh get it done, it is only with the casting of vision and uh movement of God's people behind the vision is the goal realized. And maybe sometimes the goal is just a little bit beyond reach, but you know what? We've accomplished a lot over the last 12 years. Vision does some real things for us, and I want to talk to you about what vision does for us as an individual and as a church. First of all, we've already kind of mentioned it, but vision gives us direction. Vision gives you direction like a ship that knows its its next uh port. It it it sets the the compass, it sets the the GPS locator, it routes itself and It gives itself no you know direction where you're headed because you know the end goal. Vision, beloved, takes the mundane and gives it meaning. How many of you realize or at least would ponder or think about the fact that a lot of life really is mundane? A lot of life is just getting through, just being faithful and continuing to the next day. But vision takes the mundane and gives it meaning. Beloved, if I offered you a task and said, I would like you to fill all these sandbags with sand. And I left you there for two or three days, you would get pretty weary. You would get kind of frustrated. You'd be like, what are we doing this for? But if I told you that we were going to have a flood and these sandbags were going to be used to protect your home from being destroyed. All of a sudden it takes on meaning when we have an understanding of the of the why. We can endure the how. Vision takes the mundane and gives it meaning. When we have that direction, I think about Nehemiah who built the wall and studying the book of Nehemiah and I hope you're prepared to hear some messages from there because as much time as I'm spending studying it I know you're gonna end up getting some But Nehemiah building the wall, he had a vision from God, and he set forth to accomplish that. They knew what needed to be done. Jesus, as we read, went all the way to the cross. Why? Because his face was set as a flint. He had a goal. He had direction. He knew what God wanted, his father wanted of him. Even though others didn't understand it, he looked at Peter and said, Get thee behind me, Satan. He told these disciples, it said, Should we call down fire from heaven? He's like, You don't know what you're talking about. God didn't come here to destroy men. He came here to save men. So we need direction in our lives. Secondly, Vision gives us that internal determination to accomplish the goal. When people have a clear purpose, they're able to default avoid distractions Again, the example of Nehemiah comes to mind as he continued to labor. I think about Paul who said, forgetting those things which are behind, I press towards the mark. He didn't allow the distractions, he didn't allow the past, he didn't allow other things to get in the way. He had a goal, he had a mark, he had something that he was shooting for, and he desired and wanted to accomplish it The Israelites going into the promised land had visioned, they knew what God wanted them to do and how it was supposed to happen. Were they always successful? Certainly not. They got distracted, they got sidetracked But when they were moving forward with determination, they accomplished the goal. It is vision of the unseen that motivates the craftsman to continue cutting. I've brought a table in tonight. It's setting down here in front of us. Back in December. Stephen said, Man, I would like to get a table for behind our couch, something that we could put a lamp on and You know, a couple small things or just be real, you know, their their living room's not real big. And you say, we just need something real small to fit behind the couch I said, well we could build something. I got some scrap wood in the basement from Brother Taylor who gave me a long time ago. I could we could cut that and we went to the basement and we had this it's rough saw in Lumber. So this is just Plane down, Brother Taylor planed one side off, got it ready to go for me to build something with it. And uh this is extra, so if you would like to, we could build this. And he said, Yeah, let's do it And so we went outside and I'm setting the saws up and cutting stuff and talking to them about what we're doing. Explaining the steps. Here's what we're doing. This is what do you think about this? Do you like this? I mean it's his table, right? So but in reality Because it's not his forte, it's not what he does. This was a learning experience for him. He couldn't see that in his head But before we ever cut the first board I saw it. I knew what we were building. I said we need to cut this, we need to make these strips, we're gonna have to glue these strips together. And he's like, Okay, mm d what do I do? You're sand these down, okay, sand that, sand this, okay, sand that, what's next? Okay. But he didn't have the vision. He didn't see it. When we see it, it gives us the confidence to say, okay, this is the direction I need to go. We have the determination. That's what vision does for us, and we need to, in our lives, have vision from God As we go through this next year, we're going to face some challenges. They're going to come a whole lot sooner than you think. There's going to be many challenges. We might not know what challenges that we're going to face, but God knows. And we know that he is with us. I remember back in 2014, just when I started leaving the church. We as a church have just gone through the most terrific stage of events. The church was reeling from that experience. There was a lot of pain in the church. There was a lot of questions in the church. What's gonna happen now? What are we gonna do? Are we gonna lose the property? Are we gonna have enough money to pay the bills? What uh where are we gonna be six months from now? I mean the the the the questions were that real So I began leading the church. Really, the first Sunday I preached was Easter Sunday. And we went through April, May, June. All of that time was so much turmoil. If you didn't live through it, you can't even comprehend. But we get to July and it's time for vacation Bible school and I say okay we're gonna have BBS There's the first or second night of vacation Bible school and we get a letter from a lawyer Who is threatening to sue the church because somebody that had been here decided to leave. And they left unhappy in the midst of that turmoil that the church was going through. And instead of trying to encourage the church and help the church, what they did is they hired the lawyer to get back the twenty-five thousand dollars that they had given to the church. Now we're in the middle of vacation Bible school. The church is already reeling. There's so much going on. I I'm just like, I can't say anything about this. So I carried that for that week. During the day I'm on the phone with Christian Law Association. I'm on the phone with uh legal our legal representation in town. I called probably 15 pastors, including my father, talking to them about the scenario and the situation, saying, what should we do? And those of you that were here, you remember we had advice covering the entirety of the spectrum. From bless God, you ought to hire somebody in countersue! To give her that and beyond and everything in between. Give her a portion, but don't give her any, you know, give her some. Do it over installments over time. Do this, do do that. All of these different recommendations from all really good men. Ultimately I met with the men of the church. And I laid it out. Said, what do you guys think? What what what should we do? And the church determined that the better part of valor was to just trust God. You know, there was some major concern that we started giving back money, which legally is not lawful. Once you give money to a nonprofit, whether it's a church or anything else, it's gone. There's nothing you can do about it. Legally But we weren't necessarily worried about the letter of the law. We looked at God and His grace. We said, you know what? God will take care of this. But we didn't have the money. And as a church, now here we are in the middle of all this and we gotta come up with $25,000. But the church said, well, we'll do it. And you know what? I don't think it was even a week. And somebody in the church came and said, God had given us this money. Through a miraculous means, something that we had no no idea about, and we didn't know what it was for. But it was $25,000. And we want to give it to take care of this need. I'm saying we'll face some challenges this year, but God knows. And God will bring you through. God will meet the need. God will help you if we function inside of His will and just yielding and submitting to Him. Lastly, tonight, vision gives the light. Proverbs 13. 19 says, the desire accomplished is sweet to the soul. You know, when you get something that you haven't really thought for or haven't really thought about, I mean yeah, it's nice. But it's not the same as something you labored for. I've told you before how I won some milk in uh We were in Disneyland or Disney World and where I was running through the park with my family and I'm just running by all the soda machines And I'm just pushing all the buttons. Every one. We're just, you know, there's ten of them lined up and I'm just pushing the buttons. And then we go down further and there's more and I'm pushing the buttons, you know. And I push a button and something falls out And it was milk. Of all the things that I could win, I got milk. I mean, you guys know I'm lactose intolerant. I don't I don't drink milk. Here we are, it's a hot, sunny day. Now it was strawberry, which is better than than plain. But I got milk and you know I'm like man if I would have known if that would have been the last thing in that machine I would have pushed a p pushed to choose but I I got something. But you know it didn't mean that much I hadn't labored for it. I haven't longed for it. I didn't pray for it. I didn't endeavor to gain it. It is desire accomplished, is sweet to the soul. When you have a vision, you have a goal, and you say, okay, this is the direction, this is what we're going to do, and as an individual or as a church, you work towards it. There is something rich and something powerful and satisfying about ultimately accomplishing that. Whatever it is, some of you might enjoy doing puzzles. You dump out a 5,000-piece puzzle. It would take me about 5,000 years to do a 5,000-piece puzzle. I would hire AI to get it done. But you enjoy that. You like like finding those pieces. And uh, you know, that is just a sense of accomplishment. You got it done. You got it put together. And then you take it all apart and throw it back in the box. I don't understand that. It is the sense of accomplishment, its victory, setting forth with a goal, a desire, an ambition, and succeeding it You know, in Nehemiah chapter 12, verse number 43, it says the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off. The joy in Jerusalem was heard even afar off. It was it was a celebration that they had because of the accomplishment of the vision. And all the surrounding area heard it. They knew that the people of God were rejoicing It gives delight. I wonder as a church would we this coming December be rejoicing because of the accomplished vision? I pray that you will uh decide and determine to be part of the program. Zig Ziegler said, success occurs when opportunity meets preparation. So our goal is to prepare and to set forth the goals and to accomplish something great for the Lord this year.