Thoughts here. It's been a s it's been very enjoyable for me. I've really uh gleaned a lot personally as I've walked through this. verse by verse myself and just trying to glean and see what uh portions and and areas of uh that we should focus on as a church and And how to divide the chapter up, you know, we could do every single verse or do you know, categories and and I mean you could take an entire chapter and preach a thought on that or you could take you know, one verse and preach a thought on that or or just how to how to break it up. And I've tried to prayerfully consider these things and and look at at each service and each time and just say how far should we go? And and what kind of a thought encapsulates in these verses. So tonight we're going to be looking really at verse number 14 through 18. Where we're going to see this idea. The title for tonight is The Gratification of Submission. And the idea really is that you'll see as we read the text in a few minutes here how Paul describes and talks about his joy that he has in serving God. the joy that he has in in fulfilling and doing what God wants him to do in his life. And I want to encourage you tonight and challenge you to understand and believe that there is no greater gratification that you'll achieve in your life than fulfilling and doing God's will. There's no other area of success that you could attain or reach that would mean more to you or that would give you more of a sense of fulfillment in your life. than doing that which God wants you to do. There are many other pursuits that we have. There's many other things that we do, that we love and that we desire or that we want. And sadly, those are things that only last for today. They're things that only last for a moment, just a blink of an eye sometimes, and yet we Go after those things when the greatest gratification comes in submitting to the will of God and doing what God wants us to do You'll see over and over again how Paul describes his joy in serving God. To bring us up to this point, I want to begin at the beginning of the chapter, reread these verses. which give us that that testimony of Jesus Christ, that example of humility that He gave all of us, which is the motivating factor. for why we do what we do. Beginning in verse number one, follow along as we read down through the text tonight of verse number 18. He says, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercies. Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness to mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own thing But every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is the Lord to the glory of God the Father. Wherefore My beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. The text for tonight, beginning in verse number 14, going through verse number 18, he says, Do all things. without murmurings and disputings, that you may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation. among whom ye shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain Yea, if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all For the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me Let's pray as we look at this thought tonight the gratification of submission. Lord, we come to you. We're thankful for your word, how it ministers to our hearts, draws us into your presence. challenges us, Lord, to get out of our complacent state and to move forward for you, to do something. That will impact eternity. And I pray, God, tonight, you'll search each and every one of our hearts that we may submit wholly and completely to you. Yield to you, Lord, would you speak to our hearts with the thoughts that are prepared this evening in Jesus' name Amen. We have looked in these past weeks at these beginning verses of this chapter. Seeing here the goal of the saved, it is of course to find and do that overarching purpose of which God has saved your soul. Our goal as of the saved, our desire is to find what it is that God wants us to do, to find and do that. And the greatest gratification comes when we submit to doing that will. As we find it, some people may say, well, that's not really what I was thinking, Lord. That's not really the direction I was planning to go, or that's not really how I was looking at it. But as you seek God's will, we've got to be willing to submit and yield to that and do His will, and that's where we'll have the greatest gratification. As you work out your salvation in fear and trembling, remembering that it is God that worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure is God that gives you that desire, that will, and it is God that will also enable you to do it. So submitting to him is really just a matter of letting him work through you and do what he wants to do. And beloved, there is great gratification that comes from that pursuit. I want you to see tonight that if we're going to experience this level of gratification, this level of fulfillment in our life, that entire submission is necessary. Complete submission. Not just partial, not just in part, but in whole. We see here in verse number 14, he says, Do all things without murmurings and disputings. Here's one of those commands that's uh easy to say and hard to do. I don't have an under uh I don't have the Reason the why tonight, but I certainly know it to be true that men are given to a complaining heart. This is the flesh. This is the heart of man. And we are given to a complaining heart. It is the way of men to complain. Rare and thereby very precious is the contented soul who has no complaint. You can all in your mind very quickly I'm just gonna throw a name out. Miss Lois. You know, you guys uh I saw how people flocked to her when she when she was able to come to church last week. How people just gathered around. Everybody was so excited to see her. Here's somebody that could have a lot to complain about, but never a negative word comes from her lips. She's always praising God. She's always thanking somebody. She's always encouraging somebody. She's always recognizing how good God has been. Boy, those kind of people are rare and thereby they are valuable to us. And if we recognize and see that as something that's that we enjoy, Should we not aspire in our own heart to do the same? To not be a complainer. Paul is using here a term that the children of Israel would have been familiar with. You see, they were well practiced in the art of murmuring. They knew this. It would have been a tradition passed down from their forefathers. Who in the wilderness constantly Christ or God was telling them not to murmur. He says in Exodus chapter 16, verses 7 and 8, he says, And in the morning they shall see the glory of the Lord, for that he heareth your murmurings against the Lord. And what are we that ye murmur against us? And Moses said, This shall be when the Lord shall give you in the evening flesh to eat. And in the morning bread to the full, for that the Lord heareth your murmurings, which you murmur against him. And what are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against the Lord. You know ultimately, dear beloved, a murmuring spirit is murmuring against God. It's failing to recognize and see. On one hand, we testify and say, God is in control of everything. And then on the other hand, we think we could go over here and murmur and complain about the state of things. As if God didn't allow them. Or if He didn't have a hand or know what was happening in your life. That's why it's murmuring against God Himself. You see, the children of Israel might do what God asked of them. They just would murmur the whole time. You see, they would go out and gather the bread which was put out for them and they would eat it. They're not going to starve They would eat what God provided, but they would murmur, complain about what Christ had provided. They weren't happy about it. Oh, they were not out and out defiant. They just weren't happy with what God had given them. They didn't go out in the morning and shake their fist at God. They just murmured about the state of things. And beloved, if we're not careful, we will establish a pattern of murmuring in our lives. A pattern of murmuring. There are some who nurture that murmuring spirit. They feed it. They look for things for which they could murmur. Because they like that sullen feeling they get when they have something to complain about. They just enjoy it. Sadly, that's where they find gratification when they have something to complain about. There's some people you can't talk to them for more than two minutes. And there will be a list of things that are wrong with them, or that they're living with, or why things are so hard. Murmuring, God doesn't want us as Christians to have this spirit. We've got to be careful that we're not murmuring. Murmuring is that it's it's a little quieter than than out and out complaining. The idea of murmuring is just kind of Under your breath, as it were. You know, kids, you'll obey mom and dad. Because you don't want the repercussions of of out and out disobedience, but you'll murmur about how you're not happy about it. You won't say it to mom and dad, but you'll murmur to your brother or your sister. I don't know why we always gotta do this work I don't know why we had dad's making us do this all the time and never get to sit down and relax at the house. He thinks we're slave labor. You know I'm repeating things my kids say, right? I don't know why, it's just uh just murmuring. Just not happy with the state of things. Because life is not as you would like it to be. Oh, you obey, but you murmur. You understand that's sin. Do all things without murmuring and disputing. That means chopping wood, amen That means passing out down in Romans. That means sweeping the floor. Vacuuming. Hanging out the laundry. Do all things without. There's no room, beloved, in that statement for you to finagle or work in there that which you are disgruntled about. Do all things without murmuring or disputes. What we're talking about is entire submission, complete submission to what God is doing in your life, what He has put you in. You don't understand, God gave you your parents. Are your parents perfect? You're supposed to say yes. No, just kidding. Uh no, your parents aren't perfect, but they love you and they strive to to build you and do what they can for you and to help you. And you know, but then you you would get this little thing and want to murmur against them because you're not happy. I don't know why I have to dress like this. This is so stupid. You know what? If this book had absolutely nothing to say about how you dressed, and I believe it does, but if this book had nothing to say about it, zip zero nata. And your parents said you're supposed to wear pink clothes every day of your life. That's what you're supposed to do. Because the book has a lot to say about obeying your parents. About honoring them. Now praise God your parents aren't making you wear pink clothes. See how good you got it? We just want to find things to murmur about. If you're letting Satan win in your life, win your murmur. Are you nurturing that sour spirit? Christian, are you frustrated at work? Are you standing around the break room or maybe standing outside with the co-workers and murmuring just like the rest of them? About the current policies at work and how things are not how you think they should be, or you don't like this or that about work, you understand? That there's no difference between you and somebody that's lost and doesn't know Jesus Christ when you stand there and allow that to go? When you interject your thoughts and opinions about how you disagree with the boss? This is do all things without murmurings or disputings. Sir, are you murmuring about your wife? Something that she does or doesn't do? Ma'am, are you murmuring about your husband? Something that happens a lot is is ladies will murmur to their children about their husband. Your father no You gotta be careful. Do all things without murmurs and disputings. We haven't even got to church. In the church house. I know we can't talk about that because murmuring in the church is one of the seven acceptable sins. You know, we've got the seven deadly sins, right? We've got sins that we just oh those are okay. Those aren't that bad. It's acceptable. Oh, we have the sins, boy, we come down on them, right? We we chop those guys. But our sin, yeah, that's acceptable. God doesn't give us any room, beloved, in that statement to spiritualize our murmuring. are complaining about how this or that didn't go how we wanted it to or isn't what we thought. Or we've got to be careful, beloved. Here's the critical thing. We need to stop looking at the broken strings. You see it's a real it's a choice. Paganini is a well-known and gifted nineteenth century violinist In what became a defining moment for his life. He was playing Backed by a full orchestra, stepped out in front and playing the violin. He was playing this violin and performing a beautiful and complicated piece when all of a sudden one of his strings popped. He paused for a second and frowned. And then continued to play the song minus one string. To the crowd's amazement, a few minutes later a second string broke. And then a few minutes later, a third string broke. He completed the rest of that piece, playing every note on just one string. When he got done, he bowed to the crowd and said, Pagany and one string, and walked off. That event in which he took what could have been a tragedy And he could just continue to play. He didn't focus on the three strings that were broken, but the one string that he had, and he played with all of his might actually catapulted him in to world fame. It became something that he was recognized and known for. From that time on, he would actually file his strings so that they would break in the middle of a performance. It became a signature thing of his presentation that he would do. Beloved, the tragedy that you're looking at today could very well be your triumph of tomorrow. If you stop looking at the broken strings and take the one string that you've got and play with all your might. Do all things without murmuring and disputing. You might have lost a string or two. But instead of grumbling and complaining, instead of murmuring about your situation, just take that and play with all your might. You know something? Every person that's ever come to me with a problem has been focused on the three broken strings. When you focus on the broken strings, you become bitter, angry, discontent. The beauty of the Christian life, beloved, is not found in the number of strings you're playing with. The beauty of the Christian life is found in the tune you're playing. So the question tonight is are you in tune with God? Or is your turn sound like this? Are you murmuring? It takes complete submission to be able to do all things without murmuring. Yeah. And then we see the difference that's made. The static service is noticed in verse number fifteen. And 16, he says, that ye be blameless and harmless, the sons of God without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation Among whom ye shine as lights in the world. You see, there's something that's going to make you stand out. There's something that's going to make you shine as a light in the world, being blameless, being harmless. Doing all things without murmuring and disputing, holding forth the word of life that you may rejoice in the day of Christ, that ye have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. It is so different today to find somebody who doesn't complain, who doesn't have a murmuring spirit that it stands out. I mean you want to be a light for Christ? Just don't complain. That's what he's saying here. Just don't complain. You're going to shine as a light in the world. We live in a crooked and perverse nation. We do literally. And among this crookedness and among all this perverseness One thing that's going to keep you blameless and harmless is to live without murmuring and disputing. To be blameless is not to be perfect. It's not what it's talking about. It's not as though you have no sin. It could be described this way: at this point in your life You are doing to the best of your ability, to the fullness of your capacity, what God wants you to do. You're blameless. Let me let me describe it like this. Oh, Stephen's downstairs. Um I I just saw him practicing the piano, so I was gonna use him as an illustration. But which of you guys play piano? Alright, Melissa, we're going to use you. What's the song you've been practicing recently? This is the day. She's been practicing This Is the Day. So she's been endeavoring to play This Is the Day. I know Darcy has invested a lot of time and energy over the years working with Melissa in a lot of different capacities with regards to music, but you know nobody here would expect Melissa. to be able to play as well as Darcy. Nobody would expect that. But if Melissa came up and played the song This is the day, looking at her and her current state, in her current capacity, we would look at her and say, Man, you did a phenomenal job. You did a job that was, I mean, exceptional. You did really, really well. Taking into account her age, taking into account her ability. You could say she played it blamelessly. Now, did she play it as well as Miss Darcy could? Probably not. But that's not expected of her yet. This is what the Apostle Paul is talking about here in your Christian life. The state in which you're at, and the capacity with the things that you understand, the truth that's been revealed to you, you are living in submission to that. To the best of your ability, and you can say you're blameless before God. But when God has shown and revealed things to us and we don't do them, we can't say we're blameless. Because we understand that. I desire, beloved, to be harmless. To be harmless. I never want to hurt the cause of Christ. I never want to be the one who would cause someone else to quit or to give in. My very call into the ministry is is rooted in the fact that I'm to encourage people to serve God, that I'm to help people serve the Lord and in any way I can just support them and encourage them in that direction. So one of the greatest discouragements to me is if something in my testimony or in my actions would discourage somebody from following God. Boy, I want to be harmless. I don't want anything in my life to hamper the cause of Christ or to keep someone from following God. You know This is, in fact, like the idea of taking the right dose of medicine. Do you know that medicine's good for you? There's medicine that you can take that would heal you, that would help you, but at the same time, if you take too much of it It can really hurt you, right? So so there's a balance there. You gotta have the the right dose of medicine. And you know, as Christians come into the church As babes in Christ. How many of you have seen children's talentol? You've got Tylenol, that's Tylenol, but it's a reduced amount. You don't give a three year old five hundred milligrams of extra strength. Okay. Swallow it, swallow it. You don't do that. You children's Tylenol. They might have a low grade fever or something. You want to help with that. So children's Tylenol. But you don't give them the the the the horse pill. You know sometimes, beloved, if we're gonna be harmless, we've got to be careful. You see, we've we've got we've got our standards down. We've got our convictions down. And I believe that they're all correct. And I believe we're striving to honor and please God with what we do before God and as a church. But we gotta be very careful because sometimes when a babe in Christ comes in here I I think our churches, churches like ours, we've lost the sugar that makes the medicine go down. You know what I'm talking about? Well, we've got a boy bless God. This is the truth. And you know what? It might be the truth. But sometimes there's people at different levels and they need to grow and mature, and you can't just force these things down somebody's throat who's a new babe in Christ. We've got to be harmless. That's using discernment and wisdom to help the new babes grow, to help people grow and nurture them along. Helping them along When we're blameless and harmless, we shine as lights in the world. Our static submission to God is noticed. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father, which is in heaven. Have you ever heard someone described as a good person? Boy, they're just a good person. You know, beloved, a lot of people, that's their motivation for doing good. They want to be a good neighbor. They want to be known as a good person. They they they that that's just a good person, man. But do you know what our motivation is not that people would look at us and say, man, that's a good person Our motivation to shine as light is that it would glorify our Father. So what is our motivation for what we're doing? What is our attitude, our spirit, because the attitude is vitally important. You shine as a light in the world when you have the right attitude, when you're blameless and harmless, living without murmurings and disputings. We're to hold forth the word of life. Yes, we stand on this word. We hold it forth. We keep it in the front of us. We we this is The truth is to be our final rule for faith and practice And one day we can rejoice in the day of Christ. That we've not run in vain, neither labored in vain. I want you to see that exhaustive sacrifice. Jacob's gonna laugh at this one. I couldn't find a better one. Is nice. I know it's kind of a cheesy one, right? Is nice. Exhaustive sacrifice is nice. If you can come up with a better end, I'll I'll I'll be glad to put it in. Exhaustive sacrifice. This is the idea that Paul is talking about. I'm talking about gratification In submission to God and yielding to him and letting him use you to his fullest. But he says here, yea, and I f I be offered up upon the sacrifice and service of your faith I joy and rejoice with you all. For this same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. Paul is describing here a kind of complete and total self-sacrifice for God and for others. He is saying, if I was to take all of my skill all of my energy, all of my money, all that makes me what I am, and literally offer it in service to God and others, that would bring me joy I would be happy with that. He's saying I want to give it all to serve God and others So many Christians today say, oh, I I want to do this little thing right here for for God. And praise God for that little thing that they're going to do, and I don't want to negate that or take away for any any credit they should get for that. But the heart of Paul says, I want to give it all to God. I want to be offered completely to him. He is describing here an Old Testament sacrifice called the drink offering. When they would take a valuable oil or a valuable drink, and they would take this and pour it upon a burning sacrifice Just pour it out on the sacrifice. They're giving that drink offering to God. And beloved, we are to offer ourselves as a sacrifice, we know. Romans 12, 1 and 2. She presents your bodies a living sacrifice which is holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. This idea of pouring your life out. That drink offering, the whole thing was poured out and given. Pouring your life out for God. You know, this should be lived out in the life of a pastor in front of his people. Sadly, there are some pastors who live Of the ministry. That is, the ministry is a job and they live what they live and and get and try and get all they can out of the people. It is a it is a position for them, it's a job, and they they through their life they try and attain and attract and do whatever they can and They're just living of the ministry, but beloved, the the pastor should have the heart that Paul has here, and the desire is to serve God and to serve God's people. With his life. Every hour of every day, from early in the morning till late at night, willingly sacrificing his time Sometimes away from his family, sometimes late into the night, sometimes early in the morning, sometimes long hours, but willingly, with love, sacrificing his life for God and for the people That should be lived out in front of the people by the pastor. But beloved, it also should be in the heart of every Christian sitting in the pew. It should be our desire to give it all to God. To serve Him fully and completely You know, it's sad, but there are some who are just takers. There are some who come to a church to soak up and absorb and get all that they can get. It's about them It's about who's ministering to them, who's feeding them, who's meeting their need, who is encouraging them, who's lifting them up. You know, when a person comes to the church and they're new, there's regardless of what the church knows about their past, there's the idea of, well, here's somebody new. We want to try and welcome them, we want to try and encourage them, we want to help them, we want to try and and exhort them to to honor and live for God and and and the church kind of rallies around a new person, and that's the way it should be. But you know there's people that they thrive on that. That is what they're there for. And you know what should happen over time is Christians should start to grow. And over time That new Christian, new to Hunt Valley Baptist Church, should not need the same level of coddling. They shouldn't need a call from pastor every week. They shouldn't need to be ministered to have have four or five people at church come to them every service. They shouldn't need that constant stimulation from the church family. They should grow to the point where they start serving other people. That is what's supposed to happen. And yes, when they come in, they're fresh, they're new, we go to them and we try and help them and we encourage them and we give them all of the attention that we can and try and give that to them. But the time should come where they gotta understand somebody else new has come through the door. We've got to divide and conquer. These people are going to go and start investing their time in helping this new believer and they should have been here long enough. They know enough people. They shouldn't continue to need that themselves. They should go and help somebody else. That's what's supposed to happen, but the problem is they just want to soak it up. And usually with that kind of person, when the church stops paying so much attention to them, they leave. And they go to another new church that will bend over backwards and help them and nurture them and love them and try and bring them in. But the same thing is going to happen. In a year, eight months, year and a half, whatever the time frame is, where they're no longer new and they should start to be able to stand on their own two feet. And that church too is going to stop paying so much attention to them, and they will leave that church. Because they haven't grown to the point, beloved, where they are willing. To sacrifice for God. Paul said, yea, if I be offered up the sacrifice and service of your faith. There's an amazing bond that takes place between a pastor and his people when both are living a life of sacrifice. When God's people are willingly sacrificing for one another and for God, serving, and God's man is doing the same You see, there's valuable oil that's poured out on the altar of a sacrifice for God. And some look at that and say, oh, it's a waste. You're wasting your time and your energy down there at church. But it's not a waste. It's not a waste. Oh, there is that New Testament story in Mark chapter 14 about that precious ointment, that box that was broken and spilled out for Jesus Christ. Yes, the life God has given me is valuable, but not valuable for myself. Paul was saying if I could take every minute of every day and live it for somebody else. If I could serve God until there was quite literally nothing left for myself, that is what I want. More than that, that is what would bring me great joy. And it would bring you joy. There's a song that Mary and I love to sing The title of which is broken and spilled out. It goes like this One day a plain village woman Driven by love for her Lord, recklessly poured out a valuable essence, disregarding the score And once it was broken and spilled out, a fragrance filled all the room, like a prisoner released from his shackles, like a spirit set free from the tomb. Broken and spilled out just for love of you, Jesus. My most precious treasure lavished on thee Broken and spilled out and poured at your feet in sweet abandon. Let me be spilled out and used Up for thee. Lord, you were given. You were God's most precious treasure. His love and his own perfect son, sent here to show me the love of the Father. Just for love it was done. And though you were perfect and holy, you gave of yourself willingly. You spared no expense for my pardon. You were used up. And spent for me. Broken and spilled out just for love of me, Jesus. God's most precious treasure lavished on me. Broken and spilled out and poured at my feet in sweet abandon, Lord, you were spilled out and used up for me. Beloved Jesus held nothing back. He gave it all. In our heart, as God's people Should be Lord, let me be broken and spilled out for thee.