Genesis chapter 15, verses 1 and 2, we see, and the after these things the word of the Lord came unto Abraham in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. And Abram said, Lord, God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. He says in the middle of this verse here, he says, Lord God. This is the first time on the pages of Scripture we see the term Adonai. The name for God, which means my great Lord, my master, my master. You see, beloved, there are a great vast array of people in this world with complex identities that cannot be defined or explained with one simple word You wouldn't say a man is just a plumber, or just a father, or just a brother Or just a leader. There's so many different terms that would define each and every one of you So it is with our Lord. We have thus so far studied 14 of the names of God, and each one drawing for us a picture of who He is. of what he means to us. Maybe the need that he is able to and desirous to fulfill Just like you would meet somebody and you would find out maybe that they're a plumber. And immediately in your mind you think, oh, I've got that sink that won't quit dripping. Like boy that I I'm I'm glad to meet this plumber. He he can help me with my need. You find out that somebody is a mechanic or they have skill with cars and you're like, hey, can you come out and listen to my car? Just it's making a goofy sound. And the mechanic asks you, how long has it been doing that? And you tell him about two years. And he's like, well, you should have got it looked at a long time ago. Right? The mechanic, he's like, oh, you find out somebody has that capacity And all of a sudden you realize, oh, maybe they could meet this need. Well, beloved, the names of God draw for us a picture of who he is, and we learn of he has that capacity, and therefore he fills that need in our life. Because he is all. There are three primary names of God. We've looked at those other two already, Elohim and Jehovah You know that from those there are compound names. We looked at many names that begin with Jehovah. And those compound structures we looked at already, but the third is Adonai. This is one of the first names that show up. Obviously, we're all the way back here in the book of Genesis, chapter 15, to See this name as it appears on the pages of Scripture. It appears 438 more times in its forms in the pages of scripture, whether it is in the singular form or the plural, Adonai. Adonai is the plural form, and any time that is referring to or speaking about God It is notable that it is presented or given to us in Adonai, the plural form of that word. We believe in the Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. So it is notable that that Term Adonai is presented when it's speaking about God as a person. It uses a plural to speak about an individual. Because why? Because there's God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Now, in the pages of Scripture, when God, Elohim, the Father, is speaking to or about the Son, he uses the singular. Such as in Psalms 110 and verse number 1, the Lord, and if you were looking at it, you'll see that's all in caps, which we have learned. That means that is Jehovah. Yahweh, the Lord, that is God, said unto my Lord, capital L but lowercase, the rest of it. And that is Adonai, except it is the singular Adon. And so it is God speaking about the Son, and he used the singular to refer to him, just the Son. But all through the pages of Scripture, anytime that it is used in reference to God, it's used in the plural. Being consistent with teaching to us the Trinity. Adonai signifies ownership. It signifies lordship. We know, beloved, that God is over all, as in Elohim, as in the Creator. We understand that. But have we individually decided he is Lord of our life? That is where Adonai comes in. Where we yield not to our will but to his will. When we submit to an Almighty God for the lordship of our lives. But have you see three things this morning from this text? I'm going to look at verse number two first because that establishes the name. And we're going to back up and see verse number one. But I would have you see first of all that he is sovereign. He is sovereign. In verse number one, it says, after these things. The word of the Lord came to Abram. Verse number two, it says, And Abram said, Lord God. Now after these things, something happened in Abraham's life. Something took place that brought Abram to a point where he, after all of this time, after all that has transpired, he came to the place where he looked at God not just as God of the universe. But it is individual God, as the Lord of his individual life, as somebody that had authority over him. He says Lord, he says master God. Well what happened? We're not going to turn back to the passages of scripture But in chapter number 13, we see Abraham separates from Lot. You guys know the story where Abraham and Lot have uh contention between them and their servants and all of their flocks and herds are getting too big and. Uh, you know, they look at each other and say, This town's not big enough for two people like us, so uh one of you's gotta go. Abraham says, Lot, you choose what you want, and I'll do the other. They they separate and of course you know Lot, he he goes down towards Sodom and he's Living the high life down there and he's enjoying that. But the problem happens is these five kings rise up against Sodom. They come into Sodom and they take Sodom captive, and in the midst of that Abram wasn't really too worried about Sodom, but they captured Lot and all of his family and they took him captive. Now, all of Sodom and the entire city of Sodom could not defeat these five kings. These five kings were on their way home victorious. Word gets to Abram, and Abram says, Come on, boys, we got to go. He rounds up his 318. These are people of his household. These are servants and gardeners and shepherds and you know, roofers and I don't know what all he had in his household, but 318 of them he kept busy. And uh he says, guys, let's go. We got to get a lot back And he goes down there and he rescues Lot and comes home successful. On his way home, the king of Sodom tries to reward him. They apparently delivered not just Lot, but all the others that they had taken captive. They they won the victory and brought many people back to Sodom and probably restored some of their goods or what have you. But the king of Sodom Tried to say, oh, look, let me let me thank you. And Abram correctly refuses the wealth of a wicked king. He says, I didn't do it for you. I did it for God. He travels a little further and God brings him across the path of Melchizedek. He meets this king of Salem. The king of peace, who was also a priest, who was the priest of the Most High God, Melchizedek, that picture of Christ. And Melchizedek blesses him. The Bible says after these things. After these things, the Lord appeared unto Abram, and the Lord gives him a message of hope. A message of help, a message of reward that we're going to see in just a moment. Abram had rightly refused the gifts of a worldly wicked king And having done so and honoring God correctly, God rewards Abram. God himself becomes his reward. And here Abram turns to God and acknowledges him as his master. Now Abram himself was a master. We just told you he had 318 men in his command under his household That's a lot of people that are literally subject to him. He himself would have been considered a master, a leader of men. Having just defeated this army of five kings from foreign lands. And yet this master bows to the master, God. And Abram said, Lord, that is Adonai, God, that is Elohim, God, the creator. And he says, My master, my God. Let me say this is a special relationship. See, sometimes we think about servitude as wretched thing. Can I tell you in the Bible times, there was a vast difference between a servant who is hired to do a job and a servant who is purchased. We would look at that in a very derogatory negative way today, but I want you to understand that in the Bible times, a servant that was purchased, you see, a servant that was hired to do a job was a stranger. A servant that was hired to a job the family or the master had no accountability for, had no responsibility to, and no connection with. But a servant that was part of the household, a servant that was purchased, he became part of the family. I'm glad this morning that I'm part of the family of God. As part of the family, he is granted the privileges of the family. Oh, a hired servant would not sit down at the table with the master, but those purchased servants did. A purchased servant was asked to be part of the observance of the Passover meal together as a family. What I'm saying is these These became part of the family. Not only were they given the privileges that the family offered, but they were given the protection that the family offered. A hired servant under danger, the man may say, Well, you're on your own But a purchase servant, a servant that was in the household, that was part of the family, he was under the protection of the master of the home. I'm thankful that I'm under the protection of God. That I've been made a part of the family of God. And that I have as a benefit the blessings of being in the family of God. If you care to read about those differences, it's found in Exodus chapter 12, verses 4. Don't turn there, we're not going there, but you can just write it down. Exodus 12, verses 43 to 45. And Leviticus 22, verses 10 and 11, that tells you the difference between those two types of servants. You see, Abram here recognizes that he is indeed God. He is Lord over all. Psalms 97, verse number five says, the hills melted like wax, and the presence of the Lord at the presence. At the presence of the Lord over the whole earth. The hills melted like wax. You understand? God is over all creation. We know that. He is the creator. He put the stars in the heavens He keeps the earth on its axis. He keeps the ebb and flow of the tide in its consistency It's mind-boggling when you think about the consistency of the rotation of the earth and the passing of time that they could tell you 15 years from now exactly when the sun is gonna rise on Tuesday the 15th. 2068 or whatever 15 years is from now. They could tell you exactly the time that the sun's gonna set. They they know that when the tide's gonna come in. This is the consistency that we have in creation because God is the orchestrator and the controller of all things. We read that Psalm of Praise in Psalms chapter 8. He says a psalm of David unto the Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! Who has set thy glory above the heavens? Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, and thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. When I consider thy heavens The work of thy fingers, the moon, and the stars which thou hast ordained. What is man that thou art mindful of him? In the Son of Man that thou visitest him. For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels. Beloved, do you know when David pinned this, that with the human eye They could only see if somebody took the time to really try and systematically go through the heavens and in one location count the stars that they could see, they could only see about 3,000 stars. There have been scientists through the ages that, and I don't remember who it was the first one, Galileo, or somebody that counted the stars that they could see with the human eye. It is estimated somewhere right around around 3,000. And David was saying, listen, I I look at the heavens, I see the sun and the moon and the stars, and I think, who are you, God, that you're even mindful of me? And that that's when he could only see 3,000. Do you understand, beloved, with the powerful technology that we have today, we realize That there are millions and millions of stars in our galaxy alone? And our galaxy is only one of thousands and thousands of galaxies that they've been able to see? The sun to us is the magnitude of the sun, the size of it is astronomical. It's mind-boggling to even factor and think about. But do you know that they have been able to observe stars, stars that are 20 billion times the size of our sun and Still, man today look up at the heavens and say there's no God. There's no God. There's nobody that I need to be in subjection to. There's nobody in control of the things of this earth. Last night in Devotions, Timothy was talking about somebody he was speaking to at work. They were discussing the things of God. And he said, listen. Let's say I'm I'm 100% wrong. And when I die, there is no God and I just go into the grave and we're all buried. What have I lost? I've lost nothing. God's given me a good life. But if you're wrong, and the word of God is right. What have you lost? You've lost eternity. Because there is a God. He is the creator of the universe. He hung the stars in the heavens. Doth not nature itself declare the handiwork of God? If we would stop and pause, the magnitude of this world would make any man think there must be a creator. And he is sovereign. Isaiah chapter 40 verse number 12 says he measured all the heavens in the span of his hands. We were just discussing the size and the magnitude of heavens and the and Isaiah tells us that God measured it out. Have you ever measured anything with your hand or your arm or you tried to get a gauge like, okay, it's gonna be like from right there to right there. One time when I was working with a teenage boy, I was up on five flights of scaffold and I didn't want to climb down to get aboard, so I asked this boy, hey, go out in the yard and grab me about a six foot two before. And I look through the building, it's construct under construction, I look out through the building, and this boy's putting boards down on the ground. And he's laying down and he moves over and he gets another board and he lays down again. He came back in, I said, what are you doing? He said, you said six-foot board, I'm six foot tall, so I'll find him more than six foot. He said, well, first of all, it'd be a little easier to stand the board up next to you instead of uh instead of laying down on the ground. Let's work smarter, not harder. I said, but I said about six foot. We were, you know, we don't have to be perfect, you know. But he was using his body to get a measurement. Six foot tall. You know, uh the Bible says God checked the span of the heavens with his hand. That's God. He is sovereign. And beloved, Abraham was convinced that that God was going to be his master. He believed. Verse number six. Genesis 15 and verse number six says, he believed in the Lord, and it counted it unto him for righteousness. You see, he was convinced. Can I ask you this morning, are you convinced that there's a God and that we're to live in subjection to his will? Abraham was convinced of that. I want you to understand that Abraham confessed it. We read it in verse number two when he said, and Abraham said, Lord God, but also look down at verse number eight. And he said, Lord, God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit? He's saying, okay, God, you've said I'm going to have seeds As the sand of the shores, I'm going to have a heritage. I'm going to have children beyond measure, but I have no seed yet. But he says, Lord, God, Master, Creator I understand you can do this. I'm just wondering how is it going to happen? He was confessing the fact that he believed it. He didn't understand everything, but he was saying, acknowledging Confessing that fact, can I tell you, beloved, that when you know when you're convinced in your heart of something that is a reality, it will impact your conduct. What Abram believed about who God was changed his conduct. It changed how he lived. If you believe it, it will impact your conduct. There are some of you here. That for all intents and purposes are nutritionist. I'm not going to point you out Lest somebody find out that you are who they need. And after church you get bombarded with questions. I mean you know a lot about vitamins and you know different supplements and you know different things that you can take to help your body for different things and And you know that and you believe it to be true, and so you take those vitamins or those supplements or those things on a regular basis. Any of you ever have a conversation with Dr. Keller? How many of you are still taking alpha? Alfalfa. Got a few uh shackly bottles still around as he believed it. And it affected how he lived. What I'm saying, beloved, is when you believe something, it changes your conduct. And if we came to the place that we believed, not just uh in a theoretical sense that God was the creator of the universe, but that he was our God and that we should be living in subjection to him if we believe that we would be submitted to his will. Does this make sense? So we see that that's the What Abraham came to, understanding of the sovereignty of God. And God gives him a couple of promises here. We see not only is he sovereign, but he is our shield. He says, after these things, verse number one, after these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield. We first see that this is a personal relationship. What an amazing thing, beloved, that we Like David said, who am I, the creator of the universe, that the God who hung the stars in the heavens is mindful of me? What an amazing thing that we come to that realization. And so we have here the statement here that it's a personal relationship with an Almighty God that we can have. Gideon experienced this relationship when he was going into battle in Judges chapter 6 and verse number 15. Gideon says, and he said unto him, O my Lord, that's Adonai, that's master. He says, Wherewith shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I'm the least in my father's house. He's saying, Master I'm going to go into battle and how in the world am I going to save Israel? What can I do? I don't have the capacity or the wherewithal. I'm not a great leader of men. I'm not a general or a king. How can I do this? In Judges 6. 16, he says, And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee. And thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man. Can I tell you, beloved, he's thy God? He's a personal God. He's a personal shield. He is your shield. And he goes before you in that defensive mechanism of a shield that protects you against the onslaughts or the attacks of Satan and this world. He precedes you into battle. He protects you. God said, and lo, I am with you always. He's always there as your shield. Not only is he your shield, but I don't just see that he is our satisfaction. He says, here, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. Abram could have taken what bounty? or reward that this worldly king had to offer, this king of Sodom. David said, you know what, that's not what I want. I'm not looking for that. He denied it. He rejected that. And he turned, he started heading towards home. And this is when he had this amazing Meeting and discussion with God, and God says, I am thy reward. God is the one that is our satisfaction. It is an exceeding great reward. The magnitude of this is literally indescribable. Abraham believed God and it was counted unto him for righteousness. We know, beloved, that he believed God and ultimately God gave him a son. And the fulfillment of God's promise came true. And a nation was born. We see here also in verse number 8, I believe there it was counted unto him for righteousness that also God gave him salvation. Because he believed. Do you believe in God? Do you believe we live in subjection to him? Have you come to the place where you confess that belief so that you can have his salvation? He is our exceeding great reward. When David was told by God that he was going to establish his throne forever. David listening to that promise Listening to the magnitude of what God wanted to do? You know, just this morning I read an update from Nee Team, our missionary. And you know. You look back and think about when NeTeen, when we met him on the bus route here, he was living in an apartment over here. And we brought him to church and he used to sit in the back about right there where Christy's sitting. And him and his wife and Johan came to church. But he got it. Now he's in India as a missionary. And God is what God is doing with him is just amazing. And what I'm saying, beloved, is God's has an exceeding great reward for us. God will do so much more than we could ever ask or think if we would just follow him He would take us so much further than we ever thought possible. David listening to God, promising him that he would establish his throne forever. And with an understanding of ultimately that the Messiah was going to come through his line, David sat in awe. And let me read to you the verses he said, In 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse number 18, then went King David in and sat before the Lord, and he said, Lord, who am I? O Lord, O Adonai, O Master, who am I, O Lord? And what is my house that thou hast brought me hitherto? And this was yet a small thing in thy sight. Oh Lord God, but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come. And is this manner of man, O Lord God? And what can David say more unto thee? For thou, Lord God, knowest thy servant. He acknowledges him as master four times in those few verses. And he sits in awe and he says, God, you know me. You know thy servant, you know who I am, you know the family that I've come from. You know God, how is it you can describe to me and tell me about the magnitude of this blessing establishing my family forever and and and the lineage uh of Christ and Lord this i i i don't understand how how you would bless me so Beloved, you don't have to be perfect. But can I ask you, are you real? Do you believe in God and are you willing to submit and follow God? That's what Adonai is, that's what acknowledging Him as master in your life is and ultimately He says, I am thy exceeding great reward, and I will tell you today that if you will live your life in pursuit of God, He will do with you so much more than you could ever think possible And bless you in ways that you will stand back in awe and in wonder and think he is so good to me. I don't deserve his blessing. I don't deserve his hand of goodness on me. I don't deserve this bounty I stand in awe of God's blessings today, not because of who I am, but because of who he is, and because he allowed me by God's grace to grow up in a place where I was taught to submit to the hand of an Almighty God. And now at 50 years old I look back on my life and I say, I'm weak and I'm undone and I'm not worthy. But I have a God who has been a worthy master to me, and to the best of my weak and anemic ability, I've just tried to submit to him, and I plead with you as a church that you as an individual would submit to Adonai, the master, the creator of this universe, who plead to be a leader in your life. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?