You know, last week we heard from Brother Barnhouse about the fact that we are more than overcomers And what a challenge that was to me spiritually and strengthening to me spiritually. And as I contemplated and considered uh what to preach on tonight, I I have entitled this message, The Power to Overcome, but what we're really going to be dealing with is the area of self-control. Specifically, with regards to our destructive behavior that tends to tear down and destroy our homes. It is has not ceased to amaze me as I've had the responsibility And I consider it the opportunity to try and be a help to people who find themselves struggling. But it it amazes me at times the direct destructive behavior that people do To themselves, to their own home, to their own family. You understand that it is not what they want God has given us the power to overcome. We are more than conquerors through Him who loved us. We don't want to go down that road. They'll sit with me and say, Pastor, this is not where we want to be. This was not our intention or our plan. We certainly were never expecting to need to talk to you. Yet here we find ourselves. You know it's It's like they desire to be here. They want to be here. And let's call this a healthy relationship, a loving relationship. A home that honors and pleases God. A home where there's joy and fellowship and sweet harmony. This is what they would want. And they know that that's what they want. And they hear preaching, they hear teaching, they may even listen to some books. They may even do some extra reading. And they know that's what they want. And it's over there. No, no, that's what I want. No, no, you don't understand. I want to be over there. But they keep going the other direction. They keep pursuing other things. Why is that? I can tell you why it is, because we as a people today have lost the ability to control ourselves. We have lost the ability to say no to the flesh and say this is not good for me. This is not good for my marriage. I need that more than I need this momentary pleasure. I need that more than I need this little distraction. I need that more than I need this time of absence from the house of God. I want to be there, so I have to change my behavior to get where I want to go. You see, we're living in a day where people have all but lost the ability to control themselves. That's how you can have a young man who could go home and get a gun and carry it back to the school that he went to And shoot kids that he knows, people that he knows, under what possible circumstance could a child or any individual Find that justifiable. What situation would have to arise that they would think that that is acceptable on some level? It's not It's not acceptable on any level. But they have lost the ability to control themselves to the point where they would go get a gun and kill another human being. That is the result of continued lack of control. I know, as good Christians, our level of self-control is not lost that far yet. We're not ready to kill somebody. Well, hopefully you're not ready to kill somebody. You know, they talk about in the classes that we've sat through To watch for what they call leakage, things from people's lives that start to give some warning signs. Like they post a video online that says, I'm gonna go shoot my school up. That was out there. Sometimes as a pastor, I can see some leakage in some different lives I kind of see the direction the family's headed. And you know, when I was younger I kind of had to go off the advice of some older men, but I've been doing this long enough now that I've seen it And I can tell you pretty sure where they're headed. I can tell you pretty much what they're going to end up And I could stand with a banner and a sign and wave and say, hey, you don't want to go down that road. But it doesn't matter how much I preach, or thus saith the Lord, if an individual doesn't want it in their heart. Makes no difference. We have to desire in our heart to hear and to do the Word of God so that those changes can be made Modern psychology wants to blame it on the environment. You know, schools today It's amazing. You know, there was a day when one teacher could effectively teach and handle 50 kids. Because kids were under control. But today that's impossible. Everybody's got ADD, right? I you know, whatever it is, two out of five kids in America are suffering from ADD. I had ADD when I was growing up. I wish I would have known that's what it was called. You see, my dad called it Caleb Misus Pacin. And so my dad called it. And for some reason that fixed it for a few days But today, we want to blame it on the environment and say it's okay and kids don't have to control themselves And even adults, we don't have to control ourselves. You see, our bodies have become the master. And we, the individual, has become the slave. What our body demands, what our flesh wants, that's what's in control. Not our mind Not our spirit that's supposed to be directed by the Lord, by Jesus Christ. No, whatever this flesh wants. Get satisfied. It is the master. We are the slave. And it's not supposed to be that way. We see in our text tonight somebody like that. Look in Genesis chapter number 25, down in verse number 29 through verse 33. Here we have the story of Esau when he traded his birthright for a bull forage. And Jacob sawed porridge, and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage, for I am faint. Therefore was his name called Edom. And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. And Esau said, Behold, I'm at the point to die. And what prophet shall this birthright do to me? And Jacob said, Swear to me this day, and he swear unto him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils, and he did eat and drink, and he rose up and went his ways. Thus Esau despised his birthright. You see, here was a man whose body became the master. He was no longer the master. What he wanted was the master. You know, this world wants to blame it on the environment, and I wouldn't weigh over 200 pounds, except that every fast food restaurant has a biggie size available to me. And it's their fault that I'm over 200 pounds. Because if they didn't have that B size, then I wouldn't do that. You know, your environment doesn't have anything to do with it It's self-control. It's self-discipline. We're buying into the worldly philosophy too much. Drug addiction is out of control. Alcoholism is running rampant in our country. And I don't know that in this room tonight we're dealing with some people that are facing those things. But I think this one touches home a little bit. Overeating is running rampant in our country. Obesity has become a national problem And just because it's not necessarily one of the sins of the flesh that we normally look at, I think this is one that we as Christians that know how to carry our Bibles and aren't addicted to drugs are guilty of. Where we are as much out of control as anybody in the world is, because we are just satisfying the flesh till it's content. And we joke about it and we play around with it, but what the fact is, is we are not in control of ourselves. We are not saying no when we should have the power to say no. I am going somewhere tonight There was a day when this world was safe. You could leave your house and your cars unlocked. You could leave stuff in your yard and it would be okay or tools in the back of your truck. Though it's all gone because men cannot say no to themselves. The lack of self-control today is getting us into a tremendous amount of trouble. Tonight, our jails are full of people who could not say no to themselves. Just because they couldn't say no to whatever appetite it was that they were desiring, whether that was drugs or alcohol or whether that was Situation, they lost control of themselves, and today every hour of their day is controlled by somebody else because they lost the ability to control themselves. This topic tonight will revolutionize your Christianity. It will make a very drastic change in your home I want to apply it specifically to the home, to the destructive behavior that many couples seem to lose control of, but it applies to every area of our life as individuals and personally as well. If we could get a hold of this area of self-control, say no, and we're supposed to say no, and say yes When we're supposed to say yes, it would change our walk with God. It would change the relationship we have with our mate. It would change our everyday life in such a drastic way. Just getting the ability to be Be an overcomer. I want you tonight to take back the reins of your life. One mark of a great man is the character trait of self-control. Harry Truman said, In reading the lives of great men, I have found that the first victory they have ever won was over themselves. Self-discipline with every one of them came first. Truly, great men have learned how to say no to their own desire. Desires. Someone said this the sign of real strength is to be able to take a chocolate bar and break it into four pieces with your bare hands. Then eat only one of them. That is real strength. Not so much for me But for many who love the chocolate, self-control is to exercise restraint over one's impulses, to maintain a capacity. To keep one's words, emotions, and actions in check. I know that if we went around the room tonight We could hear story after story of family situations that were taken from bad to extremely bad because of a lack of self-control Situations that were non-existent, but arose out of a lack of self-control. I want to touch on a few areas tonight personally that I believe affect us in our homes. And ask you and encourage you to take back the reign of your life. In these areas, first of all, we need to have control of our spirit. We need to have control of our spirit He that hath no rule over his spirit is like a city that is broken down and without walls. Thee understand, ma'am. You're the spirit in the home. You need to have the right kind of spirit in the home. We can apply this a lot of ways, and we can talk about unbridled and unchecked anger. And it is very destructive and does terrible terrible things in the home and I don't know. I mean many many times we look at men and say, Men, you you lose control and you need to get it under control and you You need to stop losing your temper. I've met a few ladies that this was their uh battle to fight, getting control of the temper. Maybe that's you tonight. Maybe your spirit things happen and you just lose control and you say things that you really don't mean or you don't want to say to your mate Or you lose control, sir, and you say things you shouldn't say. The destructive behavior that tears down a home and breaks down and puts up walls between you and Your mate, or between you and your children. There's no place in the home for anger. How can we expect young people to be in control of their spirit? When they see mom and dad out of control. I told you 37 times to pick that up. It's a toy. It's your fault for telling them thirty-seven times. You should have stopped after the second one and spanked them with love and compassion. And it doesn't take much and then you say okay john now pick up your toy the whole time in control of your spirit Always in control. Your child should never flinch at you. As a parent, if you if you your son should be able to stand right here and you should go like this, and your your children should not go like that They should never ever flinch. They should never be afraid or think dad might hit me. Because that means you hit them when you were not in control. You need to be in control always. I'm for discipline. But that's not discipline, that's abuse. Discipline is love and compassion. and instruction applied to the seat of learning in a balanced way. And we're not going to teach on discipline tonight. But you've got to be in control. But I want to look at this the other side Side of this thing too. Not just losing control of our spirit and anger. But this is the day that the Lord hath made. I will rejoice and be glad in it. We ought to be victorious Christians. And our children ought to see victorious Christians. They should see us have a spirit of victory in our children. our life. We shouldn't be going through life as a roller coaster. We shouldn't be this up and down Christian. This Christian who's excited about God today, and hey, uh the birds are singing and the sun is shining, and and God is so good, and hey, blessed be the name of the Lord. I mean you're all excited today and tomorrow. It just can't get a peep out of you. What's wrong with dad? What's wrong with mom? This is controlling your spirit too. Go any other way. Because there's trials in life. There's struggles. You get bad news sometimes. And those things hit us Sometimes you might need to take a couple minutes and get away and spend a little bit of time with God. But when you come out of your room, you ought to be able to put a smile on your face and be back in control of your spirit. It goes both ways. As Christians, we should not be out of control with our spirit. We should be able to sing a song even when it's raining. We should be able to keep from getting out of control and angry, even when things don't go our way. We've got to be in control of our spirit. This is An area that is destroying a lot of homes, whether it's because of living down in the dumps or because Of losing control and displaying uncontrolled and unbridled anger. We need to be in control of our spirit We need to be controlled of our spending our spending habits. Our spending habits. This gets real practical here, talking about money. Got people here that are looking at maybe starting a family. You know, uh I don't know where you're at and it doesn't matter as an individual You need to be in control of your spirit. You need to be in control of your spending habits. This will help you no matter if you're single or if you've been married for a lot of years. Some people use uh spending as a uh this morning I found out that I actually didn't tell him myself Very good. I found out that what I told on Mary was substantially worse than what I told on myself. So I I am in debt right now to her. So I'll tell you When I get depressed, I like to spend money. I'm like I just I like it's uh it makes me feel better Hey, buy a new computer. I feel terrible. I'm gonna buy a computer, you know? So keep me away from the internet when I'm sick, man. It's not good for our budget. Hey, some people use it because They control their emotions with shopping. Some people, I was talking to some lady in our church, and I'm not going to tell you who it was But she said she had 200 pairs of shoes. And she said, you know what I did last night? I bought another pair. I said, for what? She's like, I don't know. Why You know? We just get in the habit of spending money. We need to be in control of the money we spend, and listen, you're a team. This area of money is responsible for so many people breaking up. So many homes, the turmoil, and the stress in the home caused by money problems. By not having enough money or not knowing where the money's going. Listen, if you're together and you're a team and and bunny's tight and you're working through that together, you have a a budget that you've set together, you can go through a lot. But if you've got money in the bank and you're not a team, you're still going to have a lot of stress and turmoil in the home. Every family is a little bit different how it's set up and how it's arranged and how you do it together. But let me tell you, you're a team. There's no me in marriage. When you got married, it became we. No longer me, no longer my bank account, no longer my money. Here's your allowance for the week, honey. You're a team. Now if you have agreed to spend $100 a week on groceries and you say, hey, here's the grocery money, honey. Together you've decided that that's fine. You're working through that budget together. But I'm saying you're a team, and you gotta be a team, and you've got to agree together as a team to tackle this area of finances Otherwise, it's going to be continual stress on your home. It doesn't matter who brings home the money. It doesn't matter where it gets stored. It belongs to both of you. There's no me in marriage. We. It's our money. Together. You don't want to pass on the stress. There's so many things. It's communication Communication. You know, you can pass on a lot of stress to your wife if you're stressed and burdened and and don't know about the money and you don't tell her about anything about where you're at and she doesn't know uh she just sees the stress on you and and doesn't know our our end's gonna meet and she doesn't know. I mean are we gonna be able to pay the bills this month? Are we gonna get kicked out this month? What's gonna happen? You're a ch If things are that tight, you need to communicate with each other. You need to let her know exactly where you are. Say, listen, we've got $187. It's got to last us for the next three weeks. Here's how we're gonna do it. We're gonna be okay. This is what we're gonna do. And you do it together as a team. Then you've got to control your spending. You know it really doesn't matter how much money you have You still have to control your spending. The amount in the bank doesn't make the difference. You know, not too long ago, I met somebody that was making about twelve thousand dollars a year, and they had money in the bank Making twelve thousand dollars a year and they got money in a bank. I listen to Dave Ramsey and his people calling to Dave Ramsey all the time. They make $180,000 a year And they're $70,000 in debt, and they're living from paycheck to paycheck. Making $180,000 a year, and they don't know if they're going to be able to pay their next bill Because they're out of control. They haven't learned to say no. They haven't learned to live by budget. Now one of the things that we're going to offer this year in the month of August is financial peace university We're going to offer it here at the church. Make it available to anybody that wants to take it here. But also it'll be on the uh website, Dave Ramsey's website, and anybody from the community that would like to take it can come, I think it'll be an opportunity for outreach as well. But we're going to offer that in August. Listen, if you haven't had an opportunity to really look at your finances, I don't know where you're at in life, but I would say there'd be some good things It'd be helpful to you no matter what stage you're at. And we'll offer it again, not just in August. We'll do it several times in the in the future. We've already purchased the training program and the the the rights to to offer the class and so on. But finance is a big thing. You need to be in control of your finances. Overspending causes a lot of marital problems. The ability to control your spending has nothing to do with how much you make. Dave Ramsey likes to say: money problems are 90% behavior. 90% behavior. It's not an income problem. People look at it and say, I got money problems because I have an income problem. No, you have money problems because you don't know how to say no. Now, I might have to turn Dave Ramsey's show on for some of these classes because uh he's a lot meaner than I am. He's like, now listen, you're an idiot. Okay, how much how much time? How many how much did you spend last month? Okay, how much did you make last month? Those don't add up, do they? You can't keep doing that and expect anything to be different, right? Right. Okay, now what are we going to do about it? We're going to stop spending so much. Amen? And you can do it. And then he's very encouraging and helps them along You know, so but he gets straight with them. We need to stop the destructive behavior. We allow ourselves to be dominated by our feelings and our desires But the fact of the matter is it's a choice. We are not overpowered. There's a great piano player I don't know if it's is uh Juan Pergowinsky. Anybody know is that close to a great piano player? Anyone know? So you don't have Have any idea? Anyway, so Juan Pergowinsky asked a fellow pianist if he could be ready, asked by a fellow pianist. He said, Could you be ready to play a recital on short notice? The famous musician replied, I am always ready, sir. I have practiced for eight hours a day for the last forty years. The other pianist said, Man, I wish I had been born with such determination. To which Portowinsky replied, We are all born with it, sir. I just choose to use mine. Self control. We just choose whether or not We're going to use it. Financially, you need to get a plan, establish your priorities, God first, Bill second, and the rest of that you can take and learn in Financial Peace University Also, we need to learn to control our thought life. Our thought life This is an area that destroys a lot of homes. I talked about it a little bit this morning about thinking in our mind, man, I wish my husband I wish my husband was like that. I wish my wife was like that. Sometimes ladies read these romance novels that put unrealistic expectations of what romance should be. And they portray that onto their husband and say, I wish my husband could be like that. Listen, it's just adults in here, right? If there's something that you want your mate to do, tell them. Your husband or your wife does not know what you're thinking thinking. Now we're we're touching a little bit here. I'm talking about intimately, physically There's something that you would enjoy, you ought to be able to talk to your mate about it. This is your best friend in the world. Say, hon. I like it when you and you fill in the blank. Now I'm going to get off that subject because I know that's not comfortable. I'm praying about next year at our couples retreat, having a couple split sessions and dealing with the intimate relationship. You understand the world talks about that stuff all the time? And we are bombarded with the world's philosophy with regards to the physical relationship. Where are we hearing God's mind on it? So hopefully next year we'll get into some of that and talk about it. But we need to control our thought life. Philippians 4. 8. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are Whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. 2 Corinthians 10. 5, casting down imaginations. and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God, and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Christ. Men you gotta control what you think about. You understand you're hurting y you're Okay. Nobody here sees themselves committing adultery. But do you understand the word of God in the New Testament tells us that when you have Thought in your mind about that act that you've committed adultery already. You have got to control what this mind thinks about. All it's doing is destroying Your relationship with your mate. You know, on the other side of that, ladies, ladies aren't quite as physical, and and the physical things don't necessarily pull you as much But you know the emotional things do. And do you understand that you can commit a form of adultery like this? When you give your emotion, your heart, your compassion things that you should be sharing with your husband, and you share them with somebody else. You say, oh, I didn't commit adultery. But that is something personal, something intimate, something important to you. And you've shared that with somebody else. You've taken what should be your husband's and given it to somebody else. Now I know you haven't physically committed adultery But what I'm saying is you've done like the guy does in his mind. And you've seen them, ladies, when you're walking through the mall and and some uh hussy that doesn't know how to dress right is walking by and you've seen your husband look And you maybe elbowed him. Said, you don't need to look at that. He's like, I know, I know. He turns his head away. Hey, man's eyes are drawn to that kind of stuff, and you don't want him to be drawn to that. But don't give your heart to another man either. Those things that are supposed to be personal and shared between you and your husband You keep that. Don't let your mind wander and think about what it would be like with some other man or some other woman. You're going to destroy your home. It's not. You know, Samson Samson had destroyed a lion with his bare hands Killed a thousand men with an oxcode. But he couldn't say no to his own passions. And there's things available to us today like never before in history. And I'm telling you, the devil knows when to get you Maybe you've done real good for a long time, but then you're there and it's a little late and there's nobody else around and man where Did that come up? And you take a second look like David on the balcony, looking over onto Bathsheba. And the devil's gotcha. And one thought leads to another, to another, and it starts pulling you down a trail of destructive behavior. You've got to rein that in. Sir, you've got to learn to say no and to control your passions. And there's nothing like living a victorious Christian life. Life. Seeing God give you the victory. That'll breathe some new life into your marriage. Seeing God give you the victory in that area of your life And I want you to know you can have victory. This is an area that's tearing our churches up. Men and young men are being destroyed by this stuff, left and right. And don't be deceived and think, oh my kids aren't gonna aren't going to get involved with it. If they have access to it, the devil will make it available to them You've got to protect them. And protect yourself. Put blocks on your internet. There's some out there that are free, and there's lots and lots of them that cost money, but a little bit of money to protect yourself is worth it. And then make yourself accountable to somebody. So that you can have a extra level of protection. Because the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Right now you're on top and you're doing good and it's okay. But the The devil is going to catch you when you're a little bit down, when you're a little bit discouraged, when you haven't had your devotions in a few days, and he's going to bring that into your life and win a victory. Pull it back. Get victory. Beware of rationalizing. There is no rationalizing this area of our lives. I can handle this I'm just looking. Remember, looking and thinking already is committing adultery, according to God. After all, I deserve this If she met my needs, I wouldn't have to look at this. There's no rationalizing it You know it's wrong, and you're disgusted with yourself when you do it. But so many men I'm talking a men's men stand up. This area of their life they've lost control. There is help out there, and victory can be Had. This world makes it like it's acceptable, like it's okay. Even committing adultery, somehow they portray it like it's okay, like nobody's really gonna get hurt from it. Like it's like it's like it's just normal, but it's not normal. And we've got to stand up, gain back control of our lives and our thought life Set some biblical goals. Have an accountability partner. The prudent man foreseeeth evil and hides himself. If you're having a problem with this in your life, let me tell you, you know when it's coming. When it happens. Every time I go to the mall, man, my mind just gets all this stuff, you know, and I see these things. Stop go into them all. Say I just I don't need them all because I need a clean mind more than I need them all. You know what? When I'm up late at night on the computer by myself is when I'm tempted. Then say, you know what? I've got to not be up late at night. I've got to say, okay, we're going to set a time, hon. I'm not gonna stay up on the computer. I'll stay up and read with you or something, but the computer's gonna be shut off at nine o'clock. We're gonna agree to do that because I I need some help control in this thing, whatever it might be. You've got to set some guidelines to gain back control of your life There was a Western rancher. He was asked a leader. Of the Baptist Church, he says, Hey, what are you doing about securing a pastor for your church? And this Old rancher looked at this denominational leader and he says, Ah, we're we're looking. He said, How big of a man do you want? The old rancher said, Well, we're not overly particular, but we would like him when he's on his knees to be able to reach heaven. There's help to regain control of your life. If we get on our knees, we can reach heaven We can get God's help. Oratories said prayer is the key that unlocks all the storehouses of God's infinite glory. Grace and power. All that God is, and all that God has is at the disposal of the one who prays That's an idea is a very practical lesson. Regaining control of our lives, of our spirit Of our spending and our thought life