Want to turn your Bibles this morning to Acts chapter number five? Have an unusual Sunday morning message. This type of message would more often or more typically be a Sunday night message. But I really feel it's what the Lord has for us today, and I believe that God could use it in our lives here this morning. There's a sad reality that deceit Lying comes natural to the old flesh. The human nature is to be dishonest. You don't have to teach a child to lie. You don't have to explain to them how to hide something they did that was wrong. or how to deceive a friend into giving them part of their snack or whatever. It just comes natural. Somehow we just know how to do that. And outside of proper training discipline of character and the power of God, we would all be given to continual deceit. We need to understand, beloved, that this tendency comes from Satan. John 8:44 says, Hear of your father the devil, the lust of your father you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and he abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he spake a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. So Satan Is the father of all lies, that nature that is the human nature now, because man is born with a sinful nature, we have that tendency to lie, to be deceitful. We know it comes from Satan. That alone should be motivation enough for us to avoid it. All that we understood was that, listen, this is what Satan does, this is how Satan works, this is his his plan. We should desire to avoid it at all costs. But there is another motivation that would help us keep from lying as well. And that is what I would like to speak on this morning, and that is the destructive nature of deceit. The destructive nature of deceit. If we really understood how destructive it is, we would avoid it. Can I tell you that lying always hurts? It always brings Destruction. We find a story of deceit, deception lying here in Acts chapter 5. Would you follow along with me as I read to you the story? And then we're going to talk about it. In Acts chapter 5, verses 1 through 12. But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession and kept back part of the price of his Wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostle's feet. And Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? and to keep back part of the price of this land. Wells it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God. And Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and gave up the ghost. And great fear came on all them that heard these things. And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, and buried him. And it was so about the space of three hours when his wife, not knowing what was done, came in And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much. And she said, yea, for so much. Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord Behold, the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out. Then fell she down straightway at his feet and yielded up the ghost. And the young men came in and found her dead, and carried her forth, buried her by her husband And great fear came upon all of the church and upon all men as they heard these things. And by the hand of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among them people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch. I want to speak to you for a few minutes on the destructive nature of deceit. Would you pray with me and ask God to use this? Lord, we come to you right now and I bow humbly before you to bring forth this message. I ask you, God, that you would use it in our lives. Lord, would you help us to see the destructive nature of all deceit in God, would you use the Holy Spirit to keep us from the brink of That next lie that we would want to tell, that next deception that we would want to be privy to. And Lord, I pray that we would follow the prompting of the Holy Spirit and be yielded servants for you. be examples of Christ-like Christian living and be honest in our character and honest in our communication before man. And I pray God that you would use this thought in our lives. Give us liberty to preach and Use your word. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. Beloved, I want you to see this motivation, the realization of how destructive deception really is. In our passage under consideration today, Ananias and Sophia were caught lying to themselves and lying to the Holy Spirit. They stand as a very vivid and powerful example of the destructive nature. I know that we like to classify our deceit. We like to say, well, that's a major lie. This is just a little white lie. That was really bad. This is just a little bit of deception. I mean, who really cares if I tell my friends that I weigh 180 when really I weigh 195? I mean, who's it gonna hurt? What difference is it gonna make? I mean I heard this week that there's seven ages from for a lady. There is baby, child, junior miss, young woman, young woman, young woman, and young woman. I mean who really cares what's it gonna hurt if I uh if I say that I'm thirty when I'm really thirty-four? I mean what's the difference? What is it gonna we like to say there's nobody's getting hurt by that. Nobody doesn't matter if uh I'm honest with regards to that or not. Sometimes I take people uh from the church out to dinner And uh I will take them out and uh sometimes I pay for it myself, but on occasion I will have I'm doing something for the church and maybe I'm taking a group of people out for the church and I will uh I'll have the church pay for it. The church will provide the meal. Well in those situations I really try and communicate to them that the church paid for that. Especially if they look at me and they say thank you for dinner. There's something in me that says it's wrong for me to let them think that I paid for that when the church paid. Now yes, uh I could finagle it and say, well, I am the one that put the credit card down I'm the one that approved the purchase. I'm the one that made it okay. But there's something in my spirit that says, hey, that's wrong for them to think that I bought that meal when the church bought the meal. And I try and be very careful about that when I'm out with people and uh especially if they look at me and say thank you, I'm like, well You're welcome, but you need to thank the church. That was provided by the church uh for you for today. You know, and uh it's just a small thing and people would say, Well, what's the big deal? Like uh That's a little bit of deceit. It's just kind of letting them think something really good about me, like I provided this meal for you, when I know in my heart I didn't. Right. And that's how Satan works. He kind of tricks you a little bit. He kind of give you a uh a way out, uh a reason for uh going ahead along with that deceit, but I want you to know that uh there is destructive nature in every deceit and we've got to be very careful about it. First of all, we want to see this morning the deception. We see this man, Ananias, and his wife Sapphira, and That they kept back a part of the piece of the value of the property that they had sold. Well, I want you to see that the motive was plain. Their motive was plain, beloved. They wanted to look good. Their desire was to impress the church You see, if you back up just a little bit, if you're in Acts still, you could go to Acts chapter 4 and verse number 36. You're in Acts 5, so just back up Acts 4, verse number 36, he says. And Joseph was by the apostles surname Barnabas, which is being interpreted, the son of consolation, a Lev, and of the country of Cyprus. having land, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. You see, beloved, Barnabas had bought some land. And God had laid on his heart to give that to the church, to give that to the apostles for the work of the Lord. He didn't have to do it. Nobody commanded it of him. This is what the Bible or the Word of God will refer to as a free will offering. Something that of their own free will, of their own mind, they said, you know what, I want to do this for the Lord. I just, there's no command to do it. I don't have to do it, but this is what I want to do. And it was very commendable. It was the right thing to do. And he did this. He laid it down. His generosity was seen, and it was talked about. I want you to know, beloved, that Barnabas did not give that to be talked about. He didn't give that so that people would like, look at what I'm giving here, everybody see I'm giving this No, he didn't give it to be seen. He didn't give it that people would talk about it. But also I want you to understand that he did not hide his light under a bushel either. The Bible talks about that when men see your good works, it glorifies your Father. We just need to have the right heart and motivation behind what we're doing. Are we doing this because we want people to see us and glorify us? Or are we doing it because we want to glorify God? Barnabas' heart was right. He just gave it. He wasn't nobody nobody could have seen it. It wouldn't have mattered to him, but apparently some people did, and some people were talking about it. And Ananias and Sapphira said, Hey I think we want to do that. And they had their own property. They could have sold it for whatever they wanted. And they could have gave whatever portion they wanted to give. But you see, they wanted to look good. They wanted respect. And I tell you, beloved, what they wanted was deference without devotion. This quite literally is the definition of hypocrisy. They wanted people to think more highly of them than they deserved. Now the gift they give was fine. They could have said, hey, we sold it for $10,000 and listen, we've got some needs But we want to be a blessing to the church, and we're we we think we're going to give the church $4,000. That would have been fine. Praise the Lord. That's in your liberty to do. But see, they wanted everybody to think they gave the 10,000 when they didn't. And even when Sapphira came in and Peter asked her about it. She had an opportunity to say, well, not exactly. You see, we needed to take care of this and we wanted to pay off the car and and and we had this outstanding debt, so we went ahead and did those things, but we gave the rest. She could have been honest about it, but no, that how she looked was more important than the truth. And that is what hypocrisy is, beloved. It's pretending to be or do something you have no real intention of being or doing. Can I tell you that it's very easy for us to end up living a lie? Living in hypocrisy? Because we begin to live Maybe God does something in our heart and we begin to live and set forth a certain pattern, a certain habit in our life, but if we aren't honest before God and honest with ourselves, it becomes pretense. It becomes something that we are just doing and we are no longer living, but we want all the people we know to think that we're still that person When long ago we stopped being that person. And maybe it happens gradually over time. We're still coming to church, we're still carrying our Bible, we're still acting like we love God, but we have long ago left. The faith. We've longed ago gave up. We we are living a lie now. Because our desire to keep up appearances, we're living in hypocrisy. You see how easily deceit can creep into our lives? One of the greatest people that we deceive is ourselves. The heart is desperately wicked We've got to get with God and ask for His wisdom and discernment to even discern our own heart, to know really what we're thinking and It's very easy for the father of life, Satan, to deceive us and to get us to do what Ananias and Zephira did, and that is to pretend or uh put up something that is not a reality The motivation is plain. It's all about I. You remember the father of lies, what he said at the very beginning? I will, I will, I will. He is going to ascend unto the Most High. That is the motivation of of All hypocrisy, it is the motivation of deceit, is protection of self. I want people to think more highly of me. I want people to, I want to protect myself, maybe protect children live because they want to maybe try and save themselves from getting in trouble. The officer asked you how fast were you going? Yeah, you were 30. Maybe 31. And you know you were going 60. You know? Yeah, like, uh oh, yeah And it's bad because you don't even know if he really actually clocked you. He just saw you driving by and thought that guy's going too quick and maybe he didn't maybe if they don't have it on radar they can't they can't but if he asks you you better be honest You say you're a Christian. I will. Listen, I wonder how many of us want so much to appear like we're sold-out Christians when we're really not. What I'm saying is we want to appear like we've put our all on the altar, like our service for God and the will of God and our passions and our pursuits are all there for God to do. But when reality what we've done is we have kept back something. We want everybody to think we've laid it all out and my life, Lord, is yours to control. But really, we've kept back something like Ananias and Sapphira did. You've held it back. You see, there's been times in my life where I've been willing to come down to an altar, and I remember as a young man I really enjoyed a particular type of music that I shouldn't have been listening to And as a young man, I was in church, and I was going to church, and I was working on the bus route, and I was serving, and I was all excited about those things. And I'm like, Lord, I'll give you everything. I'll serve you with my life, but I'm not giving up my music. But nobody in the church knew I was listening to that. Nobody in the church knew that that was part of my life You see, I was putting up a pretense. I was living in hypocrisy. I was saying one thing and trying to let everybody think and believe I was this, but when in reality I wasn't. That's exactly what Ananias and Zephirah did. They wanted everybody to think they did this when they didn't. You see, I was holding that one thing back, and I wondered this morning: what are you holding back from God? Maybe you're putting it out there like, oh yes, I'm a Christian, oh I love God, and all on the altar I lay, and oh Jesus is my Lord, that means master, that means He's in control, yet I'm going to keep control of this. I'm gonna hold this back. I wonder, beloved. We need to remember the destructive nature of deceit. Proverbs 26, 28 says, A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it, and a flattering mouth worketh ruined. A lying tongue hateth those. A lying tongue is going to bring hurt in your life. A lying tongue is going to bring destruction into your life. Hey, not only is the motivation playing, but I want you to understand the motivator is powerful. And he's calling right now. The motivator is powerful. You know who the motivator is? Look at verse number three. But Peter said, Anamias. Why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? The motivator is Satan He is the father of lies. He is the source of deceit. He is the source of lies, and he is happy for you to continue to live a lie or to put on a pretense or to Be deceitful in your communications or in your conversations. He's going to do all he can to motivate you. I want you to know he is powerful. He has the power to put it into the heart of Ananias and Sapphira to do wrong, and he has the power to put it in your heart. Jesus, looking at Peter, had to look at him and say, Get thee behind me, Satan Because Satan had put words in Peter's mouth, trying to get Jesus to not do what God had sent him here to do. And he said, get thee behind me, Satan, beloved. Satan knew what Ananias and Sapphira's weakness was. They had a pride problem. They wanted to be thought of more highly than they really should have been. They were willing to do whatever they could. Satan knew that was their desire, and so he tempted them. Can I tell you that Satan knows your desire? Satan knows what it is that he can tempt you with. We know, beloved, that every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. It's our desire. Satan's going to use those to tempt us. To motivate you, to cause you to sin. He knows what's going to tempt you. Beloved, when you are tempted to lie, to be deceitful, to be false in any way, we need to realize that it is Satan that's doing that. And we need to be like Jesus and say, get thee behind me, Satan. We need to resist the devil and flee from him. Listen, not only do we see the deception, but I want you to see the detection. The Holy Spirit reveals this deception to Peter. Peter says in verse number 3 there in Ananias, why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? He knew exactly what had happened. He said, This thing is in thine heart. Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God. Beloved, can I tell you that the myth is preposterous? The myth is that it's not going to hurt anybody. The myth is that I'm going to get away with it. That it doesn't really matter. That nobody's ever gonna know. Nobody's ever gonna know. Nobody's ever going to know. It's a myth. It's a lie. Because God knows immediately. The Bible tells us, be sure your sin will find you out. They might not know today or tomorrow, but the Bible is very clear about this. I read a story about a man that was standing before a judge and he was being tried for the theft of a very expensive watch. They put on the best case they could, the prosecuting attorneys, they they did everything they could to prove that this man stole this watch and they just the the case was too weak and they couldn't prove it, and the judge says, well You've been acquitted. The criminal wasn't that smart. He wasn't real sure what acquitted meant. So we asked the judge, does that mean I have to give the watch back? Be sure your sin will find you out. Sometimes criminals are Lacking in the brains department. I mean you've probably seen the the the little clips, the videos, the shorts of these criminals. Ah, what in the world? Uh uh uh do I have to give the watch back? Beloved, i it may look like deceit right now that nobody's gonna find out about, but that's a myth because we know that be sure your sin will find you out It's crazy to think that you could lie to the Holy Spirit. And somehow you could deceive God. Peter asked them in verse number nine. Then Peter said unto her, How is it that you've agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? That word tempter literally is to test. Almost the idea of how is it that you would want to put the Holy Spirit on trial? Like let's just see if God does anything about this. Let's just see. I mean, I'm gonna do this, but let's see if God does anything. Proverbs 19, verse 5 says, A false witness shall not be unpunished. And he that speaketh lies shall not escape. You're not going to escape. Well, it's it's it's bad to lie to anyone. There are some people that maybe are it's more detrimental or more costly to to lie to them. I mean, some of you young people, you know, you lie to one of your friends. If they find out they might not like it, they may be upset at you for a while. But you lie to your father, that's a little more costly. You know, you lie to a stranger at at the store, or you lie to a police officer. That's a little more costly. When you stand before the judge, you better not perjure yourself. You see there's some and beloved, can I tell you, to try and lie to the Holy Spirit is foolish. To lie to yourself is foolish God always knows, and God is not mocked. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Oh. The myth is preposterous, the myth that you think you're going to get away with it. But the m the the misery is prohibitive. The fact of the matter is, is it always cause brings destruction. Deceitfulness. If Ananias and Sapphira never dreamed, they never thought that the consequences would be so swift or so great. Can I tell you we don't know what the consequences are or will be? But don't take the mercy of God as a license to sin. Proverbs tells us that because judgment isn't exercis exercised speedily, sometimes because God's mercy, he he He doesn't strike you dead immediately, right? He doesn't judge you immediately. He gives you time to to get it right, to change your way. He's a God of infinite mercy. But sometimes people presume upon his goodness because of his mercy. They haven't they're like, oh well I got away with that. I I can do it again. I can do worse. Don't don't don't take God's mercy as a license to sin. Beloved, deceit destroys so much. Any deceit, it destroys the trust that you have between you and others It's such a sad thing when you know somebody is just not trustworthy. You just can't trust anything they say. You just you just know that you just can't believe what they tell you because too many times it's been proven completely false or completely fabricated. It destroys trust. It destroys your own discernment. You lose the ability to discern between right and wrong. It destroys peace. You know when you've when you've lived by deceit, you you have to always be thinking about what did I tell them? How d how did I put that? What did I tell them or what did I tell them? Did I say that? I mean you always gotta be thinking about your lie, and one lie pr provokes another lie. And you gotta lie to cover up that lie. We see that over and over again in the Bible. We see it practically over and over again in life. But if you just are honest, you don't have to worry about it. You just have peace. Just have peace about it. Six things does the Lord hate, yea, seven are abomination unto him. A proud look and a lying tongue. Beloved, this is a serious thing. Proverbs 12, verse number 20 says, Deceit in the heart of them that imagine evil, but to the counselors of peace is joy. Listen, deceit. It's in the heart of those that want to do evil, but they have no peace. But peace and joy is in the heart of those that are honest in their communications. You know that deceit destroys relationships. One of the hardest things for a husband and wife to overcome is deceit. If as a m uh if as a husband or as a wife you have been less than honest You've destroyed the trust that was in the home. That relationship has been fractured. And it's very hard to win that trust back when you've destroyed it. And beloved, that can be done uh with not just morally, obviously morally is like the ultimate uh betrayal of trust. When a man or a woman goes outside the home and is immoral with somebody else and commits adultery, that that is ultimate betrayal of trust. But you know, it can be financially. Okay, we're gonna agree not to spend this. This is for vacation. But then one of you spends it? Uh you weren't honest about it, you went and bought something and said, oh, it was only it was only $300. When the credit card's gonna come and the credit card shows that it was a thousand Are you just hoping she isn't gonna see it or he's not gonna see it or or what? I mean how are you expecting to ultimately where is that seven hundred dollars gonna come from that you're gonna somehow cover that up And when your mate sees that, now you said it was only three hundred. You've destroyed the trust that's there. And and that goes into i i extends if if I can't trust you with the finances, how can I trust you with this? And if I can't trust you just to be honest with me, how can I trust you when you're out And and it it opens up so many questions, could I implore you, beloved, that uh deceit is always destructive and it's hurting our homes Psalms 101, verse number 7 says, He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house. He that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight. Listen, the seat is disruptive, but let me talk to you lastly here about the deliverance. The deliverance. Look in Acts chapter 5, verses eleven and twelve, he says, And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things. And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people, and they were all in one accord in Solomon's porch. And I tell you, the method is practical. It's pretty simple. It's pretty straightforward. These guys uh saw two people die because of their deceit. And they said, yeah, I don't want any part of that. Yeah, I'm done with that. Here's how you do it. How do you get delivered from being deceitful? It starts with a decision. in your mind and in your heart that I'm done with that. I'm not going to live that way. Maybe you have been somebody for a long time that has classified a lot of your less than forthright or less than honest comments as okay because they're just They're kind of in the gray area, right? Like I could kind of explain why that's not really lying, but you're not really telling the truth. You just need to decide in your heart and mind, hey, I'm done with that. Make the decision. They saw that and they said, boy, that great fear fell upon them. Uh listen, not only should we avoid it because it's the way of Satan and he is the father of it, but we should avoid it because we can see clearly the destructive nature of deceit and how ultimately it's going to hurt us and it's going to hurt the people we love. It starts with a decision to stop doing it. Beloved, the Bible tells us that we're to put off lying. Ephesians 4. 25 says, wherefore put away lying? Put away lying. Speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we're members one of another. Put away lying. Make that decision and say, I'm going to stop it today. Maybe you have never decided or determined that. But you need to decide it today. Maybe you've thought that it's not really that bad, but by the word of God and his Holy Spirit is revealed to you today that it is Acknowledge the fact that it causes destruction. It brings hurt. And you need to submit to the Holy Spirit. Submit to the Holy Spirit. Boy, beloved, we see here Ananias and Sapphira lying to the Holy Spirit The Bible tells us we can resist the Holy Spirit, we can tempt the Holy Spirit, we can grieve the Holy Spirit, but what we ought to do is we ought to be yielding to the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit will come into your heart and say, just like when I'm sitting at a meal and somebody looks at me and says, hey, thank you, Pastor, for that meal. And the Holy Spirit says, you didn't pay for that meal. You need to tell them, don't take credit for that. That didn't come out of your bank account. And the Holy Spirit will tell you, you're not being honest. You need to communicate that to them. You need to change that. You need to own up to that. And listen. If you will own up to the lie, it'll stop you from lying in the future. Because when you have to go to Brother Bob and say, Bob, I lied to you. I told you that you were wearing a pur purple tie, but it's not true. It's pink. No, it's kidding. No, that's not true, Bob. I I didn't I mean when you have to own up to a lie that you told, if you own up to that and fess up to that, you won't do that more than once or twice I mean, because that's pretty humbling. When as a grown man or a grown lady, you've got to come to somebody and say, listen, I was less than honest in my communications with you. There's people in this room that I have gone to and said that. Because of little things that came up, little conversations. And I was less than honest. Oh, I'm on my way. In a few minutes. Be there uh yeah and and you know you haven't left yet. Does the Holy Spirit ever prick your heart and say that's not honest? I'm saying is you own you own up to that and you go and say, yeah, uh listen, I was less than honest, uh you won't have you won't do that too many times and you're going to start responding to the Holy Spirit before instead of after. It's a whole lot easier to do it before. Start yielding to the Holy Spirit and let the Holy Spirit direct your life so that we be people that have honest communication. Ask God to keep you from the temptation of lying. Psalms 119, verse number 29 says, Remove me, I'm sorry, remove from me the way of lying. Remove from me the way of lying. Lord, take this out of my I know it's my human nature. I know it's a pattern that's there, but Lord, please help me to get over this, to get past it. Beloved, you know it's one of the marks of Christ's likeness, to be honest, to have no deceit. Listen to this. 1 Peter 2, verses 21 and 22 says, Christ also suffered for us. leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. You see, Christ was going to be honest in his communications. There was no guile, no deceit found in his mouth. And beloved, the merit is precious. The blessing of honesty is its own reward. It's a precious thing Don't you just appreciate it when somebody is honest with you? When they come to you and say, listen, I was using your car And I backed into this post and I damaged your vehicle like this is how it happened and it's my fault. I'll take care of it. I mean you're not happy that your car is broken, but don't you appreciate that they at least owned up to it? And maybe you'll say, you know what, don't worry about it, I got insurance, it'll be taken care of, whatever or maybe you say, you know what, I need you to get it fixed and they and they get they get it fixed. But just Honesty really is the best policy. It is its own reward. The joy of just knowing that somebody truly is trustworthy and that they can be honest. And I hope that that's just the character and testimony that you have before those that know you. And if not, you can change that. By being honest today and making that decision, start yielding to the Holy Spirit. I wonder, beloved, are we being honest with the Holy Spirit about our life? Or are we, like Ananias and Sapphira, kind of wanting people to think more highly of us, and so we put on this pretense? We we we're living this lie. Are we holding something back from him? Or are we really fully committed to him? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?