Alrighty, well we're we are looking here this morning and I'm going to attempt to get this lesson uh done today. So we ha do have to cover a lot of ground. We've been looking at the idea of putting your life in order. At the beginning of this whole study, we asked the question Have you ever wondered why some uh seemed to uh when they come to the Lord, they seem so excited, they seem so uh they're really enjoying the blessings of being born again, and then they fall away. It's as though they never really establish a biblical pattern of living. And the fact of the matter is, if we don't establish a biblical pattern of living then we are not going to be successful Christians. We're not going to live the victorious Christian life if we don't have that biblical pattern of living. We uh establish the fact that we're in a battle. This battle we know uh we have three enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil. Now we looked at the world last week and we're dealing this morning with the lust of the flesh. Now the world is an outside influence. The world is an outside influence. Those things from outside that influence us and they kind of uh have a uh overall uh pressure from the outside, but we know that lust of the flesh is an internal influence. That influence that can uh destroy our walk with God, man is left to himself and can only live by the power of his fallen, sinful nature, uh the flesh. We can't we can't do it in ourselves. We can't do it. Romans chapter 8 in verse number 7. Somebody want to look up that? We're going to turn there anyway. We're going to look at Romans 8 altogether, so let's just look there in the Word of God. Because we want to see a few of these verses here in a moment. Romans chapter number eight. He says in verse number seven Because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be that we the carnal mind is not subject to God. It's not going to submit itself to uh the Lord. Now upon Being born again, man receives a new nature. A new nature. And so In your outline there, that's the next uh blank that you want to fill in. Man receives a new nature. And only then is he capable of living a spirit-filled life. However, the spirit and the flesh are constantly in battling with one another. To be victorious, we need to learn how to live in the Spirit. No good thing can be done through man's own power. Now we're in Romans chapter number eight there. I want you to see the uh what he tells us with regards to um the the law in just a second. But first I want to reference this verse here. He says Romans 7, verse number 18 says For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing, for to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. And uh we know that that battle is always present. To will is present with me But how to do it sometimes is a challenge, and we know that. But then he talks here in Romans chapter 8 about the law. He says, therefore He says, there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. He says, For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made men free from the law of sin and of death. For what the law could not do, In that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit And he goes on describing and talking about that difference between the law and the Spirit, between what was shown or revealed to us in the law and what we have in Jesus Christ. So you see, the law, beloved, was never given to deliver man. The law was given to display man's transgressions. Uh have you guys heard how the uh caretaker, uh the custodian, how the custodian got the girls to stop kissing the mirror in the bathroom So uh he had a he had a problem and uh I'm telling you this because what I want you to see is Okay, maybe not a good thing for these girls. They would put their lipstick on and then they would kiss the mirror and they would leave their lipstick on the mirror, you know, and and the custodian was really frustrated because he had to do all this work to try and clean that lipstick off. It didn't clean off that good And uh, you know, so there there was not really a law. It wasn't like there wasn't a rule on the books that, hey, girls can't kiss the mirror. So what I'm saying is they hadn't transgressed the law, but but when he put a sign up in the bathroom that said, girls, don't kiss the mirror, uh now there's a law. Now when they do it, they're transgressing the law. And that's what the law does for us. And ever since then they were sinning. They were but they didn't know. The transgression wasn't revealed until they saw the law and it revealed to them the sin that they were doing. So how the custodian got the girls to stop kissing the mirrors, he went, told the girls in the bathroom and he says, girls, I want you to see how much work it is for me to clean these mirrors every day. And he took a squeegee and he dipped it in the toilet and then he rubbed it on the mirror and he's like, This is really, uh, really a lot of work to get this off every day and I don't like doing it, so could you stop kissing the mirror? And they stopped. Uh so the the law reveals to us what uh i is wrong, you know, but but Christ is how we deal with what's wrong. The law doesn't deliver us. Jesus Christ delivers us. You know, the Bible describes this book of the law. It's described as a mirror. It reveals to us. And I have here a mirror. And this the mirror, you look in the mirror and it reveals to you the problem. You know, what's wrong, right? But if I looked in the mirror and I had chocolate on my face, I wouldn't take the mirror and and go like this, would I? Uh no, you you y you don't use the mirror. The the mirror is not how you wash your face. And the book of the law, the Bible, is a mirror. It reveals to us the problem. It shows us the problem. But how we're washed is through Jesus Christ. So we go to him. 1 Corinthians 6. 11 says, and such were some of you, but ye are washed. But ye are sanctified. And if you're familiar with that passage of scripture, you know he goes through a big list of transgressions. He says, You did this, this, this, this, this, and such were some of you. But you're washed, you're sanctified, you're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ by the Spirit of our God. So we see this here several diagrams given to us where we have the flesh, that is the old nature In the flesh is our carnal old man, and then you have the spirit, that's our new nature, is referred to as the spiritual person uh the spiritual man. And uh in Galatians chapter number five, um you can turn your Bibles there to Galatians chapter number five. I want you to see uh these things. We have both the works of the flesh and the fruits of the Spirit that are revealed. And, you know, we see that some of the obvious consequences of living in the flesh are listed out here for us. Some of those obvious consequences. And they're listed in Galatians 5, verses 19 through 21. He tells us adultery, fornication, uncleanliness, lasciviousness. And and in our notes here is a list of these things, and they're divided into several categories, and then there is also a brief description or definition. So let's look at those. First of all, there is adultery That is a work of the flesh, the adultery, that is unfaithfulness of a married person to their spouse. Adultery, then fornication That is uh any sexual uncleanliness or sexual sin of a single person. Uh, you know, fornication. It's it's sexual uncleanness and in your notes thereof a single person is the note uh that you're looking for. Then uncleanliness is uh moral impurities. Defilement by sin. Defilement by sin. Now I'm not sure, are you Okay, yeah. I just wanted to make sure we were staying up and they're staying up with you so you can see what we have. So defilement by sin or s and then uh license is unbridled sensuality. And boy, aren't these very descriptive of uh much of society today, uh just really driven down these roads where you see that work of the flesh being manifested and and praised and It's almost as if the more the more vulgar it is, the more people like it. The the more base it is, the more it's promoted and and And exalted and lifted up. And it's it's just unbelievable. So we see those sins of sensuality. Then we see some sins of false religion. We have idolatry. Idolatry is the worship of idols, images, or anything which is not God. Now we don't have in America, we don't have such a overwhelming uh you know where where we have full temples set up and every shop you go into has, you know, uh little Buddhas you can buy and and things like that if you go to some other foreign countries uh the idolatry that's there is is so prevalent. It's such a big part of society. We don't have necessarily that kind of idolatry, although there is some of that, people praying to statues and Setting these statues and things up in their yards and in their houses. But there are other types of idolatry. Idolatry, putting anything before God. I was wondering what would you say some examples get some audience feedback from you guys here? What would you say are some examples of idolatry or people, things people set up as idols in their life. Money. Sports. Money. Cars. Cars, their car, yeah. Fame. Fame. Kim. Your pets. Your dogs are are running their life. Now you know you got cats. This isn't supposed to be confession time. You're supposed to tell me what Fred loves cats. He got he's got some cats. He does like cats. Um so they're they're they're pets. You got these things that people it's anything that we're putting in front of God. That we're setting up as an idol in our life that we're putting in the place or before God. Then we see witchcraft here. Witchcraft is an association with the devil or communication with familiar spirits to gain unlawful knowledge. You know, isn't it amazing today how many shows and programs deal with the occult? How many programs deal with people, humans that have some type of supernatural power? I mean when I was a kid it was pretty much Superman and Batman. That was pretty much it. But now they got all kinds of, you know, people were exposed to radiation and and they got some some power or they were born with a genome that allows them to have some you know extra gift of whether it's perception or they can move things or whatever. Just This, you know, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers and darkness. That there is a real concern with embracing witchcraft or the uh you know taking too much of that stuff in and we gotta guard our homes from it, we gotta guard our minds our minds from it. It's very prevalent in our in our society, in our world today But I mean who doesn't like the idea of having extra power or having extra strength or being able to uh perceive or to know things ahead of time? Well, Satan's real and his devils and his demons are real. And there is power that's given to people that give themselves over to that. The nice thing is we know that greater is he that is in you than he is in the world, and that God is stronger than Satan and that God whom we serve when we yield to him, he will and has won the victory over Satan. We've got to be watch that. Then we see sins against our fellow man, and there's a whole list of them here. We have hatred. That's opposing one or more persons, showing a dislike toward them, showing a dislike towards them. Variances. Uh that's being contentious, fighting, or quarreling. You ever met somebody that's just contentious. Just always got an argument. Always got there always some type of contention, always some problem that they have. And you know, that's a sign that they're walking in the flesh. That they're not being led by the Spirit. Because somebody who's led by the Spirit is not contentious, it's not dealing with that or using the Bible word. They don't have variants like that. Emulations. This is unnatural ambition or zeal that leads to strife. The the unnatural ambition or zeal that leads to strife. You know the ambition, uh he said fame? Some people have uh they'll do anything for their fifteen minutes of fame, you know. An unnatural ambition that leads to that. Maybe uh to climb the corporate ladder. I don't care who I crush, I don't care who I climb over, I don't care who it hurts, uh, I'm going to get to the top. And that's the uh spirit and mindset that uh is prevalent in the world, but that's living by the flesh. That's what the flesh when it's allowed to just run its course and do what it wants to do, it's going to do that type of thing. Wrath. This is violent emotions of the mind seeking the hurt and destruction of others. Wrath, strife, factions uh selfishly seeking to obtain their own end Having strife, seditions. Seditions is divisions, divisions, whether in the home, the church, or the community. Are you divisive? Are you creating seditions, little issues here and there? That's a sign that you're walking in the flesh Heresies, this is doctrinal divisions in the church regarding theology or the truth of the Word of God. In beings That's resisting the good, resisting the good of others in better circumstances. Just envying what other people, you know, the blessings that they have. You know, somebody gets a new car And you find it hard to be happy for them? Instead you wonder, well, how come I didn't get a car? Or how come I don't get to have this? Or they get to go on vacation and you say, well that's not fair. I don't think they earned a vacation. Inbeings, uh murders that's destroying of men's lives. Then we see sins of overindulgence Uh drunkenness. This is under the influence of strong drink, being drunk. Uh I believe that the Christian You never get drunk if you never touch it. And I know there's uh a lot of thought today. People are like, well, it's you know it's okay to drink as long as you do so in moderation. uh you know, a little wine for thy stomach's sake and and such. We can do this. Uh I believe that there's a lot in the Bible uh regarding strong drink. and that the very clear admonition uh for the believer is to not have anything to do with it. And uh certainly not to allow to be overindulgent where we are drunk. Revelings, that is riotous and excessive behavior um the revelings. I mean just the whole party scene that we are that we see today. So living in the flesh can result in some of the following problems. And uh this is very evident and and we see it in our world today and we actually see it in some people's own Christians' lives where you see legal problems, family problems, suicide, addictions, health issues, rebellion uh money problems, eating disorders, depression. You see, when we live in the flesh, when we have these list of things that are given to us there in Galatians, and we allow those to run our life. The results are these problems. And sometimes people are dealing with these problems in their lives. And it's not as some would think that, well, I have this challenge or uh I'm just depressed or I have this eating disorder, uh or we just have problems in our family. A lot of times these are a result of living in the flesh. You know, you put great financial problems on your family when you don't have self-control and you you go out and spend money that you don't have on things that you can't afford. And now, oh yeah, it's nice to have that new thing. But now it's very difficult to make the house payment or it's very difficult to pay the electric bill and Oh, there's a whole bunch of extra stress and I'm not sure how we're going to do this this month and and but it's because you didn't have self-control because you were living in the flesh. You wouldn't have that problem. financial problem if you would have just been disciplined and not gone out to eat six times this month. If you would have just saved your money and spent it where you need to spend it. If you wouldn't have bought that brand new the latest phone. I mean, so it's 17% faster than the last one. The last one still was really good. You know, uh do you really have to upgrade? Um nothing wrong with upgrading. But what I'm saying is we've got to be careful that we're not allowing our flesh to dictate what we do. Man is incapable in his own flesh to live a victorious Christian life. We saw that in Romans 7. 18. The flesh and the spirit are battling for control for your soul, and it is only through yielding to the spirit that the believer can be victorious. Only through yielding to the spirit. You know, yesterday in Griefshare we were talking about this idea of yielding to the Spirit, and uh the illustration came to me, and we've all done it. We've all been ready to go somewhere. Let's say Jacob and I were heading to his house and I'll say, you know what? Here, let me give you the keys, you drive because you know where you're going I don't know, I don't know where I'm going. And that way I don't have you don't have to try and tell me turn here, turn here, you know, whatever. You know where you're going. And you turn over the keys to somebody because they know where they're headed. And that's what it is about yielding to God. Here you're dealing with an omniscient, omnipresent. uh all powerful, omnipotent God, and we can trust him. And he knows the beginning from the end. And he knows exactly what's going on in our lives. And so we can trust him. We can yield to him. We can turn the keys over to him and say, okay, Lord. I'm just going to trust you to lead me through this, to guide me through this, and we can trust him. We see That man is a trichotomy like God. We have God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And man is a trichotomy like that. We have our body, soul, and spirit. That is seen first of all in Genesis chapter 2 and verse number 7, where he first formed man. In Genesis 2. 7, he says, And the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground. So he formed him from the dust of the ground. Thus was his body made. So his body was made. And then he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Thus his spirit was given to him by God. And man became a living soul, a living person. All the way from the very beginning, we see the three aspects here of man, body, soul, and spirit. Now these next few notes here, I'm going to kind of go a little bit out of order as I'm describing these things, so you'll have to listen and watch uh and fill in where you can. because I'm going to talk about the body, soul, and the spirit and kind of just hit some things that are further down in your notes underneath this heading. So we see first of all the body Is our world consciousness. That is that we are conscious of the world around us. That's where we see our body is our five senses. This is how we interact with the world. It's our world consciousness. Our body is a vessel It's how we relate to the world. That's one of the notes that's further down. Your body is how you relate to the world. And then it's a vessel that's housing, of course, our flesh and our blood. This is the body. Then the soul, the soul is our self-consciousness. Our self-consciousness. This is the real you that was created by God Uh you uh it's who you are individually. Every one of us are different. Every personality is a little bit different, every aspect of our lives is a little bit It's who you choose to become as you grow and develop and become what God wants you to be. It's who you are as an individual. It's your mind, it's your will, and it's your emotions. Now, let me give you a couple more and then we're going to look at a diagram here. We have in your book there you have the diagram that he gave us with the body, soul, and spirit Um and I ask Gus to give me the one from Larkin and stick it up here so that we can uh see a little bit more detail. But uh let me give you these last couple of things here. Uh the battle uh For victory is in the soul. That's one of your points you need to fill out. The battle for victory takes place in the soul. And then the spirit, let's look at the spirit, that is your God consciousness. That is the spiritual aspect of man. It's something that can't be seen. And this is what makes us conscious of God. Okay, the Spirit is what makes us conscious of God and how we relate to Him. And only through salvation, that is the new birth, is this part of man given a new life? So we have here this diagram, and hopefully, yeah, I think it's big enough you guys can see it. So You see the trichotomy listed here. You have the body, the soul, and the spirit. And inside of each one of those things in the body, this is our carnal man. Our soul is our natural that's our that's who we are. This is our conscience, our imaginations, uh our memories, our reason, our affections. These things are are part of that, the soul aspect And the carnal, here on the bottom, you see the carnal man, the body, you have sight, smell, hearing, taste, touch, the five senses that are an aspect of the body. And then you have the spirit. This is our God consciousness. This is when when man sinned Death by sin passed upon all men for all who've sinned. You are dead spiritually until you have a new birth in Jesus Christ Through the new birth, you are given new life. Your soul consciousness, your uh your spirit is is awakened through that. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse number 1, he says, And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sin. You were dead in your trespasses and sin. Now you're obviously not dead physically. What is he talking about there? You're dead in your trespasses in sin. That's because the spirit of man was dead until we have a new birth, until we were made alive in Jesus Christ, and it awakens the Spirit. And I really like what he did here with this. It's really hard to read, but he says here, in this small section, is dividing asunder of soul and spirit The Word of God that reaches down through here and it divides asunder of soul and spirit and uh reaches down into uh the heart of man and gets right to the spirit of the issue. Now we're gonna leave that up for just a minute. The battle for victory is primarily centered within the soul. Within the soul Now, I don't have I wish I had a group of young people here to try and illustrate this. What can I use? This is I'm gonna use these plants, okay. I'm gonna use these plants here. Um what time is it? Okay, we're alright. Oh is it 10 oh four? Um all right, we're gonna try and get this real quick. Okay We're going to look at this. I I like to do with people better, but we're going to say this is the body. The soul and the spirit of man. Okay? What's supposed to happen is when this is made alive in Jesus Christ We are supposed to be led in our life by the Spirit. So we're going to use this microphone here as the influence. I'm tearing off the microphones. The Holy Spirit, God, his presence in our life, influences the Spirit. The Spirit influences the soul. The soul influences the body. We get we make the body do what it's supposed to do because we're directed led by the Spirit. Does it make sense? The problem is when Christians come the other way and uh we allow our body To direct our life. That's our flesh. Now, who is this? Now we're going to get to this guy next next week. That's the lies of Satan. But that same old I idea of how uh you know Satan sitting up on the shoulder Trying to influence you to get you to do wrong. So Satan's working from this side, and he's influencing the body and allowing you to influence the soul that influences your spirit. This is the struggle that takes place in the heart of man. And we are supposed to be led by the Spirit, directed by the Spirit, and that we make our body do what it's supposed to do. In and through the power of the Spirit of God. Where Christians get into trouble, where they have a hard time living the Christian life, is because we're not living in the Spirit, we're living in the flesh And we're living our life from the other end. We're letting the body determine what feels good, what we like, what we want to do, what we enjoy, and that is directing our life. And getting us into problems where we saw earlier all those lists of problems that are possibilities because of living in the flesh. Now we see here that the battle for victory is primarily centered in the soul. So it goes back, the spirit is influencing the soul, but the body is influencing the soul, and you have that struggle. Back and forth. That was Paul said. The things that I would, I do not. And the things that I would not, I do And why is that? And it's such a struggle. That's what he's describing for us here. Then we see here the soul of man consists of three parts. So he the soul itself consists of three parts as well. This soul here. And uh inside the soul you have the mind, the will, and the emotions. Those things are always going to be influenced by something. They're going to be influenced by the spirit or they're going to be influenced by the body And so you've got to be careful that as men, we're not led by our emotions, that we have a, you know, the Bible's very clear, like uh we are supposed to control our thought, what thought life, right? What we're thinking about And if you control what you're thinking about, then you can control what you're feeling. And you can control what you're doing, what your will will be. So we see here the mind is your thoughts, imaginations, knowledge, and wisdom. So that's the next underneath that little diagram, the mind, emotions, and will. So the mind is your thoughts, imaginations, knowledge, wisdom, and understanding. What enters the mind comes from our experiences of life, both good and bad, from reading and studying, from God and from Satan. They comes from both directions. What comes into our mind? Hopefully we're yielding to God and allowing God to influence us, but at times old Slowfoot Satan he he gets his foot in there, right, and creates problems, causes problems for us. Excuse me, Eden. And then we see the will. The will is faith, repentance, submission. Determination and compromise, it's what takes place in the will of man. The will is influenced by either resisting or submitting to the thoughts that you've received to to what's going on in your mind. So your will is going to be influenced by either resisting or submitting to the thoughts. And your emotions, your emotions are going to either be negative Or positive. And then we see here a key verse to fight the flesh is put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make not provision for the flesh. To fulfill the lust thereof. We want to overcome, we want to have victory over the flesh. What we've got to do is not make provision for it. Don't make provision for the flesh. And uh One of the biggest problems Christians wonder why they're not being victorious as as uh as a believer is because they're making all kinds of provisions for the flesh. The flesh is weak. The flesh is is uh you know you don't have a lot of power in your flesh to resist. And so the way you're able to resist is you don't make provision for it. Uh if you are trying to lose weight, you don't buy chocolate cake and stick it in the fridge. You know, have it there in the house. You you don't you don't make provision You say, boy, I don't want have that temptation. I'm trying to lose weight, so I'm not gonna put that I'm not nope, we're not buying any snacks. No little Debbie's No, we're not buying them. I want them, they're on sale, but nope, we're not gonna buy them. We're not gonna make provision for that. Well, I I'll resist, I'll only have one a day, you know. Right Uh-huh. Uh so we know how that goes. But you make provision and then you have to try and be strong enough to to win. But if you don't make provision, then you don't have to. I've given you this uh I've told you this before about my brother Daniel when he was a teenager Um he had a problem listening to the world's music. And uh he knew that wasn't pleasing to God and honoring God and uh certainly wasn't what mom and dad would want him listening to. Uh and he had his own truck, bought his own truck, paid his own insurance, put his own gas in it, and uh had his own vehicle. But one day I got into his vehicle and his radio was gone. Completely pulled out of his car and and I said, man, did somebody steal your radio? He says, No, I took it out. Took it out of the car. Just a hole in his dash. Why? Because he wasn't going to make provision for the flesh. He knew he he really enjoyed that music and that's what he wanted to listen to. And then he's in the car all by himself, he was drawn to try and you know turn those turn that on. And he says, you know what? That's not pleasing to God. It's not honoring to my parents. I'm I'm I'm gonna get rid of it. And sometimes there's some things in our lives, if we're if we're really going to be victorious over the flesh, is not a matter of getting stronger, it's a matter of getting it out. of of not making provision for it. And uh there might be some things you need to remove uh from your life. You know, a uh an alcoholic doesn't put a fifth of whiskey in the fridge and every day open the fridge and say, you know, oh I don't need you and close the fridge Because he's going to open that fridge one day and he's going to take it. He can't resist the temptation. So they they do everything they can to get it away from them So that they're not uh so that they can overcome that. And uh maybe there's some things in our lives that we need to be sure we're not making provision for the flesh. So that's our key verse for for this. Now next week we're going to get into Uh Satan, which we see in our illustration here, is the other influence that's in our lives that's trying to overcome. and uh keep us from being what God wants us to be. So we look at the world, the external influences, we look at the flesh, our internal influences, and then next week we're going to get into uh the lies of Satan and his influence in our life.