All right, another uh announcement, part of our insurance review, they left us about ten things, many of them very expensive, that they wanted us to do uh to get taken care of. Some of them we're gonna do, some of them we're not gonna be able to do. Uh but one of them is they really wanted us to get some parking lot lights. Uh and obviously for the summer months they're not real they're not really needed because we're not here after dark very much, but as you get into this time of year uh more and more often it gets darker earlier and earlier and it you know the light the lights would be nice. And so we started the process several months ago. I ordered the lights probably five months ago. and talked to Joe about it and he found us some poles to use and he picked those up and dropped them off the property and a couple of weeks ago I found some planters that we can use and so this week Steven and I got 'em filled with concrete and Got the light poles mounted and got them painted and uh so Alicia went out and got some flowers to put in the planters and so we'll get uh the the get it set up and we may use them at the property this week uh at Roundup but if not out there certainly by next uh Sunday they would be in the parking lot here uh to just help with being able to see out there uh and They're just solar operated, so they're not we don't have to run any w cabling or wires or anything like that. And they're also going to be portable so we can move them, figure out where they where they work best. So just kind of a project that's been ongoing that we're getting done. Alright, so now time to get in the Word. You can turn your Bibles to the book of Ruth tonight, the book of Ruth. I we're we're we're moving on. I had been looking at for most of the summer actually we've been discussing the uh you know and they were called that series and they were called and in my mind initially I had a couple more that I was planning to do. that uh as I studied this week and looked at I just said, you know, I think I'm gonna leave those off. And partly because they didn't quite fit like one of them was and they were called fishers of men. And that wasn't really a title. God said, follow me and I will make you fishers of men So it wasn't necessarily a title, not something that they were called, certainly something we're supposed to do. So I kind of moved that into a message on on soul winning and outreach and and decided not to do that one. Uh and the other is they were called believers of the way. And we are believers of the way, but I have a whole another study that I'm doing on the way. And uh there is a way that seemeth Right unto a man, but the end thereof is the ways of death, and there is a lot the Bible has to say about the way. And so that's a separate study altogether that I'm kind of looking into. So I moved that to there. And so I'm like, okay, well, we're gonna get into a a book, um, but I I just thought we would tackle a short book that won't take us too awful long to go through kind of verse by verse and study out uh so we're going to go through these four chapters of the book of Ruth and do a study on that. Ruth is a love story set in the middle of a time of apostasy and anarchy. It takes place. During the days of Gideon, the judge of Israel, this gem tells us the tale, not the tale of kings, of heroic men that accomplish great things. But really the story of simple people who were rewarded by God for their singleness of heart and faithfulness to duty. It reveals to us the true rhythms of life in the midst of adversity and abundance, as well as joy and sorrow. One of the beautiful things about Ruth is that it's really just normal people. Uh having made normal decisions and they experienced both consequences of poor decisions and the blessings of right decisions and We get to see and experience all of that, and in the midst of it, we see the providence of God bringing hope from hardship. What began as famine ends with a family that has a special relationship that is blessed by God and brings Ruth to a place where she's in the line of Christ. So first of all, I want to just by way of introduction tonight, really what we're going to be looking at is the introduction to the book of Ruth and talking about this, laying the groundwork for it. Just some of the things that you might know, you might not know, but the basic information concerning the book, the author. The author really is unknown. We can't know for sure. However, most Bible scholars believe it to be Samuel Uh that seems to be pretty commonly held uh that Samuel would be the author, but it's not definitive. Uh of course, whether we can define who actually pinned it down on paper or not is not what's important. It is that we believe it is the Word of God. And I hope that you believe it is the Word of God. The date of the book, it was written sometime after the events that are recorded on the pages. There are some things that were written in concurrency with the events. There's some things that were written in prophecy of things that were going to come. But Ruth is one that is written Many years after the fact, kind of going back, and you can look at Ruth chapter number four with me, and I'll just show you this verse that gives us that picture in Ruth chapter number four and verse number seven. The Bible says, now this was the manner in former time in Israel concerning redeeming. And concerning changing, for to conform all things, a man plucked off his shoe and gave it to his neighbor, to confirm, sorry, all things. He plucked off his shoe, gave it to his neighbor, and this was the testimony in Israel. The comment there, now this was the manor in foretime in Israel. The idea there, the he's telling the story. He says, this is how things used to be. Almost like this is a little bit weird custom, maybe not something we would do today, but hey kids, when we were young In order to set a bargain, you had to take your shoe off and give it to your neighbor. Uh that idea being communicated there like, okay, a four time, uh, you know, when I grew up I walk to school uphill in the snow, you know, that one of those kind of stories. And and so you you hear uh a little bit of that idea coming through there as he's saying that, and so we know that it was pinned later. and is looking back on what was taking place there, we uh don't know the precise date. Um however the because of what's Described for us in the book, there's several things. We know that Boaz was the son of Solomon and of Rahab We know that at least David was born at this point when it was pinned, because look at verse number 17, chapter 4 and verse number 17. He's giving to us here some heritage, some lineage. He says And the woman uh let's see, verse says, There is a son born unto Naomi, and they called his name Obed, and his father is Jesse, the father of David. So here in the book, they're describing, it says, okay, we know that Jesse comes, and then we know that David comes. So we know that as far as trying to give a date to this, we know that at least David was alive Um that is obviously clear. But there is no mention of Solomon there, so they believe that this was pinned sometime. in David's early years, uh obviously before uh Solomon comes on the scene And uh so that gives us a little bit of a window into the time frame. We know that the Bible or this book here is marked by a famine. Although they could not nail down the actual famine, it is believed that this took place in Judges chapter number six, if you'll turn back to the book of Judges. So in Judges chapter number six, the Bible tells us, and the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years. And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. And because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made them the dens which are in the mountains and caves and strongholds. And so it was when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came in, and the Amalekites, the children of the east, even they camped up against them. And they encamped against them and destroyed the increase of the earth till thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep nor oxen nor ass. So th the children of Israel had disobeyed the Lord. They were under the judgment of God. God allowed the Midianites to come in, and they part of what they do when they seize the nation is they destroyed all the substance They destroyed all the the fields and the grain and this could have been the catalyst. They were under siege or uh dominion or being troubled by the Midianites for seven years. And so they believe that this is the time frame in which uh this famine took place. So with those things, J. Bernard McGee puts the date around eleven hundred. Uh you can, you know, di different authors a little bit one way or the other, but that's how they kind of come up with that date based on those inform that information, kind of story wise, what takes place and so on. Um generally, we know of course that it took place during the time of the judges, during the time when uh Gideon was the judge. Turn back to the book of Ruth now in Ruth chapter number one. There's a small book. I flipped right into Samuel. Um just a couple pages. Uh so in Ruth chapter one it says, Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled. So there's no question this was uh a book that's concurrent happening at the same time as the book of Judges, that there was a famine in the land and a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in a country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. So we see that it was in the time when the judges ruled It's an appendix to the book of Judges and really kind of an introduction to the book of Samuel. It falls in between there and kind of It fills in some gaps historically that are not found in Samuel or in the book of Judges We know, of course, that the book of Judges is filled uh with the ongoing cycle of apostasy, uh where every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And so what takes place in the book of Ruth has to be interpreted or looked at from that time frame, from that period, what was happening during there. That time period is characterized by anarchy, by apostasy, by ath apathy. The children of Israel had been given uh the promised land. They had been told this land was yours. All you have to do is go in and possess it. God was even going to empower them to do so. They just had to go do it. And yet apathy they determined and they decided not to do it or not do it completely. And that continued to create problems for them. Their apathy led to apostasy. Why? Because they didn't utterly destroy, they didn't remove the uh altars, they didn't take away the other gods, they kind of combined those things together with them and the apathy of to really deal with something uh led to apostasy and the apostasy led to anarchy. That is what happens. I wonder about us as Christians today, we have been promised the abundant life. The abundant Christian life. And it's there for us to have. It's there for us to take. For that to be our reward as children of God. But I wonder if our apathy Keeps us from pursuing that. Keeps us from really uh accomplishing and and receiving the full benefit and reward And in today's world you see that apathy kind of uh really permeating society, no real drive to uh bring about true change in an individual's life. That leads to discouragement and they they don't they don't have change. They don't see God doing great things and then y y you're not taking strong stands and that leads to apostasy. Because you're joining up with everybody and their brother and and uh people that don't believe that this is the word of God, they don't believe in the the blood of Christ is the only way for the remission of sins They don't believe in the death, burial, resurrection, or they that you know, who knows what kind of, you know, today in today's society, anybody that goes to church is called a Christian. And there's a lot of different churches out there. And if you aren't careful, you'll let apathy keep you from taking a stand on the Word of God, and that will lead to apostasy. And apostasy leads to anarchy, to what was happening in the book of Judges, where every man did that which was right in his own eyes. Is not that where we are as a society today? Where by and large Christianity has become a consumerism Christianity where everybody gets the Christianity that fits them. Whatever they're comfortable with instead of whatever thus saith the Lord, whatever the Bible says. We need to line up with God's Word and take a stand on the truth of the Word of God. We're in a day where, like the like in the judges, where there was no king in Israel, seven times I think it says that there was no king in Israel. And uh, you know, that mindset, that idea today where nobody's gonna tell me what to do. There is no king over over me, over I I can live and do and act and say what I want to. But we have a king, the king of kings, and he we are to live in subjection to him and into obedience to him. The book of Ruth covers ten to twelve years. We see that I'm trying to see what verse it's right here in the beginning. You you look help me find it. It says that they were there ten years. It's in like in the first few verses. Is it verse four? And they took them wives of the women of Moab, the name of one was Orpha, and the other name was Ruth, and they dwelled there about ten years. So you see we have covered ten years in the first four verses. The rest of the book is really uh uh about depending upon who you read less than a year, maybe a little bit over a year, depending upon when the harvest comes and the and the the next harvest or the fall. I mean that that time year frame it's it's basically so you have ten years that's covered in the first four verses and then you have about another year that takes place as the balance of the book in telling the rest of the story as it as it progresses. Then we know that, as I said earlier, the Midianites, they had oppressed Israel for seven years. Don't know where that fell into this time frame. uh but their invasion of the land destroyed the crops and helped facilitate the famine that they were enduring. Ruth means friend or beauty, and Ruth truly was a friend to Naomi. Uh that is something that was lived out in her life. Some key words from the book of Ruth as kinsmen, redeem, grace. As we get into the latter chapters, we will spend some time discussing the principle or idea of the Kingsman Redeemer and what what that means for us. The theme of the book is Hope from Darkness. Hope from darkness. It's the amazing thing to be able to see in the midst of these tragedies that God and His providence is always there. And He always brings hope from darkness. A basic outline that we're going to follow as we study this. Chapter 1 is a wise decision. Chapter 2 is a willing dedication. Chapter 3, a worthy desire. Chapter 4, watchful deliverance. We're going to be talking about those and walking through some of that. What is the importance of the book? Well the book itself doesn't explicitly state its purpose. The message is very clear. The book of Ruth gives us some some history, some of the Jewish history. As I said, it fills in some gaps. There is, without the book of Ruth, we would not have the connecting pieces. of the lineage of Christ. Now it tells us what that is in the book of Matthew, which we're going to look at here in just a second, but without the book of Ruth, we wouldn't have that in the Old Testament. Obviously God could have given it to us in in any way, you know, in some other form or whatever, but he chose to do it here in the book of Ruth to fill in that lineage to show uh how Christ is coming through the line of David, which was the promise, which is what God said was going to happen. And without this we wouldn't have that assurance or confidence. It provides that link. Let me just read for you Matthew chapter 1, verses 5 and 6. And Solomon begat Boaz. And of Rached and Boaz begat Obed, and of Ruth, and Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David, the king, and David the king begat Solomon, of her that had been the wife of Urias. So we see there the repeat of that lineage, that heritage, and shows us what is told us in this book here, the book of Ruth, about the line of Christ. that that link of Christ's lineage back to David so that he could be presented as the son of David which was prophesied. We know that David was a man after God's own heart. David was born in Bethlehem of Judah, as was Jesus We know that David was a shepherd, as was Jesus. David was rejected, and so was Christ. David was able, with God's help obviously, but David was able to defeat Israel's greatest enemy. And Jesus defeated man's greatest enemy, Satan, won the victory over death in the grave. The main truths that are taught here, although it's only 85 verses The truths are powerful. The truths in this very short book, picturesque book. It's very uh it's one of those books that's It's just a story that you can read through very, very quickly. And sometimes because you're captured in the story, you're not catching the truth that's there, the truth that it's communicating. So obviously the idea of redemption is central with the principle of the Kingsman Redeemer. Having the that Redeemer uh that we're going to discuss and look at. It gives us a prophetically a story of Israel. Scene When we can look back, we can see God's judgment and God's return and God's redemption and God's provision of the children of Israel. And this at this time was prophetically talking about the children of Israel. We also have the typology, the picture of Christ in the church, and that story played out in real time for us. H. A. Ironside said, Ruth is a picture of Israel. Some have debated this. However, if I have a lock and a bunch of keys, How will I know which key belongs to the lock? Well, logically, the one that fits. The history of Israel fits perfectly in this story of Ruth. So that's his explanation for putting that picture of Israel and what took place and what God has done with the nation of Israel inside this story just as a picture prophetically because that is what fits so perfectly. It also has a picture of Christ in the church in the same way that Ruth prefigures the uh Church of Jesus Christ, that type, that picture, a Gentile woman who was under a curse, who was estranged from God, who didn't have any hope of her own. was brought from exile through Naomi. God does this work And after resting at Boaz's feet, she is brought into the family. She is redeemed, his kinsman redeemer. And Naomi's lost property is restored to her. It's a picture of what God is going to do with Israel and then a type of the Christ in the church. It's a picture of God's grace working in the lives of people, restoring that which is broken, rewarding those that are faithful. Another powerful truth is that inside this story, you see a family that for generations enjoyed the blessings of God because of their singleness of heart. It's amazing if you you we get to look at it in hindsight. We get to go back and look at it and and almost like You know, you look back down through history and you you read uh the stories of some men and you can see you you can see their families and what God has done. We get to look back and see here this story and how God blessed them. I wonder how much we we look at David and all that David was. But don't we have to go back and say, okay, David was all that he was because Jesse influenced him to be that way. And why was Jesse that way? Well, because Jesse's parents influenced him to be that way. And so we see this heritage that's been continued on. thinking about it from us personally, okay, where we are right now, we could benefit and be a blessing to our family for generations. By standing for truth and righteousness, by teaching them the right things, by continuing to impart uh the wisdom of God, and just getting them to submit to God And God's blessing will be on their lives for generations, and we get to see that in hindsight. So the inspiration of it, what is the inspiration? Now I'm not talking about the inspiration of scripture. I'm talking about what from this story is inspiring? What from this story is something that we can take home We're going to look at it verse by verse and really uh dive into it and see the truths that are there in the coming weeks. But as we just ponder tonight by way of introduction, Just as in the day of Ruth, there has been, always was, and always will be two opposing forces at work in the world. There is the force that is working to destroy life, and there is the force of God working to restore life There is Satan who destroys and there's God who restores. Those opposing forces are always at work. Today, when people come to Christ, they come to Christ many times with a lot to overcome because Satan has wreaked so much havoc in their lives. Satan has created so much of a problem that they have a lot that they have to overcome because he has won so many victories. It's a sad thing, but most people that come to Christ today do so because their world is falling apart. They look at their world and And their world physically, maybe, uh, emotionally, socially, financially, and most of all spiritually, their world, every aspect is just falling apart. They they've got no hope. Every it just it looks everywhere they turn it it's in destruction. Well this is what we see in the story of Ruth. We see Ruth in that place where uh they they uh were deciding What to do. Elimelech was, man, the world's falling apart. What are we going to do? Elimlek made a very common but fatal miscalculation in the midst of his trial. Now all men reach a point of trial, but the decision that they make is crucial at that point. You see he thought he could run from his problems. We see here in verse number one. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land and a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah went to sojourn, we see that word sojourn, which is just the idea of just a little trip. I'm just gonna rest here for a little bit, just gonna take a break because things are rough in our homeland, in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. And the name of that man was Elimlech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons, Molon and Kileon, the Epaphrites, and Benjamin Judah, and they came into the country of Moab and continued there. Now we just read in verse number four that we saw they were there ten years. They just went for a little sojourn and they ended up continuing there for ten years. You see, they thought that they could run from their problems. They thought they could get away. Bethlehem means the house of bread. They were in the midst of a famine, and God had promised to provide for them. They left the house of bread and went to the pagan land of Moab. Now, maybe some of you have a study Bible or maybe you know it already, but do you know what Limlech means, his name? His name means my God is king. My God is king. But in his life, that's not how he lived. Because he wouldn't have gone down to Moab if he was really truly following God as his king. I wonder if in our lives we are are saying, yes, God is king, yes, he's Lord of my life, yes, uh, but then we're doing what we want to do instead. We're pursuing our own path and not consulting the king. You see, they failed to trust God in the midst of the trial, instead they went their own way. You know, they looked at the famine and said, well, there's no hope. Things are bad. We've got nothing we can do. But see, God had promised to provide and protect them. And here in a couple of chapters we're going to get to, we're going to look at Boaz. And Boaz is going to be used to meet their needs. But Boaz didn't go to a foreign land to be taken care of, and he was doing just fine. They would have been okay had they trusted God and stayed where they were supposed to. Instead of looking at it from a worldly standpoint, from their own mind, and choosing to go, you see, they were living by sight and not by faith. Moab looked like the better option. It looked like the good financial decision. It looked like the smoother ride But the fact of the matter is they knew better. They knew they shouldn't do that. In Deuteronomy chapter twenty-three, verse number three, the Bible says, An Amorite or a Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord Even to the tenth generation shall they not enter. They knew that God had told them not to associate or spend time with the Moabites or the Amorites. They were the enemies of God. They were promoters of false religion. They attacked the Israelites over and over again. You remember where the Moabites and the Amorites came from? They came from the relationship of Lot's daughters after Lot was freed, brought saved, brought out of Sodom. His daughters thought, oh no, the whole world's gone. There's nobody left in all the world. And what are we going to do? There's nobody to continue our father's seed. Let's get dad drunk. They both did that and lied with their father, and they had both his daughters had children in that incestuous relationship And from that the Moabites and the Amalekites came, and they wore a thorn in the side of Israel forever, and they were not to be part or associated with the children of Israel. Let me say to you that what seems from a worldly point of view to be better often is the wrong decision. I mean, Elimelech looked at it and said, boy, there's a famine, things are tight, we don't have food, what are we going to do to take care of the family? Oh, I know everybody else in the neighborhood's gonna stay, but you know what? It sure would be a lot easier if we just went down to Moab for a little while. I think that this is gonna be a better solution, and I could hear them if they were in today's world they would be telling their pastor, Oh, uh God is moving us, God is leading us down here to Moab because that I mean if a man doesn't take care of his family, he's worse than an infidel So we're going to go down here to Moab and we're going to uh do this and they didn't ask what they should do. They just came and said, here, this is what I'm doing. This is my plan. And most people, they've already had their mind made up They're gonna do this, they're gonna do that, you know. And uh I can hear them saying that, but beloved, what a lot of times looks like a better solution when you're looking at it from uh purely financial or purely worldly aspect, can I tell you most of the time that's not the right solution? Most of the time that's not the way you should go. You've got to really look at things from a spiritual mind and see God, get the mind of God on it, not just what looks to be the most profitable God had promised them protection and provision. Over and over he said to them, If thou wilt, I will If thou wilt, I will. He told them he would take care of them, he would provide for them, he would protect them. Listen, we have a promise from God in this tumultuous world that we're living in that things could change in a moment I mean from one week to the next, the the climate in our country, we know it can be turned on its head. It can be upside down and and the turmoil that we are individually living with can can be Drastically increased in a very short amount of time. But I wonder in that situation, do we have enough faith to trust God Would we be able to keep our eyes on God and follow biblical truth and do what's right, or are we going to do what's pragmatic? What is the most convenient or best for us individually? Or are we going to do what the Word of God teaches, the principles of the Word of God? The reason they ran away from God instead of following Him is because they were more interested in the physical than the spiritual. I wonder how many Christians are more interested in the physical than the spiritual. I mean, is is a new car more important than a new Bible? Is a new car more important than being in church or being in God's Word or being what God wants you to be? I just know that the physical, the tangible, has such a stronghold on us. When the spiritual is what is and should be the most important. And I know any one of us here would say the spiritual is most important. We would, without question, we would say that. What shall it profit a man if you gain the whole world and lose his own soul? I mean, the amount of money doesn't matter at all if you die and go to hell. But I wonder how are we living? How are we living in our day-to-day actions? What are we saying has the most important is the most important part of our life in our day? You see, they embraced the world and they walked away from the word. The problem is you can run, but you can't hide. Because the fact of the matter is, is they say the heart of the problem is the problem of the heart. And we take that with us no matter where we go. The children of Israel were currently in famine. Why? Because they had been disobedient. Because they weren't doing right. They were under the judgment of God. A new location doesn't fix that. And a lot of people want to find a new location But they've taken their own sinful heart with them to the new location. And so they're going to end up with the same problems. That they had here. Because the problem is not the location, the problem is our heart. And what are we pursuing with our heart? This whole story takes place in a time when, as I said, everything was falling apart. Some poor decisions were made and Cost people their lives and brought great heartbreak and tragedy into their lives. But we see the awesome hand of God and his mercy in providing redemption through it all. And that's what we want to get a picture of. As we see even in this world where things are so bad, Where we might be going through so much, or we maybe have made some wrong choices, we know that God is there. God is always there, and God is willing and wants to help, and He can uh restore. And redeem, buy back. He can put things back, even though sometimes we've made a big mess of it Because we have that enemy who's working to tear things apart. But we have a Savior of God who is working to restore. Just who are we going to follow? They'll stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. The pianas is going to come. We're going to have one verse of invitation here. Then we move into our prayer time tonight. Just an introduction to the book of Ruth, this story which I think overall you're probably familiar with, but want to get into it and see what God has for us. It's a pianist plays if God spoke to you.