You can turn in your Bibles to the Book of Ephesians, we are in Ephesians We are in chapter number one. We began last week with the introduction and look first just at the first couple of verses. This evening, the title of the Topic or the area we're going to be looking at here tonight is the Father's plan. We're going to be looking at verses 3 through 6. Follow along with me if we would, we'll read these. He said, Blessed be the God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. having predestined us unto the adoption of the children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will To the praise of the glory of His grace, wherein He hath made us accepted in the beloved. As we began last week, this powerful book and Began to look at what is literally the life of the believer found in Christ. You're going to see that over and over again. You're going to see that teaching of being in Christ. And you're going to see the comparison over and over again between our position and our practice. We talked about it a little bit last week. It's going to be mentioned again tonight and I don't know how many times through the book, but it is part of what really is emphasized in Ephesians is our position in Christ as something that's been granted and given to us. in our practice, and that is our daily life and how it applies to us. As the book opens, you would expect maybe it to begin as many others where He gives a list of do's or don'ts, or he begins right away to address the conflict in the early church, but that's not the case. The fact of the matter is, as Paul gets, before Paul ever gets into our walk with Christ, he begins here, and these verses we're going to look at tonight to talk about our wealth in Christ. Excuse me. Remember, beloved, that Paul is writing this as a prisoner, likely under house arrest in Rome, yet he does not write as someone that is broken and bound. He is not focusing on his circumstances. Instead, he is focusing on Christ and what it means for him. That alone, beloved, should be, that alone by itself has a lesson for us, and that is that your circumstance Your particular situation, whatever has befallen you in this life, does not dictate whether you're a victorious Christian or not. It does not dictate your your your uh whether you're on the winning side or not. As you know, my dad loves to say, especially if you have a frown on your face, he loves to say, You got the victory? You got the victory? No, I don't have the victory and I don't want to talk about it. You know, he loves to say that to you. He'll he'll look for opportunities, you know. It's almost like a little A little goad, you know, like, oh come on, I know I'm supposed to be. I know I'm supposed to have the victory, but right now I don't feel like it and that's kind of the lesson that Paul teaches us that even in the face of hardship and things. I mean there's nobody in the scriptures outside of Job maybe who you would look at and say, boy, he certainly went through some tough times. You read Corinthians chapter number eleven and read about all that he went through, and you'll think, Boy, I certainly haven't endured like that. I haven't had to go through all that. And yet in all of that, Paul is saying, Listen, our position in Christ gives us The victory. Ephesians chapter 1 here is a praise-filled direct declaration of the believers' blessings as it is found Several commentators expound upon the fact that this verse, verse number three all the way through verse number 14 in the original languages, is one sentence. Now in ours Bible, they've added some sentences and broke it up into three different sections, and we are going to do that for the sake of our teaching tonight and over the next couple of weeks as well. But it is, in the original languages, it is the longest sentence in the whole of Scripture. Uh over 200 words that would be it's almost as if Paul doesn't want to pause to take a breath. It's almost as he is so excited about this truth that he just begins to share it and doesn't come up for air. He just keeps on keeping on. Like you could hear maybe Pastor Derek talking so fast it sounds like he's not breathing, right? Like he just He just keeps going, you know. You're like, okay, you gotta take a breath. Take a breath. You're gonna hyperventilate, you know. Uh but that's where you see Paul just sharing this truth and giving One thing after another, the importance of it. He is describing for us this foundation, this truth that was established before the foundation of the world. He walks us through the redemption. At the cross and carries us right on through our future inheritance. It is notable, beloved, that the whole of the Trinity is involved in this process. And we are going to see that as we begin tonight with the Father's plan. We'll see in the coming weeks the Son's work and the Holy Spirit's work as we dive into those passages, but tonight we're just looking at the Father's plan. First of all, here in verse number three we see how blessed we are as Christians. The fact of the matter is, is we are blessed of God. Now it's notable, beloved, that Paul wishes to be a blessing to God, or sh he says here he wishes to bless God. Notice he says, blessed be the God. And the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's like blessed. He uses the same term, almost the exact same term that in just a moment. He says, who hath blessed us? So blessed be God who hath blessed us. He wants to be a blessing to God. What a powerful thought. Could you possibly be a blessing to God? I think surely that we should strive to or long to be a blessing to our Father. The psalmist said, Bless the Lord, O my soul. And forget not all his benefits. We're to bless the Lord. I wonder tonight: could I get some participation from you? And could I ask of you how is it we might be a blessing? To God? I know oftentimes we don't really think about that. God blesses us so much I mean sometimes when people are a blessing to me, for yeah I I I would look for an opportunity, like how can I be a blessing to them? And I wonder if we ponder and think about boy God has been so good to me How can I be a blessing to him? Any ideas how we can be a blessing to God, Karen? I think that blesses God by sharing that truth with with others, pointing others to the to the goodness and the glory of God. Anybody else how we might be a blessing to God? Jacob. We turn away from temptation, following the faith. Amen. Amen. Walking in the spirit and and choosing Christ over temptation. Responding to him. God hath made a way of escape. No temptation hath taken you as such as common to man. But with that temptation, we know that God has provided a way of escape. And what a blessing, I think, to God when we take it. And we're victorious. Wow. Good, good truths. Anybody else have any ideas? You think why this would be a blessing to God? Anthony? Singing praises to him, lifting up your voice in praise, whether that's in song or even just in in voice or expressing uh praise and gratitude to God. I think that blesses God. I would agree with these uh statements tonight. I think we could certainly say acts of obedience, whatever they might be, and one of those would be believers' baptism or even the observance of the Lord's Supper This do in remembrance of me. Just remembering what he did could be a blessing to God. Any b anybody else ideas? Don't want to miss them if somebody has one they want to share. Surrendering, I think we could summarize that. Surrendering to the Lord's will for your life, to doing what God wants you to do, whether that's a missionary to serve on a foreign field is what she mentioned specifically. Um but I think all of us have God calls us or desires for us to do certain things and just surrendering to that. Uh certainly I think those are areas where we can be a blessing to God. And Paul wishes that. He said, Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul acknowledges here the position That God holds as the Father. This is something that's not expounded upon or talked about much in the pages of the Old Testament. We studied the names of the Father our Father. We looked at Elohim, the mighty God, and El Elion the Most High, and El Roy, the God who sees and El Olam, the everlasting God, and El Shaddai, the all-sufficient God, Jehovah Rohi, the Lord, is my shepherd, and Jehovah Shalom, the Lord of peace. Jehovah Jireh, the Lord will provide, Jehovah Raphae, the Lord who heals, Jehovah Nisi, the Lord in my banner. And and that's not all of them, but we we studied all those names of God. But as we looked at the names of God through the pages of the Old Testament, and There wasn't we didn't stop and take time to ponder and look at the idea that he's m mentioned as Father. It's not until Jesus is born, until he comes, the Son of God, shows up on earth that That truth is really driven home. That an understanding of that relationship is present and taught. Jesus said, Wis not ye that I must be about my father's business. And we recognize and we begin to acknowledge and see him for who he is. I'm glad tonight that as a child of God, I'm joint heirs with Jesus. I'm glad that I have that position that he's not just the father of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that he's my father. And that I have that position, that I have that relationship, and that I understand that to be true because of the promise on the pages of Scripture, how precious that relationship is that is exposed for us. In the pages of the New Testament. Jesus made this truth very clear when he was talking to Mary Magdalene at the resurrection. Right outside the tomb. Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my father. But go to my brethren and say unto them, So Jesus said, I want you to go tell your brethren, go tell my brethren this. I ascend unto my father and your father. And to my God and your God. Jesus, the Son of God, says, I'm ascending unto my Father and your Father. I want you to go tell the other believers, my brethren, this truth. What a blessing to have that position, that relationship of Jesus as our Father. And Paul describes the blessings that are from him. Notice he says, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings. Can I tell you, beloved, that the blessings of God are spiritual blessings? Now, on occasion, we are blessed with temporal things, but it seems like The temporal things are things that we can grab a hold of. Temporal things are things that we can see. Excuse me. And so temporal things, it seems as though oftentimes, sadly We value them far greater than the spiritual blessings. We shouldn't But I think because there are things that are tangible, there are things that we can hold, I mean we love it when we are able to say, boy, God bless me with a new car God blessed me by paying this bill. God blessed me by this physical, tangible, temporal thing that's going to pass away that has no eternal value. But beloved, the true, the great blessings of God are spiritual blessings. Oh, how we need spiritual eyes and discernment to be able to see those blessings and to understand them. Paul expounds upon some of those spiritual blessings here in this passage of Scripture. He notes from whence those blessings come. He says they're in heavenly places in Christ. This is our state, a statement of our position. Our position in Christ is a position in heavenly places. Our blessings, beloved, are not in heaven, as some might say. And they would say, boy, one day we're we're going to be able to partake of those blessings. Now there are, we know, crowns and there's other things in heaven that we won't partake of until we get there. But what he's not teaching here is that uh you've just got to endure and hold on for now and then when you get to heaven you'll be able to enjoy these heavenly blessings. No, he says that's where the your position in Christ is a declaration of the blessings that you have now. Occasionally, we're part of a service, or maybe even in your own private time, it is though heaven itself swings low. And our heart and mind and body maybe is lifted up from the turmoil of this world. And we have communion with God in such a powerful and precious way that It is almost though we we we say, boy, it was like I was in a in a heavenly place. I've heard men uh praying and Acknowledging or thanking God for carrying us this hour into heavenly places. And times like that truly are a blessing. But you don't have to wait to enjoy the blessings of God for days like that because this is a declaration of a blessing that we have. J. Vernon McGee says this: the fact of the matter is, you are in the heavenly places in Christ even when you are down in the dumps. Everyone who is in Christ is seated in a heavenly place with him. That is our position. A position he has given us. So even when you're here on earth and you're down in the dumps and you're feeling low and you don't feel like praising him, the fact of the matter is, is you need to remember one of the spiritual blessings is that we are at that moment also in heavenly places because we are with Christ We're going to see this several more times in this book, this description, as we talk about these heavenly places, or as it's been called the heavenlies. Mentioned several times throughout this book. We're going to talk about those more in the future. But we see secondly in verse number four a benevolent choice. He says in verse number 4: According as he hath chosen us in him, before the foundation of the world, we should be holy and without blame before him in love. These verse four and verse five have brought great debate in Christendom And this debate has raged for many, many years over the topics of election and adoption and predestination and free will and you know these terms that get tossed about. He says here that according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, there are many who may take a lifetime to choose Christ. But God has chosen us before the foundation of the world. Urban Powell said, The Lord knew that many would believe on his name. And knowing this, planned that those believers should be conformed to the image of his son. Just as Jeremiah knew, as he learned the same doctrine, then The word of the Lord came unto me saying, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. Before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee and ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. Beloved, God did not compel men to believe, neither did he force them to cooperate. But as he planned and called sinners to repentance, as they responded, his predestination could begin to function as he planned in their lives. This is a topic that is uh stretches the intellectual capacity of man to try and comprehend or understand Phyllis, uh John Phillips, in his commentary on this passage of scripture here, explains the limitation that we live under. a limitation of time. We function in the realm of time. Our bodies and our lives are described and looked at as before I came. I'm here and one day I'll be gone and w we everything we talk about, even we live in the moment, and even while we describe the moment, that moment is past. That's the limitation of time that our mind functions in, but the fact of the matter is, is God said, I am. He is the God that always was and always will be. He created the idea of time, the sun and the moon and the stars and the 24-hour day for man, not for him. He lives in a realm outside of time which we really can't even understand because we are so bound by it. But John Phillips goes on and he says this. Thus, when we read that we are chosen in him before the foundation of the world, we must realize that the Holy Spirit stated the issue from our perspective Since God lives in present tense, there is to him no time difference between the moment that he chose me and the moment that I chose him. Now that'll stretch your brain. Okay. There is no difference. He says, because God always was and always will be, he lives outside of time. Therefore, there is no difference in between the moment that he chose me before the foundation of the world and the moment that I chose him. It's it's all relative. We're so struck by time we we cannot function without it, but that's what he describes as one limitation for us What is notable and what is important here is not what many people focus on. They focus on the aspect or the idea of predestination, but I want you to understand, beloved, what has He chosen us for? What has He chosen us before the foundation of the world? What is the last part of that verse? What does He say? And we should be holy. That is the important part of the verse. That before the foundation of the world, the fact of the matter is, is God had chosen that men would be holy. Therefore, this verse in context is speaking less about salvation and more about the process of sanctification. Whereby we are conformed into the image of God's Son. Romans chapter 8 and verse number 29 says this: for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestine. If you know that verse, what does he say? To be conformed into the image of his son. That is what the goal is. Really, this is about transformation. God calls us to holy living, that we would be blameless. Strauss says this the ultimate purpose of God's choice is not Salvation, but sanctification. The election in the divine mind was that those that are in Christ should be holy, free from the defilement of sin. Wow. This is God's plan. And we know that ultimately it will be filled when we see Him, for we shall be Like him. Then it will be fulfilled and it will be completed when we've reached that place. When we see him, we will be completely transformed. But until then we are supposed to be going through the process of sanctification. being conformed into the image of God's Son, fulfilling his will, and being changed day by day Under this construction, with the master builder at work and the Holy Spirit performing his will in us To make us perfect in the will of God. I think, beloved, that we might have done Christendom a great disservice by focusing so much on heaven. When we talk about salvation. Or who does not want to be saved from hell? There are many who want to be saved from hell. Who would love the idea of going to heaven, but they have no interest in transformation. No interest in being changed. And what we've got to do is come to the place where we are so uh disgusted with ourselves and with our own sin that when we come to Christ We're acknowledging who he is and our inability to be transformed without him and understand that salvation, yes, there is the reward of heaven But it's about making us ready for heaven. It's about the process of transformation. It's not a work that we can do in and of ourselves, but a work that Christ has done in us. We see in verse number five a benevolent adoption. We could spend quite a long time talking about adoption. Matter of fact, we are quickly flying through these verses with these topics that we're discussing for we could spend entire messages on each one of these topics, just the topic of adoption. We could spend two or three messages on just the topic of predestination. We could spend messages, I mean entire volumes of books have been written. And studied, expounded upon on just that topic, we see here in verse number five: having predestined us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ Himself. according to the good pleasure of his will. Predestination of children. Predestination means to determine beforehand. This is a doctrine that is based on foreknowledge. But can I tell you, beloved, that foreknowledge does not force anything to happen? Just because I know, I have foreknowledge that on July 3rd the BSO is going to be playing out at uh uh Oregon Ridge Park And they're going to be shooting off some fireworks just because I know does not make that happen. Let's think about it like this. Just because a doctor is able to look at an x ray. And X-ray a child, maybe let's say a young boy in the womb, and they may be able to determine from that x-ray that the child's spine is not developing correctly. And it's very likely the child will not walk. They could inform the parents and say, you know what? Your child's spine is not developing correctly, and it's possible that he will never walk. We just want to prepare you. The parent's foreknowledge does not make that happen. And beloved, God looks through the X-ray of time With an ability that's beyond us and beyond our comprehension, but if you go back a hundred years and tell them That we could take a device and I could see right through your body, and I could look right at any broken bones and all that, they would look like you, like you've lost your mind. You're you're crazy. You don't you know you need to be put in the Hussain asylum. What I'm saying is we don't God's ways are higher than our ways. We can't understand it, but God looks through the x-ray of time and he's able to see and he knows foreknowledge of what might happen, but that does not force it to happen. Does that make sense? Man still has free will. This is why the Calvinist and all those who practice or teach Calvinist doctrine have it wrong You've got to be very careful today. Anybody that would declare themselves to be a reformed theologist today is going to lean. Towards Calvinism or be a full-blown five-step tulip-embracing Calvinist. And that is wrong. You cannot believe in the free will of man and Calvinistic doctrine. John Phillips On page 14 of his commentary on this book says, the word predestined is not used in connection with the lost. God does not predestine certain people to go to hell and others to go to heaven. The concept of predestination is reserved in Scripture for those who are in God's family. One commentator talked about it like this: just as God chose the children of Israel, and a child of Israel gains his position. By birth as a Jew, God has chosen his children And they gained their position, adopted into the family of God as the children of God by a new birth. In a very similar way. So what John Phillips is talking about is that this is in connection with the With regards to talking about those that believe, with about children that are in the family of God already, not in relation to those that are lost. We know, beloved, without question, that Christ gave himself a ransom for all. For all. Loved, you don't find an obscure passage that calls into question certain beliefs. That may be hard to grasp or hard to understand, and establish or build a doctrine off of that. There are hundreds of verses in the scripture that very clearly teach whosoever will may come. God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. For God so loved the World, the entirety of the world. You could go down through the pages of scripture. There's hundreds and hundreds of verses that declare the free will of man Uh listen to her, whosoever shall call, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Over and over again we see the free will of man. The Calvinist teaches The five tenets of Calvinism were settled on in 1623, and they are still a problem today. John Calvin was a Reformed Roman Catholic. He left the Roman Catholic Church, didn't really want to, but he left the Roman Catholic Church along with Luther. And the biggest problem is they didn't want to leave the church. That's why they were Protestants. They protested against the church, but the church didn't want to do what they wanted, and so they decided they had to leave. And so they they they held on to and maintained much Roman Catholic dogma. But they had certain things that they believed that were slightly different. And John Calvin came up with this theory, which ultimately became known as the tool of theory. Which many of you are familiar with, but it's so prevalent and it it seems as though it's having a resurgence today, even in what people would call new fundamentalism. Even with those independent Baptists who are leaning towards reformed theology, they would embrace this. And so I just want to prepare you for it because it's out there. The total depravity of man. Now, in one sense you think about that and you say, Well, yeah, man is a sinner. For all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. We know that. But that's not what he's saying. He's talking about the de total depravity of man. Man, what what Calvin taught is that man is so base, so totally depraved, that he is unable Even if grace was extended to him, he is unable to come to Christ because of the total depravity of man. That if God stood in front of you, Jesus himself, and offered salvation to you, the total depravity of man would make it so that you could not accept it That's what he teaches. And that, of course, we know is is false. It's against all of the teaching of Christ and what he came for I came to seek and to save that which was lost. There is no question about that. The total depravity of man, beloved, would make the wicked deeds of even the most horrific rapist and murderer. Part of God's decree, part of God's plan. This is false The tool of theory is T, the total depravity of man. U is the unconditional election. Unconditional election. Is God's predetermined, you'll hear about those that are the elect. And uh it's amazing that I've never met a Calvinist who was not part of the elect. Somehow, everyone I've ever met, they were part of the elect. And yet they teach that there are those who are elected To spend an eternity in hell for the glory of God, for the honor of God, they are predetermined, elected, to spend an eternity in hell. And some are elected or predetermined. Unconditional election. You have no control over this. It doesn't really matter. Ultimately, it is unconditional. Some are predestined to spend an eternity in heaven, and others are predestined to an eternity of damnation. You have L is the limited atonement. This teaches that Christ did not die for all. Can you guys think of any verses that contradict that? That Christ did not die for everybody? That he had limited atonement, that it it was only for a select few, only for a particular group, only for those whom he chose ahead of time. Limited atonement, and then irresistible grace I is ill resistible grace. That is a teaching that basically it doesn't matter how wicked or base you are, it doesn't matter what you say or do. The fact of the matter is is if God had planned Predestined for you as one of the elect, that you cannot refuse the grace of God You have no choice. It's ill resistible grace. It's grace that God extends, and you have no choice in it. It's going to come. You cannot resist it. But can you think of any scriptures? That teach that man has the ability to resist the Holy Spirit The Bible says to grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. The fact of the matter is, is man has the ability to grieve the Spirit of God. He says My mind just went blank. I had another one in my mind. A quench! Quinch not the Holy Spirit. Quinch not the Holy Spirit. You you You you as uh the idea of putting out a fire, the Holy Spirit starting to fire in you, and he says, listen, you don't quench the Holy Spirit. He's saying man has the ability to take that fire and put it out It's contr irresistible grace is contrary to Scripture. To many scriptures that are out there. And then the preservation of the saints, the idea that if you have responded in this regard, if you are one of the elect, that you cannot and will not ever fall away. That you will be preserved until the end of time. Beloved, can I tell you that Calvinism destroys soul winning? If you believe this as it's taught There is no reason to be a soul winner. There is no reason to fulfill the Great Commission. Why would God give us the commission, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel? If the fact of the matter is, is those that are elected are going to be saved because there's irresistible grace, they cannot deny it, it doesn't matter what they do, they're going to come to Christ. And those that are are just elect or predetermined to spend an eternity in hell, it doesn't matter how much we preach, it doesn't matter how much we pray, it doesn't matter how much we work, the fact of the matter is they're predestined to go to hell and there's nothing we can do about it. Why would we bother fulfilling the Great Commission? Why would we send missionaries around the world? Why would we bother uh running a bus route? Beloved, this this philosophy or idea destroys soul winning. It makes man an autonomous, a robot, you could say. Turns man in it takes free will away from man. And we know that God has given man free will. I want to tell you that there are some people who would say, well, I'm a one-point Calvinist, or I'm a two-point Calvinist. Like they would say, well, I want to, I'm going to deny the total depravity of man, but I'm going to embrace the irresistible grace. Can I tell you that by Calvinist teachers themselves, they state very clearly and without question that these five things They depend upon themselves, they rely upon each other. If any one of them is true, the other four must be. They have to be in order for the one to be correct There is a circular reasoning that takes place and they say, uh, if this is true, then that establishes the fact that this must be true. And if this is true, it makes that true. And so you have this circle circular reasoning Can I tell you, beloved, that every self-declared Calvinist that I've ever met has, without question, Felt they were intellectually superior than the common man. Now there are some who are into who are Calvinist By practice, they don't know, they haven't been taught differently. But can I tell you everyone that I've ever met in my life who is a proclaimed Calvinist who knows what they believe They believe they are intellectually superior, and that is the crux of this thing. It it plays on the pride of men. and they have deeper understanding and they have a stronger knowledge and they can they can grab a hold of these truths and others can't. Can I tell you that you don't have to know Greek to know what God wants you to know? You can gain some things by looking in a Greek lexicon if you want. You can learn some things by diving into some of those truths, but it is not necessary to know the truth of the Word of God and what He has for you. Bronson, a well-known Calvinist writer, said in order for one to be consistent, he must hold to all five points of Calvinism. Palmer, another writer, he said the five points of Calvinism tie together so strongly, he who accepts one must accept all. I I could give you four or five other quotes as well. The fact of the matter is that is you you you can't we disavow and don't agree with any points of Calvinism. Now, I don't have any time tonight to teach on Arminiism, which is the exact opposite of Calvinism. And it goes too far the other way. That's not addressed in our verses, so I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm just going to read this quote by John Bant. In his book on the other side of Calvinism, page number 11, he says, those Baptists who choose to believe the Bible rather than the speculations of Calvinism or Arminianism. Have sometimes referred to themselves as Biblicist. Naturally, this is very offensive to both the Calvinist and the Arminianist. For it correctly implies the unbiblical nature of both beliefs. Do I need to read it again? He says that's a you you say, well, you know what? I'm not a Calvinist, I'm not an Arminiist, I'm a Biblicist. And by implication, you're saying, I don't believe that teaching because it doesn't line up with the Bible, and they find that to be offensive, which is understandable. We want to line up with the Bible We see that this is all done in and for or by the pleasure of his will. It brings great joy to the heart of Jesus to see men come to him when men put their belief in him D. L. Moody described this this way. He said, Whosoever wills are the elect, and the whosoever won't. are the non-elect. That's how Diyalmoody put it. So that sums it up pretty simply, which is why Diyal Moody was a great soul winner and reached, you know, hundreds of thousands and and more for for Jesus Christ. The Lord has extended the invitation to all, and whosoever will may come. If anybody is left out, it's because they chose to, not because they were not part of the elect. We see lastly tonight on a beloved acceptance. Verse number six to the praise of the glory of his grace. The glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us acceptable or accepted in the beloved. The glory of his grace. We think or ponder about the grace of God and how it is, in fact, the grace of God that makes us acceptable. It is an amazing thing to consider any good that I have in my life is because of the grace of God that is at work in my life. Outside of his grace, that grace which is all sufficient, I certainly would fall on my face. And it is only because of God's grace that I am truly accepted. Pastor Fedena gave a compelling illustration with regards to this truth. I'm using this illustration because it just so beautifully pictures this this truth of being accepted. He said that the during World War II there were many European ladies Who having been influenced by Hollywood desired to come to America. And as there were ships coming back and forth They would stow away and try and get in. It happens quite frequently. The port at the ports the ships were searched and Those that were found were immediately put back on another boat and sent back to Europe. However, what these girls found out is that The GIs that were over there, if they could win the heart of a young man and secure their marriage That when they came to the US, they would be accepted. Not just accepted, but welcomed with open arms. They were accepted not because of something that they had done, but because of their beloved. They were accepted in their beloved because the American The U. S. soldier who had gone and fought for America came back and was welcomed with parades and with praise and with honor. And those that he loved were welcomed with him. And beloved, we are made acceptable in the beloved. Now who is the beloved? Well you remember When John the Baptist was standing there in the water, he was about to baptize Jesus, he said, Behold, my beloved Son. He is the beloved. And we are accepted. Not because of anything that we've done. But because we are in Christ, the beloved. What amazing truths that Paul gives to us here in the Verses. God the Father had a plan before the foundation of the world. It's hard for us to grasp or even understand, but He provided a way for man to be accepted. Where he would be adopted into the family and be made joint heirs with his son. Boy, this should humble us. And this should motivate us to strive to be conformed into the image of his son, to strive to be a blessing to God. Who has blessed us so richly? We should stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed.