Turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter thirteen. This morning we're going to continue with one of the parables here, the parable of the Pearl of Great Price. Now this is not to be confused or with the book, The Pearl of Great Price, which is part of the Mormon doctrine. The Mormons have three books that they they uh believe uh are they actually supersede the scriptures. The Mormons believe that the Book of Mormon, uh written by Joseph Smith uh is superior to the scriptures. The scriptures are good, but they're not infallible. They don't believe that the scriptures are infallible or inerrant. They they are a good book, but they would defer to Joseph Smith's writings. And then they have two other books that they uh read and uh reference quite a lot, and that is uh the doctrines and creeds of the Mormon Church and Then the Pearl of Great Price, uh which they took obviously from the scriptures here, uh and they named their book that, but that is again writings of Joseph Smith and his kind of ex expositions on his own book. So the Pearl of Great Price is kind of talking about the Book of Mormon. So this is not to be confused with that. If you see a book out there called The Pearl of Great Price, you might think, oh man, that's probably a good book. That's right out of the scriptures. Well, I wouldn't encourage you to get it to read it. Make sure that it's not uh you know the writings of Joseph Smith, because there's going to be a lot of false doctrine in that book. But this, the Pearl of Great Price, a parable given to us by Jesus Christ in the midst of Matthew chapter 13. This is the kingdom chapter. The kingdom of God is like unto continually we see that phrase listed here. And Christ Himself gives us an expression of His love and concern. for mankind and what he does for them and what the kingdom of heaven is going to be like. This is interesting that this of all the parables, you know the parables, the majority of them are spurred by the uh questions or the problems that arise. You know, the Pharisees come and they accuse him of something and Jesus teaches a parable which basically you know, takes the rug out from under whatever they were saying. And and there's many times that what he is teaching is motivated by that. But these parables in this chapter were motivated up out of a heart of love. Christ just wanting to teach his people about the kingdom of heaven. If you read chapter number twelve and then you get into the beginning of chapter number thirteen, uh you see he says that the first verse here, he says the same day when Jesus uh of the house and sat by the seaside, and a great multitude were gathered together unto him, so that they went unto a ship and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. And he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow. So he gives them here In this chapter, you have, I think it's around verse number 10 or so, you have a definition of the parables. He talks about, like the disciples asked, why what do parables mean, or why are you teaching them parables? And so he gives these to them and explains why he teaches them parables, and then he teaches these many parables about the kingdom of heaven. Then we see here that this in the middle of this context of the Kingdom of Heaven parables, we see that we should very clearly and easily understand what it's dealing with. This is dealing with the kingdom of heaven and God wanting to teach people about that. Um the word again found at the beginning of this parable, look in chapter 13, verses number 45 and 46. Chapter number 13 Verse number 45 and 46 is where we find this parable. And he says here again. And then let me read the parable for you. He says, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man. seeking goodly pearls, who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had So this first word here again ties this parable very closely to the parable that is before that in uh the couple of verses before that we see the parable where a thing is found uh accidentally and the value of something is expressed even though it was accidentally come upon even though it was accidentally Accidentally found. Yet here in this parable you have a strong contrast. Because here it's not something that is found accidentally, but it is something that is sought after. It's something that he went to get, that he went to try and achieve or try to find. He said, Here, here is this parable of great value. And he was willing to go and to buy it and purchase it. He didn't come upon it accidentally. So then the characters of this par the this parable you have very simple, a short one obviously. You have the pearl, the merchant seeking the pearls, and the cost that was paid for the pearl. Pearl. The truth of this parable, the overriding truth, is that Christ is seeking for the church and is willing to give all that he had to that he may obtain Now the translation of this parable is uh one that is kind of confused uh by many, uh looked at many different ways. Uh there's some misinterpretations and misapplications which are very beautiful and and uh you know when you hear them on the surface you look at it and say, well that makes perfect Perfect sense. One that I didn't give you in your writing, in your notes at all, is a that some would believe that the pearl of great price, the pearl of great value, is the scripture. That this is the pearl. And the merchant is Christians. And the cost expended to purchase it should be everything and that we should value the scriptures and we should search for her as hidden treasure and that it's it's price is far above rubies and that it's gold and it it's valuable and we should go and we should search for it and we have a pearl in the scriptures and in many ways this is there is truth in that parable. The scriptures are valuable and we should search them out. We should s invest time and it should be worth something to apply We should value the Word of God. We should be willing to expend energy to uh have the Word of God. There are many people that don't have access to the Word of God at all, and I certainly believe that as Uh people that have been privileged to have it so readily available, I think many times we take it for granted. But that's not the interpretation of the parable. That's an application or a way that some people have looked at it, but it's not correct. Another misinterpretation of the parable is that they say the pearl here is Jesus The pearl of great price is Jesus. And the one who sells all to obtain the pearl is the sinner who is seeking Jesus. They've even written a poem for that, and it goes like this: I have found the pearl of great price. My heart does sing for joy, and sing I must. For Christ I have, oh what a Christ I have. Beautiful. But again a misinterpretation. Interpretation of the pearl. We know this is false for a couple of reasons, and I've given these into in in your notes there. We know this is false because the Lord is the one that seeks the loss, not the other way around. The Lord has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Missing and they desire God, but God is seeking them first. God has put that desire in their heart to find God. And God has sought after them. came to seek and to save that which was lost. We know it's uh false as well because salvation is a free gift. Salvation is not something that we work for. Or that we earn. There's no amount of effort on our part expended in order to obtain or have salvation. Yet here the man in this parable He was willing to sell all that he had so that he could obtain the pearl. But we know that that can't be salvation because it was all paid for by Jesus Christ. And we don't have to do anything to it Or to obtain salvation, that's a free gift. And God gives it to us freely. The minute somebody begins to work for something, it ceases to be a gift And therefore, we know that that's a false interpretation. So the interpretation here, believed by by many in uh To be the true interpretation is this, that the merchant is Christ. That would be the one seeking to find or obtain this valuable pearl, the one willing to accept spend energy and effort and to sell all that he had, to pay everything that he obtained that he had, to give it all, was Christ. And the pearl is the church. The pearl is the church that Christ gave himself for. Think with me or consider the composition of the church. Uh as we think about the idea of a pearl being formed, uh a pearl is put together of a grain of sand of a mineral that is captured inside a shell. And you think about that, a mineral is dirt. A mineral uh a a grain of sand, something captured out of the abyss of the sea. And if you apply that to us, you think about how God grabbed us out of this world and pulled us out of the world and put us into a place of safety. Just a grain of sand. What is man made of? Dirt. Out of the dust of the ground, God for Man and breathed into him the breath of life. We're just minerals put together. And God reaches into a world, the abyss of the world, and grabs us and pulls us out. And puts us into the church. This precious thing that he was willing to give himself for. And then the pearl, as it's polished, only after a pearl goes through the hands of a master polisher is its true Value realized. When the pearl is first found, it's just a uh a rough and sometimes not quite uh even or perfectly round and not quite, doesn't quite shimmer, doesn't have the the they can't even quite tell how valuable of a pearl it is until they begin to polish it and find out the quality and the consistency of the of it and all that. It has to go through the polisher and you and I too have to go through some polishing We've been called to endure. Sometimes we don't like it much. The the God taking off the rough edges, polishing us up a little bit, turning us into something valuable. But that's when the true value of a pearl is seen. I did a little bit looking uh into the value of pearls and uh there are There are a few sets of pearls that are quite exorbitant in cost. Uh and it's some because of who owned them. There's a set of pearls that Elizabeth Taylor owned. that sold for uh 3. 7 million dollars. And uh there are some other pearls that because of their size and their quality, uh they sold for around seven million. There are very rare what they call gray or black pearls, and there's a set of black pearls out there that sold for like twenty-five thousand dollars. Um but there is a pearl that's very large and actually when I look at the picture it looked kind of ugly to me. But it's said to be worth a hundred million dollars. A hundred million dollars Kind of goofy but the value of a pearl. You know, it's amazing what God can do if somebody's willing to yield to him Him. God calls us to go through this chastening process, to be made in to his image, to be what he wants us to be Hebrews 12, verse number eleven says, No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth a peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. And in Ephesians five, verses twenty four through twenty seven he says, Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so likewise the husbands be to And what Gave himself for it. He gave himself for it. Why did he do that? Why did he give it give himself for it? Verse number 26 says that it might be sanctified. and that he might sanctify it and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it unto himself a glorious church not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing, but it should but that it should be holy and without blemish. The polishing process that God takes the church through, that God is purifying That he might present to himself a church that is spotless and without blemish. A pearl that's got blemish is not worth as much. A pearl that has this defect is not quite as valuable. As a church, we certainly should strive and desire to be one without spot. One without One that would bring honor and glory to God, one that would please the Lord. I know you probably understand how a pearl is formed. But scientists tell us that the result uh that it is actually a result of suffering that brings about a pearl This little creature within the oyster or the clam has somehow got a irritant Put into its shell and this irritant is there and it's not very comfortable and he doesn't like it. This begins to cause problems inside the shell This tiny grain of sand, this tiny mineral, actually makes the oyster bleed. And this life-supporting fluid as it's drawn out is wrapped around the grain of sand. This little creature inside the shell literally gives its life for the formation of the pearl. Isn't that what Christ did for the church? He said he loved the church and gave himself for it. He bled and died. He suffered. That he might have the church. Um consider the value of a pearl. I'm talking about the value of the pearl that Christ gave us the church. There is great value. It is a refuge from the powers of darkness. Colossians 1. 13. A refuge from the powers of darkness. In Colossians 1. 13, it says that specifically talking about the kingdom of heaven, and that is uh it is a refuge from the power of darkness. It is a domain of righteousness, peace, and joy. Romans chapter 14, verse number 17. Let me just read that to you. Romans 14. He says For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace Peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. It's a place of righteousness, peace and joy. It is an unshakable kingdom. Hebrews chapter 12, 25 through 29, talks about the things of this world that they can be shaken. I mean how many people have held tr t so many values and truths and say man this is this is is what it is and then all of a sudden that is shaken. Oh this company is never gonna fail. The Titanic's never gonna sink. Last night the kids and I read a story about a uh theater that was not that was supposed to be undestructible, was supposed to never not be able to burn down the very first night That it was full of people. It burned to the ground. And uh it wasn't prepared up to today's codes and the doorways weren't weren't properly uh meant for for egress. The balcony stairwells met the stairwells from the basement to let people out, and in the hallways bodies were just trampled. As people tried to get out. As people tried to escape. People had this faith in this building and how it was constructed, and oh, this is solid. I can trust this. But it's shaken. But we we have a faith that's unshakable. We have a a God that is the same yesterday, today, and forever. An unshakable kingdom. He he said about the kingdom, talking about the church here, this pearl of great price. that uh the gates of hell would not prevail against it, that it would stand strong. So what are the teachings of the parable here? Several things that we can take as we walk away from this, first of all, think about and remember the fact that Jesus takes the initiative. He sought after you. Revelation 3. 20 says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in unto him and will sup with him. and he with me. He sought you. Isn't it an amazing thing to think about the fact that God sought after you? Have you ever uh played a sport and uh felt the pride that comes from being picked by the top dog by being picked by whoever like maybe there's a guy there and he's well known and he's popular and and he's really really good at this particular sport whatever it might be And all the people are lined up there and he looks out and he picks you. And you're like, Man, I get to be on his team, you know, that's awesome. I mean I think about my my kids and uh, you know, we're playing basketball downstairs or something and and we're picking up teams. And, you know, maybe uh a beta's there and I mean obviously a beta's got a lot of size and And a lot of uh years of knowledge and strength and a better would be a great player, but you know, I wanna want to have my son on my team. So I don't pick a better, I pick my son, and you can see the smoke smile on their face. You know, I I'm still at the point where, you know, dad can do anything, you know. I mean, I know that passes, but th they're just kinda uh, you know, they they're still impressed by dad and they want to be on dad's team. And and you know, I pick them and and they're like, Oh yeah, I get to be on dad's team. Think about God chose you to be on His team. God the Father, the creator of the world, chose you. He sought after you, loved you enough and wanted you on his team Think about the fact that not only did he want you on his team, but he was willing to pay to have you. He sold all that he had. It cost him everything, and he bought you. You know, I I told it before and maybe you remember it or maybe you don't, but uh the story of the little boy who sister was extremely ill and she was approaching death and actually she needed a blood transfusion And the doctor and dad came in and asked the young boy, you know, would you be willing to you're a match for your sister and would you be willing to Give blood to your sister. And the boy thought for a minute and he hung his head down and Then he lifted his head and he says, Dad, I'll do it. So they took him into the hospital room there and they put him in a bed next to his sister and they hooked up the the the machines and there they uh began to transfer some blood, gave him a transfusion and the boy was sitting there and kind of a tear Who began to roll out of his eye and he looked up his dad and said, Dad, when when is it gonna happen? And he said, what what when is what gonna happen, son? He said, when when am I gonna die? And this boy had gladly given his blood. For his sister. In his mind, he thought it meant he was given his life. He thought he was letting his life go so that his sister could live. And of course, Dad got a smile on his face and explained to him, son, no, you you're not going to die. You just shared some of your blood so that your sister could live. You get to still live. But he was willing. to give it all for a sister. That's what God did for you. That's what Jesus did for you when he stayed on the cross. He paid the cost for you. You know, in light of this, in light of the fact that God chose you, in light of the fact that that God paid for you, what should we do? What does this mean for us? What do we take away from this I think that it ought to motivate us to want to do our best for him. You know, have you ever bought something that you were disappointed in I mean have you ever bought a tool or you bought something for the kitchen ladies or maybe you you you bought a sewing machine and you found out it didn't do what everything it was said it was gonna do or you got this this was supposed to be the cat's meow and you got it home and found out it was a mutt. I mean you just you're you you found you bought something you're disappointed in? How many of you ever done that? Have you ever bought something that you thought, man, that was a good purchase? Man, I'm glad I got that. If there's everything ever anything I bought, I've never been sad one day that I got that. How does God feel about you? How does God feel about me? When he thinks about the cost that he paid, For you and I. How does he feel? Is he glad? Man, I'll tell you what, I'm so glad that I paid the price for her, that I paid the price for him. I hope so. That's what we should be motivated to do. Say, I want to be all I can be for God. I should respond to his prodding. Christ sought me. Christ bought me. The least I can do is what He desires for me to do Remember that the little irritations is God just working off the rough edges? God's just turning you into something very valuable as he polishes away and makes us into his image and what he wants us to be.