Turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11 tonight. I know that you uh are familiar with this passage of scripture. Some of you probably could quote it. I just wonder if maybe uh you haven't considered or thought about it in the light or in respect to the way I would like to apply it this evening. Follow along with me as we read our text, Hebrews chapter 11, verse number 24 through 27. We see here in the Word of God, he says, By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt For he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. I would like to speak to you this evening on the message which I have entitled The Power of Discernment. Not necessarily the discernment as we think of in respect to the Word of God. Sometimes there is the aspect of discerning right and wrong. That's certainly a biblical principle that has been shared in the Word of God to discern right or wrong. And maybe maybe we think about discernment uh in the Word of God from the aspect of discerning uh biblical truth over falsehood. Uh certainly false teachers and Jude, the entirety of that book is dedicated to contending for the faith. exercising discernment to know that what you're hearing is indeed the word of God. But I would like to take that word discernment and almost Kind of continue the message from this morning. I would like to maybe this could be like a uh a conclusion on this morning, so we won't be here very long, but I just want you to think about it from this aspect to be able to discern what things in this life are of true value. What is it that is really worth your time, energy, and effort? We see here in this short few verses about Moses, and you guys know the story. By and large, you understand what happened here, but if I could just kind of put it in layman's terms, he looked At what God had done for him. He beheld the blessings of having the hand of God on his life and enjoying the goodness of God in his day-to-day walk. He relished and desired that relationship and that closeness with God, his Father. He looked at what God was doing in his life and the direction that he was taking him and he decided, you know what, if I'm going to weigh these two out On one hand I have everything that God is to me and everything that God does for me and everywhere God is taking me, and on the other hand I have pleasure of sin for a season. He looked at Pharaoh's house and he said, you know, there's nothing really in this house that I can't live without. There's nothing here in the world that I need. No, I would much rather be with my God. I would much rather have a right relationship with him I'm going to forego, reject, and let go of all these meaningless worldly things on this side and choose rather to suffer the uh affliction of persecution than to choose pleasure of sin for a season Discerning between that which is useless and that which is priceless. The sad thing is a lot of Christians Have lost the ability, or they have been hoodwinked by Satan, and they are buying into Satan's lies, and they are grabbing a hold of and seizing those things in this world that truly are useless And they're doing so at the cost of that which is priceless. There are other men in the Word of God that we have seen that exercised and had a lack of spiritual discernment. You can think one of the First things that probably come to your mind is Samson. He had been empowered by God. He had been blessed by God. He was, I mean, the strongest man in the world. He thought he had the world by the tail. He thought everything was his, you know, and he could have his cake and eat it too. But instead, he chose the pleasures of sin. He chose to defy his mother and father. He chose to reject the will and desire of God over and over again. You see him going down into Timnath. You see him taking a wife from a a people that he was not supposed to be married to. You see him touching animals he wasn't supposed to be touching being in the vineyard where he wasn't supposed to be amongst uh the wine he was not supposed to be touching over and over again, choosing to grab a hold of that which is useless and lose what God gave him He lost it all. You think about Esau. Who for a bowl of soup, a little bit of porridge? Gave up his spiritual birthright. I mean, how short-lived is a meal? No matter how good it was, come supper time, you're hungry again I mean, come just four, five, six hours. That may have been the best meal you ever had, or it may have been the most expensive meal you ever paid for, but just a few hours and you're hungry again. And he gave up his spiritual birthright that was his not just for this life but for eternity for something that was going to pass away like that. My challenge to you, my encouragement to you is to kind of again, as I said, the continuation of this morning really but just to exercise spiritual discernment in our lives and really allow the Spirit of God to impress upon us those things that are of utmost importance that we need to be giving our time, energy, and talents to And to let go and to forego the things in this world that are useless and meaningless and have no eternal weight or value I want to just give you a couple of passages of scripture, and we won't be long tonight, but when we weigh out some things, there are some areas that the Bible is very clear that one is far more valuable than the other. One example would be giving over receiving. It's more blessed to give than to receive. And we're not going to chase down that uh that rabbit tonight, but just there's Principles like that that are found in the Word of God that are very applicable. And so I would like you to look in your Bibles at 1 Samuel chapter 15. For the first one, we are going to look through the Bible and several different passages of Scripture tonight. Another example of Biblical principle that could be exercised is that uh we are supposed to be doing overhearing. Well here in First Samuel chapter fifteen and verse number twenty-two, the Bible says, And Samuel said, Hath the Lord great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices? As in obeying the voice of the Lord. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. Obedience over sacrifice. The fact of the matter is God is not impressed. with our sacrifice. God desires obedience from his children. If I left the home in the morning and I gave my children some direction and said, I want you guys to clean the riving room, I want you to get the counters in the kitchen cleaned off with all the dishes in the dishwasher and get the dishes washed and uh prepare the dining room for dinner. And I left home. And the kids got all excited about the work that they were going to do for dad, and they went outside and they mowed the entire yard and They painted the fence around the pool and and they weedied everything and then they uh went ahead and pressure washed the outside of the house and got that cleaned and They went down to the barn and did the impossible. They cleaned up the barn. Amen. I mean they did all that, and when I came home, they'd be like, look at all we did for you, Dad. And they would be so excited about it, and I in my mind I would be thinking, oh, that's awesome. And I walk into the uh living room and the living room's not clean and the kitchen is not dishes aren't taken care of, and the dining room's not ready for dinner They didn't know that I invited 20 church members over for dinner, and what we needed to have cleaned that is not ready. Because they didn't do what they were asked. Do you understand, beloved? It's not important that they know why they were told to do it. It's just important that they do it. And God says that to obey is better than sacrifice. Whatever you want to quantify as a sacrifice for your life and that can be different for everybody, whether that's time or whether that's money or whether that's giving up a job that's taking you down uh spiritually and and and you just can't continue there in that workplace because spiritually it's destroying you. Whatever sacrifice you want to make, understand, beloved, that it's more blessed for you to obey than to sacrifice. Sacrifice Is useless unless it is born out of obedience. Sacrifice is profitable when it is out of obedience When we are doing and sacrificing as God asks us to. It takes a truly surrendered heart to just do what God asked. Psalms 51, verses 16 and 17 says, For thou desirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. God's looking for that submitted heart A truly broken heart that's yielded and surrendered to him to just do as he asked. I know that we love 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us of all unrighteousness. And 1 John 1 9 is in the Bible, and I praise God for it, and it's always there, and yes. God will forgive disobedience. Yes, God will restore the wayward and prodigal son. But beloved, what God desires most of all is that you and I be obedient That we follow him, that we do right. Man glories in the testimony of the repentant heart The prodigal son who's brought back and is restored and I praise God for the transformed life. And when God can take a wretched old sinner who's been walking in the pits of this world and transform his life, lift him up. put his feet on solid ground and bring change and everything in his life changes. The places he used to go he doesn't go there anymore. And the things he used to listen to, he doesn't listen to anymore. And he's on the right track. I praise God for that But beloved, God would much rather have a Christian whose life hasn't been destroyed by the world. A Christian who hasn't gone down that path, a young man or a young lady who hasn't given up You know what First John one nine can't do? Oh, it can God will forgive and God can restore, but can I tell you something? First John one nine will never give you back the lost opportunities. The opportunities you lost while you were the prodigal. The opportunities you lost while you were going down uh your own way in the path of sin that you wanted to be on. What God could have done with you during that time, those opportunities are gone and you'll never get them back. Yes, you can repent and be restored, but what you could have done has been lost. 1 John 1. 9 can't remove the scars that you bear in your body and in your soul and on your heart because of having walked down this path. I praise God that we can be forgiven and we can be restored and you you can be justified just as if I had never sinned, but you understand, beloved, there's some scars in the body that that uh that sometimes are there and they're going to be there forever. It can't be removed. We've got circumstances. 1 John 1. 9 can't re-restore the broken relationships It's far better just to obey. Far better just to obey We see obedience over sacrifice, discernment. Behooves us to choose obedience Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. Secondly, I want you to see love over all else. The power of discernment, of love over all else. First Corinthians thirteen, verses one, two, and three He says, though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity. I am become a sounding brass and tinkling symbol. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understanding all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have faith so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. Beloved, listen to the veracity of the descriptions here. No, I bestow all my goods to feed the poor. And though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Listen to the description there. He says, boy, if I was eloquent in speech. He said, though I had speak with the tongues of men and angels. If I was the most eloquent preacher of all, if I had this eloquence in communication, but if I had it without love, It's meaningless. It's useless. We see an expansion of knowledge. He says, I am become as sounding brass or tinkling cymbals. He says, as though I have the gift of prophecy and understanding all Mysteries and all knowledge, an expansion of knowledge, an explosion of faith. He says, though I have faith to move mountains. If your faith was literally that faith of the grain of mustard seed which we're called upon as Christians to have, where we could say, to that mountain, be cast into the sea, and it would do it God said if you had that much faith and you had it without love, it's useless. That's powerful You see, I know we like to read this 1 Corinthians 13. We like to read it in the context of a relationship and a husband and wife and talk about the love that they're supposed to have with one another. Can I remind you, beloved, that 1 Corinthians here was written to a carnal church? A church that was functioning without love And so this entire passage was written to them to admonish them to function inside of love. I wonder how upset you would be at that brother in Christ if you were functioning in love. I wonder how you would carry that bitterness in your heart at your sister in Christ if you were functioning in love. I wonder how you could get offended over somebody uh not patting you on the back or somebody not saying hello to you in the foyer or somebody not recognizing uh or extolling your virtues or whatever it might be. I wonder how offended we would get if we were literally, really functioning in love as a body of Christ Beloved, there's far too much concern over our own feelings. We need to stop thinking so much about how we feel about stuff. Maybe worried about how God feels about it. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Sometimes I think what we need is some real I mean some real tragedy to come into our life. Because we get so bent out of shape over some of the stupidest things. And we get offended and bothered by frivolous, meaningless stuff. Yeah. And I think if we truly had a tragedy come into our life Brother Lee, Ms. Leanne, let me ask you a year and a half and ago when you got the news and you were going to face this battle. It puts the world in a whole new perspective, doesn't it? All of a sudden there's a lot of things that that we're consuming our thoughts that we look at and say, you know what, that really doesn't matter. It really is not that important. This is far more important. This is a far heavier burden. I need God to do something right here. So these other things really don't matter. And I think sometimes God's been so good to us that we're letting the goodness of God take us down a road where we carry all of this anger and bitterness and foolishness and malice in our hearts. instead of functioning in love. When we truly weigh the value of what it is we have, why would you want to hold on to that anger You're holding on to something that is completely useless, that's hurting you, that's destroying you, when you could let it go and grab love. Love above all else. Beloved the world. Let me say this, our theme's not hanging up here, but this is why our theme is so important. Because the whole of the law is contained in those commandments. We are to function in love Romans 13, 8 says, Owe no man anything but love one another. For he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. We've become consumed with activity and burdened with service. And stand separated from the world, but it is only in the outfull of love that it has value. Yes, we're supposed to stand against the world. But we're supposed to do so in love. Yes, we're supposed to speak the truth. But we're supposed to speak the truth in love. This is a love that comes from God that cannot be manufactured or or stirred up in your own heart. It's something that God has to do And I believe as God's people, we need to be praying that we would have the love of God for our brothers and sisters in Christ in the family of God. The world doesn't care how separated or how sanctified you are. And I think we should be separated. And I think we should be sanctified. There's no question. I preach enough on those topics But by this shall men know that ye are my disciple, that ye love one another. That's what the world sees. There's far too many churches like us, like ours The world doesn't see the separation, the sanctification, the process Of holiness. I mean in some respects they do, but according to the Word of God, what they see is that love for one another. They say, by this they know that you are my disciple. Love over all else. Then you know that I gotta go here. Turn to Matthew chapter six You guys know what Matthew 633 is? Can I say it like this? God over goods. Matthew 6, we're going to look at verse 31 down through 33. He says, Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink? Or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek, for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first. the kingdom of God, and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. Beloved, we weigh the value What this world has to offer and the value of what God has to offer and what we're saying is there really shouldn't be any choice there. We should be like Moses and choose to be with God. But beloved, we are so easily impressed and enamored with the things of this world. We know we're supposed to seek first the kingdom of God, and I just putting some thought into it this week, I I wonder Would we, by just the exercise or use of our time, say we're seeking first the kingdom of God? I mean, if we just think about it in straightforward practical terms. Let's say that you spend an hour of an hour every day in personal devotions and personal time with God. That's seven hours in a week Let's say that you are at all the services, Sunday morning, Sunday school, Sunday night, Thursday night. That's another seven hours in a week. Let's say let's go ahead and give the drive time. Some of you drive some distance to get here. And let's add another three hours of drive time because that's in the in the pursuit of God. Let's say you're really sold out and you're involved in ministries at the church and you serve the Lord in other aspects. You come to work party when we have it and you're maybe you're involved in discipleship. And uh you're or you go to the prison and some of you do several of those things, but let's just pick a number and say there's another five hours a week you're investing in some secondary ministries or service for the Lord. That's twenty-seven hours in a week. And you guys know the numbers I gave you are pretty generous. I'm just wondering, are we really seeking God first? We haven't even reached our 40-hour work week yet, or 50 or 60, depending upon what your work demands of you I mean what are what are who are we seeking? What are we seeking? What are we investing our life in? And I understand work is necessary, and work certainly is not sin, and there's nothing wrong with it, and it's certainly can be part of your life, it's necessary. You have to do that. But I'm just saying just think about your life. Think about what you're choosing to do with the time that you have. And what is it most valuable? We're supposed to choose God over goods. Too many are buying what Satan's selling. We're like the child. Who look and take the nickel that's being held out and give up the dime because the nickel looks bigger Satan is selling us a bill of goods about what this world has to offer and all that we can acquire and gain if we invest time and energy and effort in trying to accumulate the things of this world. When we know they're going to burn up, when we know there's no eternal value in most of it, when we know that that's not what we should be pursuing. But we allow our hearts and minds to go after those things instead of pursuing God. We choose the temporal over the eternal. We choose the corruptible over the incorruptible. We choose the pleasures of sin instead of our Savior I wonder if God could give us spiritual discernment To guide our thoughts and our mind and our decisions in the days ahead. So that we would properly weigh when we have a choice to make. And choose that which is of eternal value. Like Moses chose God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed