Amen, amen. Well turn your Bibles tonight to Luke chapter number twenty. Luke chapter number twenty familiar passage of scripture this evening. I'm going to take it a little bit different direction than maybe uh one would think uh because of the context and the text of it here I'm going to read it. We'll talk about the context. We'll talk about the application, but we will also apply it in a secondary way for us. In Luke chapter 20, beginning in verse number 19, and reading down through verse number 26 is our text for this evening. And the chief priests and the scribes, the same hour, sought to lay hands on him. And they feared the people, for they perceived that he had this parable against them. And they watched him and sent forth spies. which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, that so they might deliver him unto the power and the authority of the governor. And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly. Neither acceptest thou the persons of any, but teachest the way of God truly. It is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar or no? But he perceived their craftiness and said unto them, Why tempt ye me Show me a penny. Whose image and in subscription hath on it? They answered and said, Caesar's And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's. And they could not take hold of his words before the people, and they marveled at his answer and held their peace. Well, we certainly are often disappointed, yea, even discouraged, with the direction that our country is going. with the government and what they do with the taxes that they collect. They certainly uh seems like get it wrong more often than they get it right. The Pharisees coming to Jesus here were subtle, yea, even deceptive in their approach. I mentioned false flattery in Sunday school today and we see that as an example here. And they come to him and they're saying, Well, Master, we know that Thou speakest the words of God. We know that thou are clear and you know they're they're they're praising him, but their goal, their intention really, is to get Jesus in a trap They would like to, you know, kind of get 'em up against a wall if they could. They probably were thinking, boy, we'll get 'em with this. You know, it's kind of like As a husband trying to answer the question, uh, do I look fat in this? It's like there's not really Like n now I I'm in trouble either way. I gotta be very careful how we address this, you know. You gotta it's a it's a trick question, right? What am I supposed to do with that? They thought, boy, if The fact of the matter is, is they b as Jews believed that God owned and controlled everything, that everything comes from God. And but as Romans, they believed that Caesar was God. And everything belonged to Caesar. And so they thought, we got him now, because if he says Caesar, then we're going to say, oh, blasphemy because everything belongs to God. But if he says God, we can say, Oh, uh rebellion against the government, and we can turn him over to the governors to the powers. They thought they had trapped him, but God, in his wisdom, replies to them And it he leaves them marveled, the Bible says, at his answer, and without any means or capacity to charge him. Well, I know, beloved, that many of us wish that Jesus had said, you do not need to pay your taxes. I I know we wish that was what Christ said. But he did not say that. He was very clear that we are to render unto Caesar what is Caesar. And there are some goofy people And I say they're goopy because they are not going about it by a biblical means or even common sense There has been a few that have stood up and even some public figures that you guys would recognize if I told you their names, and they wanted to declare that uh that taxes are unconstitutional And therefore they're not going to pay their taxes. Well, they are in jail today. Okay, that's the end road. If you don't want to see tac if you don't want to pay taxes, there's a proper way to go about it you uh promote and ultimately elect somebody into office who will change the laws concerning taxes and then when Caesar changes the law and says, listen, you don't have to pay these taxes anymore then you can, in a biblical way, in honoring God and being in obedience to the authorities that God has ordained, you can not pay taxes. But you can't just arbitrarily decide what you want to do or not do Unless they are telling you to go against God. Because then you obey you always obey the higher authority. In your life, young people, that's the principle. Always obey the higher authority. What is the higher authority? If you have a teenager coming up and telling you to do something, but uh your Sunday school teacher said something else, What's the higher authority? Your mom and dad said something else? What's the higher author? You always obey the higher authority as you transgr as you go through. uh in in a situation. That'll help you and keep you out of trouble. Uh but these Jews were trying to catch him and Jesus said, you know, render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's. Render unto God that which is God. He does this by pulling a coin out and asking of them whose picture is on that coin Whose name is on the coin? Who is it? Whose image do you see here? And they said it is Caesar's. And he says, Render under Caesar that which is Caesar's. And even more importantly, render under God that which is God's. That's the interpretation of the text and the application. We we are to honor the authorities that we know are ordained of God and if you don't like the taxes and elect somebody it'll change the law. Okay? And then you don't have to pay them. But until then you you gotta pay your taxes. I wouldn't encourage you to pay any extra, and I would encourage you to take advantage of any law that is beneficial to you, that you can, you know, get any type of discount on those fees and so on that you can. Nothing wrong with that, as long as it's inside the law. Now, by way of application for tonight, I want to move on to render unto God the things that are God's. And so the title this evening is In Christ's Image. What is it, beloved, that has on it the image of God, or should have on it the image of God. You and I, as the children of God, should be in the image of God. We should, through the course of our life, be conformed into the image of God. We should be more and more Christ-like. We should have that image, the world should see in us Christ, and we should be rendering under God that which is God's. My life belongs to God. What? Know ye not That you were bought with a price? It belongs to God. And so I am to render unto God that which is God. I would like to talk to you about this process of being conformed into his image. Having his image in the image of God, having his image imprinted upon us, and we're going to talk about this briefly in a couple of aspects that we see in the Word of God where we are conformed into the image of His Son. First of all, Salvation is that first step. Salvation conforms us into his image. Now we all as men, the Bible tells us in Genesis 1. 27, that God created man in his own image. And in the image of God created he him, male and female. Now, we are not God and we will never be gods. You're not going to achieve Godhead as some false religions teach that you can achieve this certain level of of spirituality or attain something where you ultimately will become as God. That was the pride that Satan was lifted up with. I will be as the Most High. So that is certainly not an ambition that anybody should desire to, but we should desire to be as much like God, Jesus, as we can. Now we are created in the image of God in a couple of aspects. I was not going to go this detailed into this, except I was just asked this week about this. And so hopefully it would help somebody to answer the question, but we are created, first of all, as eternal beings. It's God's plan and God's design that we are eternal. You are going to live eternity somewhere. You're going to live in eternity in a place called hell under everlasting punishment for the rejection of God's Son, or you can live for eternity in a place called heaven, but by God's design He made us to be eternal beings, to live forever, to uh worship him and abide with him for all eternity. So we're made in the image of God in that aspect, that we are made eternal beings. We also are made in the image of God and that we are a trichotomy. God is a trichotomy. We believe in the triune God, in in God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. They are all three God and they are all three individuals, but they are all three one. Uh there's illustrations that loosely illustrate that, like the egg. You have the shell and the yolk and the egg white, and all three of those are egg. uh but they are all three individually individual parts of an egg. Or you could have water, which is also vapor, which is also ice. And all three of them are water, but they are all individually distinct things when they're in that form. And so those loosely and you you could if you're a deep thinker you could break those down a little bit so they don't hold uh water. Um Completely, but they do give us maybe a little bit of a picture into the insight of how God is three. Well, we are made as a tri-being as well. We have body, soul, and spirit. Now, because this question was asked to me this week, I want to put this diagram up, and we've talked about this before to illustrate and show you that we have our body, that is our world consciousness That is our five senses. So I don't know, those of you have seen those either further back, how how well you can read this here. But here is the body. Now, if you want to dig into this a lot further, I think it was in 2018 I preached three messages on the state of man. Man exists in one of three states. There's only three. Every man alive is in one of these three states. You have a lost man. A man who is unsaved, a state of man unsaved without Christ. You have a saved or a spiritual man, somebody who is saved and in fellowship with God, or you have a carnal man. Somebody who's living a carnal life. He is saved, but he's living like he's not saved. Everybody's existing in those three things. I've preached three messages on it, and in that I go into great detail. on the body, soul, and spirit. So we're not going to take that long tonight. But you see here, this body, that is the outside here, this is your carnal nature. This is your flesh. This is what the world likes to feed off. You've got your five senses. There's sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch. Your five senses. That is your body, the outward. Then you have the soul, the second aspect. This is the intermediate part. This is the real you. This is your consciousness, your imagination, your reason, your uh I can't even read that one upside down. Your of affections and so those things are your are the soul, the things that make up your soul The inner man, the spiritual man, exists in the inside. This is the spiritual. So out here you have your world consciousness. Here you have self-consciousness, which by the way the world is hung up on and wants to spend all their time here in self-consciousness, worried about me, but here you have God consciousness. And what does God want? That inner man, that third uh trichotomy, the part of you and I, we are Made up our spiritual consciousness. Now, because man sinned in the garden, wherefore as by one man sin entered to the world, and so death passed upon all men, for all men have sinned. When a man sinned, when Adam sinned, all men now are born spiritually dead. So they are a natural man. That is the first state of man, a natural man Then you have a spiritual man, then you have the carnal man. And so they're spiritually dead. Every single man, woman, boy, or girl ever born was Since Adam till now was born spiritually dead. The Bible says they are dead in their trespasses and sins. You're born that way, spiritually dead, that part of the inner man The spiritual life is not there. That's why the Word of God does not make sense to them. Because they're not made spiritually alive yet It does not connect with them. They don't have the Holy Spirit to guide them unto all truth. They are spiritually dead. So at salvation, you are made spiritually alive. You are, we like to call it new life in Christ. Why do we call it a new life in Christ? Because the Bible says ye must be born again. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, but that which is born of the spirit is spirit. So when you are born spiritually You are born again. You are given new life. Your spiritual, your God sense, the core, the spiritual, spiritual sense of a man has been made alive. It has been given new life. And that's why now all of a sudden the the scriptures you used to read that were so boring that didn't make any sense and you're wondering why, now all of a sudden they're starting to make sense. Now all of a sudden it's giving you insight and wisdom that you did not know was there before. In Ephesians 2 and verse number 1, he says, And you hath he quickened who were dead in your trespasses and sins. So he says, hey, he quickened you. That means to bring alive. That means to give new life to. He quickened those who were dead in their trespasses and sin. Now, am I physically dead? No, I I haven't died yet. One day, if the Lord tarries, I will pass away. But there was a day when I fit this verse, I was spiritually dead. He says, but I hath quickened you who were dead in your trespasses and sin. What does he mean? I was spiritually dead, and I needed to have new life. The new life of Jesus Christ that comes by putting your faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus who died for your sins And asking him for forgiveness. So at the moment of salvation, you're quickened. You're made alive. You're given that God consciousness now. Now you're starting to be aware of those spiritual things. So here is where we see that we are conformed into the image of his son. We are made in the image of God, but at salvation we begin the process of being conformed into the image of God. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world. But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, proven is what is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. We are conformed into the image of God's Son through the process of sanctification. Now, we are supposed to be being made into the image of Christ, more and more like Christ every day. You know, if you take a picture of yourself. It should be a likeness of you, right? It should be a likeness of you. That's what the picture is. Now today there are lots of filters. There are lots of things available. For the first time in my life, I used one of those today and I gave it to Pastor Gus to put up here. So it's it's a likeness I'm looking a little bit like Armando there with the hair though, you know, maybe a little bit there. And then maybe Brother Sasser. Uh a little bit like Brother Sasser with the With the freckled beard, you know. I don't know. What I'm saying is that you can do things to doctor the image. And we can do things to doctor this image too. But the goal in our life is that people would see Jesus Christ in us, that we would be taking on the image of Christ. You can go back to the outline so that people can concentrate, amen Pastor Gus saw that and he texted me back and then he goes, LOL, I was gonna ask who that was. It took a second for to register who was who was on the screen. You know, for vacation bible school, we dress up as different things, you know, uh a captain of a ship or a chef or uh you know, a a sailor or worker, uh construction worker, we dress up, we we can doctor this image up, we can take on the image of different things that we really aren't. I wonder, are we just putting on the image of of of Christianity? Or are we taking on the image of Christ? Are we being conformed into the image of God's Son in a literal sense, not just Putting on the image of Christ, not just conforming in an outward way where I start to look like the people I'm around, but are we starting to look like Jesus Christ? That is the question tonight. That is the goal. Any true Christian is going to desire to be like Christ. We know that not everyone that claims the name of Christ or that comes through the doors of a church or carries a Bible is a Christian. Matthew 7. 21 says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. He says, Not everyone that proclaims the God of heaven is going to enter the kingdom of heaven. We are to bear the image of the heavenly. 1 Corinthians 15, 49 says this. And as we have borne the image of the earthly, We shall also bear the image of the heavenly. We don't have a problem bearing the image of the earthly That's something we need to guard against. We need to try and be careful not to be taking on the image of this world, the earthly things, the carnal things. We should be striving or trying to take on and be more and more like Christ, being conformed into his image. In Galatians 4. 19, he says, My little children of whom I travail in birth again, he says, until Christ be formed in you. We know from our study in the book of Galatians on Thursday night, the Apostle Paul was laboring over these young believers and he was travailing. He was just fervent. in prayer and fervent in his expression and and his teaching and he's doing all he can to try and help them. Help them what? To be like him? No. He says, I have one goal. All of my prayer, all of my effort, all of my goal, everything I'm striving for is that Christ be formed in you. So Paul says, until Christ be formed in you. So that word until lets us know that it's going to take a little time, that it's going to take a little bit of work, that Christ is going to be formed in us. That process is called sanctification. So we know, first of all, by salvation, that first step of us taking on the image of Christ takes place. Where we begin to be conformed into the image of the Son. But the Scripture tells us also there's something else that does this for us. In Colossians chapter 3 and verse number 10, would you turn there, Colossians 3, 10? It tells us another aspect, something that allows us to take on the image. Of the one that created us. Colossians 3:10 says, and having put on the new man, okay, so now we've put on the new man. That's new life in Christ. That's somebody that's been saved, right? So having put on the new man, which is rewarded in knowledge after the image of him that created him. So what conforms us into the image of God is when we are renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him, when we grow in our understanding of God, when we have a renewed understanding of who God is, The more we learn about God, the closer we are to God, the more like God we can be. When a couple has been married for a long time. They start to look alike. They start to mimic each other's personalities and character traits. They start to be able to finish each other's sentences. They start they're they're they're the longer they're married, the more alike they become. That's just because they spend so much time together. You cannot help it. It is going to happen. You could try and guard against it. And it doesn't matter. It's gonna happen because you spend so much time together. How much time are we spending with God? If we want to take on the image of God, if we want to be like God, it's going to take a an extended amount of time of spending uh of being with him. The reason, beloved, we're not taking on the image of Christ is because we don't spend enough time with him. It has long been said you are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. You are going to think and speak From the books you read and the T V shows you watch What those statements are is basically saying, listen, wherever you spend your time is what you're gonna end up being like. Well, is Jesus your friend? If we are right now or soon shall be what our friends are, is Jesus our friend? Is he one that we are spending enough time with to make a substantial impact in our lives? To make a difference in how we behave, to make a difference in the image that people see when they look at us? Your kids act like you. We were standing in the foyer the other day We were discussing my mistake on the carpet, and if you don't know what it is, good. Those that know, no. Okay? And you can shoot me later, I'm sorry. Uh but we were standing there back, we were looking at this, and I'm standing there like this, and I'm just like, oh man, this is disgusting. And uh Andrew is standing there like this. And Timothy looks and he says, That's where I get it. I said, What do you mean? He says, Well when I was at college all my buddies would stand around like this and I would stand like this and they're like, Why do you do that? And he's like, I don't know He said it's comfortable. I I don't know why I do it. And uh I said, Well I suppose so. I never really thought about it, but uh somebody had commented on it to him and then we looked around and all three of us were standing like that. And it it's gonna happen. Because you spend so much time together, they tend to be like you, and so the admonition for us if we're gonna take on the image of God, if we're gonna be like Christ, we've got to spend time with him And it will happen as a byproduct of just abiding in Christ, we will tend to be like Him These two things conform us into the image of Christ. We take on that image. So when somebody would look at us and say, okay, well, whose image do you see? I see Jesus. The last one is a little harder to swallow. Would you turn to I'm trying to decide. Romans chapter 8. Familiar verses. You don't even need to turn there. Romans chapter 8, you guys know these, but Romans chapter 8 and verse number 28 and 29. And we know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestine. What is the rest of that sentence? To be conformed into the image of a son. That he might be the firstborn among many brethren. This process these verses here are describing and talking about the hardship, the trials, the tests, the burdens, the storms that we go through We know that regardless of how severe the storm, that God is in control and that all things work together for good. Why does it work together for good? Because God has a plan by which we will be conformed into the image of his son. There is some things that we will go through in our life. There's some hardship, there's some trial, there is some test or some storm that you are going to endure, and we'll look at it and we'll say, God, why? I don't know why I'm going through this. I don't understand the trial. I don't see a purpose. But if there's nothing else we can see We can know by this verse that God is saying, I have a goal, and it's that you would be conformed into the image of my son. The trial, the storm, the test, the burden may only be an opportunity for you and I to act like Jesus would act To respond to the trial like Jesus would respond. Maybe that is all that God is asking of us. Are you going to be like Jesus? Or do you have some more lessons to learn? I wonder how many Storms I've gone through that had I responded correctly back here, God would have said, man, oh he's he's learned that one. He's got that one. And I wouldn't have had to go through these next four or five or six or whatever because because I understood what God was doing and my responsibility to respond like his son. It is the mark. of Christ when we know how to respond correctly to suffering. We see those saints listed in the hall of faith, those that were killed, those that were tortured in Hebrews 11. Verse number 12 says, looking into Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. He is the example. He is the pattern. He is who we're supposed to be acting like. I encourage you tonight, beloved, to do not begrudge the test. Do not get frustrated with the trial. Because it is through that that God is conforming us into the image of His Son. If we can respond correctly, if we can let God change us. Would you respond like Christ or you go through it with anger or bitterness or blame God for the trial or the test? Can we respond and say, God, we're not sure, but we know that you're in control. We know you have a lesson for us to learn. We're yielding to you. And we ask that we would be conformed into the image of your son. What do people see when they see you? When they see me What do they see when they see us respond to life circumstances? That is the greatest opportunity to show Christ in us. is in the test, in the trial. We know God's in control. But are we acting like it? I remember in the court case, we told the Valley's Planning Council that God was in control. And they didn't like that. We basically said, well, it's actually Don. You know, he's such a quiet guy, Don. He's he's always afraid to talk to people. We're standing in a courtroom and Don tells what Don Don tells the guy, he says, there's nothing you can do about it. If God wants a church there, then there'll be a church there. The guy cussed them out. He was not happy. But that's the fact of the matter. So we know it to be true that God is in control and if this is what God wants, then the Valley's Planning Council can't stop it. But do we live like that when we're the one going through the trial Your family sees how you respond to life situations. You have the opportunity To show them Christ or to show them you, your flesh This is something that we all have to battle with. How we respond. And I would say, especially in family situations. There was once that I had to apologize to my wife. Once a day for twenty-eight years. Not quite that often. But I'm saying is sometimes we don't respond correctly, do we? We respond like us, our flesh, what we want. And then if we're sensitive, the Holy Spirit comes and says, I wasn't right. That's not how you should be. And we have to go back and apologize and say, I'm sorry. Your family sees it probably more than anybody else, but the world sees it as well, and we have the opportunity to let them see Christ in us. So we look at a fo at a coin, and on the coin we see the image of different presidents. And we're to render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's. But if we look at our life, do we see Christ? Are we made in the image of God? Being made in the image of God more and more each day. And if we are, then let's render unto God the things that are God's. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?