After that, tell you that was good. Turn your Bibles to Genesis chapter number one, Genesis chapter number one. I We're going to be dealing this morning, told you ahead of time with the principle of punctuality. We're talking about that this morning and want to spend some time Discussing that. I do not desire to take half of the message this morning and establish the value of time. We touched on that briefly in Sunday school and we've taught on it in the past. Today, I want to teach on the principle of punctuality. So, as we get started here this morning, I want to just make it an agreement with all of you that you have an understanding. Of the value of time. You realize that every minute we have is a gift from God, an opportunity to be used to its fullest. You know that no matter what we do, we cannot manufacture, create, or find any more time. It's the most valuable thing we have. So with that truth stated and the understanding with all of you that it's to be true, we're going to move on. Is that all right? All right. Also, as we are dealing with punctuality this morning, I do not desire to step on anyone's toes. But today is not going to be a lofty theological discussion in which you leave wondering what Pastor Caleb said. This is going to be a down-to-earth, abundantly practical message. You know what that means? That means I'm going to be all up in your business Okay, that's what that means. There's no way around it. I I cannot get practical on this topic without getting close to home. Okay? But when we go over these truths, understand there is none righteous, no, not one. There is nobody here that is worthy to cast the first stone. Can I get an amen? I think everybody here, whether today it was a day of circumstances where You came into church late, right, Fred? Uh no, just kidding. He wasn't late. Whether today was the day for you or a day for somebody else, we've all received a pink slip at some time or another, right? So please understand as we go through this that I'm not by any means singling anyone out. Just last Sunday morning in Sunday school, I taught about your personal Bible. The care that you should have, the choice for the scriptures that you use and how we should care for them. And I said, listen. You shouldn't leave your Bible to church. Bless God, it ought to be more valuable than that And wouldn't you know it at the close of services last Sunday morning, I got busy helping the ladies get things together and heading out, and I left my Bible in church I had to call my wife and say, hey, hun, could you get my Bible and bring it home? I'm like guilty of being uh, you know, what I'm saying is don't be threatened That, oh no, I I I was late. Or oh no, I've been late. We've all been late Somebody looked at me just before we started Sunday school this morning and said, Pastor, since you're preaching on punctuality, I think you ought to get up there We started Sunday school about a minute and a half late. So I just want to let you know that we all have feet made of clay. And we're not sinless. So please uh nobody take offense this morning as I preach on punctuality As things have it, I'll probably end up being late for church tonight. There's just the Lord does that to keep me humble. So if I was late for church tonight, let me ask you, does that make the truth of the principle any less true? Does it make the importance of it any less important? No. So could I encourage you this morning uh Don't take offense. Understand I'm talking about all of us. Of course, I want to encourage you and I want to help you to be on time for church. I believe that it's important. I think that you should be punctual. I think that you should get here and be on time for services. But understand this morning that that is not the sum total of the goal. The sum total of the goal is I would desire that you, as an individual, would develop the habit of the principle of punctuality in your life for every area of your life. That it would become something that is practiced day by day for you, that you begin to be punctual to work, and whether you're picking your wife up at the airport or dropping your kid off at soccer practice. You do so in a timely manner. Whether you've got to stop and pick up your check from work or you've got to stop by the water company and pay the bill, you do so punctually. That is the goal. That all of our life, this principle of punctuality would begin to be seen and developed day by day. So, first of all, let me give you some instruction on this idea, the principle of punctuality First of all, the definition of punctuality. The definition. Just straight out of the dictionary, the dictionary says the quality or state of being punctual. I thought you weren't allowed to use the word in the definition. Man, dictionary writers are getting lazy today. The strict observance in keeping engagements, not late, prompt. I think everybody understands what punctuality means. I think you understand that when we say you're prompt Uh if services start at ten thirty, that doesn't mean that you pull in the parking lot at ten thirty. And then you come in and you say hello to all the guys that are standing around the foyer when they should be in church, amen. You you you talk to all of them And then you go get your coffee because you gotta wake up and then you gotta stop in the restroom and you use the restroom and then you come back through the foyer and of course somebody else asks you a question. And you make it into the auditorium about handshaking time. You know, of course, that that is not being punctual. I'm not talking about when I stand up here, get ready to start the service, and I say, And we have to, the whole audience has to wait. Well, I watched the guy that's supposed to be in the sound booth run from the foyer. Through the back of the auditorium, down the hallway, up the stairs, into the sound booth to turn the sound on that was supposed to be on at 10. 30. You say, Pastor, you're getting close to home. I know, I know. It's alright. Every one of us in our area of life, whatever it might be, you've been guilty. I'm just trying to help us all, not nailing anybody down, not upsetting anybody, just being encouraging this morning. You understand a course I'm not talking about as a Sunday school teacher when you're supposed to be in class by 9. 15 because we start at 9. 30 You see, guests that bring their kids to Sunday school should not have to wait at the classroom for a teacher to show up. The teacher should be there. It doesn't mean, as a teacher, that you're here on property, that you're in the building. It means that you're in class, that you're set up, that you're ready to teach your class, that you're ready to greet the children and talk to them. Guests that bring a child to the nursery should not have to wait at the nursery for a worker to get there. This is punctuality. It affects not just life here at church, although we're talking about that, it affects all of our life. I want you to see in Genesis chapter number one, look at verse number 14. God established time. He said in Genesis 1, verse number 14, and God said, let there be lights and the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from night. And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years. You see, it was by God's design, it was his plan that men Would mark time. That men would live by days, that men would live by hours, that we would mark our days, that we would know how much time we have and live by some form. of a schedule. We talked about designing a schedule to help you accomplish more in Sunday school. There was an airplane pilot that was flying over Chicago Midway Airport. He came on the radio and said, Midway tower, Midway Tower, this is flight 1274, flying at 35,000 feet. Could I get a time check? The tower came back. Flight 1274, this is Midway Tower. Please advise, what airline are you with? The pilot came back and said, excuse me, uh Midway Tower, um this is flight twelve seventy-four. I'm sorry, but what difference does that make? I just need to know the time. And the Midway Tower came back on and said flight twelve seventy four, it does make a great build great bit of difference. If you happen to be Pan M, then the flight now is sixteen hundred hours. But if you're northwest, then the flow the time is four o'clock. If you're southwest Well, the little hand is on the floor and the big hand is pointing straight up. And if you're spirit airlines, it's Wednesday. You see, some of us like to keep time like that. It's Wednesday. You know, uh somebody once said Here, here's my clock, time me while I do 50 push-ups. And the person that took the clock said, you better get me a calendar. We're gonna watch you do 50 push-ups, amen. Some of us keep time by a very broad general sense of the term, while others are more minute and detailed. But it is God's design that we as a people Would structure and organize our lives by time. This is not just something that is part of the Western world. I understand there are cultures around the world that things are much more relaxed. That time is spoken of in a general sense. And in those cultures, there are things that you can do That would not be wrong there, but they are wrong here. And I'll explain that as we get into this this morning. But do you understand that culture does not dictate right or wrong? There are some cultures where it's perfectly acceptable to run around naked. Do you understand that just because that's their culture doesn't make it okay? Let me just say it is not a missionary's job or responsibility when they go to a foreign field To westernize those people. To bring them American culture. That's the worst thing they could do for them. But what the job is, is to give them the word of God. And the Bible has clear principles about what is nakedness. So it's not changing their culture to line up with Western world and Western dress. It's showing that there's parts of the body that the Bible says are precious and should be covered. So you're teaching them the principles found in the Word of God that they should live their life by. And there are principles found in the Word of God that have to do with time that we should live our life by. So I know you're looking at me and saying, Pastor Caleb, I have never seen in the Word of God thou shalt be punctual You're right. It's not there. Nor does it say, To him who is punctual be glory and honor. Amen. What I'm saying is with regards to there's no thou shalt not be late. There is no clear-cut command with regards to this principle of punctuality we're talking about this morning. So how is it that we develop this principle and believe it's biblical and that we should practice it? What we have to do is we have to look at what biblical principles are we violating when we're not punctual? We have to look at what biblical principles are we following when we are punctual. And that's what I want to try and give you this morning. And I hope that you see it in the Word of God and you see the importance of it. I fully expect there is no way I will get through this message. I will have to preach a part two Because I think it's unjust to tell people what they should be doing without giving them some instruction on how to do it. So we're going to talk about what you should do this morning, but understand part two will be coming where we talk about how to do that in future weeks. So the development of this principle. First of all, when we are prompt, when we are on time, we are showing that we agree with God's desire that things be done Decently and in order. God said in 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verse number 40, let all things be done decently And in order. There should be an order to what we do. And when we are on time, we are showing our agreement with that. We are Following that principle that things should be done decently and in order. We shouldn't have it where everybody just shows up whenever That there is a disconnection between everybody that's arriving and it's just helterskelter and come and go and so on, there should be an order to it Also, when we are on time, when we're prompt, we're showing that we have respect and consideration for others The Bible says in Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 3 through 5, familiar verses, but the Bible says this: let nothing be done through strife or vainglory But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. Let each esteem others better than themselves. Look not every man on his own thing, but every man also on the things Of others. You see, when I'm on time, I that it goes on and says, let me see, show you. It says, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. As a Christian, I want to be like Christ. That sounds good. But when we get that down to where the rubber meets the road and we get practical, that means that I'm going to esteem others better than myself. That means I'm going to be considerate of others. I'm going to realize their time is valuable and respect that. Being prompt shows I respect their time. Let me give you an example. For so let's say I asked Bob Gamble to you know what I pick on Bob all the time. Let's uh let's use Carol. I'll pick on Carol this morning. Let's say I ask Carol Gamble to meet me and Mary. Mary and I are going to pick her up tomorrow morning on the corner of her street, Crofley and York Road. I'm going to meet her there at 7 a. m. Then tomorrow morning, although Carol's normal get up time is 10 a. m. She decides no, I'm just kidding. I I don't know what a normal She decides she's gonna get up at six so she can be ready. So she doesn't so she's not late for Pastor Caleb And Miss Mary. She's going to get up, she gets herself ready, she gets everything done, and she begins to walk out the door, and it's raining. Oh man. So she has to grab the skinny dog and her umbrella. And she walks out to the corner and she gets to the corner ten minutes early because she doesn't want me to have to wait just in case, just in case I show up early. She's there at the corner ten minutes early. We're supposed to meet at 7. And at 7:30, Mary and I show up. That means I was not real considerate of her time. You say, Pastor Caleb, that's not fair. You made that like worst case scenario. First of all, you picked the blind lady. You make it seven in the morning and you make it raining. Can I ask you what difference does the weather or who it is? matter if it's true. By me not showing up shows that I care more about my time than I care about her time. I am not esteeming her better than myself. It's okay with me if she just stands on the corner in the rain. Or sits in her living room and waits. Either way, I'm not esteeming her better than me. To be Christ-like, we're going to be prompt. Because we're showing respect for the other person's time. We're going to be prompt. C. H. Spurgeon said this We have no right to cause worry and aggravation to others when a little thoughtfulness on our part would prevent it. If an engagement be for 12 o'clock, We have no authority to make it twelve oh five. Hmm? Being prompt shows our humility. When we're on time, it shows our humility. It shows that we're esteeming others better than ourselves. The Art of Manliness has an article that's quite extensive on the idea of punctuality, and there's one spot in there that says the bumper sticker maximum, always late, but worth the wait. Goes to show that tardiness and an overestimation of one's worth go hand in hand People would be glad to see you when you arrive, but wouldn't they have been gladder still had you been on time? Yes, I can tell you if I got there at 7 30, Kara would be excited that we finally got there, right? But wouldn't she much rather I got there about five minutes to seven so she only had to stand there five minutes? Wouldn't that be or you know what if I had already been there and she arrived and oh hey fast you're already here and she got to get right in the car and didn't didn't have to wait at all. Wouldn't that be preferable? So moving on, it also, when I'm prompt, it shows that I agree with the Word of God that we ought to be honest. That we ought to be honest. We know the Bible tells us to be honest that we should not be liars. What I want you to understand is when you give or agree upon a time, you have made a promise. You've made a promise. A. W. Tozer said this: anyone who is not punctual habitually is guilty of deception and a falsehood. He said he would rather he said he would be there and then failed to appear. He said, anyone who is habitually late is guilty of deception and falsehood. Basically, that's a real etiquette way of saying you lied. You understand? The Bible tells us to be honest and understand we're not talking this morning about somebody who is on their way to get somewhere. They planned an extra 15 minutes. They had a flat tire on the way. The spare was already flat. They had to get somebody else to help them, and they showed up 20 minutes late. You understand that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about the person who is habitually wait that late that says, I'll be there at seven, and they in their heart and mind know they ain't gonna get there till eight or whatever they lie. Second Peter 3, verse number 9 says, the Lord is not slack concerning his promises. That term, that word slack there means tarry or late. He's not late concerning his promises. God. How many of you, when you cry out to God, want God on the scene? You want, you know, the guy, you want God there, you need him, you need him now. I need thee every hour. Listen, God's not late concerning his promises, and we should not be either. Amen? We should not be either How many of you know what's the golden rule? Very good. That's found and Matthew chapter 7 and verse number 12, he says, Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. How many of you enjoy when you go to the doctor's office this man that you are going to pay hundreds and hundreds of dollars to? And you have an appointment set for one o'clock? How many of you enjoy I mean this appointment has been set for two months. You enjoy it when you've got a one o'clock appointment and at 1. 45 you go up to the desk and say How much longer is it gonna be? I had I I I mean I thought that we scheduled an appointment. I thought I was supposed to get in at one o'clock. Why is it that the doctor's time is so much more valuable than mine? I do have things I was expecting to be out of here by two. And now I'm not even going to get to see the doctor by two. The rest of my day is shot. Thank you very much. I know you've all been there. If you don't enjoy that, then could I encourage you, don't do that to other people. Value and respect their time. Do you see the principles that we're walking through? We're seeing scriptural principle that dictates, yes, there is nothing specifically that says Be on time, thou shalt not be late, but there is principles that should be followed. And by the way, these are cross-cultural principles. Nowhere do you get to go in the world and determine that people there are less important than you. They're all just as important as you are, and the Bible says that we as individuals should esteem them more important. That means we're going to have respect for their time. Being on time shows our agreement with God and his orders. You see, God said, don't be tardy. You say, Pastor, where do you say that? I've never seen the word tardy in the scriptures. I want you to write this down. The Bible says in Romans chapter. You know what? Turn there. Turn to Romans chapter number twelve. I want you to tell me something. Romans chapter number twelve. If you have a study Bible of any kind, At the heading, at the front of Romans chapter number 12, what does it say this section of the scripture is about? Anybody, this section of the scripture is about what? I've heard some people mumbling. Does anybody yes? Our bodies are the living sacrifice. What does your say? Christian conduct. Christian conduct. Conduct in relation to God. So in some form, there is a description there. Romans chapter number twelve is defining how we as Christians should live. What we should do because we're Christians in relation because we serve on a living God who saved our soul. So look down in verse number 11. In verse number 11, he says, not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. If you look up that word slothful, The literal definition of that word in the scriptures here is tardy. It's tardy. God said, don't be tardy in business. How many of you that run businesses would really appreciate that if some other people would get a hold of it? You got some employees that just don't know how to show up on time? Listen, not sloth phone business. Don't be tardy. It shows you agree with what God says, God's word. When we show up on time, we're saying, hey, God told me to do this. How many know the Bible says thou shalt not steal? Anybody know what commandment that is? Number eight. Do you remember? Five and three, grab it and steal it. Number eight. Your hand motions there, yeah. So thou shalt not steal. Beloved, when you show up late, you are stealing time, the most valuable commodity that we all have, from others If I apply this to the employee-employer relationship, it's pretty easy to see. Some of you would even argue with that. You would say, well, I'm not on the clock yet. It's still my time. But if you've made an agreement to begin your day of work at eight o'clock and you show up till at 8 30, you've stolen 30 minutes from your employer. Yeah. But let's just apply it to your friend. You've stolen from them the time where they are waiting on you. Let's say back to the illustration, and I'm almost done for what we're going to cover today. But let's go back to the illustration with Carol. Let's say Carol to get out of the house by ten minutes to seven. She had to Hurry up and rush her morning. She didn't get to take the trash out like she wanted to. She had to sacrifice and leave the trash there till later in the day. She was gonna stop and kiss Bob goodbye, but she knew that he is so ravished with her love. That should she pause and kiss him, she surely would be detained for a period of time. And she couldn't just she couldn't take the risk. So she had to leave the house without kissing Bob goodbye. She wanted to feed the dogs. But she knew if she took the time to go down and get the dog food and take it out and take the dogs out where they eat and do all of that, she was probably going to be late. She did all of that and got out where she was supposed to be on purpose or on time early. But me, on the other hand, I didn't want to sacrifice anything. I wanted to do what I wanted to do. I wanted to take another five minutes to do what I needed to do Do you see how I have disregarded and negated and made of no value all the sacrifice she made to be there on time? I'm trying to get you to see how important this is. I've said, listen, all the sacrifices you've made to get there don't matter. In me taking an extra five minutes for me to do what I wanted to do, I have stolen that five minutes from her. C. H. Spurgeon said to keep a busy man waiting is an act of impudent robbery. It is also a constructive insult. It may not be so intended, but certainly if a man has proper respect for his friend, he will know the value of time. and will not cause his friend to waste it. Does that make sense? Lastly, this morning I want you to see the last biblical principle that when I'm on time to God's house I'm saying that I agree with the greatest commandment. And when I'm late, I'm saying I disagree with the greatest commandment. What is the greatest commandment? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God. With all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. If indeed we love him most of all He is the most important person in our life. He is the center of our schedule, that which we seek first. We will be on time. If you had a job interview this coming week where you had the potential to make $200,000 a year. How many of you would be late to that appointment? You say, Pastor, that's really important. We have church every week, and it's not that Important. Therein lies the problem. How important do we think it is? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. Tozer, talking about those who were late for church, said it would not matter If services that began at 11 for those who show up at 1110 habitually, it would not matter if we move services to 12. They would show up at 1210. Because it is not the time it starts, it is not how busy a person's life is. It's what they deem important. The busiest people are often the most punctual You know what? That might be hard to quantify, like who's the busiest? How do you know the busiest and most punctual? Here's something that I've seen in real-life illustration through the years, do you know that the people who live closest to the church are often the most late? That is quantifiable. It's very easy to know this person only lives 2. 3 miles from this building. And somebody that lives thirty-five miles away consistently is here early. Let me close with this. Just a couple of thoughts here. I hope this morning that you see the principle of punctuality in the scripture. That it is important. Shakespeare said better to be three hours too soon than a minute too late Let me just close with this. There is one appointment that none here will be late for. The Bible says that it's appointed unto man once to die. And after After this, the judgment. No matter how you do or how you live your life, there's gonna come a day when it is your last hour. I hope by God's grace, every one of us here, Brother Jim told me when he turned 80 years old, he said, I'm going to live to be 100. Is Miss Paula looked at me and she says, I'm going to live to be a hundred just to aggravate him. I hope everybody here lives to be a hundred. But regardless of if you live to be a hundred or you live to be ten, the day's going to come when it's your time. The Bible says after this the judgment, the question I have for you is when that appointment comes, are you ready? Are you ready to meet your God? You can be. God wants you to be. The Word of God has very clear instructions about how you can be. And we would love the privilege to show you in the Word of God how you can. Be ready for that appointment.