Well, you should know we're in Philippians chapter number three. Philippians chapter number three I thought it might have been wise this evening to have my brother-in-law preach the message tonight because he just finished a uh book on the book of Philippians, didn't you? Uh and uh as a matter of uh earning his doctorate and so instead of me sitting down getting to enjoy him expounding the scriptures, he has to endure me doing so on a on a passage which he probably has very thoroughly uh studied and expounded. Uh But well, as would have it, the Lord didn't give me peace uh to to have him do it. I know he would have done a great job and we would have enjoyed it, but I felt the Lord would wanted me to to preach this evening. So we are in Philippians chapter number three. The text for tonight is verses 17 through 21. 17 through 21. And I thought about breaking this into two passages because the title of tonight's message is The Glorification of the Christian. The Glorification of the Christian and Uh the reason I was going to break it up a little bit is because that really takes place in verses twenty and twenty-one. Um but before that we've got some guidance for the Christian that takes place in and I could very easily break it up and have two messages, but I don't want to get too bogged down. We're already seven messages into chapter number three. And so we're going to finish today. We're going to just get through uh the end of the chapter. We'll we'll kind of go quickly Uh but the Lord has allowed us to look through this book and and this this chapter and glean a lot and I'm grateful for it. Would you follow along as we read? The verses that we'll be under consideration this evening, beginning in verse number 17, reading down through the end of the chapter, verse number 21. Brethren, be followers together of me and mark them which walk. So as ye have us for an example. For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you, even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is their shame, who mind earthly things. For our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the work whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. We're going to look at this these verses tonight and titling it to glorification of the Christian. We want to see first of all the example That's given to us here by the Apostle Paul in verse number seventeen. He says, Brethren, be followers together of me and mark them which walk, so as ye have us for an example. I want you to remind you this evening that everybody is an example. Everybody is an example to somebody. You are setting Now whether it's a good example or a bad example is yet to be seen, but everybody is an example. That's a fact You are an example. You say, well, I don't want to be an example. Well, that's too bad. Because you are an example. People do look at you. I was just having a conversation with somebody last Sunday night about the fact that when they came to this church there was somebody in the church here that they looked at. That they thought, man, he is an upstanding Christian. He is a godly man. He he he is somebody that I would aspire to be like. And I can guarantee you that this individual never thought anybody would look at them. Nobody would follow me. Nobody would look at me as, oh, everybody looks at the pastor, or everybody looks at the assistant pastors and and they set the example. Well we do set the example. And the the pastor and those that are in leadership are held to a higher standard, which is why the Bible says be not many masters. Because you hold a greater condemnation, and we do have a high standard, and we set the example, but we're not the only ones. Everybody is an example. And people are watching you. No one gets to say, do as I say, not as I do. We we don't get to say that. It doesn't work because what you're doing is speaking so loud they can't hear what you're saying. How we act. Someone has wrote the little poem, we're writing a gospel, a chapter a day, by how we live and the words that we say. Each chapter contains the things that we do. What is the gospel according to you? We are an example Paul said, follow me. He was living an example that people could follow. I wonder tonight if everyone at Hunt Valley Baptist Church was exactly what you are How would our church be doing? If everybody gave like you give, how would the church finances be doing? How would the ministries of God be sustained if everybody gave the way you gave? If everybody worked the way you work, how would the church functions be getting done? How would things at church be accomplished? If everybody witnessed the way that you witness, how would lost souls be reached? How many people would be brought into church? How many souls would be given the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ? If everybody prayed like you pray, how many prayers would we have answered here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church? Now I know that's real pointed and that's putting down the rubber where the we're putting the tread where the rubber meets the road, but the fact of the matter is Is we need to evaluate our lives. We are an example. And there may be some areas that you're strong in, and praise God for those, but that doesn't give us the right to neglect or forget all of the other areas. We are an example of the believer. And every one of us here have some areas where We've looked at and said, boy, I hope nobody's following that example. Mary and I talk about this often. We hope that our kids get this and this from you and this and this from me and we hope they don't get this and this and they don't get this and this. I mean there's things in our lives we hope our kids don't pick up. Fat chance, right? I mean, because it's who we are. Well, by God's grace we can be more. Amen. We can be more, and people are going to follow us, and boy, if we allow God to work in our lives and to make us more for His honor and His glory, we will impact others for Christ. We should be pointing others to Christ. 1 Corinthians 10, 31 through 33 says, Whether therefore ye eat or drink, whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Give none offense, neither to Jew nor to Gentile, nor to the church of God. Even as I please all men and all things, not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of many that they may be saved Paul said, Boy, I'm not seeking for a following for me. Paul wasn't saying, hey, follow me. Yeah, yeah, just follow me Follow me. He wasn't looking for a following for himself, but what he was saying is he wanted people to follow Christ. And Paul said to the best of my ability, I'm following Christ. I want to help you follow Christ. Let's do this together. Follow me as I follow Christ. He wasn't trying to gain a following for himself, but he was living a living example that others could believe and follow after. Was he perfect? No. But he wanted only to know Christ and the power of his resurrection. You remember he counted all other things as loss, except for the excellency of the knowledge of Jesus Christ. We should point all those that may be following us to Christ. He says here, he says to mark them. That is to mark those that are following and those that are not. That is to have some discernment, to look and to know, okay, this is a follower of Christ. This guy is not a follower of Christ. He actually gives here in the text a contrast between those that follow Christ and those that he calls the enemies of the cross. And he says, you need some discernment to know who it is that you are following. Are you following those that exalt the name of Christ or those that are the enemies of the cross? He gives to us some descriptive characteristics of those that are not following Christ, those that are the enemies of the cross. Let me just say we before we go to the second point here, which is we see the enemy. um parents, you need to exercise this discernment for your children. It is part of immaturity to not have discernment. And you need to be exercising discernment and pointing out, hey, this young person is a follower of Christ, this person is not. You don't you don't spend time with or spend all your time with this individual because they are not following Christ. You need to spend time with this person, spend time with that person. You need to exercise some discernment with who your children are spending time with. That they will be with those who are followers of Christ We see here he gives some characteristics of the enemy. He says, For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping. Paul doesn't point these people out with a air of superiority and pious uh self-righteousness. He points these people out weeping. Because he sees that their end is destruction. And his heart is burdened for them He's burdened over those that are professors but not possessors. Those that claim The Holy Spirit, but don't contain the Holy Spirit. These enemies of the cross He gives us the description to verse number 19. He says, for whose end is destructions, whose God is their belly, whose glory is their shame, and who mind earthly things. Let me say there's always been enemies of the cross. From the Old Testament till today, there's been old enemies of the cross. In the Old Testament, they were called false prophets. People that lifted up uh false teachings and would draw people away. In 2 Peter chapter 2, verses 1 through 3 he says, But there were false prophets among you, the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you. who privileged shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that brought bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction. And many shall follow their pernicious ways. Many shall follow their pernicious ways. It is human nature to follow after the pernicious ways of somebody who's an enemy of the cross. It's human nature, but your spiritual nature goes against that. And you've got to try and take a stand against that and don't go after or follow as Some discernment don't follow those who are enemies of the cross. Who are the enemies of the cross? Those whose God is their belly. That is, they are self-serving. They only do that which benefits them. They are consumed, beloved, with the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life It's all about that, and their battle cry is the familiar, if it feels good, do it. Those are the ones who are the enemy of the cross, whose God is their belly. Lehman Strauss says, one look at our gorging, our garments. And our gadgets, and a voice says, These be thy gods. These be thy gods. The enemies of the cross are those whose God is their belly. The enemy of the cross are those whose glory is in their shame. Their glory is in their shame. You know, there are some that glory in their shame It's something that's very prevalent in the world. It's the whole idea of coming out of the closet Is rooted in glorying in their shame. That is something that we've come to expect in the world, and I'm not even going to take time to preach on that tonight, the glorying in their shame and in In the the filth that's out there. But what we've got to be careful about is that we in God's house don't glory in our shame. When we as Christians should be blushing, instead we're bragging. Just because we're in church doesn't mean we've got it all right. Those who glory in their shame, I wonder, kids, are are you Glorying? Are you are you bragging about how many John and Romans you got out? Are you bragging about how much time you spent in prayer? Are you bragging about uh the witness that you were this week? Or are you bragging about the dirty movie you got to watch without mom and dad knowing? Are you bragging about some some song that you listened to that you know you shouldn't hear? Are you bragging about some dirty joke that you got to listen to that you shouldn't be participating in? That's glorying in your shame When you should be hanging your head low in shame because of the sin that Satan pulled you into, it should make you weep And instead you're glorying in that. You're bragging to your friends. Oh, look at what I got to do. Oh boy, look at what I got away with. Oh boy, look at me and the sin that I'm involved in And God's heart breaks over it. The Bible says here in this text that you're an enemy of the cross The reason is because you are not bringing people to the cross when your God is your belly. You're not bringing people to the cross and lifting high the cross of Jesus Christ when you're glorying in your shame. those things that you shouldn't participate in, and yet you glory in that. We're not pointing people to the cross An enemy of the cross is one that glories in his name, is one who minds earthly things. Christians who are carnally minded, it's all about here and now, about this life. There are those who like to say that little phrase piously, oh, you're so heavenly-minded, you're of no earthly good. I don't believe that's possible. You can't be too heavenly-minded. The more heavenly-minded you are, the more earthly good you'll do. Now you can be self-righteous, you can be pious, you can be puffed up, but that's not heavenly-minded. When you're heavenly-minded You'll have more of God's light shining through you, more of Christ evident in you, and you will be a light in this dark world You can't be too heavenly-minded to be no earthly good, but the problem today is we're too earthly-minded to be of any heavenly good. We're minding the things of this earth. When you can name more ball players than you can Bible characters, you're earthly minded. When you can make it to the store, but you can't make it to Sunday school, you're earthly minded I read this today, Pastor Scott Sins, he put this out and he said, we should be using church as the excuse for why we missed everything else. Instead of the other way around, we're missing church and everything else is the excuse, right? That's what it is. Why? Because we're earthly minded When you can name the new Hollywood blockbuster, but you can't name the books of the Bible, you're earthly minded. When you know the latest influencer on social media But can't name the apostles. I'm going to ask you today, is your mind focused on heavenly things or on earthly things? Oliver B. Green said this about this passage. He said, in practically all churches, there are two kinds of professing Christians. There are always a few who take the Lord Jesus not only as Savior but as Lord of their life. But then there are those who are like Demas, and they love this present world. They take God's second, third, and fourth best instead of claiming and enjoying the great spiritual birthright that God has for them. Paul exhorts here the Philippian believers to mark them, to observe them, and to not follow their example, but rather follow after those who are dedicated, holy examples in the assembly of God. So I ask you, do you shape your life around Christ? Or do you shape Christ around your life? You see, beloved, the reason Paul weeped over these people is because he saw that their end is destruction. Their end is destruction. Lastly, tonight I want you to see the expectation that we see in verses 20 and 21. He says, for our conversation is in heaven. We see first of all a heavenly conversation there. This is a present tense statement. This is a statement that is presently happening. Our conversation is in heaven. You say, well, I'm not in heaven. Yeah, but your conversation is in heaven. You are a citizen of heaven. You are right now as a Christian who's been bought by the blood of Jesus Christ and having your sins washed away. Just like these Christians who were living in Philippi in this Roman colony, they were expected in this Roman colony to abide by the laws and rules of this Roman colony, even though they were Jewish. Even though they might not have necessarily agreed with the rules there. They had to adapt and adopt some things that were Roman in nature because that's they were citizens of this Roman colony. Well, you and I, beloved, are citizens of heaven. And we've got a law book that we're supposed to abide and follow. We've got rules that God has given us and guidance for our lives. We are supposed to be acting presently right now as though we were in heaven. Your conversation is in heaven. We should have conversations, beloved. We of course know that that's dealing with our lifestyle is fitting of the location. There is a saying about Vegas. What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas. That's a description of that location That statement in and of itself is a description of the debauchery and the the vile and wicked nature of that place. Things are so bad and things are things that happen here only happen here and this is where they can happen. And and this is okay here, but let's leave it there. We're not citizens of Vegas. We're not citizens of this world. We're citizens of heaven And although we're not presently there, we are to be acting like we are citizens of heaven. Not only do we see heavenly conversation here, but we see heavenly anticipation. He says, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, looking heavenward, anticipating the coming of Jesus Christ. Are you looking for heaven? Are you looking forward to that day? Are you looking for your Savior to come? As a child of God, your name is written in heaven. Your Bible that you read every day is written from heaven. The rights that you have as a Christian are secured in heaven. Your investments, I hope, you are making are in heaven. The interest that you get is settled in heaven. The prayers that you pray are answered from heaven. The loved ones that you have have gone on before you into heaven. Your hope is fulfilled in heaven. Are you looking towards heaven? Are you looking forward and longing for heaven? Jesus promised that he would come again. You know, beloved, maybe The problem is is we're too rich. Things are going too good. The homes and houses that we get to live in are too comfortable. Maybe if we went back to living in tents like Abraham, we would long for a city whose foundation, whose builder and maker is God. But we're too comfortable here. Are you looking for heaven? We see the heavenly transformation that takes place. This vile body is going to be made. victorious. That word vile is a moral word. It it it means Wicked. It means morally reprehensible. It means sinful Well beloved, one day when Jesus parts the eastern sky, this old vile body and its flesh and all the wickedness that it that it contains. is going to be made victorious. A transformation is going to take place, beloved. I'm excited tonight that I'm not just going to be tuned up or patched up, but I'm going to be changed. I'm going to be changed. He says, into his image. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. We're going to be changed. There's going to be a transformation that's going to take place with this vile body meethebon. Oh, here on earth I'm to be Christ-like. And to the best of my ability, I strive for that lofty goal. As do you. That's what Christians are. Christ-like, right? We strive for that. Well beloved, one day in heaven we're going to be made like Christ. I guess between now and then we're just kind of working on the process. Just to be as much like Christ as we can because that way we're ready. Because it's going to happen in the moment in twinkling of eye. We're going to be fashioned like unto his glorious body. And praise the Lord, there's a heavenly subjugation. My wife would like that word. She would whistle and say, oh, that was a big word. But he says here in the text, beloved, he says that whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. You know, the Bible says in Isaiah, Romans, and even in the book of Philippians here, that the day is going to come when every knee bows and every tongue will confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord. So I ask you today, how are you doing? Who are you following today? Who is the example? Are you following the example or the enemy? Are you somebody that can be followed Like Paul said, follow me as I follow Christ. Are you setting an example that others can follow? Are you living in light of the soon-coming Lord and Savior, who one day will change us into his glorious image? I hope so. This is what Paul tells us here about the glorification of the Christian