At the beginning and then I tried to slow down a little bit towards the end. Uh sometimes I get that way if I got a lot of ground to cover and I feel I'm not gonna have time Uh but tonight we want to look at the confident life. The confident life. I was explaining to Andrew the exciting uh Bible study that I've had as I've just gone one passage through the other, just really not having any idea what the next section of verses is gonna hold and I begin to study it out and look at it and see and and the I I didn't plan it ahead of time. I just the very first lesson Uh, you know, one of the purposes that the book of 1 John was written was that your joy may be full. And so I titled it the joyful life. I just thought, well, we'll just call it the joyful life, that your joy may be full. God wants to have a joyful life And uh thus far, at least, God has given me uh a title uh that fits with the passage and uh continues to talk about the Christian life that we're living. And we have a confidence in Jesus Christ. And you're going to see that in these verses tonight. We want to look at the remainder of this chapter, 1 John chapter 3. We're going to look at verses 19. through 24. For the sake of time, I'm not going to read them up front here because we are going to kind of dissect them And uh in an expository manner, I'm trying to kind of just go verse by verse down through this passage of scripture and see what the Lord has for us. Um for those uh who have known only the cold life of religion There is no comprehension of the joy of knowing Jesus. It is not a cold and lifeless list of requirements that are given to us, but a refreshing relationship that Fills our heart with the warmth from the Savior. That warmth of an afternoon sun on a cold day, or the warmth that you feel like When you come inside and it's it's cold out and the fireplace is going, the the wood stove is going, and you come up to that and you just feel that radiant heat coming over your body and warming you up all the way down to the inside. You were cold, you were chilly, but that warmth has come. Well religion in and of itself is cold and empty and lifeless. But a relationship with Jesus Christ is not. We have this joyful life given to us by Christ, and we have confidence in it because of the relationship that we have with Jesus Christ. First of all, I want you to see, and we don't have, because uh Pastor Augustus is not here, we don't have the outline for tonight on the screens, but first of all, we want you to see the confident communion that we have with Christ. We have confident communion. And I am gonna cough a little bit tonight. It's just the nature of of getting over this cold that I've had. Uh it's the way it is. I I have a cough drop in my mouth. I know sometimes people are like, You need a cough drop? I already got one in there. It's already doing what it can do, so Uh, you know, praise the Lord, it's just the way it is. Uh just glad I have a voice to be able to talk. So we see here in verse number nineteen he says Let's read verse 19 through 22 because all of these verses go together and then we'll dissect them individually, but he says here, and hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him. For if our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our hearts and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, Then we have confidence towards God. And whatsoever we ask, we receive of Him because we keep His commandments and do those things that are pleasing in His sight. So we have here a promised relationship that we see. He says, hereby we know that we are of the truth. There is a confidence there. That we know that we're of the truth. We know that we have a relationship with the Father. We have that confidence. And you know, by and large, this book was written that you may know that you have eternal life We haven't even gotten to that yet, but I gave you thirteen signs that are given to us in this book, thirteen things that you can look to to confirm whether you have new life or not, new life in Jesus Christ. And so we see This confident relationship that we have, hereby we know that we are of the truth. We see a self-condemnation here. He says, for if our hearts condemn us, if our hearts condemn us Well I wonder, beloved, if anyone has ever lived very long at all whose heart has not condemned them. It tends to be a a way of life that our hearts do condemn us. We know sometimes that because Satan, who is the accuser of the brethren, sometimes Satan puts that into our hearts But you know, God also gave us a conscience, and He wrote His law upon the heart of man. And sometimes our heart condemns us because we have transgressed the law or we have done that which is wrong. And thereby our our heart should condemn us. Proverbs tells us that the wicked flee when no man pursueth. The fact of that verse is that When we've done wrong, we know we've done wrong and we're looking for the guy that's coming, right? We're we're looking. The idea is that our heart is condemning us. Our heart is telling on us, even if it's just to us. Your heart tells when you've transgressed the law. Psalms 51, verse number 3 says, For I acknowledge my transgression and my sin is ever before me. You know, David there talking, he says, I acknowledge my transgression, but beyond that, my sin is ever before me You know, one of the signs that you are a child of God is that you have that conviction in your heart. That you know that transgression is before you, that your sin is ever before you And but we until you come to Jesus Christ and you confess and forsake that, it's ever before your heart and mind. David for over a year carried that around and was trying to hide it and cover it up until the prophet looks at him and says, Thou art a man And he was smoked with the conviction of God and knew that he had to get it right. And he says, Man, my sin is ever before me. His heart was condemning him. Sometimes our heart condemns us because we know we haven't done right. Beloved, a heart that is sensitive to God will be burdened with the presence of even the smallest of sin, even the smallest of transgressions. We'll know that we've done wrong. Psalms 38, verse number 4 says, For my iniquities are gone over my head as a heavy burden. They're too heavy for me. My iniquities have gone over my head. This is like a heavy burden. It's like a weight that's on the heart of man because We know we've transgressed the law, we know we've disobeyed God, we know we haven't pleased Him, so there's a self-condemnation here. But I want you to understand that God offers clemency. That God offers forgiveness. We know that even in this passage, first John 1 9, that if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It's there. We don't have to walk around with that heavy heart. We don't have to walk around with a heart that condemns us. We can come to God, confess it, and forsake it, and know that we've been forgiven. We can have confidence with God because He said He would forgive us. Confidence as a Christian. Oh, he says here, for if your heart condemns, God is greater than our hearts and knoweth all things. You and I know, you know what, your heart condemns you. And you know, like I talked about the Proverbs guy looking for who's coming? Like, uh-oh, somebody's coming, somebody's gonna find me out But God already knows. It's not like God has to find it out. He already knows it He is greater than our heart, and he knows all things. Now, we could stop here and spend the balance of the time that we have simply talking about this one attribute of God. His omniscience, that he is all-knowing, that God knows all things. I mean, we could spend time and walk through the pages of scripture and talk about how he knows the beginning from the end How he knows your needs before you even ask of him what your needs are. How he knows your heart. The Bible tells us that our heart is desperately wicked. Who can know it? We can't even know our own heart, but God knows our heart. He knows it. He knows the bounds of our habitation. Our days are numbered. The bounds of our habitation are set. God knows when our day or hour is coming and our time is up. I was last night studying and writing my message for tomorrow morning's funeral, sitting in a chair and talking to my kids. And I just looked back at my records and I told my kids, I said, since I've been pastor, which has been now about nine years, I've preached 26 funerals. Twenty-six funerals in nine years. All ages of people. We don't know when, but our time's up. As I got online and was just trying to learn a little bit more about Kitty, I was looking at the funeral home and reading the obituary and I just scrolled through The obituaries. The obituaries from one funeral home in one town for the last few months. Just looking at the different people that passed away and the different ages. As I was looking at that, I'm like, that guy was only three years older than I am right now. Three three years. I got three years to live if I pass away when I'm his age. What am I gonna do with that three years if that's all if that's all the time I got? I mean I spent some time pondering, thinking, you know what? I mean, in my mind, you guys have heard me talk about it. Hey, if God allows me, I'm going to pastor here for the next 20 years, but I might not have 20 years. Man, how we need to seize the day. God knows all things. We're not going to spend any more time there, but beloved, he knows the burden of the sin that's on your soul, and he wants to relieve it. He's greater than your burden and he can forgive it. Jesus Christ, when he forgives us, not only does he wash the sin away, but he removes the guilt in the condemnation that came from sin, because he cleanses us and watches it. We can be assured of our position with God. We can have confidence that there is no condemnation. John chapter 3, verse number 18, and maybe you would like to write in the margin of your Bible a couple of these references there, but he says, He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Romans chapter 8 verse number 1. There is therefore now no condemnation. There is no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Amen? There's no condemnation. Because God has forgiven us. We can have confidence with God. Because of that. He's not just our judge, but he's our Father. Romans 8, verse 15 says, For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption. Whereby we cry, Ah, the Father. As our Father, he's not going to reward our wrong behavior. He's not gonna bless and and we're gonna we're we're transitioning here into the next verse, but I want you to understand that as our Father He's going to hold us accountable. You wouldn't expect an earthly father that had a head on his shoulders anyway to reward wrong behavior. And why would we expect our Heavenly Father to do any different? Why would we think, beloved, that we could live however we want, do whatever we want, disregard God's commands? But then we can come to him in prayer and ask him for what we have need of and try and claim Romans 8. 28. It doesn't work that way. You'll see in the Word of God the Bible's chocked full of promises. And we love to talk about the promises. Amen. But do you know most of the promise verses are what you call condition promise verses? If my people Which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face. Then will they hear from heaven? Then will I heal heal their lamb. You see, it's a condition, promise. The problem is too many people are trying to claim the promise without fulfilling or meeting the condition. I want you to see in verse number 22 we have the purpose of our relationship So not only do we have a promised relationship here, a confidence in that relationship, but we can have confidence because of the purpose of our relationship, we see it is access to prayer. In verse number 22, he says, and whatsoever we ask, we receive of him. But listen to the last part of this, what does he say? Because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. Isn't that what it says? I didn't make it up. It's what the Bible says. Look at the confidence that we can have here. It's amazing, he says, and whatsoever we ask, we receive of him. That confidence is there that we can call on God and we can pray and God hears and he answers our prayer. He says, but Because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. Beloved Dr. Alfred Palmer says in his commentary on this verse, he says Asking is man's part, and giving is God's part. Beloved, God wants us to come and he wants us to ask He desires that we ask. Shauna Rice wrote an entire book, and the book's entitled Asking and Receiving. Man's Job is to ask. And receive from God. Asking and receiving. God wants us to be a people of prayer. Luke 18, verse number 1 says, and he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought. What is it? Men ought always to pray. Men ought always to pray. Pray. We ought to be people of prayer. All through the Bible we see men and women who went to God in prayer and they had answers. And I I wrote down a few of them here, and if I asked of you to give me some examples off the top of your head, you guys could list off examples, but we have examples through the Bible, one after the other, of men and women that went to God in prayer, and God answered the prayer we know in Samuel. One Hannah prays for a son, and God hears her cry, and before she leaves the temple that day, Eli looks at her and says, Go in peace, and God of Israel, grant thee the petition that thou hast asked of him We know in 1 Kings chapter 18 that Elijah prays and God sends fire to consume that burnt sacrifice after all the prophets of Baal tried and worked so hard to try and get the fire to come and they couldn't do it. And Elijah prayed and God sent fire from heaven. In Acts chapter 9, we see that Peter prays and Dorcas is raised from the dead. God answers prayer. Even Jesus himself prayed to the Father for his friend Lazarus. He asked of his father that his father may be glorified, that Lazarus would come forth. And Lazarus came forth. We can walk through the pages of Scripture over and over and see by example that we are to ask. He says here, and whatsoever we ask, whatsoever we ask, are you asking? But we are also given here the condition that we might have this confidence. There is a condition. We can't just have that confidence. We can't just claim that confidence. I think about a spoiled child who has a rich parents and his rich parents have uh you know given to him and given to him and given to him and this this rich child just, you know, I mean Let's say he's in the store and he breaks something and and he just belligerently tells the manager, oh, doesn't matter, my dad'll pay for it. You know, that kind of a spirit, just this this confidence that, oh, dad's just going to cover it, but what happens in those situations, ultimately mom and dad say, listen, we're done. We're done feeding this. You're cut off. We're not going to continue to meet this or or provide for you. You don't appreciate or understand what it is that you have So we're going to see how you like it, living with nothing. And beloved, sometimes Christians come to God like a spoiled kid. With our list and we ask of him and expect him just to keep giving and uh yet we're robbing him. Yet we're forsaking the assembly of ourselves together. Yet we're not being the witness that we ought to be. Not sharing the gospel anywhere, not telling anybody else about Christ. We're completely denying and rejecting all that God, our own heart is condemning us, and we're ignoring it. And yet we want to go to God with confidence and ask of Him to meet this need. But beloved, we can have that confidence if we're keeping His commandments. And brother Matt, when you get a call and find out your daughter's on the way to hospital. And you want to get a hold of God. Amen? You want to get a hold of God right then. You don't want to have to go, oh wait. Um Okay, Lord, first of all, I gotta spend about an hour and and confess all this stuff And God in His mercy and grace does forgive us. But if we want to have confidence to come to God, we've got to have, we've got to keep the commandments that He says. He's speaking, beloved, to those who are of the truth. We already saw that in verse 19. Those who know they're of the truth In verse 21, he calls them beloved. We know he's talking to those that have a relationship with Jesus Christ, those that are of the truth, those that are of beloved, and he's talking to those that are keeping his commandments, to the child of God. Galatians 3. 26 says, for ye are all the children of God by faith in Jesus Christ. That's how we become a child of God. By faith in Jesus Christ. It's not just religion, but it's righteousness. It's not just an empty set of rules that we follow, but it's a relationship with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, with our Father. I was studying this afternoon a little bit of the discipleship series for the lessons three that some people are going to be going through in the near future and the aspect of Christian living. And ultimately the idea of, well, if I've been forgiven, why should I bother why can't I just go sin? Ultimately, because we have the spirit of adoption and we cry, Ah the Father, because He is our Father. And there should be that heart's desire to strive to please him first and foremost. That is our motivation. For living a righteous life, not our excuse to live in sin. Psalm 66, 18 says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. I mean that's pretty clear, isn't it? If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. We're going to go to prayer here in a few minutes, and we're going to ask God for these requests, one of them being uh this two-year-old boy named Daniel who who has possibly a cancerous lump on his neck. Miss Leanne, who needs a miracle from heaven. But beloved, if I regard iniquity in my heart, God's not going to hear my prayer. Oh, the guys I'm praying with, they'll hear it. And they may think, boy, Pastor Caleb, he can pray good. But God looks down and says, I I don't hear that prayer. You've got iniquity in your heart. You know you have something that's not right with me. Have you confessed and forsaken it? 1 Timothy 2 verse 8 says, I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands. Lifting up holy hands. Paul telling Timothy, if you're going to go to God in prayer, you need to have holy hands. We are to keep his commandments. We see in verse 21 a condition of a clear conscience. He said, Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, Then we have confidence towards God. That idea of keeping a clear conscience before God and man. He said, if our heart condemn us not Listen, we're all just sinners saved by grace. We know that we're not perfect. And we know that on our best day we're we're still just sinners But you know as well as I do that there's times in your life where you have strived to live in a way which is honoring and pleasing to God. And you have a clear conscience before God, and you come to Him with confidence, and you say, Lord, I know I'm sure I've done something that I'm unaware of, and I certainly confess and ask you to forgive me for that, but I come to you as your child, and as best as I know, I'm clean And I come to you right now and I'm asking of you these things, but you can come. Why? Confidently, because you have a clear conscience. That your heart does not condemn you. It's Acts 24, 16. You might want to write that down next to that verse number 21. It's Acts 24. 16. It says, and herein do I exercise myself to always have a conscience. void of offense towards God and towards man. He said, I exercise myself, I work hard to be sure that I have a clear conscience before God and before man. I'm just trying to think of an of an example. Something I've done recently. Well, you know, I can give you an example. Somebody somebody called me this week, and they said, Pastor Caleb, I just wanted to call and talk to you, and I just wanted to apologize to you for offending you. And I said, well, I sure appreciate your your sensitivity. Uh I have no idea what you're talking about. I have not been offended. You have not done anything in my heart and mine. There's been nothing at all. You have not offended me in any way. But you see, for them, their heart was condemning them. Their heart, they were saying, there's something that I did to Pastor which was not right, and I need to call him and make sure it's right. I need to just have a clear conscience before God and before man. And maybe if maybe if I offended him in some way, I want to call and make sure it's right. Now for me they didn't hadn't offended me at all. And and I've done the same. Maybe some of you in here, I I can't remember, but maybe you'll remember I've come and talked to you, hey, did I you know, mess up by saying this or did I overstep or whatever. I don't I don't know what I might have done, but I'm sure I've done some I know I've offended Miss Kim man many times, you know. But uh working at it, he says, exercising myself to have a conscience. You know, the Bible tells us that we're not even supposed to continue in prayer if we have a defiled conscience. Matthew 5, 23 and 24, he says, Therefore, if thou Bring thy gift to the altar, and there remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee. He says, Leave thy gift before the altar, go thy way, first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come again. How many times have you gone to the Lord in prayer and then the Lord impresses on your heart something that happened, something that you did, you know, the Lord just reminds you He's saying when the Lord reminds you of something that's supposed to be made right, he's saying that's what you've got to get right next. Get that right? And then you can come back and keep praying or going on to the next thing. That's what he asks of us. And I've got a Move quickly here. We see that we receive of him. We receive of him. Matthew 6, 6. It says, but thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut the door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Whatsoever ask, we receive of him, we can receive those things of him. Secondly, and I need to move move a little quicker here, we see a clear commission And this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another as he given us. Commandment, as he gave us commandment. This clear commission, it's very clear what he says. You know, beloved, it's a privilege to know what God requires. What a privilege to know what God requires. Mary and I had the uh Mm-hmm. Blessing of being able to go to a missions trip to India. And you know the the Hindus they they have thousands of gods. How can they possibly know what's required? How could they possibly know what they need to do to please any of the thousands, hundreds of thousands of gods that they are called to worship? It's not a burden. It's a blessing to know what God requires. To have it laid out for us so clearly, to have it spelled out and told us: hey, this is what I require of thee. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and thy neighbor as thyself. It of course begins, he says here, believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ. This is where our relationship begins This is where confidence begins. This is, he says, believe on Jesus Christ. This is where it starts. God has given him a name above every name. His name is the standard of all that he is. When we believe on his name, we're not just believing on the letters J-E-S-U-S. We're believing on all of what makes up that name. Like when we think about Brother Hunt here, there's you think David Hunt There's some things that come to mind. Shall we list them? No. There's some things that come to mind. There's some things you think about him and and It's who he is, it's his personality, it's his character, it's his reputation, it's what people would say about him. David Hunt, you you you say that well, you say the name of Jesus. We we believe not just on the the the name that spells that that name Jesus, but it's all of who he is. He's God incarnate, God in the flesh, all that makes up that person that we call Jesus. Putting our belief in that name is putting our belief in Him and who He is. Psalms 124, verse 8 says, Our health is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth. That's who he is, the Creator, God. He made it all. You can only receive a clean heart when you first have believed on the name of Jesus Christ. But it's a pleasure to follow God's rules. We follow God's simple plan of salvation, to come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, putting our faith and trust in Him and Him alone. And then we follow God's simple plan of surrender as we grow in the Lord and begin to learn what it is that God requires. And we submit to him and yield and say, okay, yes, Lord. This is what you want. Okay, Lord. Yes, I'll gladly do that, Lord. I want to please you. I want to do what you want. Just doing what God has instructed is the pathway in which we enjoy the abundant Christian life. And we see thirdly here in verse number 24 the consistent conduct. A consistent conduct. Verse number 24 he says, and he that keepeth his commandments Dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abide in us by the Spirit which he hath given us Now we're going to get into this a little bit next week, but you this last verse kind of ties in and carries in to 4 verse number 1, but we're not going to chase that rabbit right now. We're going to deal specifically with this idea that he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him. We see, beloved, here a pursuit of reliability. The growing Christian is going to begin to have a level of consistency in his conduct that becomes a pattern and a habit of his life. He's going to be consistent in his spirit. He's going to be consistent in his service. He's going to be consistent in how he uses his substance. I have seen it these 23 years that I've been in the ministry where people come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and they begin to grow in the Lord. and and there begins to be a level of stability in their life. There begins to be a level of consistency that was never there before. All of a sudden there's there's uh a uh a stability in the home. There's a soundness in their relationships. There begins to be a practice of utilizing wise financial decisions and they start to use their substance in a right way, in a God-honoring way, and they begin to it's it carries through every part of their life. This is what typifies a Christian that is maturing and growing in the Lord. And so I would implore you and encourage you, do you see that in your life? It is not God's desire that the Christian should live on a roller coaster. You shouldn't be on cloud nine today because everything went good and praise God. Boy, we're having revival and everything is good. It's good to be under the spell where the glory comes out. Hallelujah! Praising Jesus' holy name. Ain't nothing better than serving my Lord and Savior. And then tomorrow morning your wife doesn't even know if she can talk to you because you're so depressed and discouraged People at work are not sure how they can talk to you. Are you on top today or are you on bottom? Are you on fire for God today? Or are you not even sure if you're saved today? We see this level here, this pursuit of reliability, the consistent conduct that is required of a believer that begins to grow in the Lord. He says, and he that keepeth his commandments Dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abides in us. Beloved, if the Father Dwells in us, and we're slowly being changed into the image of the Son. We are going to start being more and more like Him. And we know that He Is God and he changes not. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And so, beloved, as a Christian We should begin to live a more consistent, stable life. Why? Because we're resting in the one who doesn't change. Our hope and joy is not built on uh this song just jumped in my mind, nothing less than Jesus, blood and righteousness, uh, but it's not built on our circumstances Our joy should not come from the fact that, hey, things went good today. And I understand there's things sometimes we enjoy. It's a beautiful day, man. It was nice out today. We enjoy that. But that's what shouldn't give us victory in our life. Victory ought to come because He's dwelling in us. Yes, we have struggles, we have trials. But as a Christian grows and mature, those struggles and trials should have less impact on who we are. Because we have a provided reliance. One of the greatest comforts to the believer is the surety that God will never leave us He will never forsake us. That he dwells in us. That he is with us. You know, it's a terrible place to live in fear of loss. It's a terrible thing when a husband or a wife threatens their mate, their kids. Well I'll just leave. Oh, you're going to say that? Well, I'm just going to leave you and the kids. Or I'm just I'm out of here. You do that again and I won't come home. That should never cross the lips. Of a married man or woman. What is it that gives us the confidence with God? Because we know that He is there no matter what. That God loves us, even though he knows how wretched we are. That God is there for us and we can turn to him at any time. And he's faithful and just. He'll forgive us a hundred thousand times over. We have confidence with him because of that. If we're going to be like Christ, we ought to be trying to live that way in our lives. We shouldn't put that pressure on either on others. So we see as I wrap this up, we have confidence. We're confident that we are in the truth. That is, we know we're saved in verse number 19. We're confident that our heart is clean, verse number 21. We're confident that our prayers are heard and answered, verse number 22. We're confident that we are doing and fulfilling his commands, verse number 23. And we're confident that he is abiding and dwelling in us. Verse number 24. The confident life. Do you have confidence in God? He wants us to. And you can if we're keeping his commandments.