Amen. What a fun song, Gordon. Turn your Bibles to Luke chapter sixteen. Luke chapter sixteen. We obviously here launched into twenty twenty-six already. Amazing. Uh uh how quick it goes and uh we are into another year with all of the potential, with all of the you know, exciting opportunities as we consider and think about uh what a new year brings, a fresh start. An opportunity to begin again or to start over. I'm glad that we serve of God of second and third and fourth chances. That we can purpose anew and recommit and rededicate and reapply ourselves to accomplish what is the Lord's will for our lives. As we consider each of our lives, we certainly are all in different places. Everybody here is not facing the same challenges in 2026. Some of you may endure some great uh physical challenges this year. Some of you may have some overbearing financial challenges that you'll endure this year. And all of our capacity to endure whatever challenges come is greatly, it's as diversified as the people that are in here. We are all at a different place. Some have one child to be concerned about and some have five, some have none. Some children are already grown and out of the house they're we're all in different stages and places of life But, beloved, there are some things that are applicable, some truths that are true, and they apply to us all. Regardless of our state, regardless of our challenges, regardless of our means or our health or our situation, the fact is that we all began 2026 at the same moment. Regardless of who you are or where you're at, you began 2026 at the same moment, this this year, and we all had the potential of 365 days before us. Now we know the Bible tells us boast not thyself but tomorrow, for thou knowest not may what a day may bring forth. We we don't know that we will all finish this year, but we all know that the potential Of 365 days is before us. I would like to speak to you for just a few minutes this evening on the wise steward. We have three hundred and sixty-five days to do with what we will Your success, your victories, your accomplishments this year are going to be by and large because you purposed And pushed to do those things. We all have the same amount of time before us and we can accomplish some great things this year. We are all required by God to steward that time that is before us. We're going to read a number of verses here in Luke chapter number sixteen. I don't know if we'll read down to eight or ten. Let's just begin at the beginning here in Luke chapter sixteen. And he said Also unto his disciples, there was a certain rich man which had a steward, and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. And he called him and he said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? Give an account of thy stewardship. For thou mayest be no longer steward. Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? For my Lord taketh away from me the stewardship. I cannot dig To beg I am ashamed. I am resolved what to do that when I am put out of the stewardship they may receive me into their house. So he called every one of his lords debtors, and unto him, and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my Lord? And he said, An hundred measure of oil, and he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quietly and write fifty Then said he to another, and how much owest thou? And he said, A hundred measure of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill and write fourscore. And the Lord commended the unjust steward because he had done wisely, for the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. God here was not commending this steward's dishonesty. He was commending his initiative. He was commending his resolve to find a solution and his work to try and find the means and capacity to get this done at such a short notice. But there's several things that I just want you to show. We see here in verse number one that the establishment of the steward That uh and he said unto his disciples, there's a certain rich man which had a steward. Beloved, we were all stewards. Our lives and all the capacity and ability, the potential that's there belongs to God. Paul tells us, for you've been bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your bodies and in your spirit, which are God's. So, first of all, this evening I would like you to see the accountability of a steward. The accountability of a steward. The fact of the matter is a steward has a day coming when he's going to have to give an account. Each and every one of us as stewards. We see in verse number two, and he called him and he said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? Give an account Of thy stewardship. Beloved, at the end of this year, you and I are going to have to give an account of our stewardship. What did we do with our time? What did we do with our talent? What would we do with our our means or our ability. What did we do with our Friday nights? What we'd we do with our Saturdays? What would what did you do with your Sundays this coming year? I was thrilled for those that could be in the house of God here on this the first day of the year and I think it's a very commendable goal for somebody to set to say, I'm going to be in God's house every single Sunday of 2026. I'm going to commit to do that. I'm going to strive to accomplish that. And you know it's it's a worthwhile goal. You're stewarding the time that God has given you. And you know our time on this earth is short. And we're going to have to give an account. Beloved, God owns it all, and we need to have a proper view, we need to have a right perspective and understanding. that all that I have, all the possessions that we are allowed to acquire in this world belongs to God. I'm just the steward, the manager, the overseer. We tend to get the idea that, well, this is mine, therefore I can do whatever I want with it. We need to keep the perspective that this is God's, therefore I must do whatever He would like with it. We are stewards of that which belongs to God. The master, beloved, is the one with the rights. You and I are the one with the responsibility. As stewards, we are responsible before an Almighty God and will give an account for what we do with all that He has blessed us with. The steward is accountable for the provision that God gives us. Romans 14:12, every man, every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. There's going to come a time when we give an account. I'm thrilled today that you and I are only accountable for that which God has given us. I'm not accountable or going to be held accountable for the skills or talent that Pastor Gus has, or the skills or talent that Stephen has. But we're going to give an account for the ability, for the means, for the possessions, for all that God has blessed us with, and to whom much is given, much is required. We are going to give an account for that. Last year I told you all that we're going to start a choir or a choir, uh an orchestra. And I say, well tell I'm giving you four years notice so that you can learn an instrument. The Holy Spirit said, what's good for the goose is good for the gander. So I started doing some research and talked to some people that I know about instruments and uh asked Brother Ives who was here some months ago, I said, hey, if I was gonna learn an instrument, what instrument would you play? And he we talked about some different things and ultimately I settled on the saxophone So I asked Stephen to uh find me a saxophone. And uh he said, you know instruments better than me, you know brands, I don't even know what I'm looking for. So he'd been doing some shopping and just before Christmas he found me a saxophone, picked it up, got I've got it at the house. Just the other night I told asked Melissa, I said, why don't you go through this? Obviously it's been used, find out Like are the reads good or do I need to order different reads? Is that the right kind of reads I'm supposed to use or whatever? She looked at it and she said, Oh, you're all set. I said, Oh stink. I was hoping we had to wait and order some more parts or something, you know. Gotta wait for the parts to come in. Uh so I'm I I'm ready. So uh my goal is this year, but at least by the end of the year, to be able to play Mary Had a Little Lamb or something. I gotta do some kind of a special. By the end of the year, just find some way to do that. But hey, we we're gonna be held accountable and maybe you don't have the skill that somebody else does or the ability that somebody else does, but the ability you have, the means that you have, God's gonna hold us to account for it. That might mean we need to work at something or d develop a new skill or ask God for the strength or help to do that. I walked through the pages of scripture and just real quickly kind of wrote down some things that the Bible very clearly says we're going to give an account for. And you say, well, what are we going to give an account for? Well let me just give you some things directly out of the Word of God and you'll recognize this. We of course know that the Bible tells us to redeem the time because the days are evil We know, beloved, that the steward is going to give an account for his time. How we use our time, the time. We know really, literally, time is the most valuable thing that we have. And we're going to give an account for how we use our time in this coming year. The Bible tells us that you're going to give an account for your conversation. In Matthew 12, 36, he says, But I say unto you that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. You're going to give an account for every idle word, not just the words that are used for encouragement, not just the words that are used as you teach a class or talk to somebody about the Lord, but every idle word We're gonna give an account for her. Oh, we need to be like Miss Rebecca Kerbilla. She says, I ask God, put a watch before my mouth. Put a watch before my mouth. Be be careful what I say. Oh, how we need to do that because we're going to give an account for every idle word. We're going to give an account, beloved, for our works. Ecclesiastes 12 14, for God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil the works that we do. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. Beloved, there is no place in the Christian life for half-hearted service. Whatever we do for God should be done with the best of our ability and and and to with all the might that we have at least. And maybe we don't have the skill or the ability that somebody else does and we can't perform at the level that they might in that particular field But we can, with our might, do it to the best of our ability to bring honor and glory to God. And beloved, that is what we will be held accountable for. Every work is going to be judged. Not only just the work, the beloved, the attitude. Whistle while you work, amen. The attitudes that we have while we work. You know, I've just reached a place in my life that the attitude to me is more important than than the work itself. My kids have all heard me say, you know what? I'll just do it myself if you're gonna have a bad attitude. Now that's really not the right thing. What I ought to do is I ought to thank them and tell them to get their attitude right and get the job done anyway, right? That's what I should do. But the attitude, it really bothers me when somebody has a bad attitude. God's gonna hold us to account for our attitude. The Bible says In Proverbs 17, 3, the finding pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, but the Lord trieth the hearts. Proverbs 21:2 says, Every way of man is right in his own eyes, but the Lord pondereth the heart. We're going to be tried not just for the work we do with our hands, but for the spirit and the attitude we have while we do it. Are you serving the Lord with gladness, with a good spirit, with the joy of the Lord in your heart? We're going to give an account for what we do with the possessions that God gives us. We're going to turn there in a minute, but don't turn there now. In Matthew chapter 25, the story of the parable of the talents. We know the lesson there is very clear. God gave five to one and two to one and one to one. And they were they had to give an account for what God had given them. He came back and asked of them, what do you do with what I gave you, beloved? What God gives you in the parable of the talents is quite literally speaking about money, it's dealing with financial gain, but I believe that it could be applied to every area of our lives. First Peter 410 says, every man hath received the gift. Even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Beloved, we're going to give an account one day for what we do with the grace that God has been bestowed on us. I don't recall the passage. I think it's in Galatians, but uh uh I remember Paul uh is the one that said it, but he was talking about the idea that uh has God's grace been bestowed upon you in vain? Has God given you the gra his grace in vain? Why, I hope not. These are the things according to the Bible that just very clearly teach us that we're going to give an account for these. We are be stewards of those. How Well are we going to steward those in 2026? And I want to point out not just the account of the steward, but I would like to point out the attitude of the steward. In Luke chapter 16, we see verses 3 and 7, he says, Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do for my Lord? Take away from me the stewardship. I cannot dig. To beg I am ashamed. I am resolved what to do, that when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their house. We know his desire here was that, well, I'm going to go give these guys a great deal so that when I'm kicked out of my stewardship They'll bring me in. They'll say, Oh, uh they'll take care of me. You know, he had a underlying motive for what he was trying to accomplish there. Beloved as stewards, we've got to lose the attitude of entitlement that plagues so many today and live in mindful of the fact that it's all his. You see, as a steward, I live with a spirit of thankfulness, not a spirit of entitlement. As a steward, I am constantly conscious of my responsibility, not of my rights. This steward realized the day was at hand, the time was going to come when he was going to have it given account, and he was not prepared. The fact of the matter is he was driven to dishonesty Because he had not been diligent in preparing for the day when he would give an account We need to be sure that our attitude is right. Would you turn back to Luke chapter number 10? Just back a couple of chapters here. In Luke chapter number 10, we have a familiar story here of the Good Samaritan. And I have talked to you about this before and you may remember some of it, but just by discussing or looking at the attitude here, there's three prevalent attitudes that are present here for these stewards. These all different people in all different stages of life, but how did they view what God had given them? How did they view their responsibility as they came upon this man that Was there in the way? Well, first of all, we see the attitude of the thief in verse number 30. Luke chapter ten and verse number thirty. And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed leaving him half dead. You see, the attitude of the thief, first of all, is what's yours is mine, and I'm going to take it. The thief has the attitude, what's yours is mine, and I'm going to take it. It's a sad thing that the fact is that there are many that feel this way. They have that attitude of entitlement that uh whatever is yours is mine and if I take it that's perfectly acceptable. That's okay. They they wouldn't mind stealing from you Because they feel that they've been dealt a raw hand. They feel that they their life has been unfair to them, therefore they're justified in doing this. Well we have an amazing capacity as humans to justify our own actions. Don't we? We we can really come up with good reasons for whatever we want to do. There's always a reason Doesn't mean it's right. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. That doesn't mean it's right. It just means we've come up with a means to justify their own mind and this thief here said what's yours is mine and I'm going to take it. It's sad that it's actually entered the church as well. Uh i it seems uh that more and more uh uh every few months I hear about some church that The treasurer or the pastor or somebody in the organization has defrauded the organization and taken how much ever thousands of dollars out of the church and spent it for their own benefit or whatever. But you know that's not even really what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the fact that God said, uh, will you rob God? And he says, Wherein have you robbed me? And tithes and offerings. You see, we can justify why we don't want to Give why we don't want to be a proper steward with what God has given us. You understand that there is always more bills to pay than you will have money to pay for it. And I I know that you're not Warren Buffett. You don't have the the kind of money that he has. You know, I I understand that. So we're all in a condition or a place, doesn't matter where we're at or how much money we make, there's always things that we could spend our money on, but it's not ours, it's God's. And we've got to use it according to his will. And that starts by being tithing it and Listen, we're gonna do our update here in a few couple weeks and uh we've got some great news about the church financially over the last year and God has been very good and uh as a church I think by and large We we've got a very giving church, so I and by the way I don't look. I don't you might be uncomfortable tonight 'cause you think Pastor knows I don't tie I don't have any idea. I I don't look at who ties and who doesn't, so I don't really have any idea by and large, I don't know who gives almost anything. I don't know any of the gifts that you guys give. Uh obviously if we're doing something big and somebody wants to be a part of something special, then I might hear about that. But as a general rule I don't necessarily know. So It's not before me, it's before God. The first attitude is what's yours is mine, I'm gonna take it. But we see secondly the attitude of the priest and the Levite in verses thirty-one and thirty-two, and by chance there came down a certain priest that way And when he saw him he passed by on the other side, and likewise a Levite, when he was at that place and came and he looked upon him and he passed by on the other side, the attitude of the priest and Levite is what's mine is mine, and I'm going to keep it What's mine is mine, and I'm gonna keep it. That's the attitude they have, and that dictates how they steward what they have Because what's mine is mine, and I'm going to keep it. And I'm not even specifically dealing with or talking about financial things, although that certainly is applicable. But how many of you heard people say Sunday is my only day off. Sunday is my only time to go golfing or my only time to go fishing. My only time to, but it's not yours. It's God's. All the time that we have is God's. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth, beloved. You're you're going to talk about the time that you have, but listen, your days are numbered, and God is the one that gives life and takes life, and you don't know that your time could be up next week. It's not our time. That means we need to look at it and say it's not a matter of what's mine is mine And that that that means I I can't give up a Friday night every couple, three months to come and work for a couple of hours. I I I can't do that. Friday night is my time to watch football. Friday night is my time to do do whatever you want. You can fill in the blank. But is that what God wants you to do with that time? We only have a few work parties a year. They're supposed to be every month, but there's always things get in the way and they get scheduled and moved and cancelled and you know I mean I'm not saying you gotta be at every one, but have you ever come to one? I can tell you one of the biggest places or best places is Pastor Gus was talking tonight, one of the best places to build relationships. is to work together. Because it gives you opportunity to chat and talk and to maybe edify one another and your Kind of actively doing something for the Lord. And listen, any time spent serving God is time invested in eternity. Instead of saying what's mine is mine and I'm going to keep it We say, hey, what's mine is the Lord's, and I want to use it however he sees fit. That's our time and our treasure and our talent, our abilities. And lastly we see the attitude of the good Samaritan, verses 33 through 35, but a certain Samaritan As he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him he had compassion on him. And he went to him and he bound up his wounds and pouring in oil and wine and set him on his own beast and brought him to an inn and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence and gave it to the host, and he said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again I will repay thee. You see, the attitude of the Good Samaritan is what's mine is God's. And I'm gonna share it. I'm gonna share it. I'm gonna use it to benefit of others. I'm gonna have compassion. I'm going to take what God has given me and allow. I'm going to be the conduit that God can bless. And allow me to bless others. And that's a privilege, friend. It is a privilege to be in the place where you can bless others. Whether that's with with your time, given a little bit of time to help with this or that, or given some finances to make a difference in their life, or to drop off a meal as we have for so many of our congregation at different times Those are just opportunities to say, hey, what's what's mine is God's. And I want to share it. I want to be a blessing to other people. What is your attitude tonight concerning your stewardship of what God has given you? Last this evening, by way of encouragement, I want you to see the abundance of the steward. The abundance of the steward. The fact of the matter is, is for the unwise steward, for the careless steward There is a day of reckoning. Would you turn in your Bibles? I think it's Matthew. Let's go to Matthew chapter 25. This is the story of the talents here. So I guess look. Look at verse number 19. After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh and reckon with them. He begins to say, okay, how have things come? And you know the story of the talents, we referenced it already. And so he that had received five talents Came and brought another five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliverest unto me five talents. Behold, I have gained besides them five talents more. His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. We see he does the same with the servant that had received two talents. Then we see in verse number 24, then he which hath received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew that thou art a hard man reaping where thou hast not sown and gathering where thou hast not strawed and I was afraid and it went and I hid the talent in the earth and There thou hast that is thine. The Lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knowest that I reap where I sow not, and gather where I have not strown. Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to exchangers And then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents There's three things I want you to see in this text. First of all, that there's a day of reckoning that's going to come, and that will come for all of us, but for the wise servant. For the wise steward, there's two other things that are here. There is a day of reward We see that in several aspects because God brings blessing. God bless us. He was faithful. There's also a day of recognition. I want you to see in verse number 21. And the Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Well done, now good and faithful servant. There's going to be a day of recognition. As we consider and think about this, the abundance of the Stewart, the great rewards that are available to us. It starts with the day of recognition, and we of course of God's people look for and long to hear our heavenly father say, Well done. But if we're going to hear that, that means we have got to be a good steward of that which he given us. In direct context of where those Words of commendation are found is in the place of how these servants used what the master had given them. And beloved, how are we going to use what God has given us for this coming year? Have you set any goals? Do you have any ambition? Do you have any desire to accomplish some things this coming year? And I know there are those who really frown on on setting any goals and and they they hate the whole idea of the new year and the fresh start. I think that's probably by and large because they have failed so many times that they di they decided it isn't worth it. But you know, beloved, if you set some goals and you accomplish them, that's exciting. But when you don't set any goals, y y you aim at nothing and you'll hit it every time. They don't have to be high and lofty and unattainable, especially if you're just starting out with some goals. If you don't read your Bible every day right now, don't say I'm going to read ten chapters a day. You won't do that for a week. That won't last a week. Say I'm going to read 20 verses a day. I'm going to read one chapter a day of the New Testament. You know, some of them chapters in the Old Testament get pretty long. Psalms 119. We might want to break that up into a few days. If you're just starting out, what I'm saying is set the goals as something you can attain. But strive this year to say, okay, with what God has given me, I'm going to try and accomplish some things for his honor, his glory. Why? Because there's a day of reckoning coming. But there's also a day of recognition. And we see it turns into a day of reward. That day of reward is seen in several aspects. First of all, in verse number 25, he says Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. And we know that God and His omnipotence determining to bless those who have been good stewards, and I think that's uh only wise I mean you and I wouldn't be any different. We wouldn't find some guy that's doing absolutely nothing, never has done anything, and say, Hey, I want you to be in charge of my business No, you want to find somebody that's running a successful business that's accomplishing something and and say, hey, could you uh take on this as well? He's already proven himself. He's already shown himself to be reliable. He's already done that. And that's what God is saying here. You've been faithful over a few things. I will make the ruler over many. The reward is blessing. The reward is joy. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. Boy, we want joy. There's joy in serving Jesus. There's joy in accomplishing something in your life. There's joy when we have been successful as a good steward. But this servant, who allowed fear to paralyze him, instead of letting faith promote him was held to account for what he did. And you'll see there in verse number 28 Take therefore the talent from him and give it unto him which hath ten talents. We see that reward, the one that had five and turned it into ten. See in our worldly thinking we think, well, he already has ten, he doesn't need it. But God says he took five and turned it into ten, I'm going to give him another one because we know he's going to take that one and turn it into two He's been a good steward of that which he's been given. And we want to receive the blessings of God in our lives, we must be a good steward of that which we've already been given. And God will look down from the portals of heaven and he'll look at you and he'll say, man, there's a guy who is accomplishing something for me. There's a guy who's taking that which I've blessed him with and doing something with it, with his life. Boy, I'm going to bless him with some more because I know he's going to take that and turn it into profit for eternity, not for himself. There's great blessing in that. Can I tell you that neglect is never neutral? This servant here took it and buried it. Said, well I'm just not going to do anything with it. I'm just afraid that I that I might lose it. Well neglect is never neutral. God wasn't happy with them. He called them a wicked and slaughterful servant. I can't help but think of the example of Joseph, who continually in his life, even though he was over and over again, from our perspective, dealt a bad hand. He prospered and he excelled and he flourished no matter where he was at. God blessed him, because no matter where he was, he was a wise steward of what God had given him. And he grew and God multiplied his blessing. Proverbs tells us, a faithful man shall abound with blessing. That's what a wise steward is. He's faithful with that which God has given him. And God says, you'll abound with blessing. If you can be faithful with what God's given you. In 2026, I pray that we as God's people will be faithful with what God's blessed us with. That we'll be wise stewards, would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed