Hold your spot there and turn also to Ecclesiastes chapter number three, those two passages we're going to be looking at tonight, 2 Peter chapter number 1 and Ecclesiastes number 3. As we turn our hearts and minds to the Word of God tonight, I want you to think about what we as believers are called to. We last Sunday morning, we, me, I preached a message on one of the 12 themes that we're going to have for this year, on what we're called to as believers. The first one, called to be saints. And I dealt with that. And in that one title, I took an entire message and talked about what it means to be a saint. and broadened that and really laid it out for us. And there's certainly a lot that's included in that one title of What It Means to Be a Saint And that's one of the twelve. We're going to look at one every month of what the Bible says that we're called to, and those twelve are only twelve of the sixteen. that we happen to find in the Word of God, and that's only the places where the Bible says you're called to do this. You see in 2 Peter chapter number 1 familiar verses to anybody that's been in church for very long. Verse number five through verse number eight says, and beside this Give all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and to temperance patience. and to patience godliness, and to godliness brother kind brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness charity. For if these things be in you and abound, they make you, that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. If as a believer you're not going to be barren, you're not going to be unfruitful, you're supposed to add these things to your faith. And this here is the list. It's quite cumbersome if you're to add these things to your faith. And that's just talking about your faith, and that's not even getting into what you're supposed to be doing as far as serving God and ministering to others. That's not talking about your responsibilities that you may have because you offered to uh serve the Lord here at the church somewhere and y you've also got a be an usher or uh in the security or serve in the choir or teach in Sunday school or work up in the sound booth and uh you've said that you would help in these different areas Just this uh Pastor Derek right now on Sunday mornings is teaching in in uh junior church, I believe, on the Ten Commandments. And you know, we went through that a few years ago and uh as adults, and he's dealing with that in Sunday school, so we got the the Ten Commandments. This passage of scripture here says, and besides this And besides everything else that you have, add this to your faith, amen. You're challenged and encouraged to to add to your faith or strengthen or to press on, amen. In another area of your life. Can I ask you tonight, do you ever feel like it's just too much? Like, what in the world do you expect, Pastor? How in the world? How can we do this? You know, these things that we've mentioned are only talking about the spiritual aspects, and that's just really the the the side of Here at church, what about your personal walk with God? What about your family time? time with your wife, time with your husband. What about taking the time that's necessary for your kids or for your relatives? I mean, every once in a great while you've got to talk to mom or dad or to your brothers or your sisters that are around the country. I mean, you've got these things that are demanding your time. What about the house? Uh, you know, taking care of the lawn, taking care of the garden, taking care of the gutters. You know, taking care of the the the things that break, always something uh going on that's demanding your time or your attention? We've mentioned a lot of things that is already overwhelming, but we haven't even got into what you do for a living yet. Which takes probably the largest amount of your time, whether that happens to be you've got a privilege to stay at home and you're at home with the the children and you're homeschooling them and raising them, you've got a a full-time, never-ending job right there. And then your your husband or you both, whatever, you're out working and and uh day after day, hour after hour, the the job is demanding time of you. Timing your you know demanding your attention And I don't know what you you may be like me that it just seems like sometimes it's too much. Many people in their life they they run to and fro. They they literally it becomes almost like putting out fires. They run over here and deal with this emergency because this is what's the I mean, hey, you got a flat tire, you got to take time to fix it. And so it's not what you were planning to do with your day But now you gotta run around, take the tire up, run over here and get it fixed, and then take it back, and now half of your day is shot dealing with that emergency. And because that emergency came up, that puts something some other emergency you gotta do We we run around, almost run ourselves to a frazzle, never really getting done all that we need to. I don't know about you, but sometimes this makes me feel like I'm failing. You know, I I I want to be an awesome dad. I want to be, you know, the best dad and and do the best job. And I I want to uh spend all the time that I can with my kids and and raise them upright and and love on them like I should. But my wife's taking all my time. So I can't I can't it's not that I don't want to be a good dad, I do. But Mary's taking out my time. So I can't be a good dad. Or or you know, I want to be a good husband. I want to love her like I should and invest the time in her and with her and spend time together and dwell with her according to knowledge and know all of her idio know all of her wonderful things about her and I wanna I wanna just do this. I want her to be the most I want to be the most amazing husband. I d I desire that but I can't. Because the church is taking all my time. Man, I wish I could be a good pastor I wish I could just be the most amazing pastor. I wish I could invest so much time in the church and just do just just just meet everybody's needs and be there at just the right time. Uh but I can't. My family's taking all my time. I don't am I the only one who you ever feel like you're you're failing in some areas? It's not that you don't that you that you want to fail or that you don't want to do better It just seems like how in the world can I do better? I I I mean there's so many things. I mean hey I could be a great dad if I didn't have to be a pastor or a husband or you know earn a living. I mean, man, I could be an awesome dad, but there's other things that demand my time. How are we as believers Supposed to balance all of this in our life. How in the world are we to do this? We need to have balance. It's critical as Christians that we do. Is this how life is supposed to be lived? Are we supposed to just run to and fro just putting out this fire and that? Feeling like we're never really caught up, like we've never really done as good a job as we should have. I'm not as good of an employee as I want to be, or I'm not as good of a dad or a son or a mother or a husband, I'm not as good a wife, whatever it is, because there's so much demanding my time. Well, no, that's not the way it should be. I want you to know that balance is a requirement that's possible. The requirement for balance is possible. Without balance, you'll destroy yourself You'll destroy yourself. It'll pull you apart. Balance makes it possible to do what you have to do. Have you ever seen a washer? Clothes washer that had about two pair of jeans too many in it? And they got stuck on one side and that washer just I mean, we had one growing up that that happened a lot with six kids in the house, you know and uh that washer would walk across the floor. You know, we tried to like push it against the other dryer so that when it got out of balance it would hit the dryer. and not not move, you know. Didn't want it pulling any hoses out or anything. But, you know, if you don't stop that and fix it It's gonna tear it up. It's gonna damage the bearings and end up ruining the drum and and your washer is gonna be useless. It's not made to function out of balance. You know, believers, you and I are just like that washing machine, and that is that we have a tendency To get too many things on one side, to get a little too heavy in one area of our life. But it's a requirement that we live a balanced life. If we want to be a success, if we want to be profitable, if we want to have victory in this Christian life, we've got to find balance. It is a requirement, but I want you to know that it is possible. It is possible. In Ecclesiastes chapter 3, I had you turn there. You can look at that. We're not going to read the the first eight verses, but you're familiar with this text. The eight verses tell us about what there is a time and a season for. In verse number one, he says, to everything there is a season. A time to every purpose under heaven. And then the list begins, and he goes down through all that which there has been a designated time for. And what I'm saying is, God has a way, God has a plan, He has a time for everything that we need to do. I know at times it seems impossible. It seems like there's no way that we can balance all that's required of us. There's no way we can balance all that we need to do. But let me ask you this. If you've been saved for any length of time, if you've uh been in the Word of God, if you've been in church Let me ask you, would God give you anything as a requirement that you cannot do? No. No. God's not going to ask of us something. That we cannot do that's outside our ability. So what I'm saying is that it is possible There is a way to do all that God would want you to do. Now you heard that statement. There is a way to do all that God would want you to do. Now we're not going to get into it tonight because we're going to look at balance in our life and we'll get into it further. But do you understand sometimes There might be some things in our life that aren't really what God's wanting us to do and that's causing us to get out of balance. Like when you try and wash that extra two pair of jeans that really doesn't fit in the washer in that load. You know, you're trying to squeeze that extra little bit into your life and it's really not what God has for you. And maybe there needs to be some adjustments in those those areas. The Bible says laying aside every weight. It's not just sin. Sometimes there's some extra weight we've got on one side or the other that we might need to let go. We're not going to get into that tonight. I want to stay inside of the focus of tonight's message and really just kind of Talking to you about balance and the fact that it's needed. We need to have balance. And I I in the last week have had two conversations with church members about this specific topic. And in if we go back a little further, it's come up in other conversations as well. But I want you to know that this is required, it's not just required, that it's possible. Because with God all things are possible. Secondly, I want you to see that balance reveals our priorities. Balance reveals our priorities. In Matthew chapter 20, verse number 28, he says, Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. You see, Jesus Christ had a goal. He had a purpose for why he was here on earth. He had a priority that guided his steps. That dictated his schedule, that set out what he was going to do in a day. He had a priority that dictated his life. And we can look at the life of Jesus Christ in several situations, like in Luke chapter 4, verse number 42, he says, And when he when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place, and the people saw him. And came unto him and stayed him that he should not depart from them. Now, this is a point where Jesus had already ministered to this group of people. He had already spent time there and they loved him. They wanted to be with him. And he they came to him and said, Jesus, would you just stay here with us? We love you. We want you to be here with us. We'll put you up. We'll give you a place to stay. We'll give you a place to lay your head Jesus, we want you to be just minister to us and and we'll we'll soak it all in and we'll love you for it. But Jesus had a mission. He had a purpose for his life. And it dictated that, hey, maybe Jesus loved, I know Jesus did love them, maybe he would like to have stayed with them, but he couldn't. Because his priorities dictated what he could do. Have you ever tried to carry a five-gallon bucket? Like a bucket of drywall mud? And it's about 65 pounds. And you're just carrying one? You know how hard that is? You know it's actually easier to carry two? You say, man, that's double the weight. But it's easier to carry too. Otherwise you pull your back out. I've asked Andrew to help me here. Can you grab this bucket and uh So both of them put go ahead and get this up on your shoulders here. We're gonna we're gonna illustrate tonight. We're gonna talk about balance. And the Christian life. So you know, we've got some things, go ahead and scoot down that way. We've got some things in our life that take a little bit of time. They're not maybe big important things, so they don't demand a whole lot of our time, just a little bit. You know, like let's say we enjoy reading. So we're just gonna spend a little time reading. Uh you know what? Maybe we enjoy spending a little time on the internet. Well, probably a little more time on the internet Some more time on the internet. Maybe you like uh maybe you like hunting. I mean that's it's not nothing wrong with hunting. It's it's enjoyable. You like doing hunting, but it it demands a little bit of your time. I mean you gotta get the gun ready and You know, you gotta go out early in the morning like a crazy man. Yeah. And so you want to hunt, or maybe maybe you enjoy watching a movie or two. too so you watch the movies. You know what? Let's just call this category entertainment. And we're just gonna dump all this in here. So this is entertainment. So this is a little bit heavy on one side. To live that way gets it gets harder and harder to carry. Well you know what happens, you know what we decide we can do? We're like, you know what, I can handle this. So adjust your load a little bit. We're like, I'll just adjust my life. I'll adjust my life to fit, to make it easier to handle. But the problem is when we do that What happens is an emergency happens over here. We haven't even started yet. So these things on this side start demanding our time, start calling for us. Okay, let it let it come this way. Let it come this way. Okay. Let's get it back to balance. That's what happens. That's what happens when you get your life out of balance. You know, some people they decide they're gonna spin are you doing all right? Hey, that's supposed to be in the middle, not much side. We haven't added to this side yet. I better stop or we're gonna break this down. I got about another hundred and fifty pounds of stuff up here Dr. Mike. But what happens is we you know some people take all their time and like, you know what, family's the most important to me. Let me ha l let it go this way a little bit. They're really heavy on family and everybody can see it. It reveals that priority in their life. Some people they're really heavy on work and everybody can see it. That's the most important thing in their life. Because they're not balanced. That's what's controlling their life. Marty, can you go over there and get that other bucket off of there for him? That's pretty heavy. You got it. You see, balance reveals the priorities that you have. You can't expect to live life very long. Weighted down in one area without it really affecting you. God desires that we have balance. We need to have balance in order to be successful. There's many things calling for our time, but balance is possible. I want you to see one last thought tonight. And this of course this is just a very practical message. Turn to Romans chapter number ten. Romans chapter number ten. The balance that you're able to achieve in your life reflects, reveals your progress as a Christian In Romans chapter number 10, verse 1 through 3, follow along with me, the Bible says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge, for they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. This group of people had a zeal and an ambition and a desire. They were full of zeal. But they didn't know anything about God. They didn't even understand the righteousness of God. They were full of one area of their life, but didn't know God personally Have you ever tried to ride a bicycle? How many of you can ride a bike? Another real life illustration tonight. So here's a bicycle. Now you remember when you started learning how to ride a bike? Go ahead and ride it over here. That uh only time he's ever ridden in church. Um you remember when you first started riding a bicycle, you first started learning, it was such a struggle to get stay upright. It was such a battle. And do you remember how after you first got it, you just got to where you could go? It was such a battle, but you made these real big corrections. You remember that? It was like, oh, turn this way. No, no, no, turn back that way. No, no, turn back this way. The struggle, the longer you did it, the better you got at it. the less corrections you had to make. It got to the place when you were riding your bicycle It's you're never done. You can't just all of a sudden decide, well, I'm not going to adjust anymore. You're going to fall over. You have to continue to adjust. But the more, the longer you ride, the better skill you have, you get to the point where the adjustments are very tiny, almost imperceptible. And what I want you to understand as a Christian, this is what happens. When you're first, you're a baby Christian, you just get saved. Man, you start running off in this area, you're getting way over here, and it's you hear a message and and God touches your heart and you're like, whoa, I ain't supposed to be doing that. You come way over here And you might get really, really big into this area and you're going this way and then you hear something or you you God speaks to your heart and your devotions, you're like, whoa, I ain't supposed to be doing that. And you you come back and it just seems like on every hand you're getting pushed back towards the center. But after you've been saved and growing and going for a while, beloved, it's supposed to get to the place where you stop having to make such big adjustments. Right. Occasionally you notice, oh I need to get back. Oh yeah, I need to get back. Oh I got a little distracted. There should be less and less adjustments. The balance you're able to maintain in your life is a picture of your progress. And if you've been saved for a long time and and listen. I opened up the message tonight talking about the struggle of balance. It's something we never get past. We all deal with it, but it is possible, and we should be able to get to the point. Where our adjustments get less and less because of the maturity we have as believers in Christ. Why don't you take that over to the edge there? That's the picture we have. God wants us to live a balanced life. Balance is the key to the Christian life I could be a great husband if I ignored my kids. I could be a good dad if I stopped doing anything at church. Man, I could be a great pastor if I just ignored my family. I could get all the jobs done around the church if I didn't ever preach. But there's a lot of things I'm supposed to be doing, just like you. You have a lot of things demanding your time and On Sunday night for the next few weeks, we're going to talk about balance in the Christian life and the different areas that demand our time and how to achieve and maintain and keep balance. I guess tonight my biggest thing is I want you to feel the need for it. And realize it's possible so that you'll start asking God, help me to have balance. Help me to have balance as a believer. That I may honor you. Listen, I don't know how God may have spoken to you. This is a very practical message this evening. But balance is necessary. Something that everybody fights and deals with. Having balance in your in your Christian life. Maybe you got a little distracted or a little heavy one way or the other. But with God all things are possible. Maybe you just need to come and ask God to help you to maintain balance. Ask God to speak to you in the coming weeks, to yield to him and do whatever he's spoken to you. Lord, we ask you to use this moment of invitation. We pray that you would move in the hearts of your people. Lord, give wisdom for this need of our life. In Jesus' name, Amen.