In its entirety as we introduce the message, uh the title of which this evening is The Mature Christian. Nephesians chapter number five, beginning in verse number fourteen, this is a familiar passage of scripture, something that We have all read and heard messages on, and we we some of you have committed many of these verses to memory in different aspects, but just follow along as I read, verses 14 down through verse 33. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. And be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church And he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives Even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself For no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord, the church For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ in the church, nevertheless. But every one of you in particular so love his wife, even as himself, and the wife seeth that she reverence her husband. Last week we traveled to Mexico and we endured, I mean we enjoyed a great uh missions trip. Uh we we did enjoy it. I'm just joking. It was it was very busy, very full days. We were joking uh with Brother Reardon and I told him I said brother After being here for several days and seeing how much you're just sitting around and and wasting all your time, that I'm not sure it's a good investment for Hunt Valley Missions dollars to send down here to you and he's like, I know, I'm just wasting away my days, you know. And uh he was running us ragged, man. He was so many ministries going on and and uh He didn't do these ministries just because we were there. These are things that he's running all the time. These are ministries that he has going all the time. And uh of course not BBS. That was that was added on during for this week, but Uh, you know, during the school year they do have school five days a week and as a a uh mm Bible club, a Bible institute. uh that he teaches for ten hours, five, five hours on two on Monday, and five hours on Tuesday during the school year. That's not currently right now in the summer, but Very very busy. Anyways, he asked me to speak for one of the evenings that we went out to a mission. And when I think about a mission, I think about like Baltimore Rescue Mission. And so I said, okay, I I'll be happy to to preach for you. He asked me to speak for one of the services at the church and I asked him, is there any particular topic you want me to to touch on, or is there something that you would like that y you feel you would want me to address or just anything? And I I assume that for the mission you want me to a basic salvation message. And uh he emails me back and he says, No, for the mission, uh I would rather Christian growth, something on Christian growth, because uh most of the people there are saved and and they need to take steps of growth and and I said okay I you know that's the thing when you go to a place you never met the people you don't know who you're speaking to and and so that really helped to know and And he gave me liberty to preach at church, whatever, but at the mission there I I uh I preached on how to be a good Christian. And uh, you know, I I described and talked about the aspect that listen you can be saved, you can be called a Christian, you can know the Lord is your Savior. But are you a good Christian? You might bear the name of Christ. You might by your testimony say, yeah, I am a Christian. But are you a good Christian? And I just kind of laid out some basic fundamental things that anybody that desired to be more than just Christian in name. would be participating in and they would be part of their life. And as I pondered and thought about our church here this Sunday night crowd. By and large, the Sunday night crowd here is saved. You know the Lord as your Savior. And we don't ever take that for granted. There may be somebody here tonight, you've been in church for a long time, and everybody thinks you're saved But you and your heart of hearts know you're not. And I would implore you to trust Jesus Christ. Don't let pride send you to hell. Trust the Lord before it's eternally too late. And uh just make that decision for Christ. If you've been in church long enough, here you know you know what it takes to know the Lord your Savior It's not what we do, it's what he did, and we just put our faith and trust in him by confessing with our mouth and believing in our heart that God the Father had sent his son to live and die and give himself a sacrifice for us, and his sacrifice is sufficient. And you believe that He did that for you and He rose from the dead for you, and you put your faith and trust in that sacrifice for you, then you can know Him as your Lord and Savior. But by and large, I believe our crowd here has been saved, and some of us for many, many years. And so I thought about our crowd here, and I thought, well What does a mature Christian look like? A mature Christian, somebody that has uh been around a little while. You know, there's something truly encouraging about a mature believer. Just somebody that has been faithful, that has walked with God, that has experienced life and stayed faithful and true to the Savior. Do you know maturity brings to the surface, to the surface, the intrinsic possibility or the intrinsic ability of an individual? Now hopefully those maybe some of those words went over the heads of some of these young people here, but it it brings to the surface the the the innate ability, what we have inside Before maturity, that's not present. Before maturity comes, you don't see that. We're working with all these young people and we're we're trying to develop them. God has given them strengths, God has given them abilities But it's not until they reach some maturity that you start to see those abilities come out. You start to see that that strength and that aspect, that God given ability there You think about it like this if we would ponder it is only when a flower has reached maturity. That we get to see and behold the beauty that's there. Until the flower reaches maturity, at least for most of us, it looks like a weed. I have been guilty of cutting some flowers that look like weeds. And Mary comes out and she's like, what'd you do to my flowers? Thought they were weeds. I cut them with the weed eater. You know, we cut them down. Get rid of those. Boy, those are ugly She said, Well, we'll have to wait till next year to see 'em, you know. Uh because until it grows up you you don't you you don't get to behold that. It's not until a tree reaches maturity that it begins to provide shade and shelter from a storm. There's something just great about maturity. Oh, hey, youthfulness, exciting. Youthfulness, energetic. And that is wonderful. But how many of you here would say, boy, yeah, I had a lot of energy as a youth, but I sure did some dumb things Right. I mean, y you just didn't have the maturity yet, the wisdom yet, to keep from doing Like the Bible says, that foolishness that's bound in the heart of a child. And as parents, sometimes we look at the kids and and either say, you know, oh me or oh my, right? What in the world were you thinking? The problem is too many times we see ourselves in our kids and we know where they got it, and uh we're we're praying and asking the Lord to spare them, right? Uh but maturity You know what a thrill it was to be in Mexico and see the maturity of the believers there that had come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. had grown in the knowledge of the scriptures to the point where they were taking the scriptures and teaching others also. That's what the Bible is about. That's what Christianity is about, reaching maturity. And in our text here, you know, it's amazing you can take the Word of God and passages of Scripture I mean all the years I've been in church and all the years I've been a Christian, it just still i i it it's amazing how passages of scripture can be uh taken or applied in so many ways to our lives. And as I study, sometimes I look and God brings new aspects and ways of thinking about something because of where I am in my life right now. opposed to where I was ten years ago. And a passage of scripture has a whole new meaning for me because of where I'm at right now. And this passage of scripture I just want you to think about the idea of a mature Christian as it's presented here. And first of all We see that there's the the the wisdom of a mature Christian. The wisdom of a mature Christian. Ephesians 517 there he says, Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Boy The world does not have true wisdom. The Bible says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom And if the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, then it means it it lays out, it implies that somebody that doesn't fear God hasn't even begun to have wisdom yet. They they they haven't even been able to to reach a point where they can apply wisdom and that's evident when you look at our society and you see leaders that have you know, PhDs behind their names and and more alphabets behind their name than than we we're just you know shocked at the level of education, the level of knowledge they have, and yet still we look and we wonder, why are you doing that That is so dumb. That is so contrary to basic fundamental wisdom. But they do some things like that. You're thinking, what in the world are you thinking? It's evident in society today the extreme lack of wisdom because the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It's not just the accumulation of knowledge. Some people have a lot of head knowledge and they don't have an ounce of wisdom. The Bible says, what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? You can have all the wisdom or all the knowledge of the world and die and go to hell. That's pretty foolish. It's not just the accumulation of knowledge, but it's the acquirement of wisdom from God. This verse here very clearly implies the possibility for a Christian to act in an unwise manner. He says, be not unwise. He says, you have the fear of the Lord. You have Jesus as your Savior. You've got the possibility of wisdom. Now don't be unwise. You see, beloved, we are to be acting and living wisely. It is a mark of maturity when you stop making foolish decisions. I mean, we see kids and sometimes they do foolish things. But when a young person reaches, you know, their mid-twenties We kind of expect a little bit different level of maturity out of them. What's amazing in our society and world today is more and more you see 20-year-olds and 30-year-olds and sometimes even older than that, people that are supposed to be to a certain level of maturity still making decisions as though they were teenagers. Still impulsively buying things that they don't have money for. Doing things because they want to, regardless of the consequences. That's some immaturity. Maturity says, well, I don't have finances for that. Maturity says that's not going to be good for me. Maturity says I shouldn't eat three pounds of chocolate at midnight. A child says it doesn't matter. I mean chocolate's here, it doesn't matter what time of day it is, I'm just gonna eat it. Maturity says, that's gonna hurt later. I'm not gonna do that, right? So you make a wiser decision What's amazing is many times as Christians we're living as baby Christians even though we've been saved a long time. We're still making unwise decisions. Deciding to miss church for careless reasons instead of putting the priority on the Word of God. Mature Christian says, hey, this is where I need to be. This is what the priority is. This is what I'm going to do. A baby Christian doesn't see that. They don't they haven't reached that level of maturity yet. They don't have that wisdom yet. But a mature Christian does. He says here that wisdom is to know the will of the Lord. To know the will of the Lord. He says, wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. Can I ask you, do you seek the Lord's will each day? You know, it would keep us from making a lot of unwise decisions if we sought after God. If we sought God's wisdom on the decisions that we make. Instead of just doing what we want to do. God's wisdom is available to all. He says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to how many men? All men. It's available there's nobody here that has a market on wisdom. There's nobody here that, oh you say, oh well, Brother Armando was blessed with wisdom, but uh, you know Who do I want to throw into the bus? Pastor Derek was not. You know, I mean you say, oh, uh y y y no. We all the wisdom is there. He says he give it to all men liberally and abrayeth not. All we gotta do is ask for it. And God will give it to you. It's available to any Christian who would like it. The wisdom to make wise and sound decisions for you and for your family and for your life. And when you make wise decisions, your life is blessed because of it. Understanding what the will of the Lord is, you know, if you understand what the will of the Lord is, you're going to do it. You know, uh my father, I mean, obviously we've been in the ministry many, many years, and my dad pastors for 45 years, and I've seen on numerous occasions my dad my dad's very good with money. He's really frugal. To a fault, frugal. I mean he's just really frugal. And uh You know, that that any place any church he's ever been in, you know, he would take a church and they're hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt and He gets them out of debt and all the bills are paid and the building's paid off and they've got money in the bank and and he's just really good with money. And he tried to teach that to the church family. And many times over the years I've seen people come to him and ask, you know, hey, uh Pastor Vitral, would you help me with my finances? And he would say, oh, I'd be glad to. And he'll sit down and he sits with them and let's set up a budget. Let's look at where you're at. Let's establish all of the ramifications. Okay, here's what you gotta do. And and he'll look and he said, okay, now this next check, what you need to do is you need to take it, you need to pay this and this, and let's get this paid off. This will be done, this, this check, and then and then next week let's meet again. And then they'll come in next week and or even two or three weeks later they've met several times and then all of a sudden he sees that bill come that was supposed to be paid off three weeks ago. And Dad will say, Whoa Why isn't this bill paid? That was supposed to be paid out of the check three weeks ago. I told you what needed to be done. Why didn't you do that? And they're like, oh well, you know, uh we we we stopped and bought groceries on the way home and the kids have been, you know, kind of depressed, and so we just thought, well Let's stop by the fair and and just let them ride a few rides and and and then after that there wasn't much left, so we just went out to dinner as a family and and so we didn't pay that bill. And dad looks at him and says, if that happens again, I'm done helping you. I told you what you need to do. I've given you the wisdom that's necessary to get you out of this mess. But if you're not going to do it, you don't want help. What you want is somebody to cry with. And what I'm saying is to understand the will of the Lord is to do it. It's not to say, oh, I know what God wants, but that's not what I'm ready to do. You see, the mature Christian understands the will of the Lord and says, yes, Lord. And we're going to get to there in that last point, but that's what it boils down to. Is doing the will of the Lord. Do you delight to do God's will? The psalmist said in Psalms 40, verse number 8: I delight to do thy will, O my God. I delight to do thy will. Do you delight to do his will? We want you to see the worship of the mature Christian. In Ephesians 5, verses 18 through 20, he says, And be not drunk with wine where there is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. The mature Christian, beloved, is going to be filled with the Spirit of God. Which you know, you've been in church for a while, you understand that this is not uh a a you know, uh uh you slowly being filled up. This is you slowly yielding more of you to yourself to God. It's how much control does God have of you is you being filled with the Spirit. Are you tonight yielding to the Spirit, or are you grieving the Spirit? The mature Christian makes a habit of life of yielding to the Spirit of God, not grieving him. We grieve the Spirit anytime we disregard what he says. Anytime the Bible describes or talks about quenching the Holy Spirit. I don't know how many of you have ever put a candle out by licking your your fingers and going like that. You know, I'm usually kind of chicken to do that. I'll just blow it out, you know. But you don't want to sometimes you don't want to blow wax like on the the tablecloth or something, and so you do it like that so you don't blow that wax everywhere. That's quenching the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit comes and speaks to you and says, you ought to do this. Or boy, you shouldn't do that. Well boy, this is what God would want right here. Or have you given a track to somebody today and you quench this fear? You say, no, not now. Oh, I don't want to hear that. No, because I want to do this. No, I don't. And we quench the Holy Spirit. And the Bible, that that's when we grieve the Spirit. The Spirit of God is there to guide us into all truth and to lead and direct our lives and to help us make wise decisions. And and he's given that the Spirit to us to help us. But we quench it. Quench him. It's not it, it is it is a person, the person, third person at the Godhead. We quench the Holy Spirit. And don't let him lead our lives. Notice with me. The result of being filled with the Spirit. The result of being filled with the Spirit is worship. He says, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things unto God. And the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let me just throw it out here. There is no mention of being filled with the Spirit. presenting itself in some foreign language. There's nothing here about that. There's nothing in this text about being filled with the Spirit as presenting itself as falling down on the ground in uncontrollable laughter. Being slain in the spirit, where you can no longer control your body. There's nothing in here about that. This says being filled with the spirit, how does being filled with the spirit present itself? It says it clearly there. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord. We worship. The person that's filled with the Spirit of God is a mature Christian. He's learned how to live by yielding to the Spirit of God. Over and over again I've had Christians ask me, how do you know when God's speaking to you? How do you know when the Holy Spirit is leading you? That's what you learn. From the time you're a baby Christian, you start walking with God, you start listening to His Spirit. When you respond to Him and don't quench Him, don't put Him out. Then you begin to hear his still small voice and you begin to respond to that. And that's the mature believer. And you worship him in spirit and truth. It's amazing when you think about here, he says, giving thanks always for all things. Boy, if that's not a mark of maturity, giving thanks for all things. Yeah, you gotta be a pretty mature Christian to be able to give thanks in some situations. No, we had a we we heard a testimony tonight that kind of touches on this a little bit. Just kind of seeing God's hand and even something that's inconvenient. Something that maybe from your worldly perspective you look at and say, Man, this is terrible. But when you're submitting to the Spirit of God, and the Spirit of God starts talking to you, and maybe he gives you a little bit of insight and says, Hey, I'm in control. I know what's going on. I'm here for you, and there's a reason. Giving thanks. A grateful heart. Can I ask you, do you love worshiping God? Do you love gathering in God's house with God's people? That's what the mature believer. He loves to be in church, loves to be where God is, loves to be where his word is shared, where people are singing and lifting their hearts in song and praise and prayer to him. There's also some private worship. That we need to be taking part of. Do you love that? Getting alone, talking to the Lord, reading the Bible, praying? Just worshiping God. You know, you get out there and and y you see an amazing sunset. You get up early enough to see a sunrise. You know, and you just look and you say, Man, don't we serve an awesome God? I don't know, some of some of you uh Yeah, yeah. I know Shamar, man. He does not like storms. Where is he at? Oh he's over here. He doesn't like storms. He's uh and that's that's okay. But you know you see a storm and you just think look at the power that God controls and and it's all in his hands and and you just look at that and say, man, what an awesome God we serve. The mature Christian just worships him. Then we see the walk of the mature Christian. In verses 21 through 33, these are familiar verses. The key word in these verses is submission. It kind of walks through the spirit that we're to have and as I described earlier, just submitting to the Lord. And he kind of lays it out for us in a practical way. We see, first of all, the fearful submitting, where he says that we are to submit To yourselves one to another in the fear of God. You know, we submit to one another because we fear God It's not because this person is smarter than me or that person is more superior than me or that person is. No. We submit one to another in the fear of God. Just letting God lead. And then we see the family submitting. Wives submitting to husbands and husbands submitting to God and Kids, of course, are to submit to their parents. But I think that this is a principle, a practice that God is trying to build in our hearts that needs to be present at all times where we're just the mature Christian. Sometimes we think, you know, these kids, sometimes they think that when they finally get mature, when they reach that age, they'll be able to just be done with all this submittance stuff. Right? They look at it and they think if I can just get to this stage, I'll be done with all this. I don't have to do what anybody else says. I can do what I want. I can live my life But we need to Yeah. But life is is submitting to one another. You've always got somebody you gotta submit to. Greg Greg has his own business. He can do whatever he wants, except he's got a whole bunch of bosses. That's what it is. He's got a whole bunch of people that tell him, hey, I need you here, I need you here, you gotta do this, you gotta do that, hey get this car done, get that car done. You think you've always got somebody to submit to. And the mature Christian understands that. And it's not a struggle for him. And I'll tell you what, young people, if you could learn it all the way down at the age that you're at right now, just just learn how to just to submit. It doesn't make you weak. It makes you strong. It really makes you strong. Meekness is power under control. Jesus Christ submitted himself to the Father. He is the greatest example of submission. That we could ever look at. He had all the power. But he said, I'm going to submit that power to the will of the Father. And we have that described for us in this passage, in that relationship where Christ gave himself for the church, and how husbands are to love their wives. As husbands were to submit to God, this faithful submitting is seen in how Christ submitted to the Father. He was faithful to do the will of the Father every time. And beloved, we're supposed to have the mind of Christ. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. Amen. That is a picture of a mature believer. It's not about how long you've been saved. Sometimes people have been saved for a lot of years, but really they're still pretty immature as a believer. I hope tonight we desire to be mature You know, the word of God, in the Word of God, that word perfect means mature. When you see that word, be perfect. Be mature in Christ.