Luke chapter 14. Here we are once again. Christ finds himself with the Pharisees. Those Pharisees are less interested in uh learning from Christ and and sitting at his feet and being fed from him than they are in trying to find a way to catch him, trying to find a way to uh you know, call him on the carpet for something that they believe he somehow transgressed the law or he's not all that he uh claimed to be. They were certainly trying to do that And in today's parable, known as the Great Feast or the Great Supper, depending upon who you read after or somebody have called it uh you know, several different things along those lines. But I personally enjoy the title that I heard a man preach one time and he preached this and he called it the Two Fools and a Himfect Husband And uh these these three people that were uh groups of people, whatever, that were invited to this feast, and we get in a parable as we read, you'll see that they made excuses why they couldn't come to the feast. And so the Bible says the fool has said in his heart there is no God, and these did not want to respond to the invitation of God to come and feast with him And they s they made up some excuses and then the third one, uh, his excuse was, Well, I just got married and so he couldn't come to the feast and so that's why this pastor called the two fools and the So kind of a fun a fun title. But this parable should not be confused with the one found in Matthew 22, verses 1 through 14. That's the wedding feast. Although some of these uh there are some similarities, they're not the same. In fact, the wedding feast was told much later in Jesus' ministry, actually within the last week of Christ's life. He told that that. And this parable that we're looking at today was told early in Christ's ministry. And uh one, the wedding feast was told to a group gathered in the temple, and today we're looking at a feast that was told gathered in So they're not they're not the same, although some people would title them the same as far as the feast or the wedding feast. This is different. So to be not to be confused or taken for one or the other. Um I chose this parable today because it's Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving weekend. Uh wa I d I wanted to continue with the parables, but uh it's Thanksgiving weekend and I thought it would be good for me to at least in some way uh address that fact and And tie it in with the parable that we're covering. The parable that would do the most justice to Thanksgiving weekend is the two debtors. Well we've already taught the two debtors, and I didn't want to go back and do that over, but you know the story of the two debtors and uh which one would be more thankful? The one that was forgiven fifty or the one that was forgiven five hundred? Well, obviously the one that was forgiven the five hundred So realizing the debt that we had to pay and that Jesus paid it for us and the magnitude of that debt and realizing that would motivate us to have a heart of gratitude But we've already taught that one, so I couldn't teach that one, and so I thought, well, you know what? Let's do one around a feast. Because Thanksgiving time is a time where we gather and feast. How many of you are going to feast this Thursday with some family, some friends, gonna have quite a spread, I imagine. And uh my we get to uh enjoy the bountiful blessings of God and hopefully take some time And often when I pray uh with family or friends, I just a I say, Lord, thank you for making a meal like this possible for us, whether it's provided by friends or or provided the means of the to go out and buy it uh or what have you, we know that ultimately it comes from God. And as we feast uh this weekend, uh, you know, this is just in preparation for the great feast that we'll have one day Which this parable is alluding to. And uh so we're looking at that and kind of tying it together, maybe loosely, but tying it together with Thanksgiving because it's Thanksgiving weekend. So that's why we're doing that here. But the telling of the parable, we're going to kind of tell it and read it together because there's a number of verses. Some parables are very short. One, two verses. This one could uh, especially if you put it in context, you end up reading quite a bit So first of all telling the parable, Jesus is eating at the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees. So in verse number one of chapter number fourteen, let's read the first couple of verses here. He says, And it came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day that they watched him. So here the Pharisees were watching him. He came in to eat, and the Pharisees were looking. for some type of problem. They were looking for something to talk to Jesus about, to call Jesus and point out some failure or weakness he had. And behold there was a certain man before him who had uh dropsy. Does anybody here know what dropsy is? I was hoping uh somebody would tell me Uh I looked it up, but uh from my from my research on it, it is a uh disease that causes the body to accumulate w water. and hold water. And there's different types of dropsy like dropsy of the abdominal area. And some of the doctors in here could tell us the different uh le uh you know original terms for these areas of the body, but the if the name of the disease takes on a new descriptive characteristic based on where it is in the body. But basically it causes the body to hold water. And I know we've seen or dealt had family or friends that have dealt with that. Sometimes it's in people's legs and their legs just just expand and grow and and they're holding this water. It's that type of a disease and they can't figure out why. The water gets so so much that it begins to restrict the blood flow So this person had this disease, and Jesus, of course, healed them. So verse number three, and Jesus answered, speaking unto the lawyers and the Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? And they held their peace. And he took him and healed him and let him go. And answered them, saying, which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into the pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day He's saying if you were walking down the road and your donkey fell over into the ditch, would you just leave him there? No, you would get him out. They of course the the Jews had the laws about working on the Sabbath and that you can't expend any energy. It's uh it's funny when I was in Israel, these things are still that way on the Sabbath. And uh uh the hotel we were in, uh uh on occasion, a lot of times we were we were in rough situations, but I think once or twice we stayed in an actual hotel instead of a hostel and uh the hotel had an elevator in it Well, on the Sabbath, the elevators uh go up and down on their own. They stay go up and they stop at every floor, all the way up and go down, because it would be breaking the law to push that button On the Sabbath, to tell the elevator what floor to go. The rest of the week it works like a normal elevator. You push the button to go where you want to go, but on the Sabbath day, it just goes up and stops at every floor. And then it goes down and stops at every floor so that you could get in without exerting any energy and not break the law. And I offended one person at a hotel uh very bad and I didn't realize but uh I brought my the lop the the lobby was the only place that had Wi Fi So I brought my laptop to the lobby and opened it up and began to do some work and I was quickly reprimanded that you can't do that on the Sabbath day, uh and because of the laws that they don't want to break. And so these Pharisees and lawyers here looking at Jesus saying, Hey, you can't heal on the Sabbath day and he says, Well, why not? And so he began to teach them some things. So he uh verse number two in our outline here, he says, and he had just told the the parable of choosing the least at the wedding feast. And we're not going to look at that parable today, but in verses seven through eleven he talks about that, about the idea of pride and humility and choosing the least at the wedding feast. The problem is the Pharisees thought they had it together and they were there, they were on top of it And they included themselves many times with Jesus and his teachings, uh figuring themselves to be the uh person in the chief seat or the person leading and uh doing whatever Christ was talking about And they didn't even realize or didn't register with them that he w they w they were the ones he was reprimanding. But then he tells the host there that when he if somebody had a if a host had a dinner or a supper, he ought to invite those who could not repay him. So let's jump down in verse number twelve uh and read read about that. So then he said also unto them that bade him When thou makest a dinner or a supper, can not thy friend call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors lest they also bid thee again and a recompense be made unto thee. But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, and the maimed and the lame and the bind And thou shalt be blessed, for they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. So he tells them here, when you have a feast, invite other people. And he of its course is not saying here that uh you can't ever eat a meal with your friends, you can't ever invite family You can't ever have somebody else like that, but he's saying our focus should not be on differential treatment, on just inviting those that would be have the means to maybe recompense or provide for us some some type of benefit. We ought to not just be looking at it from our benefit, but what we can do for others. And he's teaching that to them. Jesus is not saying that we can never have our friends over. It's much like the language that he gives us in John chapter 6, verse number 27, where he says, labor not for the meat which perisheth. But for that meat which endureth unto everlasting. Labor not for the meat that perisheth, but that meat which endureth to everlasting. So again, Christ is not saying there, don't labor to eat. Uh obviously we know that if you don't work you don't eat. But what he's emphasizing is the importance of what it is we're laboring for. He's saying don't labor and put extend all your effort and energy to gain that which is going to pass away. To love the meet that perisheth, emphasize and put some energy and some effort into gaining that or working towards that which will never perish. And seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you, is what he's teaching here. So one of those present at the feast hears Jesus talking and likely believes himself to be part of that feast. And he says, Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. It's kind of uh he believed himself to be, oh, I'm gonna be at that feast. And he kind of perks up and he says to to Christ, he says, Blessed is he that eateth with thee the kingdom of God. Kind of implying like I'm blessed because I'm going to be able to eat with thee at the kingdom of God. And this moves Jesus to tell the parable that we're looking at today. And uh that is a parable about a certain uh man hosted a great supper. Now let's read read the parable here and verses 16. Um Verses 15, let's start at verse number 15 and read down through 24 the context of the of this parable. This is what introduced it, this is what motivated Jesus to tell this parable. Then we will look at it today, starting in verse number 15. It says, And when one of them that sat at meat with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. Then said he unto him, a certain man, made a great supper, and bade many, and sent his servants at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come For all things are now ready. Now I don't know where it is in our notes, but since we're right here and it's very clearly seen, I want you to understand that in this in Bible times, they didn't have phones. They didn't have text messaging. They didn't have uh, you know, necessarily a a local postal service Communication was done by word of mouth. And you see here in the text that many were invited to this feast. They bade many. So they went out ahead of time and they went and they says, Hey, uh, Eric, could you guys come to our feast we're having? It's gonna be in two weeks. And they got confirmation from a large group from many people that were invited that said they would come. You see, because they needed time to repair. They also couldn't just go down to the grocery store and pick up what they need. Like sometimes on Sunday night after church I'll think Uh my kids want to invite some people over and I say, okay, who do you want to invite? And so we'll invite some people over. But we have nothing in the house. So we say they can come But we got to swing by giant first and pick up some food to feed them because we don't have anything there. They couldn't do that. They needed some time to prepare. So they would find out how many people were gonna come They would they would say, okay, we've got these people have been invited and they're gonna come. Then they would go and slaughter the necessary uh meat for the meal and get things, you know, picked from the gardens. and process all of that and get it ready for the feast. And then in verse number two, not two, what are we at? What verse are we at? Okay, so verse let's back up verse number seven. He says, And he sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bid, come, for things are now ready. So you see they were invited and they said they were going to come and they had confirmed and said they had RSVP'd and they prepared. And now it wasn't a, you know, let's send out a text and say we're ready. The servants had to go. And say, hey, it's supper time. Everything's ready. You guys come. And they went through and and and all those that were bid, they called them back and said, now it's time to eat. And so these people had already said they would come, but now they were bid. Verse number 18. He says, and they all, with one consent, began to make excuse The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it. I pray thee, have me excused. Another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and go to prove them. I pray have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife. And therefore I cannot come. So that servant came and showed his lord these things that the master of the house being angry, said to his servants, Go out quickly into the streets and the lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor and the maned, and the halt, and the blind. And the servant said, It is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and the hedges, and compel them to come in that my house may be filled. So we have this parable here, those that were invited rejected. And the master of the house, being angry, said, hey, just go invite whoever's out there. Now these people hadn't been previously invited But he says, we've prepared this meal. It's all ready. Go out and invite whoever you can find. And they went out and they invited everybody they could find. And they came back and they said, Master, we did as you commanded. We invited everybody that we could find, and yet there is room. And he says, well, go out again. Go out a little further, go to the highways and the hedges, and compel them to come that my house may be full. We have this parable taught by Jesus Christ And so you see here that one of them had land he wanted to look at, the other had animals he wanted to look at, and one had a wife he wanted to look at. So he couldn't come either. But you got this j the the the master says, go get the poor, the lame, the halt, and the blind. And uh those from the highways and the hedges were all compelled that the house may be full. So, what is the overriding truth? We know that each parable gives us one overriding truth. This is one of the parables that is unique in that Jesus does not explain it himself. You know, many of the parables, as soon as the parable is over, the disciples say, Jesus, what meant you by these things? And then Jesus explains. Exactly and gives us the explanation, and this one is not there, so we're left to deduce what it is Christ is teaching on his own. But many people have studied this for many years. And basically what we're dealing with here is that all of the provision for the glorious feast have been completed. All one must do is accept the invitation which has been offered freely. Some, although they hold the invitation in their hand, are going to reject it by making excuses, but some will accept and go in. So we've got this idea, and as we get a little further down the notes, we'll see that the Jewish people were extended the gospel of Jesus Christ first. And they rejected. And that's what Jesus was talking to the Jews here. And then he says, Hey, you guys didn't want it. You were invited. You were told all the way back in the Old Testament about this feast. You were told what was going to happen. I gave you in the tabernacle and in the temple a clear sign of what was going to happen and that I was going to be coming, and now the time has come. And you're rejecting it. So now we're going to extend it and give it to all men. And some other people have applied this to you have the scribes and the Pharisees of that day. And they rejected it. And so Jesus sent the message of the gospel to the sinners and the publicans. And they, of course, accepted it. So the translation of the parable here, we have the the host. The host is obviously God, God the Father, in his ultimate plan uh seeking the redemption of men. He has prepared this great supper. It's a time after the resurrection. This is something the Old Testament or those that were familiar with the Old Testament would have known. They would have known throughout the Old Testament it talks and compares the time with Christ as a great feast, gathering together as a great feast. See, it's biblical to gather for a great feast. Amen. They knew that that's what was going to be, and they should have understood that as Jesus was giving this parable. The kingdom of heaven is often depicted as a great feast, and you can see that in Matthew 8 and in Revelation 19, 9. Paul too writes about this wonderful blessing that's going to come in Ephesians 2. 7. This feast was prepared for all, but not all invited are going to partake of it It was sent to the Jew first and then to the Greek. In Romans chapter one, verse number sixteen, we see Paul explaining that very clearly, that this was sent to the Jew first, but also to the Greek. That's right, Brother Rain. Amen. It was sent. Aren't you glad that it was sent to us? Now I know that God knows everything, and sometimes you think about this stuff and you try and Work it out in your mind and our finite minds don't un don't understand it. I mean I look at this and I say, well, what would have happened if the Jews would have accepted it? Then what about all of us? But I know that this because of the Bible, and what is very clear, that this He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And if the Jews had accepted it, I think they they would have found favor with God. They were God's chosen people and they still are today. But uh somehow God would have got the message and extended the message of the gospel uh to the Gentile world as well, because he's not willing that any should perish. And that that is very clear in the scriptures. And how that works and you know you think about it and well what if they would have or or whatever. But they didn't and the message was sent to us and praise God for that. So the invitation was sent out to all, regardless of their merit or their worth Those who miss it do so because they reject the invitation, not because they weren't invited. All are invited. You know, sometimes I extend the invitation, I mean, on a couple of times I've said, hey, if you're free today, we're opening the house, and everybody that wants to come over for lunch, welcome to come. And we've had, you know, as many as sixty-five people come to lunch on a Sunday afternoon of the church. Now I know not everybody can make it, and there's certainly not any hard feelings about who might have already had plans I kind of planned it that way because if everybody showed up, we would be in trouble, right? So I just kind of extended the invitation to everybody and whoever could make it. You come. And uh that's the thing. The invitations have been extended to the entire world, to all men. If somebody misses the Great Feast, it's because they rejected the invitation. Uh not because they weren't invited. God has invited everyone. It was custom in that day, as I explained, that the host has a feast that's planned, and he invites everybody and kind of gets a confirmation And this feast is prepared and then set up. And then after the day of time when the scheduled time comes, they go out again and they say, hey, it's all ready. You guys come. And that's what happened to the Jewish people. They had been given this testament of Christ's coming. They knew, they had foreknowledge of that because of all the prophecy in the Old Testament. And then here, when Christ came, they rejected him. They didn't want to recognize him as the Messiah because they wanted somebody that's going to set up the king their kingdom right now. And even sometimes the disciples got a little bit confused on that and were wondering, where, you know, is the kingdom of heaven now and are we going to do this now? Or uh, you know, when will these things be? But they rejected it and God sent that to everyone. The noblest excuse is still an excuse We cannot let earthly concerns take priority over spiritual matters. There's clear teaching here that God brought the gospel of the Jew first and then to the Gentiles. Now some teaching of the parables, uh some teaching, some things for us to to take away from this. First of all, we should not make excuses. We shouldn't make excuses. There's always an excuse available when you're looking for one. But God doesn't want us to make excuses. Now this is directly relying in the parables talking about the invitation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. being part of that great feast that's going to come after the resurrection, after we are uh the sec second coming of Christ. But God calls for other things too. And he calls for service. And he has other areas, the things that he wants you to do, which we're going to continue with the story of Jonah this morning in the morning service. And there's a prime example of somebody that was called. And didn't want to go. And we shouldn't make excuses re regardless of how noble we think they are. Oh, I just got married, so I can't. Oh, I just had kids. And the kids take all my time and effort, so I can't. Oh, I'm just about to retire. I've got to give my all for my job until I get retired. I mean, there's always an excuse If we're looking for one. We shouldn't make excuse. The problem is is we're more interested in our possessions than we are in his plan. These people here, all of them, were more interested in their possession than they were his plan, being part of it. They they were more concerned, oh, I bought some land and I gotta go look at it. I gotta go check it out. uh, you know, I bought some animals and I need to see how they're faring. Now it was customary for a married man, if you read the Old Testament, for them to be freed from their normal duties for a year. I think that's a great idea. When I got when I got married, um I wasn't twenty five yet. And Ferry even has as a policy, if you're not twenty-five and you get married, you have to sit out of college for a year. You have to concentrate on your marriage. And uh there's a lot of wisdom in that Because it takes a lot of work to get through that first year, amen. They say the first year's the hardest, and then the second, and then the third, and then But you got a lot of adjustments to make that first year. So Mary and I we sat out a year and we we got married and uh went back and I I finished up school as a married student and I had a helpmate. Praise the Lord. Yeah, she was a blessing. Uh and but that was customary in that time for a man to be u freed from his responsibilities for the f for a year. So maybe in his mind he was thinking, well I just got married. I'm not supposed to have to do these things right now. Might be a noble excuse, but it's still an excuse. And we shouldn't give uh excuses. Even our relationship should not come between us and God. Uh don't get discouraged by others' excuses, secondly. So don't get discouraged by other people's excuses. You know you're out soul winning or you're given the gospel or you're given a track and sometimes they've got the craziest reasons for why they don't why they don't want to be a part. I mean we could go around the room and ask What what what's the most crazy reason or thing that you heard for why they don't want to accept the gospel? You know, well all my buddies are in hell and I'm gonna go be with them. You know? How foolish is that? I mean that's that's a lot of people say that. Oh, you know, I I rejected God this long, I might as well just keep going the same way. I've been okay this far. I mean a lot of crazy excuses. Don't get discouraged by the excuses. Jesus said, hey, those who were bid, they're rejected. Go out and Bid many others. There you go. Just just bid some others. And in the church house, when we're here and you know, sometimes people make excuses for why they don't want to participate, why they don't want to be a part of something, why they don't want to give to this or to help with that or serve in this area. And sometimes we can get down and say, man, how come more people don't get involved? How come more people aren't excited about what God's doing here? How come we're so it just seems like it's just You and I here doing this and nobody wants to help. Don't get discouraged by the excuses. You just do what God wants you to do. And know that you're bringing a smile on God's face for your faithfulness. And and you are only accountable for you. Don't get discouraged when other people make excuses and maybe don't do what you expect or you think they should. We're not accountable for them. You do what God wants you to do. Maya, the excuses for why people don't want to come to church. There's there as long as and and as you know, noble or as foolish as as you want to get. They'll come up with any excuse. You know? Oh, the two year old is sick, so mom and dad and five kids stay home because the two year old was sick, you know Uh and oh, the dog's sick. We gotta watch somebody's gotta watch the dog because he you know he's he's vomiting and we gotta take him out. So the whole family's gotta watch the dog. It's just an excuse. Just it's an excuse. It's where you wanna be. Where you wanna be is where you'll be. So you wanna be home. So you make an excuse. That's what it boils down to. And as Christians we shouldn't make excuses. We should do what God wants us to do. Amen? Amen. That's right. So uh then he says, just invite someone else because God wants all who are willing. Uh we must move when God calls. We've got to move when God calls. Those that were bid didn't want to come. Don't reject the call of salvation because heaven is real. I don't know, you're here today and you you're not saved, you don't know the Lord's your savior. Heaven is real. God has provided the way. He's prepared the way. He's promised the way. And that's all given to us by God. And don't reject it. God's prepared the feast and he wants you to be a part. The invitation has gone out Don't reject the call of service because happiness is real. Happiness, God has prepared you and planned you for a particular thing. Your personality, your skill set, what you are, who you are, where you come from, God has prepared you for something particular. And here's the opportunity to fulfill that. Oh, but I wanna No, I I don't think I wanna do that. And we Excuse ourselves from the joy and the happiness that could be ours in Jesus Christ by rejecting what it is God wants for us to do. God's planned it. He wants you to have it. But he says in verse like he says in verse number 24, let's read that. I don't think we read that verse. It's amazing, he says, For I say unto you that none of those men which were bid shall taste of my supper. All those that were originally bid to come, that that were supposed to come, he says, they're not even going to taste it We know the scripture says, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. And God wants you to taste it. He wants you to experience the Christian life, the abundant Christian life, the joy that you can have in Jesus Christ. But when we make excuses, all we're doing is hurting ourselves and excusing ourselves from what it is God wants us to do. People reject it. Uh here we have three reasons why people reject, and it's because of real estate. That could just be property, any type of possession that they have. Because of resources. And they ex they they excuse themselves for for both reasons. Because they have too many resources and they need to go check on them. And because I don't have enough resources and I can't make it. It doesn't matter. They'll excuse themselves on both ends. Or because of relationships. Verse number 20. This man had married a wife. And we of course know that that should not be an excuse for us. Without a doubt, God has prepared the greatest of all feasts. And the invitation has gone out to all. We must carry the invitation to others and pray that they do not let the cares of this world hinder their response to that invitation. Uh we carry the invitation and all we can do is an is an invite. And it's between them and God, and if they make an excuse, that's all we can do. We're not responsible for the response. We're just responsible for the invitation. And God, of course, bids us to go and invite many. Why? He says that my house may be full.