Uh turn your Bibles this evening to the book of 1 John. We've been studying this, plugging our way through, and uh I'm excited that you came tonight uh to uh continue the lesson and allow us to learn as we just continue on here. I want to we're getting in first John chapter number four tonight and We're going to cover the first six verses. I do have a lot of ground to cover, so we are not going to get bogged down. This title of this section of notes I am entitling The Overcomer's Life Uh now this would be the first lesson that the the title is a little like it would read better the life of the overcomer. Um but to keep it in sync in with the same pattern of all the rest of them, we're going to call it the overcomer's life. But the idea that God has given us the victory, and you'll see it in the in the section of notes here, and as we walk down through these first six verses. Again, for the sake of time, I'm not going to read it up front because we're going to read it uh as we go through verse by verse. I considered calling this section uh the uh discerning life. uh because we are instructed here uh to have discernment. Um beloved believe not every spirit but try the spirits whether they're of God. That word try there uh means to test or to discern. And uh there's several things in the Christian life that we are encouraged to discern. I've thought about teaching a uh series of lessons on the discerning Christian and just talk about the places in the Word of God where we are told to have discernment. We know we're supposed to have discernment between right and wrong. Hebrews 5. 14 But strong meat belongeth to them that are full of age, even those that by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. So we're supposed to be able to discern good and evil. We know that we're supposed to be able to discern truth in 1 Corinthians 2. 14, but the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness unto them, neither can they know them, because they are spiritually discerned. And so we're supposed to have spiritual discernment to be able to discern the truth. And we're going to talk a little bit about that tonight as we talk about the discernment between the spirit, as we see here, we are supposed to be able to discern the spirits in 1 Corinthians 12, verse number 10. Also in Matthew 16, verse number 3, we are supposed to discern the time. He says, And in the morning, if it be uh foul weather today, for the sky is red and lowering, oh ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky. But you cannot discern the signs of the times. And so as Christians, we're supposed to have discernment to see that. This evening, as we get into this first verse here, we see the discernment that we're supposed to have. And this is going to lead in to the how we have, how we overcome, is because we have discernment, because we are given the Spirit of God. And if you remember, I told you last week that the very last verse of chapter number three kind of leads us right into chapter number four. So look back at chapter 3, verse 24, if you would. He says here, he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him, and hereby we know that he abides in us by the Spirit which he has given us. So we understand that God has given each and every pure believer, if you're saved, born again, you know that the Holy Spirit is dwelling in you. God has given you that Spirit, and that Spirit guides us into all truth. That Spirit teaches us, and so we know that with the Spirit that dwells in the believer, we are able to discern whether the spirits be true or not. We are able to, as he says here, beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits. And so we're supposed to, I want you to see in verse number one here first what I'm calling the conflict. We have a conflict that right spirit and those false spirits. We know, first of all, that he's talking to believers. Why is that? You guys, let's get some feedback. How do we know he's talking to believers? First word. Beloved. He acknowledged it right away. Beloved. He says, hey, okay, so we know who he's talking to. He's talking to the beloved. He's talking to the believers. And he says, hey, beloved, believe not every spirit. We are told here that there are many false prophets. Believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God, because many False prophets are gone out into the world. So there's a couple things we learned from this. First of all, we know that there are false prophets. We know that there are false teachers. We know that there are spirits that are not of God. They do exist. Secondly, we know that there are many false spirits. Because he says here, there are many. We know that enter ye into the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be That go in thereat. Many there be. So what I'm trying to say is, according to this text, by and large, the majority of the teachers. The prophets, and I say that word loosely, but in context of this verse here, that are out there are false. By and large, according to this, it's it's there there's many false prophets, there's many spirits that are not of God, but there are few, there are some, narrow is the way, and and few there be that find it. And so there there's what I'm saying is you have to have a discerning spirit to know what is right and wrong because there are many, many false prophets. He tells us very clearly there's many of them More importantly, beloved, we learn here in this text that as a believer, we can be duped by these false prophets. Because he tells us there. He says, believe not every spirit. He's saying, I'm giving you a warning. I'm telling you here that they're out there, and I'm exhorting you, I'm encouraging you, don't believe everything that comes across the airwaves. Don't believe everything that's uh you know played on YouTube. There are many false prophets, just because some guy has a bunch of letters behind his name and he can get up and talk about how all of these numbers, if you take these numbers and put them with these numbers and you add it to this many dates, boy, it's going to equal this. And this is exactly what uh this means. It sounds very good, but there be many false prophets. And uh, you know, the false prophets, they know how to sound good. John exhorts us to try the spirits, to realize that there's a lot of them. In 2 Corinthians 11, verses 13 and 15, he says, For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, Transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness He said, don't marvel at that. Don't be amazed if if there's somebody out there that appears to be a good guy, that appears to be sharing or giving the truth, that sounds like he is teaching righteousness. Because Satan himself can be transformed into an angel of light. So how in the world are we supposed to know, how are we supposed to discern the conflict between that right spirit and the wrong spirit, between a true prophet and a false prophet, well, because we have the Holy Spirit dwelling in us. And the Bible says the Spirit beareth witness. And if we're walking in the Spirit, that Holy Spirit that's dwelling in us, and we're going to see that a little stronger as we go through here. And as we look at this, you'll get some points for how to discern that. But they're revealed, the false prophets are revealed by the true Spirit that dwells in the believer Now they look good. You know, and matter of fact, false teachers many times sound better than the real ones. They have a great following. They have a lot of people that are alongside them. You know, I can guarantee you that the Pharisees, in all their garb Looked much more pious, looked much more official than those old ruddy fishermen. That Jesus called. Here you got some fishermen still coming from the docks, I mean they're they're they're in work clothes, and and you know old John the Baptist, you know how he was dressed coming out of the wilderness? You got him, and then you got these people with all of their pomp and circumstance and all of their garb and all of their their religious uh paraphernalia that goes along with it. What I'm saying is a lot of times false teachers have a lot of things that look really good. And so we've got to be discerning. They may even use some familiar words like giving, ministry, serving, helping, kindness. Salvation, grace. And as we talked about on Sunday in Sunday school, even use the use of the word saved Which has deceived or tricked a lot of people into thinking they're saved because they're familiar now with that term, but the definition of the term is completely different from what the Bible definition is. And so they have been, as we were talking in Sunday school, they've been blinded by Satan on purpose. Because now they've been duped into believing that they're saved when they don't really understand what it means. False teachers often may even talk about Jesus and allow others or encourage others to follow Jesus, as long as they don't put their complete faith and trust in the blood atonement of Jesus Christ. Romans 16, 18 says, For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ but their own belly, and by good words and fair speech deceive the hearts of the simple. That's what happens. So we see that conflict. Many false prophets are out there and they lie and do not the truth. But we see secondly, verses 2 and 3, a confession is made He says, hereby know ye the Spirit of God. So we're going to start getting some insight in how to have discernment between the two. He says, hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God. You see, one very tell-tale truth is what do they say about Jesus Christ? You can take uh the uh false teachers that are out there uh and if you really narrow it down and and nail them down on what they teach concerning Jesus Christ They may use the name of Jesus, they may talk about Jesus, they may talk elaborately about how highly respected he is But if you really nail him down, you'll find out that they don't believe he was God in the flesh. They believe he was a prophet. They believe he was a good man, that he was a good teacher. That he should be followed because boy there was never been a better teacher. But do they believe he says here in this Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God. That idea of the virgin birth, the incarnation of God in the flesh God in the flesh. Did he come in the flesh? Is he was he all God and was he all man? Anyone that has a different confession than this is a false teacher False teachers will deny that Christ came to save the world from sin. They may be highly respected, but they will not encourage people to look to Him for salvation. They'll deny the substitutionary death of Christ on the cross. They'll deny the sinless life of Christ. And by doing these things, they remove the hope of salvation through Christ and thereby establish or build a means in which they can interject their teaching. And say, okay, obviously Christ is not all and all sufficient. There must be something else. And so what you need to do is this, and then that's where the false teaching comes in Because they remove the complete substitutionary death of Jesus Christ on the cross, who was God in the flesh. If they anyway undermine that, they remove our salvation. And if they remove salvation, then they have to build another means of salvation, and they'll teach you what that is. It could be any number of things, depending upon who you're following, but who what they're teaching. I believe it was Socrates. I did a bunch of reading. I didn't write it down, but Socrates said that I can give you a human explanation for everything in the Bible. Concerning Jesus, except the word became flesh and dwelt among us. Because I don't have a way to explain how that happened. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. The incarnation of Christ, God, the Messiah, the anointed one. When we teach, it is a recognition of Christ, who he is, and the fulfillment of all Old Testament prophecy. Isaiah 7. 14 says, Therefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign, and behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and he shall call his name Emmanuel. That familiar verse in Isaiah 9. 6, for unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, his name shall be called wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. This Old Testament prophecy about who Jesus was, we see that. Then thirdly, verse number four, I want you to see that there is a conqueror. shown here, showed it taught taught to us here, there's a conqueror. He says, Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. This is where we see that we are overcomers. By God's design and in his plan, believers, Christians, are to be overcomers. There's several things that I want to point out. First of all, we see that he says here right off the bat, he says, ye are of God. Ye are of God. What a powerful and meaningful statement. Are ye of God? Have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? Are ye be become a son of God? Are ye of God? Well, if you are, Then that statement in and of itself, no matter what you're dealing with, you could say, well, ye are of God. Ye are of God. You've got God on your side. Ye are of God. Oh, I know you're going through a hardship, but ye are of God. You have God. Ye are of God. I mean just that in and of itself. No matter the trial you face, no matter how hard Satan comes after you, ye are of God. Ye are of God. Didn't he say he would never leave you or forsake you? Ye are of God. Didn't he say, Lo, I will be with you always, even to the end of the earth? Ye are of God. And because you're of God, you and I can overcome. This is the life of the overcomer or the overcoming life, that as we live as Christians, and this is the heart of the message tonight, that I want you to get, that I want you to go away with, is that God's plan and God's design is that we would overcome. That as Christians we would be victorious. Are you experiencing victory? He said he will overcome them. So who's them? You know, it doesn't really matter who they are. It doesn't really matter what you want to plug into that list. It doesn't matter what what issue or struggle or trial you're facing right now, you could throw that in there in the place of them because ye are of God and God's plan is for ye to overcome. Ye are to overcome. Beloved, we overcome not because you are so special. You're an overcomer not because you're so powerful. You're an overcomer not because you have such good discipline and control and you can make it happen. There's all different skill levels in here with regards to our ability to make something happen. Some people are pretty strong self-starters and self-motivated, and if something's gonna happen, they're gonna make it happen. Other people a little less, but you know what? Both of those can be just as successful as overcomers because it's not about us. He says here, ye are overcomer. Why? What does the verse say Because greater is he that is in you than he is in the world. Ye are of God, so he dwells in you, and greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. The Christian, beloved, does not have to fear the false prophet. The Christian doesn't have to fear or wonder about the trial that he's up against. You know the false prophets and the enemies of God, they already brought their best against the Savior. They already Satan already did his his last you know, hurrah or Hail Mary or whatever you want to say. I mean, Satan gave it all at the cross. And thought he had won, but Jesus rose victorious from the grave. And he didn't win. God won. He gave the best that he had and he lost. And God's been winning ever since, and you and I can win. Jesus Christ on that cross he purchased our redemption he paid for our sin. He won the victory That song, He Paid a Debt He Did Not Owe. I owed a debt I could not pay. I needed someone to wash my sins away. And now I sing a brand new song, Amazing Grace, all the day long. Christ Jesus paid a debt that I could never pay. Old uh Spafford in his song It Is Well He said, My sin, not in part, but the whole, is nailed to the cross. And I bear it no more. Beloved, we're overcomers because of what Jesus did on the cross. Right. And because ye are of God, and because he is dwelling in you. God expects. And you should have as a pattern of your life overcoming Not that old Slewfoot and Satan doesn't ever win a battle, not that Satan doesn't ever uh you know levy some salvo uh against you and he might knock you down or take you out, but as uh He says over there in the book of Corinthians, Paul he says, Hey, uh I was knocked down, but I wasn't knocked out. That's a paraphrase. He doesn't say that actually in the scriptures. Satan uh had come against him, and he said, he won a a little victory, but I wasn't knocked out. Beloved, we're to be overcomer because greater is he that is in you. It doesn't matter what you're facing today. God's plan is for you to be an overcomer. I want to ask you, we're going to get some feedback from you. There is in the Bible hundreds of examples Of situations where things looked impossible, but God. God's people We're facing an unwinnable battle, or we're dealing with a unbeatable situation. We're up against a trial that looked beyond their capacity, but God. And they overcame. So let me ask you. I I I could give you some lists, but you tell me what is an example of that a Bible illustration. If I said let's get a Bible illustration of how God expects us to overcome. We're face to face to face in here a problem and we can't overcome or it doesn't look like we're going to overcome, but God came on the scene. What's a Bible example? First thing I think about is Moses and the Red Sea. Moses up against the Red Sea. Great great example. Facing with the children of Israel. And and Egyptians are coming and and gonna attack 'em. Fuck God. David and Goliath. Facing a giant. No possible way. Couldn't no, we can't do this. What I'm saying is Satan comes and he tells you, you can't do it. But greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Stephen. The promised land. Victory of the promised land. God's people, taking the promised land as a whole. Gideon is three hundred men. Gideon conquering uh uh successfully winning a battle with just three hundred men. Daniel and the Lion's Den. Daniel and the Lion's Den. the the main Bible stories like this, but I like it we're getting some of those but Daniel and Lyons in, I mean, i i this looks hopeless. It's done Well, it's been been good, Lord, and he gets lowered down in there, the lions don't eat him. Because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Sarah looking for wanting a child impossible beyond the years of God how does it happen? Hosea and Gomer. Powerful illustration. You gotta read that, think about that in light of what Christ did for us. Bought us back. Yes. Peter getting out of jail. Shadrach, Meshach, and Benagog. Shadrach, Meshach, and Benago, the three Hebrew children. You know what? You might think that your battle is hard. And you know how you know how it when it rains it pours You know how problems usually come in threes? Like one comes and there's another one, right? And there's another. What I'm saying is you might find out that all of a sudden the pro the problem you thought you had Is now seven times worse than it was. But the three Hebrew children went into a furnace that was seven times hotter. But God Because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. I mean, we could walk down through the pages of Scripture and over and over again, what I want you to get tonight is that God expects us to be overcomers. And Satan's been lying to you long enough, telling you that you are not going to overcome. That you're not going to be able to conquer that sin. That you're not going to be able to be a victorious Christian. You're just going to have to live a defeated Christian life. That you're not going to overcome that. But I want you to know it's a lie of Satan because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. If God can can uh shut the mouths of a lion, if God can make three Hebrew children go through a fiery furnace and not even smell like smoke, if God can take three hundred win men and and beat the Midianites But I'm saying is whatever we're facing, God can come on the scene and you can be an overcomer. If your two year old gets sent to the hospital and they said that that that he's got cancer. But God's people all over the country begin to pray. And one week later he goes back and they say, we don't know what happened. Must have been a false positive, but uh your son's healed. Greater is he that is in you than he is in the world. This is what I want you to go away with tonight, that we are expected to be overcomers. I want you to see Fort Light here a character. Not like one of these kids or characters, but the character of an individual we see them talking about the character of false prophets here in verse number five and verse Verse number six, he says, they are of the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. So we have listed here three defining character traits about false teachers. Three defining character traits about false teachers. You say, well, how do we discern if they're false or not? He tells you three things here that very clearly shows you whether they're a false teacher or what. One is they are of the world. That is that they are a natural man. They have not been saved. They don't have a divine nature. They're of the world. They're not of the Lord. And so that influences everything that they do. We see secondly that they speak of the world. He says, therefore speak they of the world. What we mean by that is that they speak about God and they'll talk about God, but they do it from a worldly perspective. They teach about how you can get to God or how you can attain God through worldly means You can achieve righteousness through your own means, whatever it might be, but you'll hear them talking about things from that worldly perspective, that man can reach God through some worldly method. Worldly speech tends to focus on man instead of focusing on God. So as we see that they speak of the world, what is it that they're focusing on? And then we see here that they are heard by the world. What this is saying is that the people that are following them Are people of the world? People that are not saved. People that have not experienced the new birth. By and large, their followers are lost. Their message appeals to the natural man. We see in verse number six It goes on. He says, We are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us. He that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. You see, the believer knows and hears and is going to be following true doctrine. The right prophet, the right spirit. But the false teacher, the the one that's of the world, that speaks of the world, and the world follows them, you know you can tell a whole lot about a leader. By who's following him. You can tell a whole lot about what that individual is like by who's following him. You know, we have this kind of modern what they're actually calling celebrity pastors. Pastors that are out there that have celebrities following them. They're very popular pastors and they have people like Justin Bieber who go to their church. And you know, you you have movie stars and rock stars that go to their church It's a pretty good sign that what they're teaching is you see the people of the world like a worldly message. And that's what he's saying. He says, here's how you know a false prophet. They're of the world. They speak of the world. And people of the world follow them. That's pretty clear. So when you see somebody that has people of the world following them, it's a pretty good sign that they are not giving a true doctrine, true teaching. Not only do we need to consider their character, but consider the character of those that are following them. You know, beloved, we need to consider the character of those that we are spending time with as well, because those we're spending time with are going to influence us. Who are your best friends? They're gonna have an impact on you, they're gonna have an influence on you. If your best friend is somebody that never goes to church and is not saved, I wonder if you're saved. Not that you can't have a friend that's not saved, but the fact of the matter is, is when you're saved and you're a follower of Christ, It's a natural thing that happens because no longer are you part of the world. No longer are you speaking of the world, and no longer are the people of the world following you. And so it's gonna there's gonna be a natural separation there that takes place. So what I'm not saying you can't have a friend that's lost that you talk to and have contact with and pray for and want to see saved someday. that you you you might even have them over and give them some hot dogs or have a barbecue and say, hey, why don't you guys come over and you talk to them for a few minutes, but that person's not your best friend. Why? Because you no longer have things in common. The directions that you guys are going is completely opposite. The things that you want to talk about, I mean it i is just not there. Fellowship is not present because the Spirit doesn't bear witness one with the other. Godly character is going to lead you to godly friends. That's a fact. If you have godly character, you're going to start i you know having godly friends How is your conversation? I guess I I jumped ahead here. Who are your companions? The godly friends? the world. You know, you can have some companions that are also not necessarily people. How many of you love a good book? It's like a fringe. You sit down, you read a good book. I got a couple of readers in my house. They're so uh It's just amazing. They'll sit down and read a whole book. How in the world do you do that? Yeah. But just enjoy that. You know, that it's like a it's like a good friend. But what I'm saying is that friend is influencing you. What kind of a book is it? Who is your companion? Um, you know, the the things that you watch, the things that you read, the things that you listen to, who are your companions, what are their characters, and how is it affecting you? And then how is your conversation? We see in Luke 6. 45, he says, for a good man out of the good trader of his heart bringeth forth that which is good, and an evil man out of the evil trader of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart to mouthspeak it. Your heart's gonna reveal what kind of character you have. So as I bring this to a conclusion tonight with these six verses we looked at, we know that there are many false prophets out there. Not just a few, there are many. By and large, we know according to the Word of God that the large majority of those that call themselves teachers and however pretty they sound or however magnificent their buildings are or however impressive their garb is uh that's not how you discern whether they're of the Lord or not. And we need discernment to know the difference. We do so by walking in the Spirit, and the Spirit that is in us will bear witness and it'll guide us into all truth. So that we're not tricked by their sly or subtle ways. As John says, it can happen So have some discernment. Try the spirits. See if they be of God. You can know a spirit is good or not by what they do with Jesus Christ. This is the one definitive characteristic that he gives us in this text. He says, what do they believe about Jesus Christ? And you know what? You can look at many false doctrines, false teachings, different groups out there that would call themselves churches, cults. You could look at all of them and find out what do they believe about Jesus Christ. And that right there, that alone could be a determining factor to say, oh, it's a false cult. Because they don't believe Jesus Christ is the Son of God. They don't believe he was God in the flesh. They don't believe in his blood atonement. That's a definitive thing given to us in the text here. And then you and I are conquerors by God's plan. We are designed and planned to be overcomers. Are you overcoming? Are you experiencing victory in your life that the Lord would have you? We're reminded this evening that greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. That's something that I think we say or we might hear But I was hoping in my limited ability tonight to try and drive that point home a little bit so you walk away with that idea that listen, year of God. And he is dwelling in you. And he is greater than anything else that you're facing. No matter what the trial or test, no matter what attack Satan is bringing into your life. Satan's already been whooped by the one that's in you. You have him and can be victorious. And God wants you to be victorious.