Turn the book of Philippians. It's always a challenge looking at these uh these texts and determining how far into the weeds to get, uh, how deep to get, how much should you spend? I mean You could you could develop messages on on several of the verses that we'll be looking at tonight in tire messages on just that thought alone, for instance verse number twenty-one. For all seek their own and not the things which are Jesus Christ. I mean you could take that that itself and that could be an entire message and and You know, there's several verses like that through this section here, but as I looked at this section uh uh uh uh verses we're actually going to take the conclusion of this book, this I'm sorry, this chapter here, verses nineteen through thirty, and try and look at all of these tonight. uh because they they really they go together uh as we've spent time studying and looking at the powerful truths that are found in the book of Philippians, how we as of God's people are to have the mind of Christ. That is our goal. Jesus Christ, of course, is the ultimate guide for us. He is the example. He is the one that set that standard for us and the pattern that we're supposed to have. the mind of Christ, were to have a like mind and a lowly mind. And because Christ was obedient, he was obedient even unto death, we know that God the Father glorified him. God exalted him Because of his obedience. He went to the cross. There are many Christians today that want the glory without the cross. They want the recognition without the responsibility. They want to be lifted up and given a position without having to be responsible to fulfill it. The Christ, of course, did the will of the Father and then was glorified. It should be our goal in life to find God's will and do it. Or as Paul put it, to work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. That is to work out, to find out what God wants you individually to do, what you have been uniquely prepared for. Why did God save your soul, as we discussed, it simply was not to sit on a pew or even to take you to heaven. It was for a purpose. So we need to find out what that is, and through the process of sanctification, we grow into what it is that God wants us to be. Oh, this is a complicated and never-ending task, but it is a task which would bring us the greatest amount of gratification in this life. When we're fulfilling and doing God's will, without question. I know that for many, they look at the example of Jesus Christ and they say, well Of course, he was Jesus. You know, I I see Brother Greg back there, and you know, back when I was painting with him, he had this saying. Jesus didn't paint that car. When people would be looking, they'd be nitpicking this little bitty thing apart. He says, Hey, Jesus is the only one that's perfect and and I'm not him, you know. Jesus didn't hey uh hey Jesus sets the standard for us, but we look at Jesus and we say, Well of course it's Jesus and and we know that doctrinally and when we look at the scriptures we understand that he was all man. But in our mind we also say, yeah, but he was all God as well. So therefore, surely we can't be expected. To live up to that. Surely we can't be expected to fulfill and do and be what Jesus was. Yes, he was man, but he was also God. Well, he is our example, and he is, of course, we are to be more Christ-like, and that is the way we're supposed to go. But the neat thing is, is that Paul gives to us at the close of this chapter here, he gives us Two men, ordinary men. These men weren't apostles. These men weren't pastors. These men weren't disciples of Jesus Christ. They didn't walk with him in literal fashion. Yet these men stand as exemplary examples of steadfast believers. These ordinary men who lived the Christian life as God wanted them to, and Paul gives us this description of these great qualities that these men exemplified in their lives. As they remain steadfast to the call of God. So these two men that are mentioned in these concluding verses We're going to look tonight at the greatness of the steadfast. The greatness of the steadfast. There's two men here. We have two points. I suspect we'll be done early and you can spend extra time in prayer. Amen. So we see here first of all Timothy. In verses 19 through 24, follow along as I read these two. He says, But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto you. That I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. For I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ. But ye know the proof of him That as a son with the Father, he has served with me in the gospel. Him, therefore, I hope to send presently So soon as I shall see how it will go with me. But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly. Timothy is an example of one who is like-minded. As we said, this is what we're supposed to be. Let this mind be in you. We are to be like-minded. And Timothy is an example of that. One who's like-minded. Paul is saying here that he trusts What he's saying by that, that he trusts in the Lord Jesus Christ to send Timothy, is that he trusts or that he believes it to be the will of God that he's going to send Timothy. Every believer should function inside of the realm and the scope of the will of God. It should be a natural part of our thoughts, processes. When we say, hey, I'm going to do this or I'm going to do that, if the Lord wills. If this is what God would have, then yeah, if the Lord will allow me to do it, I'm going to do this. This is the plan. This is what I believe to be God's will. But we ought to, even if it's just a matter of checking ourselves Make it a habit of thinking that way. That if it's God's will, I'm going to do this. Instead of just living our lives and say, well, he hasn't struck me with lightning yet. No, we've got to function and live and work inside of what God's will might be for our lives He's sending Timothy there to check on their state. Paul wanted to know how the believers there were. He wanted to know how they were doing. He was checking on their state, not their standing. Their standing in Jesus Christ was secure. Once you're saved, you're always saved. He knew their standing as professed believers in Jesus Christ that they were on their way to heaven. But he wanted to know how they were doing. He wanted to check up, see how the Believers were faring there. So he said he's going to send Timothy. So a few thoughts for you and I about this man Timothy and uh maybe aspirations that we should have in trying to live up to the example that he extends to us. First of all, I want you to see his availability. He says there that I'm going to send Timotheus shortly unto you. He's going to send Timothy. Now, Paul was in Rome. The Philippians were in Philippi. Although they were separated by some considerable distance, Paul desired to know their state. So he was going to send Timotheus Timmy. Timothy, gonna send them, say go find out how they're doing. They didn't have the opportunity for text. They didn't have email, telephone, or even a quick way of transportation. You know, today I I got word that the uh Marambas needed some help. Now my son Andrew and Shamar went there at eight o'clock this morning and they worked all day with them helping load stuff but I got word that they needed some melt they're they're kind of under pr under the gun trying to get this done. I said okay we're coming I jumped in the car, went to the house, pulled the boys offside in the the house and told Melissa and Caleb to put some shoes on. Let's go. We jumped in the car. We're in shoes bury in 30 minutes We're there to help. Thirty minutes. You know how long that trip would have taken fifty, sixty years ago, or in the Bible? Um okay I'll be there in the morning. Be there tomorrow. Uh you know, uh it would have taken a while, even if you had a horseback or whatever, you you can't run them full out the whole time. You you gotta you gotta give them a rest. It was a it was quite the task that he was sending Tim Timothy to do. It wasn't just, oh hey, stop on on your way home, will you stop and pick this up or will you stop and see how they're doing He was sending him for a big job, very inconvenient for uh Timothy, I'm sure. Yet Timothy was available. He was available. The greatest ability is availability. Are you available tonight for the service of God to do what God wants you to do? you to do is the Holy Spirit speaks to your heart and says, hey, why don't you do this? Why don't you participate in this? Why don't you get involved in that? Why don't you start this? Hey, what even just why don't you stop and witness to this? Oh but Lord, I I I've gotta be here. I was planning just to go out real quick and come back real quick. You know I'm preaching it myself right now because I am project driven. I am focused. I am The Holy Spirit spurs your heart and says, talk to this person, a divine appointment from God where you could be used to see somebody change their eternal destiny. Lead somebody to Jesus Christ. No greater thing that we could accomplish here on earth. And yet we get so focused on getting the grass mode which is going to grow and have to be cut again next week. That we miss a divine appointment because we're not available. Not available. Timothy was available, and as we look at This idea of being like-minded as Paul and Timothy having this spirit of being available for what God wants us to do, you might have the greatest ability in the world But if you're unavailable, it does nobody any good. You might have all the skill, but if you're unavailable, it doesn't matter. And I put Jackson on the spot here. He's here for uh as a summer intern. He's an amazing worker. He works and works and does whatever whatever you need. He doesn't have the experience In a lot of the things that we've been doing, it's all new to him. Now he's a pretty quick study. He's learning real fast. But he's got to learn these things. But I'll take somebody like this that's there, that's available, that's working, over somebody that has all the skill. And wants to get and stand in the corner on their phone all day. You know, that wants to that wants to or that can't can't oh I can't work right now. Oh no, it's too hot. Uh Pastor the other day they worked through the rain. It was pouring down rain and rain coming off the house and they're putting upside and just We told them the goal was to get this done by by uh camp, you know. So they're like, Well we're gonna keep going. We didn't tell 'em they had to be out there in the rain. Don't let them tell you that. We did not say that Mm-hmm. So far that's the funnest thing they've done this this this uh internship. Uh which is sad to say actually, but uh no, they said they enjoyed it. Hey, at least it wasn't hot, you know, that's the thing. Availability. Availability. Toot John's horn, John Norman back there. He uh he's available. Hardly a servant goes by that he doesn't say, Pastor, is there anything that you need? Is there anything at all that you need? Uh you need anything? Give me a call. He texts me two or three times a week. Pastor, how you doing? Praying for you today. Do you need need anything. Just available. Just available. We need to be available, Christian. Available for God to direct and change our plans. Available for God to use us how he sees fit. He was available. I want you to see also that he I want you to see his allegiance. His allegiance in verse 20 to 21. He says, For I have no man like-minded who would naturally care for your state, for all seek their own. Not the things which are Jesus Christ. So as Paul talked about Timothy, what he's saying here is Timothy wasn't seeking his own. Timothy was seeking the things which are Christ. Paul said he didn't know of anyone else who was more like-minded. Now he's going to in a minute talk about Um who else is he talking about here? My mind just Epaphroditis. My mind just went blank. Um he's gonna talk about aphroditis, so it's not like there was nobody else around. He's talking about in comparison, Timothy is the most like-minded. He's the most on board. He is the one that uh isn't seeking his own at all. Where does his allegiance lie? It lies with Christ. He is not so concerned about himself. He's concerned about pleasing God and bringing honor and glory to God and doing what God wants him to do. His allegiance was with Christ in Christ alone. He had the same love and the same concern for the people that Paul had. And it wasn't about what's going to benefit him. It was about what's going to benefit the people. What is going to be m the most help to the people? What's going to make the most impact in their lives? This is what I want to do. It's amazing how in Christianity today we've all but lost the aspect of loyalty. Loyalty used to be part of society as a whole, and now you can hardly even find it in the church. It's just about disappeared. Timothy didn't seek his own. Paul takes time to mention this contrast here between Timothy and what apparently was a pretty standard thing for the balance of the rest of the believers. What does he say there? He says, for all seek their own. Not the things which are Jesus Christ. Paul is saying from his experience in the church, his experience with believers, is that most of them are seeking their own. Even in our Christianity, you understand we can be doing that to seek our own. It can be beneficial to us It can be propping us up. It can be giving us brownie points. It can be checking those marks or those boxes in our life. We can be doing what we're doing as Christians for our own glory or our own sake Instead of really found from the heart of it doing it for Jesus Christ, seeking Jesus Christ in him alone. Compared to other believers, Timothy didn't seek his own. There's many ways In the ministry we need people who are not seeking their own. In the church, in the staff. I mean, think about uh a missionary on the foreign field. And they're on the foreign field and they're there and they need somebody to take over while they're gonna go back and report to the churches. I mean you need somebody there that's loyal. You need somebody there that's not there seeking their own. That's not looking to to uh improve or increase their position. But to really truly try and lift up Jesus Christ, it's amazing how rare that kind of individual is. Because you know human nature wants to seek our own. You know Even a an example here would be just going to visit somebody in the church. Let's say I stopped by and Miss Trudy had been sick. Not me because I'm the pastor. So let's let's say Alec stopped by and visited with the Turners for a little bit and just wanted to see Miss Turner and say, Hey, how are you doing? And on one one way he can go there and he can say, hey, once you know the church is praying for you. Pastor loves you. The the church family is is holding you up. We're supporting you. Is there anything that we can do? Going as a member of the church, as part of the body and representative of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. and supporting us as a whole together before her. Now he can make the same visit and he can say, I just wanted to come by and let you know how concerned I am about you. You see there he's seeking his own. He's he's pushing the church aside and all the other believers And I want credit for this visit. I don't want to give any credit for this visit to the church. And then it moves down a little bit further and it's, oh, yeah, I don't understand why Pastor hasn't been here to visit you either. You know, I know uh I mean after all he does get paid to do this. So I I don't know. But but I'm here. See, there's somebody seeking their own. Yes, they're making a visit, and you know what? The fact of the matter is, is because you're present, because you're there, you do get the credit for that But somebody not seeking their own wouldn't be there trying to lift themselves up. They would be trying to point that believer. Here, here. Do you know what happens when they do that? They wound the pastor and they also wound the person listening. Because now there's something between Ms. Trudy and the pastor. And that could have been avoided. Are we seeking our own and even our interactions, or are we consistently pointing people to Christ? I think about Absalom when he stood in the gates. Do you remember that story? About how he stole the hearts of the people? Absalom wasn't standing in the gates to try and help the people. He wasn't there trying to say, boy, you know, the king loves you. Boy, we're we're here. This is no no no. He was there to call the leadership of the king into question. He was there to steal the hearts of the people. Oh, but if I was given charge of thee, boy, I would hear this matter. That's somebody seeking their own. That's what Absalom wanted to do. We've got to be cautious and careful, beloved, that we don't allow that flesh. The flesh is what desires that. The flesh is what doesn't want to give any credit to anybody else. We want all the credit for, you know, like let's say you you use the example recently, but let's say you picked up a piece of trash. And then somebody else came by and said, Man Alicia, thank you so much for cleaning up all that trash. And you're like, I did that. She didn't do that, I did that. Can you keep quiet about that? Or do you have to get the recognition? You know, do you have to point it out that no now Alicia should say, Oh I don't I didn't do it, I don't know who did it. Now she she should deflect that and not take credit if she didn't earn it. But what about you? You know, can you say, oh yeah, no, she didn't do that, I did it. Or can you just keep quiet and say the credit doesn't matter. It's not about me. I'm not seeking my own. You see his allegiance was to Christ, not himself. And then we see his affirmation in verse number 22. He says, But ye know the proof of him, that as a son with the Father, he hath served me in the gospel. But ye know the proof of him. He had a proven track record. They knew. They knew that it to be true about Timothy. There was no question, not just that Paul was saying, hey, this is what Timothy is like, but he had a testimony with even them that they knew this is how Timothy was And they would agree and concur and say, yes, this is the type of man that Timothy is. He had a proven track record with him. Paul uses this example here about a son with a father. What a powerful example. At this time in the Bible, it was the pattern or the habit of people to be in a certain trade. And that was their trade. And when their children grew up, their children were in that trade. And when their children grew up, their children were in that trade. And the children, the son with the father, they would work together and the father would teach them all the aspects of that particular trade. everything that they needed to learn and to know and to do in order to continue the trade on because they knew the time would come when dad was going to die and pass away and the son would take the the business on It was a family business. This was their family business. And I know that you already don't know this, but the surnames that we use today That many, many people have are quite literally from their occupation. For instance, the archers. The butlers, the carpenters, the carvers, the cooks, the drapers, the fishers The Fowlers. As we as we throw some of these names out, you should recognize some of these even from our own congregation. The gardener, hunters. Masons, Millers, Potters, Settlers Tanners, tailors, and the list could go on and on. These are quite literally names that were derived from occupations in which were family businesses This was the habit or the pattern that the son would work with the father day in and day out and was always there and always present and he would learn the trade because one day he was going to take the trade over. That's the example that Paul gives, just like the Son works with the Father. This is the testimony that Timothy had He was going to send Timothy, and if possible, if the Lord willed, he was going to go himself. Verse 23, he says, Him therefore I hope to send presently. So soon as I shall see how things how it will go with me, he's saying, as soon as I find out if I'm going to get killed or not, uh this court case isn't over yet. He says, But I trust in the Lord, again, trusting God, letting God lead. He says that I also myself shall come shortly. He didn't know how it was going to end, but his desire was to visit them personally. Then we see Epaphroditus, he gives us the example of one who is lowly minded. He says in verse number twenty-five through thirty, he says, Yet I suppose it necessary to send to you a Paphroditus, my brother, and companion in labor, and fellow soldier, but your messenger And he that ministered to my wants, for he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick For indeed he was sick nigh unto death. But God had mercy on him. Not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I sent him, therefore, the more carefully, that when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be less sorrowful. Receive him, therefore, in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such in reputation, because the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life to supply your lack of service towards me. Paul describes this man as having come nigh unto death in his service for Christ. He was willing to give it all, to pay that ultimate price. Of course, the Philippians had sent Epaphroditus to Rome to be with Paul, to provide service and assistance to Paul. And he sends him back, Paul sends him back to to the people. You see his associations in verse number twenty-five. It's an amazing description. Paul kind of rattles these things off about this man. He says he's a brother in Christ. And these things we could preach about each one of these things, but we're not going to. He's a companion in labor. What a joy to have somebody to companion in labor. You know, one of the reasons that we have two interns guys is because sometimes we have to leave them by themselves. And we hate to leave one guy working by himself. It's nice that at least there's two guys there. You know, so they have a companion in labor And it's it's a joy to have somebody else there, just like going up up to help Wilby and Cherry today, you know, just somebody else just to help for a few minutes. I said, hey, we time of day, we've got an hour and a half, because I'm going to have to leave by six to get back to the church. I've got an hour and a half. We'll come up there and he's like, okay. It's a companion labor. What a joy it is to have somebody with you, a fellow soldier. So not somebody that's just going to labor with you on the task, but somebody that's willing to stand with you when things get rough. A soldier, somebody, you know, I gave the example of Brother Wilby the other night in in his past and some of the things that he's done and that if I ever gotten a scrap, he's the guy I wanted with me. You know, he he's the one. Uh wanted him around. Why? Because he's he's got some experience and he could help in that situation. To have a soldier, somebody that has your back and standing with you And then he's a messenger. Boy, he carried that message to Paul from the church, and then Paul, it's believed, sent the message back. The letter. Back to the church in his hand. You know, his associations Those things we could list out for ourselves. Are we doing those things? But I want you to see his afflictions in verse number 26 and 27. We see that he was homesick. Verse 26 there he says, for he longed after you all. He was homesick. You know, uh Timothy called the end of his second week, my Timothy now. Not not Timothy from the Word of God. Amen. Uh we'll see him in heaven, but I'm not hearing from him right now. Uh Timothy called and you know Timothy's pretty independent guy. He's pretty uh you know, stand on his own two feet, right? But he says, Dad, I was I was kinda homesick the first week. Like I was really missing home. And I thought, Well, that's good It is good that you start to realize what you have, you know, when you're kinda taken away from it for a little while. But Epaphroditus was homesick. He longed to be back there with them. He had that desire, and we see that he was heartsick as well. It says that he was full of heaviness. His heart was heavy. It's kind of funny that he felt bad, that the Philippians felt bad, that he felt bad. If you if you read the text, that's what it says. He had a heaviness of heart. Why? Because they had heard that he was sick. And he was worried for them that they were overly burdened about him. What an amazing spirit to have. Yeah. But not only was he homesick and heart sick, but he was actually physically sick. Verse number 27 says that he was sick nigh unto death. Right at death's door. Really close. Look at verse number 30. It tells us why he was sick nigh unto death. What is the cause of this? He says, in verse number 30, he says, because for the work of Christ. It was because of the work of Christ that he was sick nigh unto death. I'm just throwing this out there. Don't let neo evangelicals tell you that if you're sick you're not right with God. Or that if you're sick, you're not experiencing, you don't have enough faith, and you shouldn't be going through this, or or you wouldn't be sick. Here is a man of God in God's will, doing God's will, and because of the work of Christ, he was sick. Let me remind you, many of the apostles were actually put to death. So must I be carried on flowery beds of ease? You know, life is not gonna be this just bed of roses. There might be something God has you endure or go through for the honor and glory of God, and he'll uniquely position you to do something powerful in his name. And don't don't think that, oh just because I'm going through it I must not be right with God, or I must not have the right kind of faith, or I'm not I'm not strong enough. That's not necessarily true. Because here this man was sick nigh unto death for the cause of Christ. Because he was in the work of Christ. Should you see uh in verses twenty-eight through twenty-nine that his job was to be an ambassador. He carried the letter to Paul, and then Paul gave him the letter to carry back to the church. As he carries the letter back, Paul sends them word and says, I want you to honor him. Beloved, when one gives their life in service for God, it's okay to honor them. A pastor that I know, uh Pastor Fidena actually I believe he pastored over in uh the Philadelphia area. For many years he's a lot older now, but he said, if God gets the glory, it's okay if a brother gets honored. If God gets the glory, it's okay if a brother gets honored. We need to be giving honor to whom honor is due. We gotta be careful today we're we're giving honor to the proud and self-serving athletes. We give honor to them, and then we don't want to give honor or lift up those that are serving God. Now no true servant of God is is comfortable with receiving honor. No true servant of God is is is soaking that up and say, yeah, give it you know give it to me. But beloved, I think we're missing the boat by not honoring God's men. These missionaries that have given their lives to go And we can we can say, oh yeah, well they're just doing God's will. They're doing God's will like they're we're doing God's will. And this is true. But we need to honor men who have followed the Lord with their life. You know, these worldly athletes. I was so disgusted this last week when I read that LeBron James walked off the court. Before the game was even over, he walked out of the game. He left and went to the locker room. If I was that coach, he'd be fired. Right. He's got such a poor sp they were losing. They were losing. And so he walked off the court. Wham wh yeah, crybabies, right. makes millions and millions of dollars, he's gonna go in the locker room and whine. And people lift him up like he's something to be idolized. And praised. We need to be careful, especially in front of our kids, who it is that we're lifting up, who it is that we're praising. Praise the foolishness of this world. We look with we it's no wonder our kids don't go into the ministry. When we belittle the people in the ministry. Oh, not not like literally try and tear them down, but with things like, oh, they're just going to be a missionary. Or oh, they're just going to be a pastor. But how do you talk about some successful businessman? Oh, look at this businessman, and look at how much money he's making, and look at how good he is at this and look at how he does at that. Oh, that that guy's just a pastor. What do you think your kids are going to want to aspire to be? Do you think they're going to want to give their life to serve Christ? Or they're gonna wanna go and try and make a bunch of money like Dad always praised. Wanna go and try and earn the almighty dollar. Epaphroditus abandoned his own interest. He had no thought for himself. His hi he had no thought for the cost or the reward. He had a lowly mind, a humble mind It's not about me. It's just about Christ. It's about God's will. I'm willing to do whatever I I'll be a messenger. I'll just carry the letter. It's not even not even from me. I'm just delivering the letter. That's that's my job And I'll do it gladly. And he had no thought as to the cost or the reward of doing that job He was blessed because he knew that it was more blessed to give than to receive Does anybody remember what the key word to the book of Philippians is? I heard several of them. Joy. Joy. Do you all remember the acronym that goes with Joy? Jesus? Others. Yourself. Right. And that's why he had great joy. Timothy had that. Paul had that. Young people, you want great joy in your life? So you ask most kids, what do you want? Ultimately? I mean really get down to it, to the heart of it. Besides an iPhone. I want you say what what do you want out of life? I mean really, really heart heart heart to heart. I just want to be happy. I just wanna be happy. I just wanna I I wanna have joy. Jesus first. Others second, you last. And you'll have joy. Let's be like-minded. Let's be lowly-minded. These men were given to us as example. Just men, not apostles, not prophets, not disciples. Not authors of Scripture or Jesus himself, but men that did it the way God wanted them to.