Oh, I shouldn't say that. I was gonna say we could trade places. Lots of you could preach this tonight, but uh in reality you would have to do lots of study to be able to preach this tonight. But Y you know the story, you know what's going on, you understand the context of the passage of scripture in Judges chapter six and the story of Gideon, the exciting victory that God brings through this uh reluctant servant But we see first of all this evening we're just going to walk through the text and see what God uh teaches us uh that we see the consequences of sin in Judges chapter six and verse number one. He says, And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years. You know, beloved, before you can deal with the problem, which ultimately is what Gideon's going to be doing, uh, dealing with the problem of the Midianites, you've got to e acknowledge that you have a problem You know, they say that half the battle is just admitting that there's a problem there, that you really have that to deal with, and this occur certainly uh this first point here would tie in very closely uh with this morning's message with regards to Jonah and where he ended up as a result of his own actions. And the fact of the matter is that many times people are in the storm. Because they have gone headlong after it. They've determined to do that. The consequences of sin, beloved, is that you're going to be delivered into the hand of the enemy. That's what God allowed to happen here And we're going to look at and discuss the victory that God brings as we bring this to a conclusion at the end. But before that, we need to understand what brought the circumstances through which Gideon was needed to be needed to be called. And why did Gideon have to deliver the children of Israel? Well, because uh of their sin. It's very clear we see first of all the iniquity of Israel. It was the iniquity of Israel. After the death of Deborah and uh Barak pass they this after they passed off the scene the commitment to true and honest worship before God Almighty uh fell by the wayside. They drifted away and they went back to what is their pattern and that is uh idolatry. They chose to go after that. The iniquity of Israel. The nation of Israel turned their back on the old ways. and did evil in the sight of God. We know that what they did was idolatry because you look down in verse number 10, chapter 6 and verse number 10, God tells us And I said unto you, I am the Lord your God, fear not the God of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell, but ye have not obeyed my voice. He says, I told you to don't give second thought to those God of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. I told you not to be concerned about that, but you didn't obey. You didn't follow what I told you to do, and they went back to worshiping Baal, actually, uh the god of the Amorites. This uh Baal worship led to gross uh mm immorality among the children of Israel because you do understand, beloved, who you worship affects how you live. One of the reasons that our society is in such a terrible strait is because of the fact that as a society they worship self. They worship the creator, I mean the creation instead of the creator. They they they love uh the religion of evolution that removes God out of the picture and they don't have to be responsible or worship God, they can just worship Creation. And when you take God out of the picture, there is no authority, and if there's no authority, every man could do that which is right in his own eyes And uh based on who you worship, it affects how you live. These people were worshiping Baal, and Baal led them to gross immorality that was, of course, dishonoring to God. Beloved in our country, who we worship has affected who we who who how we live as a society. The fact of the matter is, is God judged the children of Israel because of their sin And I want you to know that God cannot help but judge America because of the sin that's prevalent in the streets of our society today You can mention very, you know, you could run down the line from the the killing of millions of innocent babies, uh, you know, to the perverting of the young minds of the innocent children uh that are growing up in this country with the filth and wickedness of lifestyles that are promoted and lifted up. Uh I heard that this year they're putting uh uh vending machines in the public schools to dispense contraceptives and morning after pills that children can get all of by themselves. They're just dispensing it. They're promoting that and allowing children uh in Baltimore County to be able to basically what they think is to sin with impunity, to be able to do whatever they want and not have any damages from it. They won't have to face the results of their sin The the by the way the morning after pill is is abortion. It just happens quicker than going down to a clinic And they're offering this where kids can just have that without ever letting anybody know what happened in their life. And listen, God has got to judge America for this filth. And the fact is, is that all of America endures and suffers because of the wickedness that is allowed to prevail in our society. the adoption and support of homosexuality. And we could continue on in in our society today, the filth that's prevalent, that's there, that runs rampant. and uh that is allowed to uh not just proliferate but to uh i expound and grow. And and God is going to judge a people because of that just like he judged the children of Israel and we are experiencing that in our world today. There's no question about it. Uh we see that God judged the children of Israel here with the invasion of uh the Midianites and the Amalekites. They came in and and beloved uh It affects everybody. Look down in Judges chapter 6 and verses 2 and 3. He says, and the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. And because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made themselves dens, which were are in the mountains and caves and strongholds. And so it was when Israel had sown uh that the Midianites came up and the Amalekites and the children of the east, even they came up against them. All all of them, maybe not everybody was involved in this idol worship. Maybe not everybody was taking on with this, but can I tell you that the whole society suffered because of it? And the fact of the matter is, as you'll see uh God's judgment in the world today, and I'm not I'm not one that is going to look at a storm that tore through uh you know, Tennessee and say, boy, God judge Tennessee because of this. I don't know and I can't hope to speak for God. I don't uh by any means ever want to try and do that. But you look around at our society and our world today and You see the the pre-plethora of storms that are afflicting uh America, that are coming into the shores of America, that are impacting our society that are uh d destroying so much of the wealth that America has and being undermined by this We see in verse number four, he says, and they encamped against them and destroyed the increase of the earth. Till thou come unto Gaza and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass. Matthew Henry said this, Israel was imprisoned, and then they were impoverished. They they were imprisoned basically under the thumb of these Midianites and Amalekites that came in and They, you know, basically were allowed to uh roam and do whatever they wanted and and Israel was relegated to go and hiding in caves. And not only were they imprisoned, but now they were impoverished. All the the way that they would normally take care of themselves was eaten up. They they took it. These guys had and took whatever that they wanted from them. You know The blessing of increase that they should have experienced by the hand of God was taken away because of the sin that they were under judgment for. And I think that you can see that in our society today. You look around at the massive crop failures that have taken place in different areas of the country. The destructive nature of the storms that have hit the shores of uh of America, and even uncontrollable inflation where the value of the dollar which you carry has decreased in its purchasing power by dramatic amounts in recent days. and our impact on the world stage is being diminished more and more. Can I tell you that that there was a time when uh America was one nation under God and we recognized and honored God for what he was doing and I believe God blessed because of that. But because America has chosen to turn their back on God, America has decided to go ahead and go headlong after worshiping the creation instead of the Creator. And uh we've embraced this filth. All of us are enduring. the the hardships that are hitting our shores because of the wickedness that's in our society. There is no question you see this in biblical principle. The Midianites And the Amalekites that came into this land, we see there in the verse we just read that uh they were children of the East. Uh in my study about this particular passage of scripture in preparation for this I learned that the Midianites and Amalekites were really Uh we at least in my mind I always pictured them as an army. You know, the Bible speaks about those armed men, men bearing swords, and in my mind was getting and going up against an army. But really the description that I read from different people, including Josephus and such, that uh described these this band of people were really uh like Bedouins. They were from the east. There was during this time a an extreme drought taking place in Egypt, and they were pushed up from the east because of the drought. You understand God's in control. God says that the children of Israel need to be punished for what they're doing. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to I'm going to bring this drought down here and these band of roamers, these Bedouins, that travel with their whole family, that that move across the land, but what they would do is they they had sheer numbers. They would move into an area And they had so many numbers that provided them protection but also allowed them to just go into an area and take whatever they wanted because there wasn't many people that had enough uh men to stand up against them. So this this Bedouin's a kind of loosely organized group uh of s yes, uh they bore the sword Uh but they weren't like an organized army that stood at attention and functioned in that role. Uh they were a loose band of Bedouins that traveled and God brought them up to bring uh and put the children of Israel As Matthew Henry said, in prison and then impoverished, God judged them because of the consequences of their own sin. But then we see, beloved, in verses 6 and 8, the cry of surrender. He says, and Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord. And it came to pass. When the children of Israel cried unto the Lord because of the Midianites, the Lord sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I brought thee up from Egypt. and brought you forth out of the house of bondage. He's preaching to them that they would return unto them. The fact of the matter is, F. B. Meyer said, Alas That God has so often to drive men to Himself. It is a sad thing, but alas Often mi God has to drive men to himself and this picture that is drawn here where God allows or or motivates this group of Bedouin uh people to travel up and to put the children of Israel into bondage and to put the children of Israel into impoverishment, uh ultimately to try and get them to the place where they would pause, where they would stop, and they would cry out unto the Lord. Amen? That's what they did. They cried out unto the Lord. But when they cried unto the Lord, beloved, God heard them. God is listening for the cry of the repentant heart. He's always listening and he has an ear to hear, just as he heard the cry from the prodigal. Laying in the pig slop, ready to return home. Can I tell you that oftentimes in my life God's heard my cry when I was a long ways from home? When I was ready to come back, when I was ready to repent of the direction I was headed and the activity I was participating in, or The thought processes that were controlling my mind. To repent and turn back to him, God is always there ready. It says there in that verse, when. Verse number 7, it came to pass when the children of Israel cried. The question I have for you tonight is, why does it take so long for us to get to win? When the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord, why did it take us so long to get to that place where we're ready to cry out, where He is there and ready to hear? The reason, beloved, is because the backslidden heart, the rebellious heart, doesn't want to pray We're not ready to cry out unto the Lord when we are living in sin, when we're doing wrong, and we're not ready to repent and to turn from that I remember growing up many times, as dad's habit was, after he beat the living daylights out of me He would say to me, now son, let's sit down here and let's pray together. I did not feel like praying. The last thing I wanted to do was to sit down and pray, like, oh yes, Lord, thank you for my loving Father. Uh no, I the last thing I wanted to do was to kneel down and pray and you know pretend like everything was hunky-dory, you know. No, I was in painting and I wasn't too happy about it, right? That's one way to get a picture of the heart of your child to see if they're able or willing or ready to pray because you know what? The rebellious heart doesn't want to pray. The rebellious heart doesn't want to seek the Lord. You can sometimes gauge the spirituality of a church by who shows up at prayer meeting. Because the one running from God does not want to bow and talk to the Lord, doesn't want to seek God and pray and hear from heaven. But can I remind you, beloved, that 2 Chronicles 7:14 is still in the book? If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked way. Then will I hear from heaven, will forgive their sin and heal their land. Isn't that verse fit perfectly into what we're looking at here? What the children of Israel were going through under the punishment of God because of the sin that they had committed, and God says, hey, cry out to me. They cried and God heard. We see here, thirdly, the character of a servant. In chapter 6, verse number 11. And there came an angel of the Lord that sat under an oak, which was Orpha that uh pertained unto Joash the Azverite. And his son Gideon threshed wheat by the winepress to hide it from the Midianites. We see first of all regarding his character that he was a hard worker. He was there threshing wheat by the wine press. Now, have you ever observed or s seen a vineyard on the side of a hill, maybe terraces cut into the side of a hill. Anybody seen that, observed that? It's some very beautiful vineyards up on Route 15 between here and New York. If you take fifteen all the way up Uh maybe you're going to Niagara Falls or something. Beautiful drive up 15 or if you've gone, I don't know if it's the you get to Wilkesbury before that, uh before you get to the vineyards, I think. Uh and where's the race thing at? Watkins Glenn. I I think I think the vineyards are past Watkins Glen, or did you see them going up to Watkins Glen? Okay, so there's a lot of them up there. But you know what? A wine press is usually logically and naturally at the bottom of the hill. Because you don't want to carry all those fresh grapes that you've just harvested up to the top of the hill. You harvest them as you work your way down towards the winepress, and the wine press would be at the bottom of the hill. However, the threshing floor typically was at the top of the hill. Because you wanted the breeze, you wanted the wind to come and and blow through, you wanted that that i wind from the top of the hill You don't want to be down in the valley where there's no breeze, no wind, and you you throw up and the the chaff would be blown away. The threshing floor was usually at the top of the hill. Yet we see here that Uh Gideon was threshing the wheat and he was doing so down at the bottom of the hill. Now, some commentators believe that Gideon was down there because he was chicken, because he was afraid of being seen. And uh You also you might could say that, but on the other hand you could say he was being smart. I mean in the text there in the verse it says why was he doing it? He says threshing wheat by the wine press to hide it from the Midianites And we just read about how they came in and they took everything, right? They didn't leave anything for for the Israelites to have. And so he was exercising some wisdom there, I think, and threshing in a place where it was probably a whole lot more work to thresh down in the bottom of the valley where there wasn't any wheeze to uh or wind to blow away the the chaff, there was no wind to to assist them in this labor Instead the chap's probably floating in the air and going down his shirt and getting into everything. He's probably hot, no breeze up down there. So he's working very hard. He was a hard worker, doing the best he could to provide for those whom he had the care of at that time, just there with his father threshing this wheat. He was a hard worker. Beloved, can I tell you that I've yet to see God use a man or a woman who didn't know how to get her done. A man or a woman who was lazy. I've never seen God take somebody that was lazy and not ready to go do the job or get after it or do some work that God picked up and used in a mighty way. Even in biblical examples over and over again, you see the story of David. Where was David when you see him? He's always out tending the sheep. He's out doing a job. Picking up a sword and going into battle again over and over again, you find that his character was one of persistent and dedicated work. And can I tell you that God blesses a hard worker? We see in his character he was a hard worker. Not only that, we see that he had heart. He had compassion. He had concern. Look at verse number 13 And Gideon said unto him, O my Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? And where be all the miracles where our fathers have told us saying? He just he saw what was taking place all around him and he said, Boy, uh there's so much here. He saw the heartbreak and the burdens that they were carrying and He had concern for them. He had a heart and compassion and concern for others. We see also that he was humble. In verse number 12, the angel of the Lord says that he is a mighty man of valor. You know, sometimes God sees things in you that you don't see in yourself. Sometimes other people might see something in you that you don't even see in yourself. The angel of the Lord said, Man, you're a mighty man of valor, but look what he says in verse number 15. Judges 6 here, verse number 15. And he said unto him, O my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? My family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house. He's saying of all Manasseh, my family's among the the poorest, among the the least prominent, among the the least recognized. I mean if there was anybody that was going to be called to lead an army, surely it would be somebody that had some status. Surely somebody that had a little bit of uh recognition and and leadership capital and could go and do this uh in a I just don't understand of all them, my family's the poorest and uh in in my family, I'm about the least like a candidate. You know, I think he was probably close to the youngest. Because younger ones tend to feel like they don't matter at all. Right, Caleb? They tend to feel like they I you know I told people recently, I don't know who it was uh that I was talking to, Mary might remember because I think she was there, but we were talking to somebody And I said, you know, it's unlikely for me to be a leader of a church. And I don't really push my opinion on people and I said that's probably because I grew up in a home with a bunch of older siblings and I wasn't allowed to have an opinion. I mean I was the little guy. I'm they're like, you shut up. Like you y you don't get to talk. You don't we don't nobody cares what you think. You know, and you you weren't allowed to have an opinion. And so I mean I was probably fifteen years old before I ever had an opinion about anything because that I mean you w you weren't allowed to have an opinion. Older siblings they're the ones that got to do what they wanted to do and the rest of us just went along And uh that's the way it was. And so I think Gideon was probably among the youngest uh of the family because he looked at himself and said, I can't do this. I don't have the capacity Can I tell you that's when God will bless you? When you have of your own heart and mind that, listen, I can't do this. I can't do this. I still look at Hunt Valley Baptist Church as a miracle of God and not something that I could do. The thrill and privilege that I have to pastor God's people, I do so humbly because I can't do this. It's God's church and you're God's people, and I'm thrilled just to be a part of it. And my mission has been the same. since I very verse very first Sunday that I spoke. And that's my goal is just to be a help to the church. That's all that's all that I want to do. And I've I've got, you know, sometimes pastors get territorial and and, you know, gotta protect this. I don't gotta protect it. It's not my church. It's God's church. I mean I I'm gonna protect the flock as best as I can, but I'm not protecting my position. I'm not protecting Pastor Caleb Bittrell, you know. I I I Look at this as God's church and I'm just here to help and you know I do the best I can and certainly I'm just a sinner saved by grace and sometimes I'm gonna stumble, but I'm glad that he makes up for it. Because he is God and He's on the throne. And you know what? I'll take a humble guy that says, I'm not sure I can do this over a proud, arrogant guy any day of the week. You're gonna have problems with the proud guy because he's he he's all that in a bag of chips. He feels like he is he is the one and And what he thinks and does matters most, and everybody's gotta fall in line with him or else they're not right with God. Well We see God used getting here in a great way, and he was a humble man. He said, I don't have the ability to do this, Lord. I can't do this. I'm nobody special We say also about his character here that he was hesitant. I'm not saying that this is a good character trait. I'm not sure. You can tell me what you think. I just saw it in the text and thought I would share it. I think we're maybe seeing a little bit of a weak side of his here, but we see in verse number 17. And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou talkest with me. You know the story. You know how God called him and said, you're going to lead these people, you're going to deliver the children of Israel, and you're going to win this victory. And and and Gideon's like, no, I'm not sure I can do that. He says, you know what? Why don't you show me a sign? And he put out the fleece and and that wasn't good enough. So he put out the fleece again and wanted the opposite results. He was just very hesitant to go. He needed a lot of uh provoking. Some people would say that I was hesitant for two years. I said no. But uh I'm not saying that's a good character trade. I'm just saying it happens to be the the case. I think sometimes we ought to trust God and stop Stop needing a sign like the Pharisees needed. You know, we're supposed to walk by faith. We don't need God to show us everything. We're supposed to trust the Lord and go and do what He said to do. And uh sometimes if we're too hesitant, we're we're not gonna accomplish what God wants us to accomplish uh because we don't have the faith to just do what God wants. And I certainly uh Uh I feel like that's an area where I'm weak really. My my faith overall, my faith to just trust God and go. I want to see the beginning to the end. I want to have a picture of the whole thing. I want God to show me how this is gonna happen You know, and and sometimes you just need to have faith and step out. And if you ever see me step out, you're gonna know that God gave me a sign. I mean just that I that that there's pastors pretty hesitant in his nature and probably not stepping out just to do it. You know, I'm not just gung gung ho like Let's go, see what happens. You know, that's not me. I'm I'm like let's let's step back and maybe a little bit too much. And I probably don't experience some of the blessings of God that could be there if I exercise more faith If I trusted him a little more. He might he might do some miraculous things that we could see if I had a little stronger faith. So you guys pray for me. To just trust God and and take whatever step God wants us to take as a church and and direction for the future because God's in control, amen. I want you to see the concern of the Savior that we see. This, of course, little-known man in his humility is blessed by God in a miraculous way. We see several times. We're going to kind of back up and cover some of these verses again to see a secondary application here, but the concern of the Savior. He appears unto him, we saw it numerous times, but the angel of the Lord appeared unto him. The angel of the Lord appeared unto him. Now the angel of the Lord is not just an angel that came, but uh in the Old Testament, a theophany or a Christophany, a place where we see uh the uh manifest presence of God, like when Moses was at the burning bush, that's a theophany of a God revealing himself and and coming and speaking with Moses. Balaam's donkey, and Balaam got to see a Theophany where they saw the very presence of God and responded to that. Here, this is what uh Gideon was blessed with. In a miraculous way, God reveals himself unto him. And what I believe is so important about this, beloved, is if we're going to have the confidence of God to go into battle, we need to know him personally. We know what's going to happen as we move forward in this story, but if we're going to have the confidence of God to go into battle, we need to have that personal knowledge of God. You're not going to have the courage to do what God wants you to do if you're living on somebody else's spirituality. You might be motivated to begin, but you won't have what it takes to finish unless you know God personally. God ha showed his concern for him. God revealed himself to him in a very special way of the of the few times in the Old Testament that this happened. I mean you remember he uh it's not too long ago, uh we just talked about it, but Hagar Of all the characters in the Bible that got to be blessed and to see the presence of God manifest, you remember she was on the run and uh leaving Sarah and she ran and went to the well, and the angel of the Lord appeared unto her. That's again a theophony, God God revealing his presence, and we see God doing this here for him, this humble servant. And God encourages him in several ways. First of all, he assures him of his presence. Look at verse number twelve. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. In verse number 16, and the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites. as one man. You see, beloved, God was revealing himself to him and saying, I'm with you. We're going to do this together. You're not alone. Gideon and God is a majority. God is with you, Christian. His presence is there. His power is there for you to be blessed with and to be encouraged by. I mean how much. Comfort have you had from knowing that he will never leave thee nor forsake thee? Knowing that he's present. And we see here Gideon being encouraged by the angel of the Lord by telling him that he was going to be with him, letting him know that he cared about him, that he was going to go with him. You know, beloved, the natural man. Does not want to believe God is there. The natural man and even the carnal Christian They look at life circumstances and they try and deny the presence of God. They ask what Gideon asked. You know, it's such a powerful truth. Look at verse number 13. And Gideon said unto him, O my Lord. If the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? And where be all his miracles? Which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord hath forsaken us and delivered us into the hand of the Midianites. You see, even when men know why the tragedy has come, they want to charge God foolishly Gideon knew he knew why God had judged them You can read through the following verses in the coming chapters, and you'll see that the first thing he does is he destroys an altar to Baal that's in his father's house. He knew why God was judging them. And you know, oftentimes, especially the lost, but even carnal Christians will look at and say, well, if God loves us so much, why does this happen? If God loved me so much, a man lives a wicked lifestyle and goes out and is immoral and ends up with a disease and he says, why did I get this disease? You know why you got the disease. You know the path that you went and the life that you lived. And we look at our country and the loss people say, well, if there's a loving God, why is there so much murder and mayhem? Why is there so much disaster? Why are people tearing things up in the streets? And why is there so much stealing? Why are people killing? Beloved, it's not God, it's man's sin. That's the problem, and men know it in their heart that that's the problem. That's why there is all this heartache and tr turmoil and people say, Well, why is it this way? I mean if God loves us, why does this happen? Because of sin. Because of man's sinful nature? And people want to charge God foolishly and say, oh, he's forsaken us. He doesn't love us. God is not a loving God, or else He wouldn't allow a hurricane to come and destroy a section of land, or He wouldn't allow this earthquake, or He wouldn't allow this destruction in Mimar Man's sin is the result of all of this. We need to remember, beloved, it is not because of his lack of concern. It is quite literally the exact opposite. It is because he's concerned that he moved this group of loosely formed Bedouins, the Midianites and the Amalekites, up into the land to judge his people because they weren't doing right. It's because of his concern that he judged them and wanted. He wanted to bless them. He wanted to have fellowship with them. He wanted to pour out his continual provision upon them. But he couldn't because they were in sin. And they wouldn't turn to him, so he had to bring judgment, he had to bring punishment so that they would turn towards him. And when they cried out, as soon as they cried out, he brought in a deliverer that's going to deliver them. And he's raising him up here, Gideon. You see, it's because of his concern. One commentator said this. The problem has never been God's inadequacy. The problem is man's iniquity. You see, beloved, it's not because God is unable God's hand is not shortened that it cannot save. God is able In Isaiah 59, 1 and 2, listen to this verse. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, neither his ear heavy that he cannot hear. But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sin have hid his face from you that he will not hear Isn't that a description of what we just read? God's there and he wants to help, but man, like Gideon, wants to say, well, if God loves me, then why is this happening to me? When a lot of times we even know why it's happening. Sometimes we don't. Sometimes things happen in our lives and you're looking at it and you say, okay. I'm not sure what I'm supposed to learn from this. I don't know why this has come. We look to the Lord and say, maybe I'm just going through this to be an encouragement or help to somebody else. I I don't I don't know. But uh by and large For talking about this situation, Gideon knew what the nation had done. He understood the judgment that they were under. And men by and large know the life that they live and why they're in the situation they're in. Beloved, the fact is that God's more concerned about the situation than you and I are. And He longs to restore us to that place where that there's sweet fellowship. where there is God's blessing and God's provision and God's protection. His hands not shortened that he cannot help, but the problem is his sin Your iniquities have separated you between you and your God. And what God wants to do for you, he can't until men turn back to him. And that's what we see in this story. I have three other points, but I'm not w we're gonna shut it down here. We have the commitment to the soldier, the course to success, and the conclusion of service. But uh I'm going to stop it here and we'll see maybe next week we'll get into the other half really of this story. But uh the cause of Gideon's commission, why was Gideon raised up? To be the deliverer, we see that in what we've covered thus far and some lessons that we learned from it. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?