People um some weeks ago I I let one of the services I let everybody know, but some weeks ago he was out visiting on a on a Saturday and invited some folks from kind of a a worker village like uh migrant type workers and Uh how many do you have come on Sunday morning? Eighteen visitors. Eighteen of them came the next morning and uh they said, Yeah, there'll be more people that want to come too and so uh it was a very exciting day. I mean that's an amazing response You know, when you go out and and uh meet people and you invite folks to church many times uh you'll talk to uh a hundred and one might come. But uh you know, seeing fruit like that is uh is really exciting and And uh so praise praise the Lord for that. Speaking of those that uh responded to uh the call or the invitation, um N Neteen. Uh where you where you at? There you are in the back. Uh so he uh he was met this week. You don't have to stand up, just invite you. Thank you so much for coming. Yeah. Gotta gotta stand and recite the Lord's Prayer? No, I'm just kidding. Uh but uh good to have you and your wife today. They came first time visitors this morning. and we appreciate them uh coming and being with us here in church. That's always a blessing. Kevin and Margaret, of course, back with us. They came last Last week for the first time and they they came back and uh here again so we didn't run 'em off at least. Um hopefully they feel welcome in God's house. We appreciate you coming to being with us today. We have been studying uh off and on uh the Ten Commandments, so turn your Bibles to Exodus chapter 20. Exodus chapter 20. We are uh concluding this lesson or this study on the Ten Commandments, which has been uh very good for me, very thorough, uh and uh you know, really has been uh beneficial for me in my study and I hope it's been beneficial for you. I d I can tell you this, you at least uh have a greater understanding of what these commandments Mead and a and a fresh uh vision for how they apply to our lives, uh without a doubt, uh that is taking place there. Um So Exodus chapter twenty, we have the Ten Commandments that are listed. We've read through this passage a number of times uh in our study here. Just look down at verse number seventeen. We are on the tenth commandment today, uh, which is what? What is the tenth commandment? Thou shalt not covet. Alright, thou shalt not covet. We'll go through all the commandments here in just a second, but in Exodus chapter 20, verse number 17, he says, Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's. So thou shalt not covet. Now just by way of review, uh since we're concluding today, we're at the end of our lesson, just one last time maybe to uh get in our hearts and minds the the visual impact and help you to remember the the uh commandments and remember them in order. What is the action or the hand action for the first commandment? We've gone over this many times. There should be a lot more ahead. The first commandment is number one, and you point towards the sky. And that is thou shalt. I have no other gods before me. Right, number one. So number two, two fingers and one bow down to the other. So that is thou shalt not set up to thee any graven images And number three is three fingers in one hand, and what do you do with it? No. Right. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. So the third is the three fingers to your mouth, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Number four, back to two hands, four fingers, put them together. What is it? Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. This is your your church. You know, remember, uh here's the steeple, open the doors, you know, there's all the people. Remember that? So uh uh that you know, four four fingers together, that's remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Now five fingers. So now you what do you do? Honor thy father and my mother. Honor thy father and thy mother. So five fingers you salute, honor thy father and thy mother. Number six. Thou shalt not kill. So number six is thou shalt not kill. Take your your pistol uh finger there and and shoot the other hand. He dies down. So thou shalt not kill. Uh number seven. Put these two fingers together and lay them down in this hand. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Number eight Thou shalt not steal. So you reach over and you grab those three fingers and pull it away. Thou shalt not steal. Number nine I don't know which way you want to go, but thou shalt not bear false witness. And then number ten is take all ten fingers, reach out, grab, and pull towards you. Thou shalt not covet. So I'd encourage you to to remember those actions and uh anybody can ask you what's the fourth commandment? Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Uh what's the what's the fifth commandment? Honor thy mother and father. I mean you might not you might not have to do the action, but in your mind you at least uh honor the fifth commandment. So you might know the commandments now you know them in order and you know which one it is. When somebody says, what's the seventh commandment? Thou shalt not commit adultery. Uh should be able to come to you pretty quickly. Uh that action, I mean I've probably learned those several times in my life, and never have I had it so clearly I didn't come up with that. It's just in my study I came across it and it just really helped uh me to be able to remember them and retain them. So you'll want to do that. So this here, the tenth commandment. As we have looked at and studied all of these commandments, our commandments, for the most part, the Ten Commandments, have to do with our actions, with what we do and or don't do, what we are supposed to do or not to do. Somebody said it like this concerning this Ten Commandment, that the first nine deal with deeds. This commandment deals with desire. It's different in that it deals with the inward part of man. It deals with what's in your heart. All the other commandments have laws Man-made laws that reinforce them. I mean, man has a right to protect his property. And if you go and try and steal from somebody you could be imprisoned for that. You could be jailed for that or fined for that or you'll be punished for it. You know, go ahead and perjure yourself on the stand and see what happens. There is laws in place that kind of reinforce and reinstate the other Ten Commandments. But this commandment, there is no law. In man-made law that reinstates this. Why? Because this is hidden. This is not something that uh the police can can watch for Oh, you have been coveting five days in jail. They can't do that. And so this there's not a law that uh is in place that deals with this uh for us. It's something that we have to deal with on on our own between us and God. You know, the entirety of this commandment, although there's several things listed, uh if you would look back at the verse And let's read just the first four words, then going to the last statement, skipping the word nor, you can see this commandment in its entirety, thou shalt not covet. anything that is thy neighbors. There is several things listed in between there, but if you read the first phrase and the last phrase, thou shalt not covet anything. that is thy neighbors. That sums it up. And that puts it in perspective that we are not to be coveting So uh this morning it wants us to look several uh points. We're gonna first of all understanding covetousness, it's understanding this and and what it is that we're dealing with here. Uh there's a delusion that some people have. in this idea of covetousness. Some would think that God does not want us to desire anything that is good or pleasant Or enjoyable or beneficial. They would some believe that the measure of their spirituality is determined by the hardships they're enduring. They're really, really spiritual because they don't have anything of value in this life. They're really spiritual because they're enduring so much hardship and they're going through this trial and this test and haven't had a joyful day in years And they're just so godly because of it. That's not what the scripture says. We gotta interpret scripture with scripture. There's nothing wrong with desira desiring 1 Timothy 6, verse number 17 says, Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. But in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. He's saying, hey, don't trust in those riches. Don't don't be high-minded and think, oh, because you got a big pocketbook that you're okay. That can all be taken away like that. Trust in God. The one who gave you those things for what? For you to enjoy There's nothing wrong with God blessing you, God benefiting you, and you enjoying his blessing on your life. Praise God for his blessing. In Psalms 84, verse number 11, it says, For the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. The fact is, God blesses his people. And God blesses those who observe biblical principle. You know biblical principle works even if you're not saved? Even if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, uh when you exercise or observe biblical principles in your finances, you will be blessed because of it. Because uh the the laws of sowing and reaping are still in place. And when you do what's right, you're still blessed. Now, we have the benefit of knowing the blesser and having a personal relationship with him. And praise God for that. But so we want to understand covetousness and not be uh delusioned into thinking that our spirituality is dictated by our our meager lifestyle. You know, it's not wrong to desire the good things of this life. So the eighteen twenty-eight dictionary defines covetousness uh or to covet this way, to desire or wish for with eagerness, to desire earnestly to obtain or possess. Now there's nothing wrong with desiring some things There's nothing wrong with desiring eagerly to obtain or possess something. If I desire in my heart to be a good husband, There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with wanting to be that for my wife. Not all desire is bad. Not all coveting is bad. You see, 1 Corinthians 12. 31 says, but covet earnestly the best gifts, and yet show I unto you a more excellent way. way. We are told to covet. But covet the best gifts. Covet the right thing. Desire things that are right for you and I to have. Desire those things that are within our grasp that God would want us to have. In 1 Timothy chapter 3, in the uh passage on the pastorate or uh the office of the bishop. He said if a man desireth the office of a bishop, he desires a good thing To desire that, to want that is a good thing. And there's nothing wrong with having a desire like that. So what we're dealing with or talking about today is desiring something That is outside of what is rightfully ours, or that we could rightfully obtain without breaking any of the other commandments. So desiring something that is not rightfully mine or that I could not rightfully obtain without breaking the other Ten Commandments. For me to desire Clay's Mercedes. I could not rightfully obtain that So that would be a coveting that would not be right. Because I could not rightfully obtain that. I I don't have the money to get that. I would have to steal it. Now I've broken one of the other commandments. And so that's what we're talking about when when we're talking about coveting, and uh if we're going to be guilty of breaking this, that's what we're talking about. It's not wrong to covet the good gifts. It's not wrong to covet good things. There's things in the Bible the Bible even tells us that we ought to covet or desire after. To have a desire in your heart is not wrong. Even for blessing. Even for God to bless you is not wrong to have that desire, but to desire things that are out that are not rightfully yours, or that you could not rightfully obtain. Without breaking the other commandments. That's where the line is drawn. Romans chapter 7, verse number 7 says, What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin, but the law, for I had not known lust. Except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. So the Apostle Paul's telling us that you he wouldn't have known sin, he wouldn't have understood lust. Lust is desired to desire. He wouldn't have understood that except the law said, thou shalt not covet. And to lust, to desire, uh the wrong thing is where we end up breaking that law. So if you desire or covet after money that you have no honest way of achieving or getting, you're breaking another commandment. God places you, if God places you in a position in which you are able to rightfully obtain great wealth, Praise God. My name's Caleb Batrau, huh? Just introduce myself to you If if you can somehow rightfully obtain, and by the way, the lottery is not rightfully obtaining great wealth, just throwing that out there Uh but if you can God places you in a position you've got a job or you you've been able to uh achieve a status at a workplace and you get paid well and and God has blessed you or you've grown a business to a place where you it's profitable for you Praise the Lord. There's nothing wrong with that. But if you have been given manna, Like the children of Israel, had been given manna daily. Here's your manna. Here's your manna. God's providing for you, and you get like the children of Israel. I don't want this manna. I want meat. You are now coveting after that which you cannot rightfully obtain. And God was not pleased with his people. When he was providing for them, he was meeting their needs, their substance was taken care of, and they were discontent with that and coveted after something else. So don't be guilty of that looking beyond what you know God has provided for you If you can obtain it through hard work, through long hours, through a skill set that God has blessed you with, it's okay. Eve should have never taken of the fruit, no matter how easy it was to get. It might not even be that hard for you to get that thing that you know you shouldn't have. Eve should not, it was right there, but she knew that that was breaking God's law She was crossing over and obtaining something that she had no right to obtain. God had said, of all the trees you can freely eat. Except this one. And she was not content with all that she had. And it wasn't that hard, but she went and took of the tree that she couldn't eat of, or that she wasn't to eat of. And that desire is wrong. So let's see the damage that's caused because of coveting. To break this commandment is to also break many of the others. This is the foundation, the launching board, the starting point for the breaking of many of the other commandments. It is the root problem. It is ultimately the thing that leads to breaking of the other commandments. because of covetousness in our heart. Just a couple of examples. We could take each of the commandments and start them out at this point and walk through them, but we won't for the sake of time. Let's just look at idolatry. An overpowering desire in your heart to obtain something becomes the most important thing in your life That becomes the most important thing in your life. You get to the place where that's all you're thinking about. You wake up in the morning and that's on your mind. And then you were driven to obtain that. And command number one is thou shalt not have any other gods before me. Thou shalt not set up to thee any graven image. So you're breaking commandment number one and number two by this root of covetousness that's driven your heart to obtain something that you really shouldn't have. Colossians chapter 3, verse number 5 says, Mortify Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Fornication, uncleanliness, affection, evil conspicuousness. And covetousness, which is idolatry. It's very clearly stated there in Colossians 3:5 that covetousness is the root. And ultimately magnifies itself in idolatry. And we could go through each of the commandments like this. Joseph's brothers coveted the attention that they that Joseph received from his fathers, and ultimately I mean, sold them into slavery, but they were, except for the eldest, they would have killed them. They were going to be guilty of murder because of covetousness. Nothing is clearer than how coveting leads to adultery Trying to obtain something that you know you have no right to, that is not rightfully yours. and you begin to think about it, you begin to think about it, and then that becomes a desire that you can't let go and ultimately you end up breaking the commandment Of thou shalt not commit adultery. Because you were coveting after. You would have never committed adultery if you weren't first coveting. So this is a root problem, something in the heart that many people can't see that we must take care of. It causes great damage in our lives. Covetousness would move an otherwise honest individual to steal. Covetousness usually will lead To envy, jealousy, and ultimately resentment. In Psalms 106, verse number 15, and he gave them of the request, but sent leanness unto their soul. Have you ever heard the statement, uh, you're gonna get what you want, but you're gonna lose what you had? Uh and You see, God said they they coveted after, they wanted this so much that He gave them the desire of their heart, but at the same time He gave them leanness in their soul. They got what they wanted, but they lost what they had. And now they have leanness in their soul. Covetousness brings brings great uh sorrow into our lives. First Timothy six, verse number ten. For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they've erred from the faith. And what's the last phrase in that verse? Anybody know it? And they've pierced themselves through with many sorrows Uh pierced themselves through as many sorrows because they were coveting after that, which they didn't have a right to. I'll never forget this Family in El Paso, Texas. I was a teenager, and this young man probably twenty-three years old, right in that age, maybe twenty-four years old. He started coming to our church and and uh he had just gotten married. He married a beautiful I mean supermodel class woman. Beautiful lady. He had you guys are looking at Sure, just like you, Hun. Yeah. J I mean he married a beautiful lady. This guy was the epitome of physical fitness. As a teenager, I looked at him with so much envy. He he was the kind of guy that uh you know he always wore short sleeve shirts because when they have it they want to strut it. And uh when he w when he would hold the offering plate, there was no there was no room. I mean it was like this. He was just he wasn't curl he was just holding the offering plate and his his shirt would just you know. I mean I remember one of my friends one time he w he went you know when you do like this you can hold the muscle up, you know He was like this and he was and you thought he was holding it up and he goes like this. He was he was now holding it up. It was all real. And uh he was super strong He started a car polishing business, high-end vehicles. And he was rolling in the dough. Buying new vehicles, clearing thousands of dollars a week. A week. He was doing really well. God was blessing him and he was just praising God. But his fullness led to forgetfulness. And he experimented with cocaine and began to desire that drug I stood in the parking lot of the church as a teenage boy and he was looking at me and he said, Caleb, right now my drug habit cost me more than two thousand dollars a week. And he said, I can't quit. Less than two years later, he lost his business. He lost his wife and his kids. And he was living on the street. Because he was coveting that which he didn't have a right to. God had blessed his life with so much from the standpoint of anybody looking at him, look over, look and say, he has it all. He's got everything anybody could want. And yet the thing that he wasn't supposed to get, wasn't supposed to have, he went after. And it destroyed his life. I'll never forget it. I thought, how in the world can that happen had not been enough. Covetousness does a lot of damage. We want to unearth covetousness. We want to unearth it. I mean, find out what what is this and and how do we find it? How do we get rid of it in our lives? Covetous is not is not one of those exposed uh sins in our heart. It's not something that everybody can see that's outvisible We've got to determine where it is in our heart and do something about it before it's too late. But if you look in the Bible, we We can dig and and you don't have to dig very far to find those in the Bible that were impacted by covetousness, those that dealt with this in their lives. I think it's something that God knew that we as People would face and that we would have to deal with. And so he gave us multiple examples through the scriptures of men and ladies and groups of people who dealt with covetousness. And were the worse for it if they didn't get it right. Proverbs twenty-one twenty-six says, He coveteth greedily all the day long, but the righteous giveth and spareth not. The difference between a righteous man and a righteous heart is one that's uh giving. He's giving sparingly, he's caring for people, he's giving of himself, he's giving of his possessions. And the opposite of that is somebody who's wanting to get all they can and can't all they get, coveting after, and trying to gain In that way. The children of Israel in the wilderness coveting after. God had provided for them manna, and it wasn't enough. And they desired to go outside of God's will for them. That displeased God. What about Achan? He had desired some of the finer things there in Jericho. It was not rightfully his. All that was supposed to be given to God as they went through and they conquered that city. God was blessing the nation in a great way. And yet he thought, Oh, it won't be it'll be okay. I'll just take a little silver. I'll just take a few garments. I'll take these back. They weren't rightfully his. And he could not rightfully obtain them, yet he did it anyway. He coveted after it. He took it. Broke another commandment. And then 32 men lost their lives. You could go through the scriptures in the Old Testament many, many places, and see people that what ultimately We see is the sin they committed was started as a root of covetousness. The New Testament tells us some things. In Ephesians 5, verse number 3 says, But fornication and all uncleanliness and covetousness Let it not be once named among you as become a saint. Don't let it be named once among you. I mean I've just scratched the surface of what the Bible says about covetousness. And I've given you a lot of scripture this morning. A lot of scripture this morning. Acts 20, verse number 3, I have coveted no man silver or gold or apparel. The disciples with Christ were coveting the greatest position. Hey, can you ask Jesus who's going to be on his right side? Ask who's going to be the greatest among us. Desiring or coveting a position, a place of recognition, of honor. The Pharisees did work, the majority of which was that they might be seen of men. Coveting recognition, wanting to be seen by others, and look look at the alms that I gave. Look at what I did here, look at what I accomplished here, that they might be recognized or seen From others. They wanted to be called rabbi, rabbi. Matthew 23, verse number 5. They said, call us rabbi, rabbi. Wanted that recognition. Judas. Coveted after things, including the ointment that was poured at Jesus' feet Hey, do you know what we could have done with that? He wanted to turn it spiritual, right? We could have sold that and fed the poor. That was the farthest thing from his mind. You know exactly it what he was thinking. We always want to make it spiritual though Right? We always want to spiritualize it and and uh you know put a scripture verse with it so we sound godly. When in our heart it's just a root of covetousness. So undoing covetousness, undoing covetousness, how are we going to undo it in our lives? Um there was a Quaker that had a ten acre farm. And he's he put a sign out on the front of the farm. He says, I will give this ten acre farm to any man who is truly content. And man after man came to him and said, uh, well, I'm here. What are you here? I'm here to get your farm. And he said, uh, why? And he said, well, uh, you know, your sign out front says you'll give it to a man that's truly content. And he says, Oh, you're you're you're truly content? Yeah, I'm truly content. You don't have need of nothing No? Then why do you need my farm? I mean, you don't need it. If you have need of nothing, you're fully satisfied It's kind of like pride. As soon as you think that you've got it down, like I'm really humble, all of a sudden you're proud about being humble, right? I'm a humble man and I'm proud of it. That's kind of the way it is covetousness. When we think that, oh okay, I'm not coveting anymore, it'll sneak up on us And we've got to be careful. So how do you defend against that? We've got to be on defense. You've got to watch out for it in your heart. And you've got to stomp it out as soon as it comes up, as soon as it rears its ugly head. And they said to him, hey, would you divide the inheritance among us? You know, our family uh has passed away and we need this inheritance, and we can't decide who gets what. Would you divide it? Jesus said in Luke chapter 12, verse number 15, and he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness. Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not of the abundance of the things which he possesseth. So he says, Take heed and beware that it's there. So first of all, Christian, if we're going to uh uh Be sure to to watch for it in our lives and defend against it. If we're going to keep it from rearing its ugly head in our life, we've got to realize that it's going to come and we've got to watch for it and say, Whoa, there's covetousness. I need to put that down. I shouldn't be desiring that. I shouldn't be going after that because that's not what God wants for me. You've got to deal with the hidden sin before it becomes public. Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. Put down the covetous desire and say, God, help me to seek you first. To seek after you, to desire that. To covet after God or God's uh the furtherance of the kingdom or the cause of Christ is a great thing to desire. And if we're seeking that first, then God may choose to to put you in a position where you could gain great wealth. But when you're desiring and seeking after great wealth, that's not where it's at And that's not where God is going to bless you. Be content where God has placed you and with what He has provided you with. John 6. 35. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of the life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger. And he that believeth on me shall never hunger Thirst. Is God enough for you? Well, yeah, God's enough for me, but I still want my Mercedes. It's not wrong, you know. Is God enough for you? If he's not, then we need to check our heart and say, is that a covetous desire? Something that I shouldn't be desiring after, or is that a desire that pleases Jesus honors God. That is the tenth commandment. Thou shalt not covet. Godliness with contentment is great. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today and the time in your house. We thank you, God, for your word and just this commandment that many of us have read over and over and over again. But Lord, it's all through the scriptures as an admonition and a challenge for us to guard against covetousness in our heart to keep us from breaking the other Lord, I pray you would help us in our lives and in our hearts to take heed and to beware that we would not be guilty of coveting. And Lord, that you put a hand hedge about those that are here today, those that are part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, your people, and protect us from this sin of covetousness. And we'll thank you for it. Bless us now as we go into the morning service. May you be lifted up. May people be drawn to you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed. That's right, huh? You know when you say now for the lockdown.