20, Acts chapter 20, where we'll be looking at our text this morning. I don't expect to be very long. Miss Martha said about 30 minutes, right? So she let me know that's how much time I got. Um no, we we won't we won't be too long this morning. Um but this is the Christmas season and what a joy it is even just to give these presents to the young people and uh the celebration of this Christmas time this Reason for the season, of course, is Jesus Christ and his glorious birth. This Christmas season is a time when the air is filled with uh the smell of baked cookies and pecan pie and ham and you know, just that. Just great, great food, you know, the the aromas of that just kinda uh walking through the house and it's a time when our homes are lit up with beautiful lights and we We enjoy that type of celebration, and we, of course, is a time when we share. We share not just our homes, but we share our hearts With family and friends alike, it's a time where people tend to be a little more open, where people tend to be a little more giving. This morning I would like to speak to you about the spirit of Christmas The spirit of Christmas is found in our text today, Acts chapter 20, verse number 35. I was shocked that uh in America this year In the spirit of Christmas, parents are going to spend on an average of $276 per child for their Christmas gifts. They are expecting this year for there to be an increase from last year Where during the Christmas season there was seven hundred and eighty-nine point four billion dollars spent during the Christmas season. In the spirit of giving, almost $800 billion were spent. There will be $6. 1 billion spent on Christmas trees alone. Amazon is go is hired a hundred thousand new temporary employees for the Christmas season. FedEx has uh increased their Christmas hiring by 27% over last year. Uh this Christmas season. A lot of people are going to spend a lot of money, a lot of gifts. are going to be given. Among the most unwanted gifts are clothes and household items. So I guess, sir, you're going to have to take back that lawnmower you bought her. That's not going to go over well, okay? But the fact of the matter is, is there is a philosophy that permeates Christmas. In fact, it literally is the spirit of Christmas It's what it's all about. Although much of the world has heard the phrase, I wonder how many of them know that the phrase came from the Word of God. Or, in fact, that it came from Jesus Himself. We see in our text verse here, Jesus summarizes and gives to us in just nine words the Spirit of Christmas. He says, And I have showed you all things. How that so laboring you ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. That is the spirit of Christmas. It is more blessed to give than to receive. One young lady said, I knew I was not supposed to be quite so excited. At age 11, the oldest of my mom's grown-up children. I had to keep my cool. But When no one was in the living room, I grabbed every single one of those presents, shook them, and tried with my best imagination to determine what was inside, even presents that weren't mine I examined each gift so often and so readily that I could tell you whose gift was whose without looking at the label. I did try and hide my high my excitement. I mean I was in middle school after all It had been a tough year for my family when Mother and my mom looked over under the Christmas tree at the small spattering of presents. She would sigh and warn us this is gonna be a little bit different Christmas, maybe not as much as normal. Try not to be disappointed, she said. Christmas had traditionally been a big time for our family, and our parents did all they could to spoil us. In years past, presents would pile up and spill out from under the tree, flowing into the living room in every direction. What excitement it was. Well, I don't know. I had heard it, that phrase, but I don't think The one who said it knew what they were talking about. That phrase, giving is better than receiving. Whoever said that must have been out of their mind. Getting presents is the whole point, after all. It was the reason I couldn't go to sleep on Christmas Eve. I couldn't sleep for sure because I wanted to know what I was going to get on Christmas morning. Christmas morning would come and we would eagerly await in the hallway till Dad announced that everything was ready. We rushed into the living room and the wrapping paper began to fly. We made weak attempts at waiting for each other, you know, to say thank you and such. But as the time passed, our self-control was lost and every present was opened so fast. Here's another one for you, said my mom, as she handed me a package. I looked at it confused. Having spent so much time examining these presents before Christmas, I recognized this one and was sure this was not my gift, but my mom's Seeing the label had been torn off and a new label affixed in my mom's handwriting she had written my name. I stopped and said, Mom, mom, I can't But she looked at me with joy in her eyes. It stopped me. I didn't really understand. She said, let's see, honey, let's see what's inside. Hurry. Open it up. It was a blow dryer. Though this may not seem but just a simple gift to you, to me it was much more. Being an eleven-year-old girl, I was stunned. in what my mom had done. Receiving this gift has touched my heart for all of my life This selfless act of kindness was uncomprehensible to me, an 11-year-old girl. This act actually Filled my eyes with tears. And I thought in disbelief of how much my mom must love me to give up her Christmas so I could have another present. I've always remembered that Christmas fondly. It has impacted me greatly. And now as an adult, with my own children, whom I love and adore, I understand my mom's actions. You see, she was not giving up her Christmas, as I thought, at 11, but was finding an even greater joy. an even greater Christmas because giving truly is better than receiving. By my mom's simple act to an 11-year-old girl, she taught me this lesson. Giving is better than receiving. It's more blessed to give than receive. I want to encourage you this Christmas to remember that to ponder and think about it. In all of our giving, and we will give much away. I would like to encourage you and remind you to give to Christ. I wonder have you ever had somebody ask you what do you want for Christmas? What would you like for Christmas this year? I've asked several kids around in the foyers in the hallways here as they come by, what do you want for Christmas? Some are like, I don't know. Others are like, oh I want this and this and this and they have their list. But I wonder if we would pause for a second and ask Jesus, what do you want for Christmas? What what what would Jesus say? I could give you a couple of things that I find in the scripture this morning and we'll be done. First of all, I want you to know that Jesus would like to have your love. In Mark 12, verse number 30, he says, And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first and great commandment. Jesus would love to have your love. That's what he desires of you. This love for him is an all-consuming love. He doesn't really leave much margin for error or for any love placed in any other place. I mean that list, love the Lord thy God. With all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength, there's really not much left. It's a love that's supposed to be committed and fully given to Christ How many of you ladies would really be happy with a mate who loves you a little bit, who loves you partially, who thought it was a good idea when it was convenient? I mean, no, we want somebody to be committed, to be, to have a love that's there, that love that is consistent, a love that is complete. And should Christ want any less from us? This love cannot and will not be broken if it's a love that's full and complete. Down through the ages, there have been many who have been martyred for their faith Tortured for their faith. In the face of great torture, their love for Christ was so strong it carried them through. Have you given him your love today? Do you know in giving to others? When we give to others in their hour of need, when we give to others in the name of Christ. That too is giving to God. Just like those that prepared and gave these gifts up here this morning to all these young people. It's giving to God. God said in Matthew 20, verse number 40, Matthew 25, 40, he says, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. So when we give, even in the spirit of Christ and in the name of God towards others, whether that be to the to the needy, to the poor, or whether that be uh to missions and and outreach of the world or that is uh m in each of those gifts it is too giving to God. We never know, even by an act of kindness, what difference it can make. One expression of love, one kind thought John said following his Christmas dinner, my family was relaxing around the kitchen table. We had enjoyed a traditional turkey, sweet potatoes, lightly glazed with brown sugar. Oh, that pumpkin pie topped with lots of whipped cream. The kitchen was full of those smells of Christmas that lingered in the air and My sister, who was our chef that year, was basking in the compliments of fabulous meal and oh I couldn't eat another bite. Yet many of us still picking away at the pumpkin pie. Oh, my little nephew, who never sat around too long, began dribbling his new basketball around the table. There in the kitchen. Upon nearing my father he stopped, almost uncertain what would happen. Was he in trouble? Dad's forehead began to wrinkle. He reached out for the ball, my nephew not sure what was happening. Turned it over. Dad grabbed the ball and bounced it once. And then With a mischievous smile on his face, tossed it across the kitchen to one of the waiting children. The waiting child tossed it back, and before long we had a game of catch going on there in the kitchen over the food. We were tossing the basketball with with cries of here, pass it to me, pass it to me. Back and forth the ball went The ball continued with much smile and glee on everyone's faces. Dad's active participation in this game was remarkable to me since he had advanced Alzheimer's. This dementia had robbed him of many of his memories, even the recognition. of the people whom he now played catch with. Despite this, Dad clearly recognized the ball and what it was you're supposed to do with it. In my younger years, playing with dad was something that was rare. To his credit, he worked hard and he provided well. But he was a very private person, never showed much emotion. His game of choice was chess, and one day he eventually taught me how to play and we did play chess together. As an adult, now the roles had changed and I had become a caregiver. I had watched his body helplessly. deteriorate. The times of connecting with father and son had grown few and far between. I'm not sure how long we played catch that day. Watching the clock was not important. Dad gleefully led us until he began to tire. What I do know is that our game ended all too soon. It was time for us to face the reality of dirty dishes and countertofts that needed cleaned and floors that needed mopped. But the memories of that moment will last forever. On this Christmas day, Dad gave me the most amazing memory. We don't know what small act of kindness, what small thing will impact or make a difference in somebody else's life. Giving can be more than just a giving of a gift or the handing out of something, but it can be an expression of love. It can be a care and compassionate hug. When you give this year, are you going to give to Christ? Give him your love as you love others. Give him your life. In Colossians 1. 18, we see the Bible tells us that in all things he might have the preeminence. Does he have the preeminence in your life? Have you yielded him your talents? Have you yielded him your skill? Have you yielded him your Life. I would ask you this morning, do you have saving faith? Yes, you know about Jesus Christ, and you know that He came and He died. You know that uh we of course worship uh and and And gather here this Christmas season what it's all about? Jesus came. You know that. There's no question or in your heart or mind about it. But I ask you, do you have saving faith? Has there been a day or time in your life Where you have been convicted of your sin. You know, only in the presence of conviction is one able to or longing for salvation. Because nobody cries out for salvation who does not feel the need to be saved. Nobody cries out for salvation who yet hasn't become real familiar with the fact that they need a Savior. Right. So that starts and begins with the point of conviction. Do you have conviction in your heart? Has there ever in your life a time, a place, been where you were overwhelmed with the conviction of sin? Of your transgression of God's law. Only in the presence of conviction are we calling for salvation. Otherwise, what are you saved from? What are you saved from if if yet you hadn't felt any conviction, you don't see any need for salvation? We're saved from our sin, from the penalty of sin. By Jesus Christ, gift to us. Have you ever been convicted? Have you ever confessed your sin Have you ever confessed to God? The Bible says in Romans 10, 10, For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Have you ever confessed, said Lord, I know I'm a sinner, and I need you to forgive me of my sin. It's heartfelt conviction and and belief and heartfelt expression of understanding and believing that Jesus came and he died for you so that you could be saved. Have you ever confessed that fact? You might know it It might be something that you haven't head knowledge of. There's a track back there in Iraq missed in heaven by 18 inches. You've got head knowledge, you know, about Jesus Christ and what he did, but you've never Got Jesus Christ to forgive you of your sins and possessed that forgiveness yourself personally. Do you have saving faith in Jesus Christ today? Maybe you trust Him today. Maybe you do have saving faith. Can I ask you, do you have serving faith? The Bible tells us to be doers of the Word, not hearers only. To be doers of the Word. Are you serving God with your life There's no greater joy, no more satisfaction, no more thrill than serving God and fulfilling His will in your life, accomplishing what He wants you to do, whatever that might be. You can live for self and at the end of your days you'll be that grumpy old man who's sitting on the porch yelling at everybody because you are not happy But when you live for the Savior, you've lived a full life and you almost feel like you're embarrassed because God's been so good to you, blessed you, and given you so much. Oh, I would much rather live that way. Is there something today that you need to give to God? Some time you need to surrender him, some talents you need to allow him to use for his honor and glory? Will you take any time for Christ this Christmas? He is the reason for the season. Oh, it makes the nice slogan. Well, we go about living our lives and doing what we want to do. But if he's the reason for the season, I wonder, are you giving to him? Then I think something that would make Jesus really happy this season is if you gave him to others. No. If you gave him to others. Beloved, the greatest gift that we can give is the message of Jesus Christ. We'll take time and and and prepare and wrap a gift and give it to somebody, maybe somebody at work That you barely know. You're doing a gift swap or something and you you barely know the person, but you went and you bought a gift and you wrapped it and you took it to work. You gave him a gift, but have you given them Jesus? You know, sometimes, especially young people, they feel like, you know, I want to buy this for mom and dad, but I just don't have enough money. I can't afford it. I it it's it's beyond I want to get them something really nice And and sometimes we want to buy something for somebody we love or care about, and it's something that's maybe beyond our means, and we just say, man, I wish I had money to buy that for them. Boy, I would love to buy that for them. You know the greatest gift that you can give is Jesus Christ. It is the most valuable gift that you can give, and the thing is, is everybody in here can give it. From the youngest to the oldest, Jesus Christ is not out of the reach of any of us, and we can share God's love this Christmas season and point people to Jesus Christ. And I think that's something that would make Jesus happy, is if we were giving him to others. You can give him to others by giving gospel tracts to the clerk at the at the store where you buy your gifts. You can give him to others and each gift that you wrap for somebody that doesn't know Jesus Christ, at least put the message of the gospel in there. At least write a note and say, I want to tell you about somebody who changed my life, Jesus Christ. And the greatest gift I can give you this season would be to tell you about Him. Give them to others. Give out invitations to church. Invite people to come to the Christmas cantata tonight Tell them, hey, there's a grape consider the kids are putting on. They put a lot of work into it. They're going to put it on this evening at 5 o'clock. Come and hear it. Because in it is a message of Jesus Christ. You can find ways to give him to others. It's something that we all can do. It's the most valuable gift we could give. I mean sometimes I see church family going through struggle and I I feel like man I wish we could just you know just Pay off their house. I wish we could just take care of this burden for them. I wish we could just take care of that. But you know that is very small in comparison to eternity. To the message of the church. Which is really what the church is for and why it exists, is to carry forth the message that Jesus Christ came and he was born of a virgin and Lived a sinless life and he died and gave himself so you could be forgiven of your sin. Are you going to give him to others this Christmas? It's something we all can do. You know, that's what it's really about. A lot of times we get consumed in tied up in the giving of gifts. But have you forgotten to give Christ? Have you forgotten to give to Christ? You know, I was shocked when I read that forty-one percent of Americans will assume debt to give gifts this Christmas. They're going to go into debt to give gifts. And I just couldn't help but wonder. I wonder how many are going to go into debt to give to God. I mean can you imagine a church asking you out of you? Oh my goodness. People would come unglued. People that would never even cross anybody's mind. It just wouldn't even enter their mind. Oh, I don't have anything to give to God, so I'm going to go take out a loan to give something to God. But they do it every single day to give to others. But in all things he's to have the preeminence. Now I do not recommend you and I would implore you do not go into debt for Christmas. Engage your brain. Realize that's gonna have to be paid. Yeah. I saw a uh thing this week. A guy said I have just solved the student loan crisis. First chart said you took out a loan. Second chart said pay it back. Student loan price fixed. There you go. You took out a loan, you gotta pay it back. You're gonna have to pay that sometime. Don't go into debt for that. But I mean just ponder and think about that idea that man we we don't think anything of oh yeah, I'll just throw this on a credit card even though I don't have the money in order to give somebody a gift, but what are we doing for God? Yeah, right. Paul. I want you to understand that the focus here is is not just giving gifts, but it's giving Christ. Norm and Debbie Canada ran a store in Charleston, West Virginia. It was a store that at Christmas time would stock their shelves with gifts for those who couldn't afford Christmas. Gifts that they could come in and shop for, but didn't have to pay for. There's only been one year in the last 11 years that Debbie could remember that she had to go out to that long line, stand on a chair. She said, I walked out there to that waiting area with tears in my eyes and stood on a chair to tell the hundreds of people that we no longer had any money to stock the shelves, that we could not provide for them Christmas But I said, there's one week till Christmas, and we'll ask God to provide. He did provide, and the next three days $27,000 came in to buy Christmas gifts for those who couldn't afford them. On Christmas Eve, gifts were coming in faster than they were going out. I literally prayed, God, please stop it. She said we were able to minister to those families even more effectively that year because although they were depending upon us for Christmas gifts, they saw that we were depending upon God to deliver them. Norm and Debbie served in an area that was ripe with gain activity, unemployment, poverty, drugs. But they had hope in God. Through their living of the principle that is more blessed to give than to receive, mothers came to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. People gained victory over their crack. addictions. Gang members who were hardened as steel softened and accepted the gospel. Local churches had people off the streets in their services every week because of this ministry. You see, this ministry was not one where they could just come in and pick and take whatever they want and walk out. There was an application process that started in November when families would come to the store. And apply to receive Christmas through the store. Then when they came back towards the end of December to get their gifts, they would walk through the shelves and pick what it was they wanted. After they had their gifts, they would take them to a counter and turn them over to a volunteer who would gladly wrap them for them. But while their gifts were being wrapped, they sat down with a counselor who would share with them the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And with their permission, each family was put together with a church in their area where the church would follow up in the coming weeks. Debbie said, if we just provided toys, we're just nice people. But we don't want to be just nice people. We want to be Jesus' people. Christmas is about sharing Christ, not just about giving a gift. So in all of your giving this season, could I implore you, encourage you? To give to Christ. Give him your love. Give him your life. There's no better life you could live than a life lived for Jesus Christ. And give him to others.