Yeah, well, I'll tell you, I had no idea what Pastor Derek was doing for Sunday school this morning. I could not have planned a more uh fit Sunday school lesson to kind of sister with the thought for this morning. Turn your Bibles if you would to Psalms chapter 90. Some familiar verses that we'll be looking at. Today in Psalms chapter ninety, verses nine through twelve. The Bible tells us in Psalms ninety, verses nine through twelve, are you there say amen? Amen. Alright, he says here, for all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years are three score years and ten, and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow, for it is soon cut off. And we fly away. We knoweth the power of thine anger. Even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom. On Friday afternoon, I sat with Dr. Paul Keller, a man who is uniquely gifted with the Ministry of Encouragement. He never expresses a negative thought, a negative sentiment, always looking at the positive. I sat with him for about an hour and a half He knows that he's not long for this world. He talked to me about the joys of living. He talked to me about the thrills that he was able to experience as he lived his life and walked with God through those days. He described for me his dear wife, who had long since gone home to be with the Lord, talked to me about their vacations they had. The sweet times and some of the challenging times. He spoke to me about his desire to be positive. He said, you know, there's so much negativity in the world. If there's a means or a way to be positive. Then why not do it? If there's a way of expressing something that needs said that can be said in a positive way, then try and do that. He also, in a time of open candor, talked to me about some things he regretted About opportunities he didn't take, about time that he wasted. What I'm saying is that Dr. Keller was pondering the path of his life The days that he lived. He's quite literally standing on the brink of the valley that stands between this life and the next. He's consciously aware of that fact. Standing at that threshold, he's pondering his life. Considering his days and thinking about what did he do with the treasure of time that God gave him? This morning for a few minutes, if you would allow me to, I want to speak to you on the treasure of time. The treasure of time that we have. It was just a few weeks ago that Brother Bob Ayler had the last conversation that he'll have with his dear wife, this side of glory. On December 4th, Ms. Janice laid her head down on our pillow here in their home over on Simona Road. And she lifted it up in heaven. They didn't have any idea that that would be the last night The last Saturday they would have to share together. One thing I've learned that can be helpful For those enduring the grief that grips the heart of someone who has experienced lost is to have a candle that you can light in honor of their passing. You have a candle that you have in your house and You light it, and every time you see that flame burn, you think about and remember the treasure that you had that God had given you in them. So this morning I have a candle here, Brother Bob, that Hunt Valley Baptist Church bought For you to put in your home. For you to know every time you see the candle, every time you light it and let it burn. You know your church family hasn't forgotten about Janice, that she is remembered But you see, he didn't know that his time was done. Eli would you take this up to Brother Bob, his sermon in the sound ministry? Could I talk to you for a few minutes today about the treasure of time? How quickly it passes Another dear saint of God that the Lord chose to take home earlier this year, whom we loved and cared for. Back in August. Judith Nazarenko passed away. Brother Brian didn't know that his 38 years was going to come to an end. The time that they had together, that treasure. was gonna be passed. Brother Brian, we want to give you a candle today to let you know that she's not forgotten. She's loved and cared for and remembered. But what I'm saying this morning, church family, is that we don't know come January twenty twenty-three Who that's part of our family might not be here. We don't know. There's certainly no way we could have anticipated or even begin to think that we'd be having a service like this today. That we We have heavy hearts having experienced this loss. I'm asking you today to ponder and think about the treasure of time that we have. The gift that has been given to us by God, the Bible tells us very clearly, so then ye walk circumspectfully. Not as fools, but as wise. He says, walk as somebody that has some wisdom. Somebody that's learned a thing or two about living this life. Somebody who's pondered the path and said, you know what? This days that we have, the hours that we have to live, they are a gift from God. They are to be treasured. And he says, redeem the time. Redeeming the time means to buy it back. Means don't let it get stolen. Don't let the time, the hours, the days that we have to live to be squandered and wasted away with lazy living. Amen? Don't let it be wasted and squandered and taken away by these devices. You have got valuable time, a treasure, a gift from God. You need to be focusing on that which is of utmost importance. that which is of most value, those things which are eternal weights. Don't let your time be stolen away and robbed with fifth liberal things Unmeaning things, meaningless activities that are that today are everywhere. I was shocked this morning in Sunday school. Pastor Derek said the average to last year had reached 13 hours a day. People are on their devices. Thirteen hours of the most valuable thing that they have in this world being wasted and squandered Oh, I know occasionally you watch something that's funny and it makes you laugh. Hey, merry hard too, it's good like a medicine. It's good to laugh I know occasionally you watch something educational and it might stir your thoughts and give you some meaningful insight. Probably a lot less rarely you watch something truly meaningful that impacts your life. But you and I know most of it's wasted. I'm trying to encourage you this morning to value that treasure of time that you've been given by God. What are you doing with your time? What are you doing with the days and the hours that God has gifted you? Are you maximizing them? Are you impacting this world? Are you utilizing the hours that you have to their fullest potential? Are you seizing the days for God and his glory? I have a paper in my files. On time. I got a file on my computer where I collect and stick things that have to do with time and the consumption of time and illustrations as I read something. I'll stick it in there and sometime down the road maybe God would use it. Well I opened that and looked at it in preparation for this and maybe you've seen something like this. There's been several different studies done, but Some university took time and calculated the amount of time the average person will spend doing such mundane things as sitting at a stoplight They say in the average life, we will spend six months of our life waiting for the light to turn green. If you take all the time, all the days in traffic, all the stoplights you ever set in your life, it calculates out to about six months sitting at a light. That's what you're doing with your time. You will spend two years unsuccessfully trying to return phone calls. Now there's a whole list of these things that that just meaningless things, time things that eat up the time, and and the volume of time that's spent is mind-boggling. I want to ask you this morning, what are you doing? We dare not squander away this precious commodity, this gift that God has given us. What are you going to do with your allotted years, months, weeks, or days? So we see here first of all in the text that we each have an amount of time. We have an amount of time and we don't necessarily know what it is, but he says here that our days pass away. In thy wrath, we spend our years as a tale that is told. You know, your tale is going to be told. It may be a short tale, it may be a long tail, it may be a funny tale, it may be a uh My mind just went. I I'm not looking for gruesome. That would not be good. Hopefully you don't have a gruesome tale. I was looking for the word the opposite of funny S that not just sad, there's a much more eloquent word that's in the tip of my mind, but oh well I don't know. It'll it'll maybe it'll come to me, but your tale, whatever it might be, it's gonna be told, and it's gonna pass. You know, the idea of a tale is that it just passes quickly. That is just told and then it's done. The standard for life is given to us here. You know, the early Old Testament describes men for us who lived hundreds and hundreds of years. Even as many as nine hundred and sixty-nine years. Uh Noah lived nine hundred and fifty years. Seth, about 910 years. There's many in early Old Testament before the flood that lived many, many years. If you get to talk to Dr. Keller about these things, he loves to expound on that. And as we sat together on Wednesday, he was talking to me and he says, Can you imagine Caleb Can you imagine somebody that came over on the Mayflower being your distant relative and still being alive today? Can you imagine? Maybe he's your your your great great great great great great great great great uh granddad, whatever I don't know how many greats there are, but see can you imagine looking up at him and and and climbing up in the the lap of your of your Great, great granddad and saying, Granddad, tell me what it was like coming over on the Mayflower Tell me what it was like that first winter. You know, they couldn't rewrite history if those folks were still around. They would describe it for you and explain it to you in first person. They live through it. But man, beloved, we don't have that privilege today. God in his divine wisdom determined around 3,000 years ago that the life of man was going to be about 70 years. And with all of the advancements of technology we have to today, the life of man is still average of about 70 years. We have seen a marginal increase in that. But he tells us if by reason of strength maybe 80 years. But there's not too many people that live be much beyond the 80 years. There are some. But that average, because it was designed by God for whatever reason to holds to true still today. We know that we're going to live somewhere between 70 to 80 years if we get to live an average life. Dr. Keller is in his 90s, has been blessed by God, and he's still with us We don't know how many years we have, but you know what? In the years that we have, we all have the same amount of time. We all have twenty-four hours in a day. Every day that we get to live is the same amount allotted to each of us. What are you doing with that time? The amount that you have. Are you going to squander it or waste it, or are you going to use it for God? Are you going to maximize it? Are you going to make it count? Are you going to let it be wasted away sleeping? Sleeping as Professor Derek was talking about in Sunday school today, just out of laziness, just spending your days, day after day after day, sleeping 10, 12, 14 hours. Ah teenage teenagers. I like it. Some of our teens here they work. They got jobs, amen. They gotta be at work. Praise God for that. That's a good thing But I wonder, is the video games that you invest so much time in, is that really What's important in life? That you get to that next area, that you open that next box, that you earn that next next skin. The time you invest in in those games is that hey games are fun. I'm not gonna say they're sinful. But how much time are you spending doing that? You see, beloved, we are told here as well that we're going to give an account of our time. He says in verse number 11, there, who knoweth the power of thine anger, even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. You know, it's an inescapable fact that we're going to give an account for our time. Not an account to mom and dad. Although mom and dad try and help you manage your time, not account to a relative or to the boss You're going to give an account to God for the time. The Bible says in Hebrews 9. 27, it's appointed unto man wants to die, and after this, the judgment The Bible is very clear that only a fool who has said in his heart there is no God would disregard the thought that he's going to have to give an account. Everybody else that has even a marginal understanding of what has been written on their heart by God Himself, that there is a God, there is something that created this world, something that we've got to give an account to. Whether you've had the privilege of the understanding of knowing him personally, whether you've come to the understanding of the truths that are shared in the Word of God or not It's written in the heart of man that we know there's some things we shouldn't do. There's some things we need to be doing. And when we transgress the law, we've got to give an account for that. There's a God in heaven, and one day we're going to give an account. We're going to give an account, beloved, for every idle word we speak. We're going to give an account for every hour of our life and how we've spent it. There's nothing wrong with relaxing. There's nothing wrong with resting. There's nothing wrong with enjoying some entertainment. But I can tell you, by and large, in our society today, we are way Way too heavy on the entertainment and relaxing. We're not doing enough with the time we have to make the most of our lives. To make an impact on this world, to make a difference in the lives of our loved ones, to build the right kind of relationship, the relationship that we wish we had, but we're not investing the time to see it come to pass. Are you prepared today to give an account when we close in a few minutes? Give you the opportunity. If you're not ready to give an account to God, you can come to an old-fashioned altar and make sure you are. If you don't know for sure that you would wake up in the arms of God, because you know Jesus is your Lord and Savior, you can come and we'll take a Bible and show you how you can know that. You can be prepared to meet God. If you are saved, I want to ask you, you know the Lord's your savior, you know what God wants you to do, are you doing what God wants with your time? That article I spoke of earlier describes the average life and says that we'll spend the average person will spend 20 years of their life sleeping. Take all your seventy years, twenty of it's gonna be in bed. For these teenagers, they're getting a head start. You know they're doing that because they heard when you when you get older you it's harder to sleep. You can't sleep as long. So they want to make sure they get their twenty years in, you know. You're going to spend, on average, 20 years working. On average, you'll spend about six years of your life eating food. You'll spend about seven years playing. You'll spend about five years of your life just getting dressed. What I'm saying is, have you considered your time? How much thought have you given to the time? As I describe those allotments, you think, man, that's a lot Whereas we say thirteen hours on the on a device or or intaking media, man, that's crazy. But do you know how much time you've spent Do you you know I don't have any cash on me today because I well I got my hundred dollars, you know, my emergency fund, I have that in my pocket. But do you, you know, we track our our cash Because we value it. Oh, I know, you know, if not with me, probably in my coat, I I've got two twenty dollar bills and a and a ten and some some water I had $320 and I I bought something, so I I know that's I mean I kinda I kinda know like oh I know I spent that and so this is what I have left on me. We track that because we value it. Can I ask you, are you tracking your time at all? Do you have any concept of where your time is going? The most valuable treasure you have is your time. I can earn another dollar, I can't earn another hour. Do you know where your time is going? Do you know where you're spending that most valuable treasure that you have? We're going to give an account to God. There's 168 hours in a week. Let's just talk about what what we as Christians typically or normally might do for God in our life I mean if you're really committed, let's let's just say we're all really committed, all of us watching, very committed to God. 168 hours in a week of those hundred and sixty-eight hours, let's say that you're at church for Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Thursday night. That's about six and a half hours of time. That's being generous. But you know what? Let's go ahead and give you the drive time and everything, both directions, and all that. Let's let's say that's about eight hours. Of your 168-hour week that you've spent with God. Let's say you're really spiritual and you spend about 30 minutes a day in earnest communion with God. That's about four hours of your life. every week if you spend that time with God. Let's say you're above and beyond and You invest extra time in ministry, whether that's cleaning the church or whether you invest time uh coming to work party or uh you go out soul winning during the week. or the ministering to other people. So let's let's say about four hours a week you invest in ministering to other people. If you do all of those things, that's 16 hours a week. That 16 hours a week, if you know how to do math, that's right at right at 10%. If you do all of that, that is about 10% of our time And I don't know. I'm just I just think that might be a good place to start. A good place to start for what we're doing for God, for what we're doing with our time. What are you doing with your time? How much time do you spend on entertainment as opposed to how much time you spend in treating God? How much time do you spend? I mean we spend forty, fifty, sixty hours a week working a job It's necessary. You gotta do that. I'm not I'm not saying you shouldn't, but I'm just saying what are we doing with the rest of the time? Are you actually talking to your family? Are you so consumed with your own life you're not spending any time with them? I'm just trying to get you to think, Christian, what are you doing? With the time God's given you. The Bible tells us my light verse is seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. We know it and we say it. But if we could actually take your week and and really track the time Would that time tell us that you're seeking God first? Or would that time tell us you're seeking Hollywood first? You're you're seeking blizzard first. I don't know, who makes C O D? Huh? EA. EA. W would you would your time tell us you're seeking EA first? I'm just trying to get you to think. I don't know what you do with your time. Don't get mad at me this morning. You see, this is the most valuable treasure we have. And we don't know how long or how many days or how many hours we got. Beloved, I sat with Dr. Keller and he's expressing to me the joy and the love and the things that he got to do and he looked at me and he said, But Pastor Caleb. I regret. I regret this. And I sat there and thought, I'm given being given a unique opportunity here At about half the age of the man I'm talking to right now. I've got some time left. And one day I'll be where he's at. What will be my regrets? What will I look back and say, oh, I wish I wouldn't have wasted this time and done that? I wish I would have taken time to do this because this is important. This is what mattered. This is what makes a difference. This is what now that I'm on the brink of going to the valley of the shadow of death I see clearly what is of utmost importance and where I should have been spending my time. And I wish I could have, or I could go back and change that. But beloved, we today can change it We can change it. This is what verse number twelve is teaching us to do Where we have the application of our time. He says, so teach us to number our days. He's saying, listen, calculate it out, think about it, ponder your days, make a plan, do something worth living for. Apply your hearts unto wisdom. Not many people, beloved, know exactly how many days they have left. How many years they have left. The children of Israel knew that they had about 40 years. Regardless of how long people used to live, those children of Israel, when they reached that point in the desert, the Lord said, Listen, you're going to wander in the wilderness for 40 years. And by the way, It's gonna be this generation is gonna die off. Only the next generation is going in. Pretty much all of them had a clock. They knew they had 40 years left at maximum. If you remember, Hezekiah knew that he had 15 years left. He was going to die, and he prayed, and he said, God, could I have some more time? And by God's grace and his gift, he gave him 15 more years. He knew he had 15 years, but most of us don't know how much time we have left. Beloved, we count our money We count the things we value, but you know we maybe even we may even count how many days we have until vacation You hear the world talk about, you know, hey, it's only one day till Friday, looking towards the weekend all the time, counting those days, looking towards that. But too few number their days. In nineteen twelve on a cold night in the Atlantic there was a countdown When that mighty ship, the Titanic, went into the iceberg and plunged into the icy depths. carrying its passengers to a watery grave. Many of those passengers on that ship that that night Passed off into eternity, had spent the previous days drinking, partying Living it up with no concept of what time was left. What are we doing with the time that's left? One writer said, our planet is but a large Titanic carrying its huge passenger list to the chill of a cold grave At some point, we know we'll all be there. What are you doing with the time you have? With this treasure, the gift that God has given you. As we conclude this morning, I want to ask the pianist to come and prepare for the invitation. And as she does, I want to share with you some wisdom from an old saint. Tom was a ham operator. He loves spending time on the ham radio and One particular Saturday morning, an older gentleman dialed in and talked to him. He said, Hey Tom, let me tell you something. Something that's helped me keep a good perspective. Something that's helped me maintain the priorities that I should have for my life. You see, I sat down one day and I did a little arithmetic. I sat down and I thought about the fact that the average person lives about 75 years. And I know some live a little longer and some a little less, but average is about 75 years. And I thought, well, if I live an average life, 75 years, it's Say 75 times 52 is 3900. That means I have 3900 weeks In the entirety of someone's life to live. I've got 3,900 Mondays and 3,900 Fridays and 3,900 Saturdays that I can live and make the most of. He said, but Tom, you realize that I was 53 years old when I reached a point in my life where I had the wisdom to ponder things of this nature with such clarity and such depth. So as I thought about my own life, I realized that if at the beginning I had 3,900 Saturdays currently I had already spent well over 2,800 of my days. So I only had about a thousand days left About a thousand Saturdays left to live, and I went out to the toy store, Tom. Actually, I had to go to three toy stores to get a thousand marbles. I bought a thousand marbles and put them in a jar. I put them on my workbench right next to all my gear so that every Saturday when I went out To the shop, I would see that jar. Every Saturday morning, the very first thing I did, Tom, is I reached in and I grabbed one of those marbles and I took it and threw it away. You understand, Tom, that gave me perspective. When you visually are able to see Your life passing away, your life diminishing, the time you have remaining, getting smaller, it helps you focus, Tom. And it's helped me over these years. Stay with me, Tom, because I'm getting to the important part. He says, I want to tell you one more thing before I sign off. He said, this morning, I took the last marble out. I took the last marble out. So Tom, I figure if I make it to next Saturday, I've been blessed. I've been blessed. So before I sign off and go take my lovely wife to a wonderful breakfast. Tom, I want to ask you, what are you doing today? Goodbye. Tom said you could have heard a pin drop as those airwaves went silent He sat there thinking for a moment and pondering all that was said. He said, you know, I had planned to work on the antenna a little bit that day. I actually had planned after that to go get some ham operator friends of mine, and we were gonna sit down and and we were gonna put some work into next week's uh update and and club membership newsletter that we were going to send out. But instead, I went upstairs and I woke my wife up with a kiss. She looked at me with a smile and said, oh, what brought this on? He said, honey, would you get the kids? Why don't we go to breakfast? He says, we went to breakfast that day, and as we got into the car, I looked at my wife and I said, Hey, you mind if we go to the toy store? I need to pick up some marbles. Last night I spent sixty dollars on M Ms. Because I believe it is that important that you and I get a picture of the days of our lives, the time that we have. I put thirty nine hundred M Ms in here. But see for me Two thousand four hundred and forty four of these have already been spent. They're gone. I can't do anything about them. I can't maximize any of that time. I can't do anything else meaningful. Can't make an impact on anybody's life. Can't invest time with my kids Can't spend time with my wife, those days are all gone. For me, this is what I have left. One thousand four hundred and fifty six Sundays. One thousand four hundred and fifty six Mondays. I don't know where you're at. I don't know how many of those you have left. But I asked you this morning, what are you doing with the most valuable treasure? You have your time