Well turn your Bibles to First Thessalonians. First Thessalonians chapter number two in the New Testament there. It's Father's Day. I always enjoy preaching to men. I don't know if it's the stage of life I'm in, or if it's just the fact that I find it easy to relate to men, uh but studying that topic, really looking at what it means to be a man and and And not the world's mentality or the world's philosophy, but what does the Bible say about being a man? What what does it mean to lead, to lead and to love your wife like you should and to train up your children like they should? That topic as a whole I just really enjoy. I always have, even before I was a father, before uh I was married, I took all the family classes I could take. I went and sat in the classes and learned all I could about being a dad and about being a husband and how to do this correctly and uh you know even all that learning and I still have a long way to go because uh We've never arrived, amen. We've got uh stuff areas that we can improve. But this is Father's Day. You know, our impression of our Father's wisdom changes over time. When you're very young, it's one aspect and as you get older it it kind of changes and and uh there's an ebb and flow to it and somebody put it down like this. At four years old we think my dad can do anything At seven-year-old, we think my dad knows a whole lot. At ten years old, we think my father doesn't know quite everything. At 12 years old, we think, oh, well, surely dad doesn't know this. At 15, we think dad's just old-fashioned and doesn't know much. At 20, we think Dad sure is out of date. At 25, we think he knows a little bit about stuff, but probably not that much. At 30, we think, I've got to find out what dad thinks about this. At 35, we think, before we decide on this, I'm going to call dad. At 50, we think, I wonder what dad would have thought about this. At 60, we think, man, my dad literally knew everything And as 65 we think, boy, I wish I could talk to my dad about this. The progression of time and how our mind changes of our father's influence in our lives. The parental influence that parents have on their children is immeasurable. The impact, uh, how much of an influence it's it's amazing uh obviously your children look like you. Uh uh they will begin to act like you. They talk like you, they express themselves the way that you do. Uh how they deal with people, how they interact. It's it's It's it's very evident what family they came from. Uh one study talked about how our participation in church and And the influence that it has on our children. If neither parent attends church regularly, it is found that only about 6% of children will attend church regularly But if just mom attends church regularly, about 15% of children will attend church regularly. If just dad attends church regularly, about 55% of children will attend church regularly. If both parents attend church regularly, 72% of children will attend church regularly. It takes both mom and dad. It's an effort that never goes away, a struggle that is always on us as parents, as fathers, to be what we should be and to raise and train our children up in the nurture and admonition In our text this morning, 1 Thessalonians chapter number 2, verses 11 through 13, I want to read, and we have for us here a picture given. A portrait of what a father should be. Actually, a very simple three-point outline is given to us right in the text. We want to see that this morning as I preach a message entitled The Frame of a Father. That picture, that portrait That's given to us. In First Thessalonians, it's in verse number 11. You see, here he says, As ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father. doth his children, that ye would walk worthy of God who hath called you into his kingdom and glory. For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when ye received the word of God, which ye heard of us, ye received Received it not as the word of men, but as in truth the word of God which effectually worketh also in you that believe Let's pray. Lord, we come to you now. We ask you, God, that you would give me liberty to preach, clarity of thoughts, Lord, that you would allow the message from your word to speak to the hearts of your people. I pray, God, they would be encouraged and challenged. That we'd be motivated this morning, that we would have been glad as we depart that we came into the house of the Lord. Lord, be with each and every person listening, whether it's at home. Through the medium of the internet or in person here today, I pray God you'd speak to our hearts. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. The Apostle Paul here is using a contrast, or I should say, a likeness, to describe a father. And it's something that should be evident. He basically is saying Listen, just like a father would. When we were with you, we acted, we ministered to you, just as a father would And he gave them some characteristics of a father that would be readily known, that would be easily recognizable. Like if I said uh about the some of the boys, I said, boy, they uh smell like a pig. I mean you immediately understand what we're talking about. If we uh said, oh, she was dressed like a queen There there's an image that's put into your mind. There's a an expectation if you say, boy, he he ran like a cheetah. The description is given there, a likeness. And David, I mean, Paul was talking to the church there, and he says, Hey, when we were with you, we ministered to you as a father. And he gave these characteristics of what a father was. But they were characteristics that were well known. They were things that the church would have said, Oh yeah, that's what a father is. Very obviously that's what a father is. He gave that likeness because it's something that they would understand. I want you to see these three things this morning. I wouldn't don't expect us to be here very long, but he says here, first of all. Exhort. As you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father. Exhorted. This word exhorted, actually, all three of these words have a slightly different meaning than we might initially think in our mind with our current mindset, our current knowledge of the term here, but actually in the Greek. This word, exhorted, means to call near, to invite alongside. To call near or to invite alongside. You know, a father should want to be with his children. A characteristic of a father is one that calls near. Jesus said, suffer the little children to come unto me. He wanted the children to be with him, and a father should desire and want to be with his children. He should desire to want to spend time with them, to call them near, to to have them close to him as often and as much as possible. The sad situation in what many homes in America today is that the kids are so out of control That the last thing dad wants is to spend more time with them. Let me just say the reason that they're out of control is your fault. You trained them. I don't understand why so many homes expect more out of their dog than they do their children. Do you think your children are dumber than your dog? Listen, I know I'm being pretty straightforward, but you can relax. It's gonna get more comfortable in a minute. You you expect when you tell your dog to sit, that the dog would sit. But you can't get your five-year-old to sit down. Hey, it's time to sit down and have a meal. Is your expectation of your child less than your pet? It shouldn't be You can train, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he's old, he will not depart from it. You can train your child. There's not enough effort being put into training, and that's why it's such a labor to spend time with your children It ought to be fun. It ought to be a joyous time. You ought to look forward to having them with you. And if you invest some time in training, you can Now that wasn't in my notes. That was free. You want to call your kids alongside you. Dad, you ought to want to be with them. You ought to say, hey, I'm going to the store. Do you want to go? Instead of looking as an opportunity to go to the store, as an opportunity to get away from them for a little while. You ought to call them alongside. You ought to want to spend time with them. You ought to look for the opportunity to be near them. Dad, you ought to have the kind of personality, the kind of spirit about you that your kids want to be with you. That means you can't be grumpy all the time. That means you have to be approachable I know you're carrying the weight of the world on your shoulders. And I know that there's burdens that you have as a father And I know life gets in the way, and there's all kinds of things that you have to do, and to get down on the floor and to play with your son or your daughter is not the foremost thing in your mind. But it's necessary. You've got to take the time to do that. Don't let life get in the way of you being with your children. Because life will pass fast. You think today, oh, I don't have the time, or I don't feel like getting down and playing with them today. I understand. You say, oh, I don't feel like going out and playing basketball today. It's hot outside. I understand. But what happens is one day of not feeling like it turns into two and two into two 10 and 10 into a year and a year into three years, and before you know it, they're teenagers, they're adults, and they're out of your house. They're gone. A characteristic of the father is one that wants to be with his children. He tries to spend time with them. He invests time in spending with them. One of the reasons you don't have much influence with your child when they're 13, 15, or 17. is because you didn't get down on the ground and play with them when they were three, five, and seven. Dad, you've got to spend time with your children. Any of you that have children online and here, if you have boys, you ought To make it a priority to be at the Men and Boys Campout. Where else can you get two days full of activities and five meals? For fifty bucks. Where else can you get that? It's an event that is planned and designed specifically for you as a parent to spend time with your son. And you miss it. You just don't come. I don't understand. Aren't your kids worth it? It's an opportunity for you to spend time with your children. Now listen, one of the hard things for me at Minute Boys Camp Out is that I'm not there to spend time with my kids. The same with Pastor Derek. Pastor Derek and I are there for you. We're there to Make sure the camp happens so that everything's in place, so that the food is prepared when it's supposed to be and served when it's supposed to be, and the next activity is ready to go and and all the activity is cleaned up and put away and and then the next activity is ready to go. All of that we're doing in the background. At Men and Boys Camp Out, I don't see my boys much. But we're doing that for you. And I've got to take time, some other time to spend with my voice. But let me encourage you, you missed it this year, you missed it. But you need to mark it down on your calendar, the first or second week of June, every year. Two days, even if you can only come Friday into Saturday, but spent come to Men and Boys Campout. Be a part, take advantage of that opportunity for you to be with your kids. Listen kids, your dad wants to spend time with you. If you would show a little bit of interest in your dad. If your dad asks, hey, you want to go to the store with me? And you go, No. If your dad says, Hey you want to go get some ice cream with me? And you say, I don't care You don't know what that does to your dad's heart. If you would show some interest in your dad That you're you wanted to be with your dad, your dad would show interest in you. You know, sometimes in a family with several children, one of their kids kids it l let's say so I'm not using my own kids. Let's say uh the glover asked Olivia, hey Olivia, you wanna Run down and get a bite to eat with me? She's like, no. Ugh. You think Brother Glover's gonna ask her again? But then he asked Olivia and Olivia's like, Yeah, yeah, well we where where are we gonna go eat? Where are we gonna alright let's go let's go are we leaving right now? Next time he's gonna go do that, who do you think he's gonna ask? He's gonna ask he's gonna ask Melanie. I said Olivia again today. You guys know what I meant. He's gonna ask Melanie. Right? And then what happens? Now I am talking about Olivia. Then Olivia starts to feel like dad's playing favorites. Dad wants to spend more time with her than dad wants to spend with me. No, he doesn't. Melanie wants to spend more time with dad than Elizabeth. Olivia does. That's the difference. Sometimes, kids, you're putting the responsibility for those things on your parents when it's your own fault When it's your heart that has cultivated that and brought that about. Your dad's not gonna, I mean he could force you. He could say, let's go to the store. And you're you're grumpy and miserable the whole time. You think Dad wants to do that? No. He wants to be with you, he wants to spend time with you. But you You have to want it. You have to show that you desire it. Now, Dad, you need to fight for time with your kids. Fight for time with your kids. Life gets in the way. And especially the older they get, they start all having jobs, they all have responsibilities, they're doing band and they're doing, you know, music practice and their ministries at church and and activities in the community and they've got all these other things going on, you've got to fight for time with your kids. You can't just say, oh, they're busy, so they're fine. This exhort literally means to call near, to invite alongside. Are you inviting your kids alongside you? Are you bringing them with you places? Are you trying to spend time with them? There was a six-year-old girl who had a little dog named Laddie. This girl's father was extremely busy and didn't have much time to spend with. her and so Laddie was her sole friend. Laddie was would go everywhere with her and she played with Laddie all the time. She told Laddie all of her stories and they would sit in the backyard and play for hours and hours and hours. Laddie was her friend. And everywhere she went, Laddie was there. Well, one day when she was at school, Laddie was struck by a truck and killed. Mom was dreading happening to tell her daughter, knowing how crushed she would be about having lost her best friend in the world. When she came home from school, mom sat her down and very seriously looked at her and said, Honey, I have some terrible, terrible news for you. I'm very sorry. But Laddie was killed today. Not going to be here anymore. And mom was shocked, surprised that there wasn't tears and More emotion. The little girl said, okay. And she got up and went outside to play. Mom thought, wow, she took that well. But the little girl was outside playing and after a little while mom heard her saying, Laddie, Laddie, Laddie, where are you, Laddie? And mom thought, oh no. She walked outside and she said, come here. She called her over and she said, Honey, I told you. Laddie passed away. Laddie's not coming back. She's not going to be here. And then the tears started to fall and come down her face. The emotion took over, and she looked up and she said Said mommy. I thought you said daddy. Not laddie. You see, Dad, even though you're working your fingers to the bone to bring home money, to put a roof over your kid's head, Even though you're working yourself to the bone to put food on the table, your child doesn't see that as love. It is love, but he doesn't see that as love. You've got to spend time with them. She was far more attached to her dog than she was to her own father because her father didn't have time for her. Dad, are you calling them alongside? Are you making yourself a available are you doing all you can just to be with them finding a time find a way to call them alongside bring them with you invest in their life. Just like a father should. Not only that, he comforted. As you know how we exhorted and comforted, he said. This comforted here means to relate near. Means to encourage. Means to encourage. A father needs to encourage his children. When was the last time Dad you looked at one of your kids in the eye and said, I'm proud of you? You know what? Even if your kids are out of the house, there's lots of you here that have older children Listen, the last time my dad was here when he dropped off Elisi on the ensemble, you know, during that trip, dad's paused and he said, Son, I just want you to know I'm proud of you. I'm proud of how God's using you and what you're able to do here, and you keep it up. That means a lot to me. I value that. Even your older children they they still even if they act like they don't care they value your opinion they value what you say You say I'm proud of you. You know, parent, one maybe one of the reasons, Dad, why your son or daughter don't work to try and please you Is because they feel like they can't please you. They feel like no matter what they do, they can't make you happy And so why try? Yet if you would make a purpose, a point to encourage them. To support them, to say, hey, good job. Good job. Man, I'm proud of you. You did great on that. Boy, you're awesome. Look at how well you did there. Man, you're crushing it Like my daughter Alicia says or Melissa says all the time, Melissa says that, I'm crushing it. Say, hey, you're crushing it. You're doing it. it hitting it out of the park. You know what kind of encouragement that is for them? Listen, call call this this Relate near, encouraging them. You know, you ought to spend some time with them and teach them how to do some stuff. Relate to them how to how how to do it. We had a uh father and his two boys at the Minute Boys camp out, and he came up and he played softball, by the way. my team one, just throw that out there. Um we were we were playing softball. And um this father, he was very good. He had a double play. I mean it was awesome. Awesome double play. He got. He had skill. And we were talking to him. He's like, yeah, he's like, I used to play on a team. I played for a long time, but I have not played in probably fifteen years. And he's said man he's like uh I need to get a bat and some gloves and play ball with my boys because his boys were very active, his boys were very athletic, they were outside a lot, they played outside the whole time as campout. Um, but they hadn't ever played softball. They hadn't ever swung a bat. And he this dad said, Man, I need to teach him how to swing a bat. I need to spend some time with them and show this. Dad, are you encouraging your kids? Are you showing them how to do stuff? Are you bringing them near and saying, hey, let's do this together? Let me help you with this. Let me help you with that. Let me show you how to get this done. Let's do this together. This idea of relating near also is the idea of empathy. Relating to. Not just sympathy, not just feeling bad for, but empathy, actually being able to understand, being able to relate. Have you stopped to think about the challenges that your children are facing? Now I know your kids think that you were raised in the ice age, that you are 150 years old and there's no way you can relate to life today. But you and I know that it wasn't that long ago. So what I'm saying is as a parent did you engage your mind a little bit and think about what it was like for you when you were their age. The challenges that they're facing? Do you remember, Dad, when you couldn't go to sleep at night? Because your heart was being torn out of your chest, because there was a young lady That you felt meant the world to you? And there was nobody else possibly in the world that would ever mean so much You remember that pain? You got boys, they're gonna feel that pain someday. You've got to put yourself in their shoes. You've got to relate to what they're going through. Do you remember the temptations that you had as a young man? Do you remember the temptations that you faced? You've got to relate and understand and see what it is they're facing, the challenges that they're dealing with, and try to encourage them and help them. Might be good to stop being such a hard nose and stop for a minute and think about what they're going through. Can I take just a minute and talk to you about your Heavenly Father? How many of you here grew up in a home without a father? You're you didn't have a father in your home? couple here. It's more and more prevalent today. Do you know we have a heavenly father that read Relates near. We have a Heavenly Father that understands and knows what we're going through. As a child of God, you were chosen and adopted into the family of God. Chosen and adopted. Somebody said, well, God wouldn't send any of his children to hell. You're right. God doesn't send any of his children to hell Children to hell. But not all people on earth are God's children. There is this mindset: oh, we're all God's children, but that's not what the Bible says. The Bible doesn't say, oh, we're all God's children. The Bible says that, and ye are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father ye will do. You see, we are all born sinners. And we fulfill and do the lust of our Father, that sin nature. There has to be a time, a day, an hour where you became a child of God. And God loved you so much he sent his only begotten son to die for you so that you could become a child of God. But there has to be that transaction that that has to take place at some point in your life. It's not just, oh, we're all the children of God. No, God said, but as many as received him, to them gave he power to become. The sons of God. If you receive Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross, you can become a child of God. And you're right, God doesn't send any of his children to hell. One of the greatest rewards of being forgiven by Jesus Christ and trusting him as your Lord and Savior is that you don't have to go to hell, you get To go to heaven. You're forgiven. But there has to be a day or hour when you acknowledge that and realize it and you became a child of God. We're not just all the children of God. I hope every one of you here this morning know your Heavenly Father personally. And you know there was a day or an hour, a time when you became a child. Of God, when you were adopted into the family of God by accepting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. And your heavenly Father was tempted In all points, like as we are. And he relates near, and he has sent us the comforter to encourage us. And Dad, we are to be the encourager. of our children. Not only that, we see that here he was charged. He says, as ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged. Every one of you. Charge. That's to be a witness, to testify, or to give evidence. It was common knowledge that a father was going to be an example to his children. The apostle Paul said, When I was with you, I did these things. I acted this way, just like a father would. I comforted you, I exhorted you, and I charged you. And what he was saying there, he says, I was. an example to you. I was a testimony to you. What I did, you can do. Dad, what kind of an example are you to your children? You know, your boys are learning how to be men from you. You know, your daughters are learning what kind of a man to marry. From you. You need to teach your kids what you believe and why you believe it. Then you need to live what you believe before them. Because a lot more is caught than taught. They're going to do what you do. They're going to act like you act. They're going to say the things that you say. Teach them about honesty and morality and integrity. About loving your wife as Christ loved the church. Teach them how to lead your family. Teach them how to be a dad. One of the biggest problems is a lot of fathers today are just being a father like their father was. And somehow they use that as an excuse. Well, my dad never showed any love, so I'm not I don't know how to show love. Well, learn. Learn how to show love. Well, my dad was mean as a junkyard dog. And I'm not as bad as him, but you don't have to be like your father was. A lot of times we do what our father did because that's what we learned. And listen, this point is that your children are very likely going to do what you do. So you need to be the right kind of father. You need to be the right kind of man. You need to be an example. Dad, if your children did what you do, how would they be? Your children acted the way you act, talked the way you talk, did everything that you do. Would you be proud of them? Or would you be ashamed of them? We are supposed to be an example, an example that they can follow. R. G. Lee tells a story about a young man who was stricken with diphtheria. He was placed in isolation when his family came to see him wearing mask all of their personal protection on. He said, Dan, uh mom, why are you dressed that way? And he said, Well, son, you're you're very, very sick. And We need to protect you and we need to protect others, so we've got to wear this. And the son looked at his dad and said, Daddy, am I going to die? Go ahead. This man having always taught his son never to lie, he looked at his son and he said, Son, that's what the doctors say. The doctors say there's not much they can do, and yes, you're gonna die. Everyone in the room just stood there silently for a period of time and The dad just thought. He's like, you know, I'm just gonna ask him, and he looked down in the eyes of his son, and he said, Son, are you afraid? The boy reached for his dad's hand and he said, Dad, if God's like you, I'm not afraid. If God's like you, I'm not afraid What kind of an example are you setting, Father, for your children? Are you like God? Are your children seeing Christ in you? Are you the kind of example that they could follow? Listen, kids. Your dad's not perfect. Only Jesus is perfect. Don't use some shortcoming that you see in your father's life as an excuse for you to not be what you should be. Because when you stand before God, God's not going to look down at you and say, how was your dad? You're going to give an account of the things done in your body personally. And you're not going to be able to look up at God and say, Well, my dad. Nope. Can't use that excuse with God. The young people don't use. Listen, your dad's not perfect. Any man worth his soul would be willing to admit he's he's far from perfect. God's still working on each and every one of us We've got areas that we need to and want to improve, but children don't use an excuse to not be what God wants you to be. Just see one more point here. He says there I exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you. Dad, you gotta keep up, keep up. Keep on keeping on. Every one of them. Not just the first one. You know that first one when you're energetic and you're young, you got energy and you're raising that first one But all of them. You gotta keep it up. Keep up the discipline, keep up the training, keep up the exhorting, keep up the comforting, keep up the encouraging, keep doing it to every one of them. to every one of them till they get all the way through. There is a pattern that I know every one of you know happens in many homes. That first kid, man, we tow the line with them. We like Shut it down, right? And the last kid gets to get away with murder. Because mom and dad are tired. And they're wore out and they don't have any more energy. And so the last kid just gets it. My kids are up here saying, Yeah, that's what happens to Caleb. Cale gets away with murder. Listen parents, we need to keep it up with all of them. All the way through. Keep keep on doing what's right. As you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father doth his children. What kind of a father are you?