Very real enemy. Uh many Christians illustrated by their lives that they do not really believe, they don't really believe that Satan exists. And the Bible is clear. Evidence is abundant that Satan is actively tempting, accusing, murdering, and deceiving believers are under constant attack. by Satan and his fallen angels. That's the fact of the matter. Believers are under constant attack. And that's something we need to be aware of and and realize that Satan is the accuser of the brethren He is the enemy and uh he is uh constantly attacking the believer. It's it's there. It's it's We we wrestle not against flesh and blood, and this is a warfare that we've got to in our hearts and minds not just be aware of the fact that it's there, but the Bible calls us to be sober, to be vigilant. And uh so we need to be uh vigilant in this matter of knowing the, you know, we're not supposed to be ignorant of his devices, the Bible says. And that's what this lesson is about, is to kind of just remind us of that truth, that Satan is a real adversary that affects the believer. The New York Times reported a study uh about the diminishing belief of in the devil among Americans. Two-thirds of Americans do not believe that the devil is an actual living entity In a randomly selected survey, pollsters were asked whether they agreed that Satan was not a living being or simply a symbol of evil. 62% agreed with the statement that he was simply a symbol, but not a actual person. And that 62%, and I wonder how many of those 62% If they were asked the secondary question, are you a Christian? If even by their own testimony they would say they are a Christian, they're a believer in God, Yet they would say that Satan is just a uh figment of somebody's imagination or a uh a symbol of evil things but not really an evil person that's there literally out uh working to undermine the work of Christ and to stop the Christian from being successful in his Christian life. And so what I'm saying is there's this is very real and by the standards of that survey There's a large majority of Christians that don't really believe that it's real. They're not prepared to fight the devil if they don't even think that the devil is actively working against them. And but he is. Satan is the accuser of the brethren. The scriptures teach us very clearly, uh, well, we see a list of things here, different things that are places in the Bible uh where Satan attacked or did something specific like when he deceived Eve or when he provoked David, when uh he resisted Joshua the priest, uh when he attacked Job, when he hindered Paul. We see those different things, and we're going to be talking about some of those as we go down through the lesson today. But the scripture teaches us that there are fallen wicked spirits, wicked spirits. So it's not just Satan is not omnipresent like God, like Jesus Christ. He can't be in all places at once. So if Satan is involved in directly with a particular thing, he cannot be everywhere at one time. But he has many legions of demons and people that actually do his bidding. and that work with him to accomplish you know, we see uh the maniac of Gadaria, which we're gonna talk about a little bit, uh, where he was possessed with demons. Uh we know uh the boy that was afflicted with demons and and uh it was a legion of demons that when when christ pulled them out and cast them into the swine The swine ran off and and into the ocean and killed themselves. Uh, you know, these these legions, there's there's many, many spirits that are out there that are at Satan's command and control The Bible teaches that these wicked spirits are active in the world today. You can write 1 Thessalonians 2 verse 18 next to that. 1 Thessalonians 2. 18 says, Wherefore we would have you we would have come unto you, even I Paul, once and again, but Satan hindered us. So Paul said, hey, we were ready to come unto you, we were ready to travel to you, but Satan hindered us. Satan made it so it wasn't possible, and Satan does that through many different means. But Satan hindered, was able to hinder Paul from accomplishing what he really felt God wanted him to go to do to minister to this group of people. And so Satan hindered Paul. And we we see that and but in our own lives we think, well, it's not Satan. or that Satan is not the one that's causing these these problems. And so we see that he they're active in the world today. Christians must recognize their presence. We must recognize their presence, realize that they're there and acknowledge it and be ready to to guard against it. We must actively guard against their influence in our lives. And by knowing the truth, by having on the armor By being ready to battle with the sword and the spirit, you know, and we're going to get into these things, but we need to guard against their influence. The Bible states that Satan is a liar And a deceiver. A liar and a deceiver. Put John 8. 44 next to that. That's a familiar verse. But you know that's where he says, ye are of your father the devil, and he says that uh you know he is a liar And the father of it. That's John 8. 44. So he's a liar and the father of it. So the Bible teaches us and tells us that Satan is a liar and a deceiver. Um Satan can appear as an angel of light. Second Corinthians eleven fourteen. Second Corinthians eleven fourteen. And put that next to that one there. It says, and no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Okay, so the misconception that uh we have with the with the cartoon image we have of Satan Uh I remember one time when we were kids, uh, we had a vacation in Bible school, and uh I don't remember all the details because I was pretty young, but uh I know somebody in the church got mad at my dad because he had a uh he had a a character dressed up like Satan. And all week these two characters would do battle and so he had a character dressed up like Christ and he had a character dressed up like Satan and Each day there would be some battle and of course Christ would be victorious over s over Satan. Um but I remember somebody in the church got upset at Dad because he had this little guy in a devil's costume running around, you know, and he had a tail and the whole like like you see in cartoons, you know, how how Satan would look. And uh he just ordered it on well, I guess not online. That was a lot of years ago. He would have ordered it from someplace, who knows where. Uh it was not online. That would have been probably in the early eighties uh when that would have happened. But what I'm saying is that that image of this cartoon Satan is an angel of light. He is subtle. He is deceptive. He's not going to appear to you as a man in a red suit with a pitchfork. And say, come follow me, come follow me. You know, no. He's going to appear as an angel of light. He's going to appear as something that's good. He's going to he's going he is subtle. He is uh a a trickster And he is going to attack the believer. So the Bible tells us that we are warned, Christians are warned, to be sober and diligent. I'm not sure why that word says diligent there. First Peter 5. 8 says be sober, be what? Vigilant. Yeah, vigilant. So I'm not that might be a typo there, but uh uh the Bible says vigilant. Conscious of the fact that Satan is our adversary, uh, and listen, Satan is an equal opportunity adversary. He's not particular. He's going to go after any any one of us. And uh the the more you're striving to do for God, the more you become a target of Satan. If you are saved and and content to just sit in a pew for a few minutes one day a week and not impact anybody else and not spend any time in God's Word and and And uh, you know, you you just just gonna kind of set on the margins? Well, see he's not too worried about what you're gonna do to impact his realm. But if you're telling people about Jesus Christ and you're daily in the Word of God and you you've got the the sword that's ready in your heart and mind and you you become an adversary. doesn't want you to succeed. And uh so he's gonna try and stop you. Um And he's going to go after any of us. Satan perverts the scriptures. He takes the scriptures and he'll do all he can to pervert the scriptures. You know what? Um And he blinds the peop blinds people to salvation, the second thing there. He blinds people to salvation in 2 Corinthians 4. 4. That says he hath blinded the minds of them. So He blinds people. You know, Satan blinds people to the scriptures. The Bible says that the natural man understandeth not the things of God, and it's only by God's grace that God begins to draw men to him. And God takes the scripture and applies it to their heart and opens their mind and gives them the ability to see the truth of the Word of God. And it registers down in their soul that this is truth. Because otherwise Satan blinds it and you you're telling them about Christ and what Christ did and they're looking at you like you're an idiot. Like why would you believe that kind of stuff? That doesn't make any sense. Because they're completely blinded to the truth of the scriptures That's what Satan does. He blinds their minds to that. Satan blinds uh people to the fact of their own sin. Their own sin. It's mind-boggling you talk. Numerous times I've talked to people that are, you know, and they'll say, okay, now of course you agree with me in the Bible. that, you know, the Bible says, for all have sinned. Do you agree with that, right? That we've all sinned? And I've had people tell me, No, I haven't sinned. You you haven't said. You know, and and you how in the world? Uh well you try and take them through and and talk about, well, have you ever told a lie? You know, well how many lies do you have to tell to be a liar? Well, uh you know, and have you ever stolen anything? You ever no no, I never you never stole anything. You never took any cookies you weren't supposed to have from Mama You know, you never uh got candy off the counter you weren't supposed to have that mom didn't say you could have or whatever. No, uh you know, and trying to get them to see that Satan blinds them to their own sin and not not just the lost world but even sometimes Christians. Satan's blind us to the fact that the sin that we're involved in, we think that, oh, it's okay. I I'm alright. Satan's just blinded us We don't see the severity of the sin that we're involved in. Satan blinds us to our situation that we're in. And uh that's one one of his great tools that he uses. in uh people's lives. He blinds them. Satan opposes the work of God on every hand, everywhere he can. That passage there where Paul was hindered. He afflicts people's health. He afflicts people's health. You see that in Job over and over again. Uh now every time that you're sick It is not a spiritual warfare. Uh every time that you get sick is not because Satan or God allowed Satan to give you something or or you're being tested. Sometimes you're sick because we live in a broken world. W and you got sick because it's flu season or whatever. We we just you get sick, you get sick. Uh but there are times we see very clearly in scripture that Satan has the ability to afflict people with with great and I I think in our world today there's huge influx of mental illnesses Huge influx of battles with people's minds and just things that you can't see on paper. You can't go in and take a blood test and say, oh yeah, you have depression. No, no, there's that there's these things that are very real, but I see that as an affliction of Satan. on people because of his his power and what he can do. And this is a way that he battles uh against peoples in their health. Um Satan would do all he can to gain an advantage over you. 2 Corinthians 2. 11. He wants to gain an advantage over you. I wonder if you could tell me, how do you suppose is some way that Satan might have an advantage or would strive to gain an advantage over you. Any ideas? Okay, to try and in your heart and mind justify away uh something you're participating in Any other thoughts about how Satan would try and gain an advantage or how he might have an advantage? Blinding you to do something that You think it's okay when in reality it's not okay. Through how do you tell the difference? Through through blinding, well, I think That's secondary is a good question, but it that would be uh with the spirit of the spirit of God and really Honestly, being honest before God, like David said, search me, O God, and see if there be any wicked way in me. David, I mean a man after God's own heart, but he says, God, I need you to search me because I know my heart is desperately wicked And sometimes I may think I'm doing all right, but Lord, would you search me? And if you get honest with God, I think God will reveal it to us. But yeah, He can do that, gain an advantage. John the settings A besetting sin. So let's take that to the next step and say the idea is that he knows your weakness. Satan knows to he has an advantage because he knows where to get you. Uh he knows what your your weakness is. You know what? I could be in in somebody's house and they could have uh I I don't know anything about this stuff, so you guys are gonna I mean We'll have to ask somebody, but um like like there's some types of malt liquor that are very, very expensive, right? I mean really old time m they could have the the most expensive, you know, a hundred and fifty dollar or five hundred dollar bottle of malt liquor there that and there is no temptation to me. I mean just Zip, zero, na, that is not in any way ever going to be any temptation for me. Satan's not going to try and tempt me with that. That's not, there's nothing there that appeals to me. As a matter of fact, my wife had something the other day that she got at the food bank. And I took one drink of it and I said, oh That's gross. I I th it was supposed to be a peach drink, you know, just peach drink. And so I I looked at it and I'm like, that is just nasty. That you know, that tastes like alcohol. Just how alcohol smells? And uh so it's some type of a fermented drink, supposed to be for your stomach, I guess, supposed to help your stomach or whatever. And uh I'm like, yeah, I don't know if we want that stuff in our house. I mean that that's just it's nasty. And uh it's not gonna tempt me at all. But Satan knows where I'm tempted You know, he also knows when to tempt me. You know, there's times where you're more susceptible to temptation than others. Probably Sunday morning during church is not really when you're real susceptible, right? Probably not the time, but after you get off the phone call with uh with a friend and your friend was uh you know, gave you bad news or you guys had a d disagreement and you're you're stressed about a situation or you get bad news from work or you know, these things come and Satan knows, okay, now is the time. can get 'em. I can get 'em right here. 'Cause he wants to have an advantage and he's gonna look for those advantages and we need to be aware of that. He can tempt you Uh if you defraud your marriage, first Corinthians seven, verse number five, um he can delay answers to prayer. We saw that in Daniel 10, 13, that Daniel was praying, and uh Satan was able to delay the answer. You know, sometimes when you're uh praying We're saying, Man, I've prayed for that and prayed for that and prayed for that, but it just doesn't seem like I've gotten the answer yet. Well Satan might be hindering the answer coming. God may have wanted that to come to you already and he's sending that to you, but Satan's hindering that. Again, I don't you say, well I don't understand that. I mean God is greater than Satan and and how is that possible? I'm just telling you what the Bible says that Daniel was praying, he was looking for an answer, and Satan was able to hinder that. And I I believe it was three years. in Daniel's life, uh, that he was looking for that answer. Um and uh Satan was able to hold up that answer from God. And then uh he can attack you in your finances, in your family, or in your health. So he can bring attacks in many other even even physical ways. But Satan metals methods can be subtle. You may not even know it's an activity of Satan. Um Jay Job didn't know that his problems originated from Satan at the time. So we see that Satan's origin, that he is a created being and a fallen creature. He was created by God, but of course you know that he fell because he wanted to be like God. He seeks to be like God, tries to impersonate him. He is known by many different names. The first one is Satan. We've been talking to uh about that. But Satan, Lucifer, Beelzebub, the devil, the serpent, the dragon, the evil one. He's a murderer and a liar. He's the father of all lies. We mentioned that already, John 8. 44. And God's people are able to overcome the activity of Satan. God's people are able to overcome the activity of Satan. Sorry, I'm gonna grab something to drink here. Um That's in Revelation 12, 21. We know that we can overcome him because we know that greater is he that's in you than he is in the world. And although he is a uh adversary that's there and we need to be aware of him and we need to know his devices and we need to know that he has power, we also need to know that God has power and that God is greater and that we can overcome him Now we're going to take some time in a few weeks and go over a lesson about overcoming the Satan and we'll deal with that uh then So we'll see here Satan's influences. We know that his influence is restricted. We see that often in in the story of Job where Job You know, Satan wanted to do more and God said, No, you can't right now you could do this but not this. Oh you can do this but not this. His his access to Job was limited by God and and that's should give us great comfort Although we don't want to go through what Job went through, we understand that ultimately God knew what Job was going through and that God allowed it, knowing that Job had the capacity and the strength to do it. And uh we can rest assured that God knows what we're going through. And that God is not going to allow Satan or anything else to come in unto you without giving you the grace and the strength to be able to endure it. So Satan host. He has a great host. They have a capability to affect us in a number of ways when they attack. It is because our sovereign God has permitted them to test us. or to chasten us, to test us or to chasten us. So they Satan can influence our thoughts with temptations. Acts 5, verse number 3, there he says But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? Do you guys know the story of Ananias and Sapphira there? He said, Why have you why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Ghost. It's something that Satan had put into his heart. Satan had implanted this thought of deceit and this thought of I mean sometimes I know you guys are uh the choir, right? I'm preaching to the choir. But I mean sometimes if you're like me you've been sitting somewhere And you think, where where did that thought come from? Like what what in the world? Um you know, I I like I might be Let's say I'm sitting in front of a grocery store and an armored car comes by and you guys know I've been looking for a million dollars and I'm like, there's a million dollars. In my mind I'm I I'm plotting like okay how could you get that million dollars out of that car or or you know just some way to connive to to be dishonest or to get something or or like you'll you'll you'll easily see a way that you could cheat You know, like, oh, I could, you know, all these self-checkout stands. One for you, one for me, one for you, one you're checking yourself out and you're going through that. I mean It's amazing that the loss that they have is they just write that off as loss and they're okay with it because the money they're making is enough. Um but you know that there's so many people are honest when they're going through those things. And uh it's just Satan implants those thoughts in your heart and mind. And he just uh pushes it in there and you sometimes even as a Christian you look at and say, Well, why would I even think about that? I'm not gonna be dishonest that way, I'm not gonna try and get get away with that or or whatever. But it's those thoughts get implanted. Um they're able to cause emotional, mental, and physical trauma. Um that Mark chapter 5, verses 1 through 10. You know the maniac of Kadera, how he tormented himself, how he cut himself. The boy who uh was possessed by demons. Yeah, you remember the the father said, could you please help my son? He's casting himself into the fire and he's casting himself into the water. Could you please help my son? Please help him. It was very hard. Uh and so he can they can do this emotional, mental and physical trauma they can cause. They can erect spiritual barriers or walls in our relationships. Matthew 16, 23. They sometimes affect our health. We've talked about that already, but obviously the thoughts here with Job. Um, you know, a lot of times when you're dealing with a health thing is an opportunity for Satan to have an advantage in other areas. Maybe Satan is not the one that brought this health situation on, but he'll use that as a as because you know This week as I was going through this, it said, I think the Lord allowed me to go through this just so that I'll have compassion for others. Uh, as I'm m n by nature I'm not that compassionate of a person, you know. I'm kinda more like, okay, grow up, you know, or get over it or grin and bear it, just go, you know. That's kinda how I am. Uh but I'll tell you what, when you're going through it, oh my goodness, it's just so you're just so miserable. Your whole body hurts and and You just can't get comfortable anywhere and y you know, you feel like all you want to do is sleep except you can't sleep anymore 'cause you've been sleeping for so many hours already and you're sleeping just laying there tossing and turning and and And I'm just laying there and and thinking about people in our church that are going through stuff and says, you know, maybe the Lord allowed me just to just a small window, a picture into what they're dealing with. And it it doesn't get any better. And you know, a lot of times it's just as big of a battle in a person's spirit. as it is in in a physical way, because this ongoing battle physically wears you down spiritually and emotionally. And you get to the place where you just think, I can't do it anymore, I can't take it anymore, I'm so frustrated with all of this, and you get very discouraged, you know, just sick of being sick. You know, and uh so I think the Lord allowed me to go through that just to be able to have some compassion for those that are going through things, even in our church. He can orchestrate accidents. We know that to be true. Matthew 17, 15 there is the story of the lunatic, uh that he said he often throweth himself into the fire and throweth himself into the water. You know I don't understand it. Um but there is uh the ability Satan has the I'm sure you guys are all familiar with and you've heard there's so many young people today that are doing physical damage to their bodies. They're they're they're cutting themselves. And they're they're hiding that? Why would they do that? I believe it's satanic influence. satanic influence that they're they're cutting themselves and they feel like that's the only way they can feel anything and and uh you know one day here We had a young man here at church who we found in a in a in a room And uh he had brought with him a whole bunch of needles and he had poked needles all over his face. poked himself with needles. Why would you do this? And he and he's like, I just felt like I had to. I just felt like I had to do it. And it's satanic influence. Satan can cause these things. This is very very real. We've got to guard against guard against these things. They can bring about orchestrate accidents. They can cause us to oppose the work of God. They can cause us to hurt ourselves. They can have various forms and strengths. So the workers or the great host that Satan has at his disposal, they come in different forms and also different strengths, according to Revelation 9, 3 through 11. Um they have a wide range of assignments or intelligence. Um and we see that they can hinder persons So we didn't have time to look at all of those passages of scripture today, but Satan's greatest effectiveness is when he can keep himself hidden and people don't realize that their problems were caused by Satan They think it's just the natural thing or this is just what happened, but really it's satanic influence. It's a spiritual battle, it's a spiritual warfare. Every Christian previously was a child of Satan, according to Ephesians 2, 1 through 3, according to the course of this world that goes on and says, according to the prince and the power of the air. This is the we we used to live according to that. We used to live according to the prince and power of the air. We used to live according to this world. And before salvation, that's where we were. Satan must not be allowed to influence our lives today. The scripture warns us to not give place to the devil. This is the heart of the lesson here where he says, once Satan hath found a foothold, he can obtain a stronghold, which soon becomes a stranglehold. in our lives. And that's what happens when we give place to the devil, when we allow him to come in, we start with that foothold and stronghold and then stranglehold. For we, this familiar verse here in 2 Corinthians 10, verse 3-5, for we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but the mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringeth into captivity every thought to the obedience. So the thing here is that Satan uses the mind The thoughts, the imaginations. Now I want to say he enters the mind through our senses, through our eye gate, through our hearing, through what we allow to influence us. And then those thoughts are used and held onto and the longer we allow Satan to function or r rule in a particular area, it changes from a foothold to a stronghold, from a stronghold to a stranglehold. And you have seen people in their lives overtaken by something, and you think, well, why can't you let that go? And it it's just got a stranglehold on them. They just can't get past it. They can't let it go. They might have an addiction to something. Uh it's a stranglehold on their life And these thoughts are derived from the things that we study and observe, from our experiences of life, experiences of life, our memory, good and bad circumstances, and so on. Now, what I'm saying, giving giving place to the devil, is the devil wants to use things. The devil used things that we put into our minds Right. The devil will use things that we expose ourselves to, that we allow, and we give give him the tools to do so. Um When I was a teenager in El Paso, Texas, we had a young man that was Well the police came and I don't remember all the ramifications if he did jail time or what, but um he tried to kill his brother with a sickle. He chased his brother vehemently, I mean just tried to kill his brother with a sickle. And they said, why did you do that? He said, I ha I I had to. I had to. But you see the rest of the story? is that this young boy, his favorite movie was The Children of the Corn. The Stephen King film where these children are demonically possessed out in the corn and they use sickles and kill people. And this this young boy got a hold of a sickle and he says as he said, as soon as I put that sickle in my hand, I had to kill. He had put that into his mind and into his mind and into his mind and into his mind and gave place to the devil and Satan took it and used it. This is why it's so very important what we allow our kids to watch. What we allow into our through our eye gate. The things in this world that we allow to impact and influence us. Because Satan is the God of the world And he will take the things that are there. I mean the the influences, if they're not there, you know, my kids obviously very conservative home. We we've never had a TV hooked up to to any we no local broadcasting. We've never had a TV hooked up like that. Now we have a screen in the house that we hook up to a computer or to something else and we can play movies on it that we choose and we press start and stop, you know, but no commercials, no we've never twenty seven years we've never had one. Um so we didn't watch a lot of stuff when we were kids. We have a pretty controlled atmosphere. But you know, my kids even Even something like the Wizard of Oz. Watch the Wizard of Oz. And what happens when it's time to go to bed? All of a sudden the younger ones are scared. Why are you scared? Because there's little munchkin's gonna come out of the closet and get me, you know, and because there's their imaginations are running away with these thoughts. And and what parents don't realize how much of that stuff they're implanting and how it allows Satan to use that in their children's lives. We've got to be very careful. We've got to guard against that Well you see, you you can also uh have your thoughts not just from the world, but you can get them from God. And these obviously are going to be right thoughts as you study and as you serve the Lord, but then Satan will implant thoughts as well. So imaginations thoughts uh are exaggerated. That is you take your thoughts like I was talking about with the kids and their imaginations start to run wild and then they they exaggerate and they blow it up and all of a sudden there's all kinds of uh, you know, demons in their closets and they can't go to sleep because they're afraid, because they watched something uh, you know, that planted those thoughts there. Your imagination is rooted in your own thought. Um So we've got to be careful to not listen to the lies of the devil. Um Why don't we try and wrap it up right here with this thought? What's what is some way in which the devil will try and lie to you? See, Satan tries, he's the accuser of the brethren. He is a liar and the father of it. And Satan will come to us and he will lie to you in in different ways. One way Satan can come and and lie to you lie to you is he can tell you that you're never gonna be a good Christian. You you don't you're not strong enough, you can't do it. Yeah, you might as well give up, you might as well quit Satan will come and tell you that lie. Satan will come and tell you that you're no good. But the Bible is very clear that you're fearfully and wonderfully made. One of the one of the big things where people deal with depression is is the they they have no self-satisfaction, they've got no internal joy, they they they don't feel themselves like they're anything at all. They they their their own self-worth is down to nothing and they're just completely depressed about life as a whole. And and why? Because they've been le believing the lies of Satan. They've allowed that to settle down into their heart to such a point where it's a conviction and you can't even you could you could list 25 positive things to that individual about them and they wouldn't believe one of them. Because they've so convinced themselves with the lies of Satan that they're no good. The lies of Satan. They will he'll lie to you about other people So we want to be sure we're dealing biblically with misunderstanding. We're not fascinated uh fantasizing about lustful things. Um and that can be more than just sexual uh lust when it conceived brings forth sin and sin when it's finished bringing forth death. A lust is a desire. It's a it's a it's a passion, it's something you really want. So it doesn't have to be just in a sexual nature, but uh lustful things and then allowing emotions to control your thoughts. Allowing emotions to control your thoughts. We're going to stop there and uh Maybe we're we're really close to the end. Uh but we do need to we do need to close for today. Um I don't know if it'll take too long for me to wrap this up uh next week, but Alrighty, let's