And turn with you with me if you would to Luke chapter number 10. Luke chapter number 10. We're going to talk about this in light of our bus ministry. The bus ministry has been part of my life. for as long as I can remember. Every church that I've ever served in has had a bus ministry. Every ministry I've been a part of has had a bus ministry. I remember uh as a child being the clown for circus day at probably six or seven years old. I have pictures of me serving as a clown for circus day all dressed up and I had big old round I was a fat clown And uh so I don't remember if I scared the kids or not, but I do have photos of that. And the bus ministry has been a part of the ministries that I've been involved in for my entire life in church. I don't know if there's another ministry that more directly impacts your Jerusalem than the bus ministry. And let me remind you that we're called to reach our Jerusalem first. And if our missions program at Hunt Valley Baptist Church reaches Africa or Mexico or Belize, but doesn't reach Cockysville, then we've failed. Because we're called to reach into our Jerusalem first. And the bus ministry does that. It reaches into our Jerusalem. Do you happen to remember the lawyer who asked Jesus, who is my neighbor? That's the story we find here in this passage, which you've turned to this morning. He asks him, Who is my neighbor? And the Lord begins to teach to him a parable, that parable of the Good Samaritan. I would like to consider this parable really in light of our bus ministry this morning. Would you look at verse number thirty and follow along as I read the text? I apologize if I'm moving a little fast, I'll try and slow down, but We we've got to get this in and we also got a transferring of the leadership here shortly. So hang with me. You guys have done good. It's been a great service, hasn't it? Amen. Well let's look at the word of God now. Let the whole Lord speak to our hearts. He says here in verse number thirty. And Jesus answering said, okay again, he's answering the question that the lawyer asked him Who's my neighbor? So he said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among the thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at that place came and looked on him and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him he had compassion on him, and he went to him, and bound his wounds. pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed he took out two pence, and gave them to the host And he said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more when I come again, I will repay thee. When which now of these three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves. And he said, he that showed mercy on him, then said Jesus unto him, Go and do thou likewise. Beloved, I believe that this is the commission that God has given Hunt Valley Baptist Church to go and do thou likewise. To go out and to reach those who have nobody else reaching them. to go out and find those that have no other means or capacity or wherewithal to get to church and bring them to church. It's through the bus ministry of Hunt Valley Baptist Church that the lives of kids and adults alike are touched every single week. And many times those reached would have no other means of doing so. I want you to see that if a bus ministry is going to continue, it takes compassion. We see this man in verse number 33, he says, But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him He had compassion on him. He had compassion on him. I asked you today, what's your view of the bus ministry? How do you perceive this ministry where we go out and pick up the kids and some respects, some might say, well I don't know if it's worth the effort. I don't know if it's worth the expense. I don't know if it's worth the time. After all these kids come in here and sometimes they they they disrupt church or or they uh may get the floors dirty or Even worse than that, they may damage something. I don't know if it's worth all that. I want you to remind, I want to remind you this morning that God, in his word, had a special place for children. God said three times, suffer the little children to come unto me. God has always reached out for the young. Maybe you could say the defenseless, maybe those that can't help themselves. And so God loves them and wants them to come to Him. Three years ago we launched this ministry, The Kid Around the Corner, because of compassion. Compassion, desire to reach them. We better be more concerned about the condition of the kids in our community than we are about the condition of our classrooms in our church. I'll tell you what, friend, if we can save the heart of a child, I'll take a dirty classroom. I'll take a scratched wall. I'll take I'll take some damaged carpet if we can save the life of a young person. It's a worthwhile ministry, but it takes compassion. We see this man had compassion on him. Here's someone that had no one else to love him, someone that no one else stopped and cared for him. It took compassion to go to that ditch and take time and energy and effort to help this man. And that's what we do week after week. Beloved, there's something about the command that God has given us to go. Yes, it's great to see people here in church, but part of the commission is to go. You see, here on this banner, we have as a theme this year, reaching out. And highlighted is the word go. Go. We are to go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. There's something about intrinsically in line with God's word when we're outgoing. When we're going into our community, that's the great commission that God had given us. I want you to notice in the story here, the religious weren't that interested. They they didn't want to stop. They didn't want to help. The priests and the Levites, they passed by on the other side, but this Samaritan. He had compassion. Christ always seeds the need. Christ always has compassion. I want you to see that he put him on his own beast and took him to the inn. Amen. That's what we do in the bus ministry. We pick them up, put them on our own beast. Some people might look at that bus as a beast. After ten years of running down the road. Uh yeah. But we get 'em here. Give them a ride. Provide some transportation for them You want to make a difference in these kids' lives? Learn their name. Learn who they are. Talk to them out in the foyer. We announced for their birthdays up here along with your kids' birthdays. Do you remember to stop them and say happy birthday? Do you remember to acknowledge that? I I'm not going to say who it was or or what child it was, but there was a child in what that came on our bus that received a birthday card from somebody in the church. And for over a year they carried that birthday card with them everywhere they went and they showed people this came from somebody in my church. Something as small as that. But it was valuable to this young lady. Because somebody took time to send a birthday card. To say we love you. Beloved, we have to see the potential, not the problem. Crystal Buchanan wrote this. Some see a fight, a push, a shove. I see a desperate cry for love. Some see a brat, he acts so bad, I see a boy who never met his dad. Some see the mess and the troubles they give. I see the poverty in the place that they live. Some see a teenager who won't dress right. I see a girl who has to protect herself at night Some see a smart mouth disrespectful and loud. I see a kid who's been made fun of continually in the crowd. Some see a woman who comes just to use. I see a lady. by a drunken husband who's been abused. Some see a drug addict where, wit withered and worn, I see a soul the Lord wants to see reborn. Some see the dirt, the filth, and the rod. I see a kid who, without Jesus, doesn't have a shot. Some see a crook. Whom you don't trust very much. I see a man who needs the Lord's touch. Some see a bunch of heathens who holler and yell, I see kids. with parents who are in jail. So I'm tea a teenager who gives a lot of flack, but I see a boy whose family is on crack. Broken homes and broken lives. They live without hope. They need compassion of God and His grace to cope. For every little girl who lies awake hungry at night, Lord help me to stay in the fight. For every scared boy who sees his mommy getting hit. Lord help me to be faithful and never to quit For every mommy who needs a new start, Lord help me to show her how to ask Jesus into her heart. For every man on whom sin has had its hold, Lord, help me to remember to share with him that old story that is told. The Lord, to me, his mercy has shown. Lord, help me to reach out so others may make heaven their home May others judge gently when these folks they see. If not for God's grace, that's where we would be. We have got to see the potential, not the problems. What God can and wants to do with these young Christians, these young boys, these young girls that come into the doors of our church Beloved, there is hope with Jesus Christ, but it takes compassion. We've only got a short time to impact their lives, their hearts for God. A window of opportunity to impress upon them the importance of Jesus Christ. And we don't know where their life will take them. It's been months and months since we've seen Diamond. We don't know where she'll be. But here's what I do know. Story after story after story is told of somebody who's gone down life's trail that's been hard and cold. But they, in the twilight of their life, look back and they remember one thing in all that hardship. They remember a bus worker that carried them to church. They remember a Sunday school teacher that declared unto them the love of Jesus Christ In all this turmoil of this world, I know over and over again God will bring back to their mind those in God's house that love them that cared for them, that showed them Christ's love, even though they were dirty, even though they were hungry, even though that they didn't have their mom and dad here with them. But praise God, they're bus kids and we love them. It takes compassion. Not only does it take compassion, it takes commitment. We see here he went to him. He bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and he brought him to the inn. And on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two pence, and he gave them to the host, and he said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. John and Stephanie, it's going to take commitment. It's going to take commitments. I was glad to hear your testimony of the desire to be faithful. Because it's going to take commitment to be faithful for another ten years, going out week after week after week. You're going to have to put your heart into it and you're going to have to be driven by a love for those children. Because when the rest of the church family is breaking out the fried chicken and sitting down and enjoying themselves, you're going to be getting on a hot, stinky, smelly bus and riding home with the kids, eating cold hot dogs. And if you aren't careful, Satan will tell you it's not worth it. Satan will tell you, man, it's not really fair. Here every b all the church family's enjoying a nice meal and I'm here doing this. But if you have a love for those kids, you'll do it without question, without hesitation. You'll gladly give up the chicken. You'll gladly walk away from the meals. You'll gladly spend the time on that hot bus. Although John's been asking us for air conditioning. I said it ain't happening, man. He's like, we need air Maybe our next bus. Listen, it's going to take commitment to miss the activities here at church. To continue to love these kids. You see, he got there and he found out that this man had some needs. This man had some problems that needed to be care taken care of You know, these kids we bring into church they have some needs. They have some problems that need to be taken care of. They they have some some hurts that need to be healed. They need somebody to love them. My admonition to you is to don't see the problem but the potential. You're gonna have to be committed to keep on, keeping on The fact of the matter is, it's the very responsibility of the mission of the church is to find those with the worst problems and bring them to Christ so he can help them. That's what our job is. People that aren't sick don't go to the hospital, amen. The church is there to help those in need. Church, it's gonna take commitment from you and I as well. You see the cost it took for him to take care of this man? The bus ministry cost. The bus out here is ten years old. At some point it's gonna need to be replaced. Not just that, I mean putting tires on it and Putting gas in the tank, week by week, doing the maintenance to that kind of thing. It cost. But I want you to work know it's a worthwhile investment. It's a worthwhile investment in the lives of these young people, but we as a church have got to be committed and ready and glad to pay the expense like this man was. Whatever you need more. It'll be taken care of. He did what he needed. Let me encourage you, if you work in the ministries here at the church, you better take serious your responsibility in junior church. Better take serious your responsibility in every lesson you teach, every object lesson, every verse, every song you sing. Because it's important. These kids have been picked up and brought here and cared for and put in your charge for a few minutes for you to impact them for Christ. In ten years, this bus has driven over 20,000 miles. It takes money to keep that on the road. Church, we've got to be committed to make it happen. I want you to know also that the bus ministry yields a crop. It yields a crop. I don't know. You saw up here the lives touched. This is just a small picture of the lives that have been touched through the ministry of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I look over the years at my father's ministry and every church of these pastors he's had a bus ministry. Do you know that my dad has bus kids that call him? Today, three, four, five times a year from his ministry in the late seventies? Bus kids still call him and say thank you for having a bus route. He he led and the church had a bus ministry. But it's the teachers, it's the bus workers, it's the junior church classes that impact those lives. You as a church make the difference in their life. choose to. In our own church. Even here, Stephanie is a fruit of the best ministry. John has a wife who loves God and wants to serve God today because somebody ran a bus route and picked her up. Over the last 10 years, our bus ministry has given a ride to 275 different individuals over the years. Of those 275, as they continue to come for a period of time, 90 souls have come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. 90 souls, their lives have been changed and their eternity changed. Thirty-one of those have followed the Lord and believers baptism. Of those that have come on the bus, we've had seven families join Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Who, as Mo and Amy were talking about, they made the transition. Or they start calling themselves church kids. I think once you're a bus kid, always a bus kid. It ought something ought to be something you're proud of. I'm I'm a bus kid. You ought to be be proud of that. That the Lord reached you through that ministry. But we've had seven families over the years join the church because of the bus ministry. You know, I think it's eight thousand eight hundred and forty Total rights that have been given to the church. From all those that have ridden the bus week after week after week, eight thousand eight hundred and forty rides Have been given to church. I want you to know, church family, it's it's a ministry that has a crop. It's worth the investment. Church is going to take compassion, it's going to take commitment, but it does yield a crop. And as we pass the baton this morning, To John and Stephanie, this challenge is to them, but it's to us as a church to continue to be faithful, to realize the cost, but to realize it's worth it.