Well, in Matthew chapter number two, we've been looking at the uh characters of Christmas this morning. We're going to look at the wise men. This is where the wise men are mentioned here. And so follow along with me as I read down verses one through verse number twelve. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east. to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him And when he had gathered all the chief priests and the scribes and the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him in Bethlehem of Judea. And thus it is written by the prophet. And thou, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, art not the least among the princes of Judah? For out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people, Israel Then Herod, when he had privileged called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem, and he said, Go and search diligently for the young child, and when ye have found him, bring me word again that I may come. and worship him also. When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo the star which they saw in the east went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down and worshipped him And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gold and frankincense and myrrh, and being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country. Another way. Well, these men that now for over two thousand years have been uh remembered and thought of as wise men uh came to Jesus. What was it that made them wise? Why is it they're referred to this way in the scriptures? They were known as magi, the the gift of the magi, the gift of these men who were known for this practice. And it's kind of a culmination of things that come together. These men would have been very educated men. They were men from the East, but they were educated. We don't know how many there were. Tradition says three, because of the three types of gifts that were given. The three different gifts that were given could represent the known world at that time, uh the three different regions of the world that could have been represented by them. Uh We don't know how many there were, but we know there, I think as in verse number three, it says, When they came into Jerusalem, uh that all of the city was troubled by them. So there could have been quite a caravan. I don't know. I mean maybe maybe three wise men troubled the whole city of Jerusalem. Uh i it's possible but uh I I think I f foresee like a group a few more people than that, but we really we don't know. We just traditionally say three because of the three gifts that were brought. But these men uh as I said they were educated. They were astrologers, uh studied the stars, not just like we think about today, like somebody who maybe wanted to go to space. But they studied the stars in along with the idea of what effect the stars had on man and Uh this these types of things have always been connected. Astrology, horoscopes, uh tarot cards. Dark magic, that kind of fields. Those fields have always been been connected together. And let me just throw this out. Christians shouldn't be involved in any of those things. Uh you shouldn't be going and reading your horoscope every day to find out what's happening. Uh God's in control. And uh, you know, to me it shouldn't even need to be said for for Christians, but you understand that there is power, the devil has power. There's power in darkness. And uh uh one of the battles that our missionaries faced when they go to foreign fields is Satan has had a hold of these people in these other countries. countries for so long that they're working very hard to get that that uh grip that Satan has on the people away from them. And uh in many places uh they still use a uh wish doctors and they believe in these types of things. for healing and and they're afraid of these different ghosts and if they hang these certain little dolls in their house it'll keep away the evil spirits and There's so much of that stuff that's really ingrained in the people. And trying to get that out of them to really believe and trust God, to know that God is in control and that that is That that God has the power. But see, Satan has power. And many times Satan will use his power and and display his power before the people, and the people believe. And they say, man, the witch doctor has power. And uh so God has to reveal his power to them. But as Christians, we shouldn't be involved in that stuff. Now, these men studied the stars. They they knew about the story about that there was a coming Messiah, that this star was supposed to shine, and that they were going to, they desired to follow it. At the very least, we know that they were Gentiles. They weren't Jewish people. We know that. We knew that that they were read studiers of religion. They understood and they knew religion. That they were from the East. Now, God used these men to accomplish several things. They showed their wisdom by the task that they did, by what they accomplished. And uh so we want to try and learn from them. What can we learn from the wise men and and what they did? And there's a lot of ways this can be applied, and as I was studying uh really just had to kind of choose uh some directions to try and apply these things to us because there's a lot there's a lot here. But first of all I want you to see that they sought the person. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east. To Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born, King of the Jews? They said, Where is he? They sought after him. They wanted to be where Christ was. It was not just enough to know about him. They knew that this Messiah was coming, that he was uh foretold that there would be uh a Messiah coming, that he was going to be the king of the Jews, and and this was the the event that they had been watching the stars for. They knew that. But it wasn't enough just to know that it was going to happen. They said, we want to go and be with him. We want to go and see him. We want to be where he is. You know, they were these men that came, they weren't the only ones that knew that. They weren't the only ones that knew that the star was going to shine, that there was a prophecy, that this was going to happen. Even in our text here. The uh when Herod the king heard these things he was troubled in all Jerusalem with them. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and the scribes and the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said, in Bethlehem of Judah. The other wise men and the scribes, they knew the prophecy. Why weren't they going? They looked at Herod and said, well, he's supposed to be born in Bethlehem. Everybody knows that. Well, here is a major event, the greatest event in history. Here is the coming Messiah. And they had to have their dinner interrupted to go tell the king, oh yeah, it's supposed to be in Bethlehem. You need anything else We're gonna go back to dinner. I mean they weren't they weren't concerned about it at all. They weren't consumed with it. No, but these men were wise because they wanted to go and be with Jesus. They wanted to be where he was. They sought the person of Jesus Christ. You know, they saw the star and they followed the light that they had. They knew that that star was the sign, and they wanted to follow that light. They might not have known exactly where it was, or they might not have known exactly how to get there, but they said, hey, this is the event. There's a star and they followed that star. You know, we need to follow the light we have. The light you have. Whatever light you have right now, you need to follow that. A lot of times people are looking for direction in their lives and they want to know where they're going to be down the road and what is God's will for me down here and where am I how is this going to work out and what am I going to do You know what I've learned in my life over all these years in the ministry and growing up in a pastor's home and trying to follow and serve the Lord? What I've learned is uh is the path to God's will tomorrow is just doing what I'm supposed to do today. And if I each and every day just to sub to the best of my ability submit and follow the Lord, I will day by day be in God's will and one day at a time, one step at a time. And five years from now, if I have continued to be where I living, serving, and following Christ in the life that I have, I will be where I'm supposed to be five years from now. Sometimes God gives wisdom and direction and he shows you a way down the road, but sometimes he doesn't. But you don't have to know a way down the road. All you need to know is that you're doing what you're supposed to do. Sometimes people come to me and they say, Pastor, we you know we really need help with our family. And I'll ask him, well, are you personally walking with God, having personal time in the Word of God every day No, no, no, Pastor, that's not what we need. We need you to fix our problem with our family. They want me to give them some kind of magical solution that I can just uh, oh, okay, here, this is what you need, and and drink this and everything will be fixed. You know, they're expecting that, but they're not even walking in the light that they have. I say, well, listen, you've only been to church one time in the last six weeks. It's important for a family to worship God together. If you want to have strength and stability in your family, let me encourage you, you need to be in God's house. You need to be where the Word of God is being preached. You need to be around brothers and sisters in Christ that will that will encourage you and strengthen you and help you. This is what God tells us: forsake not the assembly of ourselves together. I'm talking about, can you can you tell us what to do with this? They're not walking in the light they have. And if you want some other thing fixed in your life, you've got to start with the light that you have. You've got to start doing, God's not going to give you more light. Until you're using the light you got. He's not going to show you down the road and continue, these men, they they saw the light and they followed the light that they had. I would say they're wise because they did that. They followed the light that they had. They sought the sun. You know, this entire Christmas season is about the sun. It's about him. Um even though this world is trying to remove him. They were seeking the king. Herod was opposing the king. The chief priest and the rulers, they were ignoring the king. But it all came back to being about the king, the king of kings that was born in a major. They sought the Sun. Are you seeking the Son? Realizing the most important person in your life should be the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ. That's what should be central and of utmost importance to us. They sought the place. When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him, and when he had gathered the chief priests and the scribes and the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born, and they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea. For thus it is written by the prophet. You know, they they knew the location. They wanted to go to that location. Bethlehem. You know, Bethlehem means house of bread. Bethlehem is the house of bread, and the bread of life came to the house of bread. For the entire world. In John chapter 6, verse 48 through 51, he says, I am the bread of the life. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness and are dead. This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that men eat thereof and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven If any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever, and the bread that I give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of this world. He's the bread of life. And he came to the house of bread to meet that need for the entire world. That's where he was. They knew the location. They even knew the time. the date, the the the season. They knew when it was going to come to pass, that it was supposed to be, that the the star was shining. Um these men were wise because they were not discouraged by distance or inconvenience. They followed the star and they didn't follow it for the for a first day and You know, some people say it could have been as much as a year. I know in our mind in our crunching of the manger scene Everything happens that night, the night Jesus was born, and then all of a sudden the wise men show up, and then all of a sudden the shepherds show up, and uh all of it happens in one place, but you know this is not really the Bible scenario. It it could have been as much of a as a year later that uh the wise men showed up. What I'm saying is they were on a journey. No. They weren't discouraged by the inconvenience. They weren't discouraged by the effort that it took. the task and the energy involved. And too many Christians today are, yeah, I want to serve God. Well, not that bad. I want to do it. Listen, if we're ever going to really accomplish something great for God, we've got to stop trying to fit it in around our free time. You know, I confess something to those in the couples class. Uh uh downstairs the family class that we're doing on Thursday nights. I said, you know, a few years ago I had to really uh you know apologize to my wife and re reevaluate how I was doing things because it kind of became a joke at my house but Um Mary would say, y you guys know I have a bad memory, right? So you guys are on my side, right? Excuse me, Mary would say Uh hey when you go to the church can you pick me up the the the pan I left in the kitchen or whatever? And I would say um yes if if I remember. And I happen to be in the kitchen. And uh one other thing. Do you remember? All right. Well there's three categories. I just I just asked Mary the other day when she was going to the store to get me something, I gave her those three things. And she says, Okay, I'll do it for you. Um But you guys are already like ready to throw eggs at me. Like what? You telling your wife that you're you'll only do that if you happen to remember and if it's convenient. convenient and and you know you don't get distracted or whatever. How can you do that? That's not say, you know, you you say you love her and and exactly. What do we do for Christ? Oh yeah, Pastor, I'm ready to serve. As long as it doesn't interfere with any other part of my life. Yeah. As long as it can happen between this and this time. Between that and that time. How how eager and willing are you to serve God? How thrilled are you about the opportunity? These wise men says, hey, we want to be with Jesus. And it doesn't matter what it's going to take, it doesn't matter how hard it is, it doesn't matter how inconvenient it is. You realize they were uh left whatever they were doing. They took off and went to follow the star. And everything else they let go. But we don't want to let go of anything We don't want to even give up a uh a TV show that we enjoy on Friday afternoons. Well, I can't do it on Friday because that's when I watch Or whatever. I don't know. I'm just saying that should not be our heart's desire. I mean, we are the busiest group of people in history. With all modern technology that's supposed to make our lives simpler and easier and give us more free time, all it does is consume all of our time. It gives us more time to do what we want to do. And we feel like, well, since I gained this time over here because I got that done so quick, now I can I can do it, I can spend that time doing this. Instead of actually making it count and doing something of value for God with that free time, they weren't discouraged by the distance or the inconvenience. That's why they were wise. In verse number 9, you see that they were given more light. If you follow the light you have, you'll get more light. God will continue to show you where to go. He said, When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. I don't know how this was, the the the journey Maybe they only saw the start night, maybe it wasn't visible during the day. Maybe there was times in the terrain of the landscape that the star was out of view and they were traveling. Have you ever been traveling and trying let's say you were going to a location and you knew that it was a green building, you'd never been there before, but it's supposed to be on this road and it's on the right hand side and it's a green building and you're you're looking and you're you're looking you're like, ah I should have got there by now and you're looking and And and oh there's the green building and and just like the relief, like we finally found it, you know, and you're supposed to be there on time or something. I remember one time my brother Daniel and I, we had planned for a year to go skiing in Colorado. And we had worked hard and we had raised the money ourselves and we were gonna go skiing in Colorado and we we worked and we saved up the money. Christmas time came, we're both college students. So we're gonna do it over Christmas break. So we got in a car. We drove like 19 hours to Colorado in a car to go skiing for four days. And uh we drive through uh Denver We're driving through Denver. We're in Colorado. It's Christmas. In my mind, there should be snow everywhere This is Colorado. Like we should be like waiting for the plows to get it out of the way. But there was no snow. In December in Colorado there was no snow. And we're driving through Denver and I looked at Daniel and I said, Daniel, there better be snow on that mountain. We drove all the way up the mountain. No snow. We had driven nineteen hours. This was just end of December. I couldn't believe it. I'm like, what in the world? He's like, he says, Caleb, they gotta have snow at least on the trails they make it. It makes snow, whatever. We drove through the the if you ever been there the top of the mountain there in Colorado, they have a uh uh tunnel that you go through so you don't have to go all the way over the mountain. So we went through the tunnel and when we came out of the tunnel on the other side there was snow everywhere. I mean it was just like just like you went through it was like all the snow dumped on that side and nothing on this side. It was so weird but I mean I remember the relief I'm like oh yes snow this is what we came for this is oh this is gonna be awesome and I was so go driving up that mountain I was getting mad at my brother I'm I mean I was like we saved no you know hope deferred man. I mean I was ready to go skiing. We went and bought our own skis and our own equipment. We we were dreaming about this and all that. But here's what I see with these wise men. They were traveling and maybe some Sometimes the star was not visible. Sometimes it wasn't quite there. And they're they're like, man, we want to be where Jesus is. We want to be and they're working towards this. And it's a long journey. It's tiresome at times. And then there's the star. Oh, there's the star. That's it. That's what we're going for. That's the place where we want to get. And there's that excitement and that thrill about actually getting to where Jesus is. Are you excited like that when you pull into the church parking lot? Excited about being where God is, being in God's house, being with God's people? Oh, hey, we're at church. We're with God's people. This is what I've been looking forward to all week. No? Okay. When they followed the light they had, they were given more light. And I just think that's exciting to see. Then I want you to see that they sought his praise. They sought his praise. When they saw the star, they rejoiced in verse number 10, and with exceeding great joy. And when they were coming to the house, they saw the young child with Mary. and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts of gold, frankness, and myrrh. They worshipped him. Worship starts with submission. It says they fell down. At this time, from what I understand from reading the scholars that know a lot more than me, that this was a practice in the culture of that day to actually bow down before somebody, to touch your forehead on the ground before somebody was a sign of the greatest amount of reverence. and respect for them. And I see these wise men coming and bowing down before the Messiah. Submitting to him this babe in a manger because of what he was, a messiah. Andrew Murray said God is ready to assume the full responsibility for any life that is wholly yielded to him. What an amazing thing. God is ready to assume full responsibility for the life that is wholly yielded to Him. Their worship started with submission, but it continued with sacrifice. True worship always involves sacrifice. I think about David. You remember when David numbered the people and he was gonna be judged and people were being killed and David wanted to stay the plague and he says, I need to go and I need to offer sacrifice. And he went up and he he was there. He's going to offer a sacrifice and my mind just went blank. It starts with an A. Does anybody remember his name that gave David the altar? It's in 2nd Samuel chapter number twenty-four. But starts with an A. I gotta stay out of these. So anyways, he uh he went to you guys remember the story he went to offer a sacrifice and the and the the man said, Hey, here's my here's my altar, take it. Here's all the things you need for the sacrifice, take it. And uh he says, You can you can take all of it. And David says, No, no, no. I'm not gonna offer a sacrifice of that which cost me nothing. We realize that true worship takes sacrifice. And we need to sacrifice as we serve and worship God. David Livingston said this. People talk of the sacrifice that I have made in spending so much of my life in Africa. Can that truly be called sacrifice, which is simply acknowledging a great debt that I owe to God? A debt that I could never repay. Is it emphatically, I'm sorry, it is emphatically no sacrifice. Rather, it is a privilege. Anxiety, sickness, suffering, danger, forgoing the common conveniences of this life? These may make us pause and cause the spirit to waver and the soul to sink, but let this only be for a moment. All these are nothing compared to the glory which shall later be revealed in and through us. I have never made a sacrifice Of this we ought not talk when we remember the great sacrifice that He made for us. People congratulated David Livingston for the sacrifice he made and he said all I did was not a sacrifice at all. It was a privilege. And I think Christians sometimes we uh we have the wrong spirit and mentality about what we're doing for God Oh I'll sacrifice and I'll I'll work in the nursery two Sundays a month. I'll give up sitting in the auditorium on Sunday morning. And deal with the screaming babies for 45 minutes twice a month. I'll sacrifice for God and do that. Now listen, I'm glad that you do it and we appreciate it and it's valuable and it's needed and and it's very important because we need people to watch the kids so the kids aren't in the auditorium screaming. I'll tell you what, I listen to some messages on on sermon audio sometimes. And I can't even listen to the message on sermon audio because the the the baby is screaming so loud you can't hear the pastor even directly through the microphone. And I can't imagine how obnoxious that is in the auditorium trying to listen to the speaker. This is very important. We need people to work in the nurseries. But we ought not feel like this is a great sacrifice that we're giving to people God. It ought to be a privilege to serve God. Just a privilege. Man, I'm glad to do it. Let me do it. I'm available. They sacrificed. They gave gold, frankincense, and myrrh. We don't have time to get into and talk about what these represent. There's uh many ways we could apply that. It could be a whole lesson in a But then last year I want you to see that they sought his protection. And being warned of God in a dream, they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country, another You remember Herod said, Hey, when you find Jesus, come and tell me where he is, so I can come and worship him. We of course know that's not what he wanted to do. We know that uh he wanted to do away with Jesus. And uh so God warned them and they went away and and they did they did what they had to do to protect Christ. And what I'm saying is for you and I as Christians, we bear the name of Christ. We are Christians. What are we doing to protect? What are we doing to lift high and hold up the name of Christ? That testimony that Christians should have in the world. There's far too many Christians destroying the name of Christ. Just dragging the name of Christ through the mud and and the way that they act and behave and and communicate and the way they deal with business and We shouldn't be that way. We should always do whatever we have to to protect the name of Christ. Whatever we have to do. Say, hey, it's not about us. It's not about getting my revenge or getting even personally. It's about, hey, I'm a Christian. And it's about protecting the name of Christ. And holding that up first and foremost. They wanted to protect him from the attacks of this world. And we live in a world today that attacks Christ on every front. And as Christians, are you willing to stand for Him? One thing that's noteworthy is they came to Christ one way and they left another. It's a little bit of a stretch, but you know when you come to Christ you don't lead the same way. When you've been with Jesus, you're different. And hopefully this Christmas season you'll be able to spend some time with Jesus and you'll go away a little bit different than when you came. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today and this time in Sunday school. We thank you for these wise men that came to you and worshipped you, recognizing the Messiah that you were. Bringing you gifts, willing to sacrifice and follow the life they had. And Lord, these simple lessons that we learned from how they handled themselves, I pray that we would learn and apply to our lives and handle ourselves accordingly. May we always stand for you and lift high the name of Christ. Having that is of utmost importance, not so much about us, but about Jesus. Would you agree with us as we go into the morning service? Maybe a great time together as a church family. And uh The kids have a wonderful time in acknowledging and recognizing the gifts that were given by the church. And Lord, I pray that you would help us as we remember your birth this week. And we thank this in Jesus' name. Amen.