We have looked this morning at the idea of discipleship, about being a discipler and having the desire to disciple others. As I prayed about today, I thought about taking this morning and dealing with just the desire to be a disciple. And tonight with the idea of discipling others, but I felt that everybody that was here this morning needed both sides. So I could not adequately deal with our call to be a disciple that is given to us by Jesus Christ in the Word of God. I couldn't adequately deal with it, and so I wanted to come back tonight to really what I would look at as the heart of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Those people that feel that this is their church, this is their home, they want to please God, they desire to know more and be more like God. And hopefully motivates you as I have been motivated in the last week in contemplating these thoughts. Turn your Bibles to the book of Luke, chapter number 14. Luke chapter number fourteen. A familiar passage of scripture in which we're giving three uh admonitions limitations or restrictions on who might be a disciple of Jesus Christ. All three of them found here in this one passage of Scripture, we're going to read it. And I won't spend very long on each point, but I hope just sufficient to drive it home to your heart and maybe motivate and stir you to desire to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Tonight the title of the message is The Desire. to be a disciple. Do you have a desire? Is this something that you want? I hope it is. We have here in our text, Luke chapter 14, verses number 24 through 27, is where we find these three admonitions. You watch for them as we read through the text. He says, For I say unto you that none of those men which are bidden shall taste of my supper. And there went great multitudes with him, and he turned, and he said unto them, If any man come to me. And hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sister, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. Restriction number one. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Restriction number two For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it. Lest he happily after he hath laid the foundation and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king going to make war against another king sitteth not down first and consulteth whether he be able to with ten thousand to meet Him that cometh against him with twenty thousand. Or else, well, the other is yet a great way off. He sendeth an ambassador and desireth conditions of peace. So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath cannot be. My disciple. We have these three demands, these three limitations, restrictions on those that would be disciples. Of Jesus Christ, as I touched on or alluded to this morning, Jesus did not say, Oh, I want to have lots and lots of disciples, so I'm going to make my requirements for discipleship easier. And lighter and more appealing to the masses. He gave them very clearly here, if you desire to be, this great multitude is following him And there are great multitudes that follow Jesus from afar off. There are many who are saved and trust Jesus Christ. But they have not made the decision to be a disciple and to follow after Christ. And Jesus said, if you want to be a disciple. There's three things that are necessary. First of all, there is an unrivaled love for Christ. What a fitting song we just sang. My Jesus, I love thee. An unrivaled love given to us in verse 26. If any man come unto me and hate not his father and mother and wife and child and brother and sister. He cannot be my disciple. This comparison that's given to us deals with the priority of our love. The love that we have for God over all others The love that we have for Jesus must transcend and supersede the love that we have for our mates, the love that we have for our children. Christian, this is something that many, many, many people face. And I told you I won't be long, so I'm not going to belabor this point, but I want you to understand when Jesus requires something of you that your family doesn't understand. The choice to love and follow God should come first. And what our family thinks or what they feel and how they are going to react to it should come second. But we love and please God first. We don't put family first and hope God understands. We put God first and hope our family understands. Because we are called to love him first and foremost. That means when your family comes to town to visit. And they're only going to be there three days, and you get up and you say you're going to go to church. And they say, What are you doing? I'm only here for three days. You say, Well, you didn't have to come on a Sunday. Someday I'm gonna be in church. I would love it if you'd come with me. But God comes first. My love for God supersedes my love for you, and I love you, grandma, or I love you, mom and dad. I love you a lot, but God comes first. And this could go and apply to so many areas in our life, and I've seen it over and over again where family and friends have pulled Christians Away from God because, in fact, their love for their friend and what they thought their friend thought, or their love for their mom or dad, or what their mom and dad thought, was greater to them than their love for God They could stand in church and sing about how much they love Jesus. But when asked to make a decision for Christ or for family, family comes first. They say all the time the phrase blood is thicker than water. That's because the water of baptism and our commitment to follow Jesus Christ And our love for our family. Blood is thicker than water. That I'm going to do whatever my family comes first, and whatever Christ wants comes second. That's where we're at. He says: unless you choose to hate your mother or your brother or your sister or your father, you cannot be my disciple. A person who refused to leave family for the service of Christ cannot be a true disciple of Jesus Christ One man said that he would follow Christ if he could first go and bury his dead father. Anyone remember what Jesus told them? Let the dead bury the dead. Peculiar saying, but not peculiar for that day. We understand that a physical death is a separation of the soul from the body. A spiritual death is a separation of the soul from God. What he was saying is he said, let the spiritually dead bury the physically dead. Those people that don't aren't called by God and love God, he's saying have some have a right priority in your life. If somebody's got to do that, let somebody do it that's already spiritually dead. Have some priorities in your life. We, of course, understand that our love for Christ should exceed our love for our kin. The word hate here is not an absolute hate, it's a comparative hate It is in comparison to. My love for Christ should so far outweigh and exceed my love for my family that in comparison, it looks like hate. I really do not like or care for chocolate ice cream. And if you put chocolate brownies in it, it makes it worse. And when you put chocolate fudge on top, now it's I just really am not interested in it. I know some of you, man, you're you're like, yeah, give it to me. More chocolate the better. Now on occasion when there is nothing else in the house, I've been known to take the tub of chocolate ice cream. And eat a few scoops. Not a lot. I'll eat two or three and I'm reminded why I don't really like it. I don't hate it. I just don't really care for it. But in comparison to how much I like cookies and cream ice cream, in comparison to how much I like a vanilla sundae with caramel on top. Yeah, I probably hate chocolate ice cream. That's what he's talking about. In comparison, our love for Christ should so far outweigh our love for our family. That he comes first. He goes one step further and really drives it home when he says that our love for Christ should exceed our love for ourselves. It should exceed the love that we have for ourselves. He said, yea, and his own life also. This puts it right down into the realm of us as individuals. For there is no baser sense of the natural man than that of self-preservation. There is nothing a man will not do to preserve his own life in a natural sense, in a natural setting Satan knows this, and when he approached God in the book of Job, he said, and Satan answered the Lord and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. And God says, you gotta come to the place where you love me more than your own life. You see, the natural man is about self-preservation, but the spiritual man stands with Paul and says, None of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself. Our life doesn't matter. Except that we fulfill and finish the course that God has called us to. If you're not willing to forsake all else to love and follow Christ first, you cannot be my disciple. He gives us an unrivaled love and he gives us We understand we need an undying loyalty, an unending loyalty, an unending loyalty, a loyalty to Christ that cannot be swayed with the tides. With the changing of the times, with the good days of the bad, or with the sun shining or the storm. He said, And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me. He cannot be my disciple. There's going to be some hardships that we have to endure. And it's going to take a commitment an unending loyalty to Jesus Christ, to bear up our cross and to carry it, to do what God wants us to do, to accomplish His will for our lives. We've got to be so committed to him, this unending loyalty to him, that no matter the storm, no matter the trial, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I will do what he wants me to do. I am committed to him wholly. The take up your cross is a symbol of shame. It's a symbol of suffering. It's a symbol of even death. Are you willing to take up your cross? The world rejected him before he rejected you. Are you willing to live rejected and despised by men? Does the preacher have to twist and argue and push and motivate To get you to do what God wants you to do? Or do you willingly take up your cross If we have an unending loyalty to Christ, it won't take any external motivation. We'll be looking for it. We'll be desiring it. At the slightest prodding, the slightest leading of the Holy Spirit We'll be saying, yes, Lord, because you come first, because I love you most of all. You won't be arguing the fine points of scripture trying to determine what you can get away with and still be inside God's favor. If there's any question at all, you'd say, oh, well then let's not do that. Oh, let's let's do that. That's what God desires, that's what I want to do You've got to take up your cross and come after him. Suffering you may have to endure. The godly shall suffer persecution You know, the godly cell shall suffer persecution. If you're not suffering? Any persecution? The Bible says the godly shall suffer persecution. If you're not enduring some level of persecution, You might question your level of godliness. How godly are you? Vance Habner said, as long as the church bore scars. They made headway. When they began to wear medals, they languished. It takes an unending loyalty, an unrivaled love, and it takes an unsurpassed longing. In verse number 33, he says, so likewise whoever he be of you that forsake not all that he hath. Cannot be my disciple. God didn't leave anything to question here. In this list of things that He requires of those who desire to be a disciple of His There's no wondering what you might have to go through. There's no question about what you might get to hold on to. You've got to come to the place where you say nothing else matters. I'm willing to let it all go. I count my life but loss. Everything, nothing else concerns me. Except being a disciple of Jesus Christ and fulfilling his will, we let it all go. When I work, instead of being in church, I'm not forsaking all else Instead, I'm looking to get a little more and still be a disciple. Any time we put Things of this world, people of this world, possessions, anything that we put in front of Jesus Christ. Limits our ability to be a disciple. So Christ gives the admonition to count the cost. Look at it. Realize this is what I'm asking of you. Do you want to be a disciple? Then would you just Consider the caution. The one that goes to war. There's going to be some battles that you'll have to fight. Satan never shows you the pain, he just shows you the promise. He just shows you the fun time that you get to have. The promise of success, the promise of of of joy, the promise of of fulfillment. But we know Satan's a liar and the father of it. And we know the path that he wants to take us down. leads not to those promises that are empty, but to a life of pain. But the promises received from Jesus Christ are true. And although we will endure hardness as a good soldier, we will see God do great and mighty things. To be a disciple, I must be willing to let it all go. Now you might not have to let it all go. God might might not require you to go sell all that you have and follow Him. But what if he says sell this and meet that need? That's just one thing. And we say, Lord, I'm sorry. I'm not ready to give that up. And God's resounding reply would be, then you're not ready to be a disciple. The symbol of discipleship is one with open and upturned hands It's all yours, God. Whatever you want to do with my life, whatever direction you want to take me. I have no plans or aspirations of my own. I'm not setting forth goals to go and be this or do this. I desire first and foremost to please you. Whatever you want me to do, God, I have these plans, and I'll take the plans and I'll throw them out the window if I if I sense at all that you have another plan for me, Lord. I have these possessions that you blessed me with, and God, they're all yours. Whatever you want to do with them, God, wherever you want to take them, however best they serve your cause, Lord. It's all yours because none of it's mine, God. It's yours, whatever you want to do It's an open, upturned hand yielding to God yourself and saying, I'm yours. And everything you blessed me with is yours. High desire to be a disciple. Lord says that is somebody that can be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Jesus does not ask anything of us that he did not do. Jesus left his Father And came down to dwell among those that hated him Jesus left the wealth, the power of heaven. And came and dwelt in this earth where the Bible says he had no place to lay his head. You see, Jesus gave up his father for you. Jesus gave up all of his position for you Jesus picked up his cross and carried it up a hill for you He's not asking anything from you that he did not do himself. And then he turns and he says, Will you be my disciple? Will you? Then pick up your cross and follow me. Follow me The days of seeing God do great things at Hunt Valley Baptist Church are not done. We're going to see great and mighty things. We're going to see God do miraculous things in the hearts and lives of people. And I believe it's going to start right in the hearts of these people in this room. That yield to him and say, Lord, I want to be a disciple of you. I want to follow you. Put you first with an unsurpassed love and unending loyalty. Lord, I pray you do this tonight. Use this moment of invitation. May your will be done in every heart. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.