You know, kind of taken a break for the month of February and had special speakers and we have uh divided Sunday school class. The The uh men in the auditorium, the ladies in here, that went really well for the ladies. They certainly enjoyed it. I've heard many ladies comment on how they feel we should do that more often. The problem is is the other half does not feel we should do that more often. And so we have some major division here in the church. Uh no, not really. I think things went good and it was a good time. Uh but we're back together and uh you can turn in your Bibles to the book of Exodus. Uh we were of course studying uh together the Uh Ten Commandments. That's what we had been working on and had been looking at that. So it is we're approaching that in our daily reading. But in Exodus chapter 20. We find the list of the ten commandments that are given here in the first 17 verses. Because it's been some weeks since We have looked at this. Let's read these commandments together, then we will review them and then hopefully try and get into today's lessons. Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 through verse number 17. And God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and the fourth generation of them that hate me. and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work, thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy maidservant, nor thy thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger, that is within thy gates For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth and sea, the sea and all that is in them is, and he rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness. Against thy neighbor, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox. nor his ass, nor anything that is in thy neighbors, that is thy neighbors. The list here of the commandments So let's review those with the particular uh hand motions. There's been many ways that I have been taught to memorize or learn the Ten Commandments over the years. Uh as a young person, uh course just give being given a list. And here's a list, just learn them. uh we learned them like that and then uh sometime when I was a teen I started seeing a production of different types of graphics and they have uh graphics that are designed to put an image in your mind and And that image uh correlates with the commandment, which is supposed to help with uh retention and memory of the of those things. I can only remember a few of those particular graphics. And kind of the idea like I remember the six was made out to be like a six gun and uh you know, the sixth commandment is thou shalt not kill. And so the graphic was kind of combined with the number for you to be able to remember those. But really Bar and on this this has been the most effective way I think that I've ever seen to remember the Ten Commandments is with the hand motions, they go very well, and then you have them with you all the time. So let's review those the first commandments. Number one, pointing to the sky, is thou shalt have no other gods before me. Number two, you take this two, you got for the second one, and The one hand bows down to the other. And that is thou shalt not set up to thee any graven image, or make unto thee any graven image. So thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. Number three, three back to one hand. We keep switching between the two, but number three And take the three fingers and put it to your mouth, and the commandment is the Lord thy God His face. Right. Talking about your speech, your conversation, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Number four, back the two hands, take the two four fingers, put them together like this, like a church steeple. What's the commandment? Thou thou shalt re uh remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Uh number five, one hand and salute. Yep. Uh number six, we reviewed that one already, but you take So number six, take it and shoot it, thou shalt not kill. Number seven, take these. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Take these two fingers, put them together, and put them in this hand, like they're laying down into bed together, putting them together, thou shalt not commit adultery. That's number seven. Number eight, take this hand and grab these like you are stealing them. Grab it and pull it away. The hand, the five fingers goes over the three fingers, thou shalt not steal Number nine is you've got the five, put your hand on the Bible. Thou shalt not bear false witness. The idea of I you know I promise to tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth, so help me God. So you take your hand let left hand put it on the Bible and the four fingers up. I promise to tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth. And then number 10, all ten fingers up and grab and pull to you. Thou shalt not covet. So thou shalt not covet. Those hand motions you'll have all the time, and you can remember those relatively easy. Somebody can ask you, well, what's the fourth commandment? Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. You know? What's the sixth commandment? Thou shalt not kill. What's the seventh commandment? Thou shalt not commit adultery. I mean even if you just you can quickly those hand motions will keep it readily in your mind. You'll not only know the commandments but you'll know which one is which. And uh so great great way to remember those. So this commandment we're looking at today, we're on to the fourth commandment. We've looked at the first three already. The fourth commandment here is remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. This has been debated and discussed probably more than any other commandment. Um because obviously nobody's debating or discussing whether there's been a change in the command of thou shalt not kill. Nobody's uh discussing that. Nobody's saying, Oh, I think it's okay to commit adultery today because of That's not a discussion point. However, there's been much discussion as to this command, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, and and whether we as a people have to do that today or not. And what is what what is our responsibility with this commandment? And why is it here? One of the key things is that this particular commandment is the only one that is not repeated in the New Testament. All of the other commandments are repeated in some form or fashion in the New Testament. They're found there. This particular one is not. So some would say, well, because of that, that commandment has been done away with and we don't have to. remember the Sabbath day. Uh one of the main things there are problems with this commandment is is that idea, a misconception or a misunderstanding with the Sabbath day. And that misunderstanding has started all the way back in the Old Testament and still goes on today in many cultures and groups of people. And people take it both directions, uh you know, to two extremes. But it's debated and discussed whether we as a people have to observe the Sabbath or not. And uh, you know, we just I'm gonna try to give this to you. Now I have over ten pages of information this morning. And the problem is that I usually when I have this much information I want to just I want to run. And I want to get it all out to you. But I think I might sometimes do more harm than good by by just, you know, backing the truck up and unloading it so fast. I want you to get this information because this is something that a lot of people have had questions about, you know, the Sabbath day. More than one person in the church here has asked me specifically about that. What's the difference between between the Sabbath day and the Old Testament and the New Testament and do we have to observe it and what does it mean in Seventh day Adventists? Uh of course with one of our president uh nominations or or possibilities Being a Seventh-day Adventist, there's a lot of questions with, well, why do they worship on Saturday? And and what does that mean for us? Why don't we worship on Saturday? And a lot of questions with regards to that. So I want to uh dive into this commandment and hopefully give you you some insight uh into this and to the debate about it and then hopefully uh answer some of those questions and then I'll tell you what I believe our responsibility is with regards to this command. The chances of us getting this done today are zero. But we will get through a bit of it and kind of lay the groundwork. And mostly I want you to to learn from it. I want you to get some some questions you might have answered. So if you have a question, jot it down, and if we can, we'll take time at the end, but I'll certainly answer your question individually or via email or maybe even next time. we come together I'll be able to answer it uh publicly for everybody. But uh I want it I want this to be very informative as as a rule for us as a people. Uh so a couple things about this commandment just by way of introduction and this commandment and compared to the others. This is the longest of the commandments. This has more information here than any other one, more words in the commandments, so it's the longest of all the commandments. It's the only one that starts with the word remember. Um and sometimes even right now when we were saying them that'll throw you off because we want to start thou shalt not, thou shalt not, and then this one starts remember. Uh and uh so I think there's a possibility that the word remember there he's encouraging them to remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy because this was not something that as a general rule in This was a new commandment to them. Not new to God, we know the first time we see a Sabbath observed Sabbath means rest. The first time we see a Sabbath observed is in Genesis chapter 2, when God rested He he worked for seven days, and the example is given to us right here in this commandment that, hey, you remember Jesus he worked seven or God when he created the earth he rested. After he worked six days he worked and then he rested. And uh so the first time we see that, God knew about this, but uh the first time it's mentioned in the scriptures uh at all is in Exodus chapter 16. So just a few chapters back from where we are. In Exodus chapter 16, I'll just read these references for you. And I'm going to give you a lot of Bible as we go through this, but Exodus 16, verses number 23. And verse 29. And in this passage of scripture you know that the the Israelites were supposed to go out daily and gather their manna They were supposed to go gather the food God was providing for them. And he said unto them, This is that which the Lord hath said. Tomorrow is the rest of the Holy Sabbath. unto the Lord. Bake that which ye will bake today, and see that ye will see that which remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning. See for that, 29. See for that the Lord hath given you the Sabbath, therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two days. Abide ye every man in this place, let no man go out of his place on the seventh day. So the idea of the Sabbath is introduced there. And then here in this commandments he's given to them, he says, Hey, remember the Sabbath. Remember the Sabbath. Um this particular commandment here, this fourth commandment concludes the commandments that deal with our relationship towards God. Do you remember the division here? The dividing uh commandment is commandment number five, where we honor my honor your mother and father, and that's the division of commandments. The rest of the commandments deal with our relationship with man. and how we respond to man. These first four commandments deal with our relationship to God. And uh first of all, the first commandment is that uh thou shalt have no other gods before me That re teaches us that we are to worship God completely. If we shouldn't have anything else left uh to worship anybody else or anything else, we're not We're not supposed to leave room to worship any other thing. We are to worship no other God before me completely. The second commandment is uh thou shalt not make unto thee any graven images. We are supposed to worship God correctly. We aren't supposed to set up graven images and oh I want to worship God and I want to honor Him so I'm going to set up this pulpit so that I can reference that that's going to be God for me. I in my mind I'm thinking about God in heaven, but I want to be able to see something So I'm going to set this up. God said that's not correct. You've got to worship God correctly. And then the third commandment, we are supposed to worship God. And I to keep my alliteration correct, uh i I put candidly. Uh the third commandment is thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. But the idea is sincerely. Worship God sincerely. Having uh the right kind of uh heart and what we say and uh you know honoring him in that in that way not taking the Lord God his name in vain and this fourth commandment here remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy is we are to honor God consistently Consistently. These four commandments deal with our relationship to God and what he expects from us. As we get into the rest of the commandments, we'll learn about how they deal with us and our fellow, fellow men. But uh first of all, I want us to look at the day. This is the bulk of our study, the day, that is the Sabbath day. Much discussion has been around this commandment and misunderstood concerning this, the Sabbath day. Let me just say that we as a church meet on the first day of the week, um, not the Sabbath. And Because there's so much discussion about this or misunderstanding about it, there's many people that are in church today that feel or believe that they are in church on the Sabbath. Like we go to church on the Sabbath, don't we? We're Christians, don't we observe the Sabbath? Um but the Sabbath is Saturday. And so that was yesterday. We uh worship and observe the principle of the Sabbath. on Sunday, not on Saturday. Saturday is the Sabbath. A lot of people get this confused, but every um We the the the principle or the idea of the Sabbath could be observed at any time. And that is the idea of rest. and to remember remember. We are supposed to rest and remember. That is the Sabbath. And there's times in the Bible when God commanded his people to observe a Sabbath That was not on a Saturday. They were supposed to, uh there's one, I think it's a Feast of the Tabernacles that's supposed to be observed on the 15th of the month. And that was a Sabbath. Well, the fifteenth of the month is not going to fall on Saturday all the time. But they were to observe a Sabbath on the fifteenth for the Feast of the Tabernacles. Which wasn't on a Saturday. So the it's the principle or the idea of observing a Sabbath, not necessarily the particular day of the week week that it was. Um a lot of times the conflict comes when you get into the two extremes, the two extreme thoughts, and that is that hey this is And this is what was happening back in the Old Testament, uh and even in the New Testament when And uh the fairs and Pharisees and the scribes uh would they had come up with, I think it was in Three or four hundred and I'm sorry I don't have the number on the top of my head, but they had come up with uh uh the rabbinical law had been added to Way beyond this. They had 300 or 400 of their own laws specifically with regards to the Sabbath day that they could or couldn't do on the Sabbath day to observe it properly. And if they did do something against one of those laws, then they broke the Sabbath, which we know Jesus continually was in conflict with the Pharisees over this issue. the Sabbath. They would always uh you know, he healed somebody on the Sabbath, and they would come and, you know, what how could you do that on the Sabbath? You know? And they they were they were way beyond observing the principle of it. and had added to it so s succinctly or so so gr greatly. Um they took care of and and And added to many, many goofy things like one principle that they had was on the Sabbath day, you course you're not supposed to work. And so in order to keep you from working, they had lots and lots and lots of of rules with regards to that what you could and could not do, what was considered work and what was not considered work. And one was you were allowed to carry the weight of one fig, uh or a half a fig, without working. That was not considered work if you were carrying something that was the weight of a half half of a fig. However, if you were carrying the half of a fig or the weight of the half of a fig and you set it down, you couldn't pick that item up again because then that would equal a whole fig, and you weren't allowed to carry a whole fig on the Sabbath. So once you set it down, you couldn't pick it up again. This is rabbinical law that was instituted uh as a rule to observe the Sabbath. Uh then there was the other extreme that um Hey, this is the Sabbath and we don't observe the Sabbath anymore, and so we don't have to do anything. We don't have to observe the Sabbath. We can we can do whatever we want because we're under the New Testament. We're not under uh under the law anymore. And so they sacrifice the principle of the Sabbath uh on the altar of profit and pleasure. And they go the other extreme. Then they say, well we don't we don't observe the Sabbath, so we're just gonna do whatever we want. We're gonna go boating on on Sunday or we're gonna go golfing on Sunday, uh or we're gonna work in our yard and get things done that we need to get done uh on Sunday and et cetera. So There needs to be a balance there. So the Sabbath day explained the word Sabbath it comes from a Hebrew word that uh means to rest. To rest. Um there is also a cinnamon of that or whatever that uh deals with the idea of the seventh and it is the seventh of a period of time. The seventh day, the seventh month, the seventh year, uh, and so there is uh a emphasis here on the number seven and on the idea of resting. God's command here in the book of Exodus was on rest. If you read the command again, tell me where and there do you find the The idea of worship there is is not in that command. The emphasis here in the command in in Exodus is on resting. Uh and this is something that God knew that we as a people needed There is some principles with regards to worship that we believe are critical and important and it goes back to the word remember If we start with that word, remember the Sabbath day, that can kind of lead us that direction, and there's lots of other things that we'll get into as we get a little bit further. But the focus here is on resting Everyone, even the beast, was supposed to rest. Even their animals, even their maid servants. They weren't supposed to well we were supposed to rest, but these guys have to work. Everybody was supposed to be given th a r the right to rest. to fail to observe the Sabbath to rest in Exodus chapter 31, verses 12 through 17, uh they would kill you. If you didn't observe the Sabbath. This was very important. I mean, people that didn't observe the Sabbath were put to death. Uh and And so that was Exodus chapter 31, verses 12 through 17, if you want to read that. But the Sabbath in its function is to give the body rest, to give the land rest, to give the animals rest, and God knew what we as a people needed. During the French Revolution, the humanist abolished Sunday. and put people to work for seven days a week. However, the health of the nation suffered drastically and they reinstituted Sunday as a nation. They reinstituted because the health of the nation fell so drastically when that was the case. In uh communist Russia at one point they instituted a ten day work week So they were still going to give a day of rest, but it was going to be every 10 days instead of every seven days. We're going to have a 10-day work week because we as a nation we want to produce. We want to be more productive. We want to get more. We want to pass America. We want to excel. And as the the national pride pushed the people to agree to this and yeah, let's do it. Let's have a 10-day work week And the nation suffered. And they had to go back to a seven-day week. Because God knows what our bodies need. And what we as a people are designed to take. It was designed to give our bodies the rest that we need. The Sabbath seen in the Bible. Here's one thing that's important to note when we talk about the idea of the Sabbath with regards to those that would want to observe it today. You don't hear any of them talking about wanting to observe the other Sabbath. There are seven or eight Sabbaths that are mentioned in the scriptures. And They were just as much a command for the people to observe as the Sabbath day. But you don't hear people talking about wanting to observe these other Sabbaths. I'm just going to give you a couple of them. God commanded his people to observe the Sabbath. In Exodus chapter 16, we read that one. That was where they talked about going and getting their food and not not you know preparing for the next day. Um and Exodus chapter twenty, verse number eight, which we're looking at right now. And then Exodus 31, verse number 17. Those all together uh deal with the same Sabbath, and that is of the observance of a seven-day work week and uh uh setting aside a day of rest. This is to commemorate or to remember what God had done for them. In Exodus uh thirty-one seventeen uh tells us that this was a sign between me and the children of Israel forever. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed. So this was a sign between His people and God himself. So there's one small clue that we have in as far as our responsibility of observing the Sabbath on Saturday, et cetera, is that this Sabbath that's given to us here in this chapter was given as a sign uh between him and his people, between the Israelites, God's chosen people. There was an agricultural Sabbath in Leviticus chapter 25, verses 1 through 8. The seventh year was to be a year of rest for the land. Now if you're a farmer or you grew up on a farm, you understand that farmers today rotate their crops because they realize that if they plant beans every year that the field will be sucked of all the nutrients that beans need to live will be gone and they won't be able to grow beans anymore. So they rotate their crops and they plant beans for a couple years and then they plant corn for a couple years and then they plant something else for a couple years and that allows the soil to re recover from the nutrients the beans took out and that the corn took out. And this is again God's design, by God's design, that we are to have a time of rest. But those that want to observe the Sabbath strictly, you don't hear much talk about that, about wanting to let the land rest for a year. You talk about planning, even financial planning. You had to plan to rest for a year. You couldn't take your crops. You would have to plan and say, okay, we're going to store up these things. Now anything that grew naturally, like let's say they planted a field and next year they got some residual corn came up or whatever, that was available to all. Anybody who wanted it could take it You couldn't cultivate and harvest the land, but the anything that happened to grow, people could eat. But anybody could eat it So you couldn't like get it and try and sell it for profit on those off years. Um but that was a Sabbath that was uh instituted or or observed by God's people. There was the seasons of Sabbaths that were given to God's people in Leviticus chapter 23. There's just a list there. Leviticus chapter 23 has seven or eight Sabbaths that the people were supposed to observe, and that is the feast of the tabernacles, the feast of the uh the trumpets. the Saturday, the Sabbath day for them. Now every Saturday is a Sabbath, but not every Sabbath is a Saturday. As I explained earlier, that they had to observe on the 15th, which was not necessarily Saturday. But every Saturday is a Sabbath day But not every Sabbath is a Saturday. So the Seventh-day Adventist, who feel it's very important to worship on this day, on the Saturday. They even teach that those that don't worship on Saturday are already bearing the mark of the beast. The Seventh-day Adventists teach that churches like ours are bearing the mark of the beast because we do not observe the Sabbath. We do not uh Hold worship services on Saturday, we do it on Sunday. But the fact of the matter is that they are on the wrong side of the cross. The Sabbath, the seventh day, was a sign between God and His people, and the Sabbath was a shadow or a picture of things to come. And when Jesus came, he fulfilled the law. And we're going to get into that some more, but uh it was not a matter of Uh Jesus fulfilled the law, brought completion to that, and that we no longer have to worship the shadow because Jesus came. So Let me give you the development. We've got about five minutes and then I got to close. A couple minutes here. The development of where does this change? How does this change? When did it change where we don't observe the Sabbath like they did in the Old Testament? Why do we worship on Sunday? And what does it apply how does it apply to us? Obviously it's in the Ten Commandments. We are to observe the Sabbath, but will we observe the principle of the Sabbath? On Sunday. Where do you see this change? Where do we see it in the Bible that that it's uh changed for us? Um So in the Old Testament, the Sabbath was clearly taught to be observed and kept on Saturday. Today we worship or observe this principle of the Sabbath on Sunday Here we I mentioned already that the command tells us to remember. They were to remember the day that they were brought out of bondage. They were to remember that day. You remember when you were put into bondage? You remember when you were in Egypt? In Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse number 15, he says, and remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt. And that the Lord thy God brought thee out thence through a mighty hand and by a stressed-out arm, therefore the Lord thy God commanded thee to keep the Sabbath day So he said, you remember, you were in Egypt, you were in bondage, and God brought you out. He said, now thou remember to keep the Sabbath day. That's Deuteronomy 5, verse number 15. You see, they had no rest when they were slaves. They were in bondage. They were in slavery. They were being persecuted and made to work continually. They had no rest. And yet God brought them out. He said, remember when I brought you out. Now I'm going to give you this thought and I'm going to close. So if you can stay with me just for another two minutes. Okay? You and I, we were in bondage. We were in bondage to our sin. And we observe the principle of the Sabbath when we remember How Jesus brought us out of that. That's what God did for his people. And he said, Remember when you were in bondage in Egypt, and I brought you out, and I freed you, and I gave you rest. Finally, they could rest. Remember when God brought you out of bondage. And you were a slave to sin, but God brought you out and he gave you rest. You see, uh Jesus said I'm gonna misquote it, my mind just went blank. Come unto me, you that are weary, heavy laden, for I give you rest. Jesus gives us that rest. We get that from him and we are to remember how he brought us out. There's some other things I want to teach you about this, but we're out of time today. And uh but go with that claw go with that idea when remembering the Sabbath. Remember what Jesus did for us and he brought us out of sin and slavery to it. Lord, we pray you would go with us as we go into the morning service. You speak to our hearts, bless everything that's said and done, Lord. I ask if there's one in the service today that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, I pray today it could be the day that they are brought out of bondage to sin and freed and be able to experience the rest that they can have. In Jesus Christ. Lord, would you uh bless this service now and thank you for all those that are here. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.