Last week, the homework that we had to read or the passages that we were going to prepare for today. uh uh I said that we were going to talk about uh the shepherd psalms. And so you can turn in your your Bible to uh Psalm chapter we'll start off in Psalm 22 Psalm 22, and that's where we'll begin. And we're going to go through Psalm 22, 23, and 24, which is what I have called the shepherd Psalms. So the shepherd Psalms, Psalm twenty-two, twenty-three, and twenty-four We have a lot of material to cover, so you'll have to forgive me. Uh this was a very uh thorough and exhaustive, not completely exhaustive, because there's so much more that uh I could have gone into, but uh obviously I tried to condense uh these three Psalms together. So hopefully you're there in Psalm 22 and we'll go through 22, 23, and 24. We're gonna see tonight. These three psalms that were written by David, and I call them or they're called many times, and it's not just me that calls them, we call them the shepherd psalms Many, many uh the what we're gonna look at today is we're gonna look at different perspectives uh of the shepherd. The Shepherd. And we're looking at that that would be either from the perspective of God Himself or God incarnate through Jesus Christ. uh or God uh as we're going to see him in the future uh and and we'll look at that uh tonight. So the the the part the things that we're gonna learn today are about God and about So the purpose a lot of times of of of the psalms is to express things to God. But also one of the purposes of the Psalms is to praise God. So there's a an expression that's mentioned to God, things that were uh uh uh talking to God about. Many times we see those as a prayer and then also to praise God, to to thank him, to to praise him for something that he's done. And there's also another uh thing that we look at that that's important for us to look at, which is to learn about God. It's to learn about who God is, how God acts And that's why what I mean by looking at God and His character. So there's three Psalms that we're going to go through. The first one is Psalm 22, then we'll go over 23. And then we'll go over 24. And a lot of these may be obviously tw Psalm 23 is probably one of the most familiar Psalms across of humanity. It's something that's very familiar. But let's look at Psalm 22 and uh 23, 24. So one of the things that you'll see in your notes. And uh you'll see the the heading that I that I put down that we named it. Uh that's where the blank is. And then there's a biblical passage that goes along uh the next line that says, like the first one is the Good Shepherd. And I'll read to you that passage so that you can see and you can have why it is that this is mentioned. And these are three terms of the shepherd that are mentioned straight out of the Bible. The good shepherd, the great shepherd, and the chief shepherd shepherd are all mentioned in the scriptures. We'll go over those verses and how they relate and how we'll we'll see we'll we'll put them together with with these psalms. So the first one that we look at is Psalm number twenty-two. Psalm number twenty-two And this is the psalm about what we will call the Crucified Shepherd. The Crucified Shepherd. If you read this psalm, you will see very clearly the the pictures and the words and the uh visual representation of Christ on the cross. And that's what this uh this verse is about, or this psalm is about. The verse that goes along with it is John 10, verse 11. And Jesus is talking to his disciples, and in John 10, verse 11, he says this. He says, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. And so this psalm is about the good shepherd who's giving his life for the sheep. And so certainly something that we understand. As Christians, it's something that we believe in. And we don't always get a chance to talk about some of these things that we're going to talk about tonight. And so hopefully this will encourage you and help you to understand about who God is and what God did for us. And so that's really what's important to learn from Psalm 22. Psalm 22 is known as the crucifixion psalm or the psalm of the cross. There have been some that I've I've heard I was listening to a sermon in preparation for this, and one person said that there's over 33 prophecies. about the cross in this in this psalm, Psalm 22. Now because we're going through uh three Psalms tonight, we're gonna we're not gonna have a chance to go through and to dissect each one. little by little, but we'll go through uh them uh uh quite a bit at a time and so that we can point some things out. Um frankly we don't know what occasion What brought about the writing of this psalm? Many times we can look at an event in David's life. We know David wrote it. And we can look at an event in David's life and say, well, this may be a time where he wrote this psalm. This may be, you know, obviously we talked about that when we talked about the cave psalms. Uh this Psalm is not one that we can really point to and say, maybe in this situation, maybe in that. It's almost as if David wrote this psalm for the sole purpose of prophesying the the crucifixion of Christ. And that's very possible. The Bible talks about David being called a prophet. And David being a prophet was given by God information and inspired writing about what was going to come to pass, even though he had no understanding. And we'll go into that a little bit about how amazing it is that these things are put together in the scriptures, even by David. So we don't know what occasion it was that he wrote this, but this psalm can be viewed from two different sections. Verses 1 through 21 talks about uh the sob, the the cry of the crucified. And verses 22 through 31 looks at it a little bit different, a perspective. It's a little bit more of a praise part of the psalm. And 22 through 31 is the song of the glorified. But as you go through this psalm, we'll just walk through it a little bit, point out a couple things here and there. In verse 1, it starts off to the chief musician upon Ijaleth Shahar. a Psalm of David, so we know who wrote it. We're not entirely sure what Ijaleth Shahar means. It's possible that it was an instrument. It's possible um uh that it's a tune. Like uh uh you know many times you'll look at uh a a song and you'll say you can sing it to this tune to the tune of twinkle twinkle And it's something that draws uh uh a reference in somebody's mind. Well that may be what this is talking about, but we're we're not sure what it what it uh what it refers to in terms of the musical uh instruction about it. But then it says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? So that obviously brings us right to the cross, right at the beginning of this verse. It brings us to the cross, and it talks about something that the it's referring to something that Christ himself said while he was on the cross. And that's in Matthew 27, 46. We see that the Bible says, and about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama, Sabakhtanai, that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And the same thing is mentioned a very similar verse almost word for word in Mark chapter 15 verse Verse 34. So this takes us directly right front and center to the cross and uh to the cross upon which Jesus died. And so This idea about uh forsaking, forsaking many times we we we we stop and we think about that. It's like how did God uh uh forsake Jesus Christ. And uh what what we see through this is that the idea that we find here of being forsaken is understand that Jesus for the first time was experiencing something that he had never experienced before. See, when we are are we're born with a sin nature, and something that happened with Adam is that as soon as Adam and Eve sinned, they uh experienced a separation from God. There was something in between them and God. And so there's this idea and and when we talk about uh punishment and we talk about the wages of sin is death Death in and of itself is what? It's a separation from God. And then when we talk about eternal death, you know, the Bible talks about the second death. That's talking about, again, an eternal separation from God. A place where God is separated from you. And that's a pla uh that's mentioning of a place called hell. And so when we're talking about this forsaking, understand that Jesus on the cross for the first time was experiencing a separation from God. Something that he had never experienced before. And so there's this idea that we look at and we see to understand: my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why hast thou turned away from me? And that was because Jesus was experiencing something of separation from God. And then you go on to verse 2. Verse 2 says this, O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not, and in the night season and am not silent. Many, when you look at this, it it just seems almost very plain. Um, but understand that on the cross, there was a time when Jesus was on the cross and it was daytime. Uh uh it says that there was a uh a point the certain hours of the day that he was on the cross, it was day, it was light out. But then we see that uh in the second half of the time he was on the cross, the Bible says that there was darkness And so when we look at that, this may be a reference to those uh times where he was uh there three hours in the in the day and three hours in darkness. That may be a reference to what this is talking about in Psalm 22, verse 2. And then we see in verse, if you just jump down to verse 6, The psalmist says this, but I am a worm and no man, a reproach of men, and despised the people. And and so when we see that, we see uh this reproach, we see it was something that it was uh shameful, it was something that was just uh uh difficult to look upon and and the wording here that the psalmist uses is he says, I am a worm. It's almost like worthless, almost something that isn't worth anything. Just something that's very low, very base. And so here he's saying, I am a worm. And uh that is one of the things that that you know when we understand about the crucifixion There were not everyone was ex or given the uh anyone that was executed, it wasn't just everyone was crucified. Crucifixion was left to the lowest of the low, the low class, the people who were slaves or peasants. Roman citizens many times were not crucified just uh because they were Roman citizens unless they were uh traitors, unless they were treasonous. They were not crucified. But again, this was for people that were low, the low class of society. And so again, we see this is mentioned where in the psalm it says, I am a worm. and no man, a reproach of men. So he was uh a reproach of men. And then you go on, you go to verse seven, and they say this, All they that see me laugh me to scorn, they shoot out the lip and shake their head saying he trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him And when we see that, we we see that the Bible tells us uh that he was mocked. In in Matthew 27, 29, he was mocked. And then in Matthew 39, it says exactly what the set what it says in this passage. It says, And they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads. So that's a reference here to what we're talking about in in verse 7. Then not only the prophecy about how they acted, but what they said, what they said as they were passing him on the cross In verse 8 of Psalm 22 it says, He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him, let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him. And then we we see in Matthew 27, verses 42. And 43, we see that people said to Christ as they passed by, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he be the king of Israel, let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe him. He trusted in God, verse 43. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. So uh again, these are just direct quotes, direct connections that we're talking about the the the time that in that Written, this this psalm is written, and then we're talking directly about the situation on the cross. Now, as you go along, there's As we keep going in this Psalm, it comes to a point in verse 14 through 16 where you start to get very vivid descriptions of this method of execution. And when you look at it, the Bible says, I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted in the midst of my bowels, my strength is dried up like a pot sherd, and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws, and thou hast brought me into the dust of death And then, so understand, I am poured out like water. This was actually a very good description of what was happening on the cross And there's uh medically a lot of things. What people say is that the the act of crucifixion isn't necessarily what kills people. What brought people to the point of death and what caused them to die many times was a collection of all these things happening to the body and the body going into a shock and and dying and a big part of that was because of of Suffocation. What you see is that many times the death by crucifixion caused suffocation and heart failure. And when we talk about this or when we look at this passage, all my bones are out of joint. Understand that as as Jesus was suffering on the cross He was hanging on this cross. And again, remember, this isn't this is something that was gruesome and that that many times as we read the scriptures W perhaps we don't fully get an understanding of what it is that was going on, but the he as he was hanging there, understand that he's trying to lift himself up to get a breath. And He what happened is that as the body is shutting down, the the there's fluid that's building up around his his lungs and around his heart. And so he's not able to breathe properly. And when he tries to leverage his body to breathe properly, it causes more pain and it's uh to the point where there's so much weakness that as he's hanging there Literally the joints are coming out, the hi his joints are are uh coming uh uh losing strength, and he's losing uh strength in his joints. and their joints are his uh his joints are are are out of joint. My heart is like wax, this this Again, m reference to this idea of heart failure, of fluid that's building up around the heart and around the lungs. It is melted in the midst of my bowels. So no longer is it strong, it becomes it's melting. His heart is melting. It's like It's uh losing strength and it's no longer a strong muscle. It's just losing uh losing the strength that it has. And then it goes on in verse 15. He talks about my tongue cleaveth to my jaws We saw this in John 19, 28, where he was saying that he was thirsty. Christ himself said that he was thirsty. And then in verse 16, it says, For dogs have compassed me, the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. And it's amazing, again, this this clear mention of being pierced that is not something that was around at that time. The next thing in verse 18, they part my garments among them and cast lots upon my vesture. This is another one. The garments that were parted by the soldiers we see in Matthew 27, 35. It's in all four Gospels. Matthew 27, 35, Mark 15, 24, Luke 23, 34, and John 19, 23. Now here's the thing. That It's clearly a pop prophecy of what the soldiers did. And the soldiers did not need to do this I i if you look at it in most cases, their f the idea was that usually they would just tear it apart and they would divvy it up amongst themselves. But instead They said, okay, what we'll do is we'll gamble for it and one of us will get to keep this uh vesture. And when we look at the scriptures as a whole, it's amazing because sometimes people will try to cast doubt and say, well You know, I and and even the Pharisees go along this line. They say, well, they manipulated the situation to to uh you know to for somebody that came and took him out of the grave. The Pharisees said that that was Uh that's what was happening. That was the story that they made up. And many times people will accuse uh Christianity and they'll say, Oh well, you know, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, they just uh Manipulated the situation to make it look like Jesus did fulfill these prophecies. Here's the thing. There would have to be so many other People involved in this conspiracy. You would have had to have a group of Roman soldiers who did not care for the Jews, who did not care for the belief or any uh faith that the Jews had, who did not care for the scriptures of the Jews, and what they would have had to do is they would have had to been complicit in this idea to uh to follow through with what the scriptures said. But that's not what happened. It's very clear that the soldiers, uh uh they, you know, if they would have known that they were fulfilling prophecy w by by parting the garment, they probably wouldn't have parted it. But we see all these things came together just as as God said it would, and it's preserved for us all throughout the scripture, but especially we see so much highlighted in this chapter, in this psalm alone, and it's it it's amazing to consider. And then we see later on in verse 22, I will declare thy name unto my brethren in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. And we see that quoted in Hebrews 2, verse 12. saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. Now just some things for us to understand about crucifixion. Crucifixion, as as far as they can tell, or from what I read, the earliest indications that we see of crucifixion used as an execution method was by uh Darius. And if understand that Darius reigned hundreds of years after King David. So King David was close to the millennium B. C. , and Darius was more towards 600 B. C. So you're talking about probably 400 years, it's very likely or very unlikely that David had any exposure to this method of execution known as crucifixion. And what's important for us to look at in this passage or to understand from this passage and from this psalm. Is that we can't deny or put away the fact that Jesus suffered for us. And when we look at this passage We we look at him as the good shepherd. Why? Because he suffered the most cruel death. Um many times there's some people that will say that was just the the worst method of execution in Jesus' time, and that's what Jesus did, almost like it was happenstance. But when we really stop and understand, this was one of the most gruesome, one of the most gross ways to die in history that we've seen in history. Jesus came at that time to suffer that for us. Why? Because the good shepherd gave his life for the sheep. This idea we see in John, we we this word where it says he gave his life for the sheep, the idea is that he laid it down. And we see that later on in verse in John chapter 10, later on in verse 17 and 18 of chapter 10, he says that he laid down his life. for for for the sheep. He laid down his life for us. It's also mentioned in 1 John 3. 16 that he laid down his life. And so there's this idea, understand that the good shepherd, it's important for us to remember, and it's important for us to to not forget to make sure that it's ever In our hearts to understand that Christ gave his life and he suffered for us. For our sin on our behalf. And he did that for you and me. So that helps us to understand one part of God's character is that He was so loving And he was so giving. And he was just so willing to suffer cruel things. For us. That gives us one part of his character. But then we move on to Psalm 23. Psalm 23 then is the the the next Psalm that we're looking at, and we see him as the caring shepherd. The caring shepherd. This is taken from Hebrews chapter 13 verse 20. And the idea here, now I'll read this to you. Now the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep. Through the blood of the everlasting covenant. So the Lord Jesus here is called the great shepherd of the sheep. And the great shepherd of the sheep, who are the sheep? We are the sheep. And when we look at this, understand that we see this is many times called the pearl of the Psalms. And this Psalm really wasn't as so popular up until about the nineteenth century, and uh then people started using it in different things in different books, and there was a preacher that uh uh uh uh went around uh the country and he preached uh many times, mentioned m wonderful things about the Psalms, and then it became part of uh the funeral scripts, if you will, for the Methodist Church in the early 1900s. And so from there it it it began to have the commonality that we see it have today. And it's some lessons from the psalm that this psalm that we see is that God provides. God protects and God accompanies. There's a study that I did a long time ago, or not too long ago, but on the names of God. And there was this little insight that we have that when we look at Psalm 23, we see many of God's names in this verse. And I'll walk through these. for you. It says it's uh Jehovah Rohai, which is the Lord is my shepherd. That's what the that that's what that means. We get the idea, the Bible says, or Psalm 23 says, I shall not want It's the idea of Jehovah Jreh because the Lord provides. Then we see he maketh me to lie down in green pastures. It's he leadeth me beside still waters. That sounds like a peaceful place. So we see there Jehovah Shalom, the Lord is peace. Then we see later on it says, He restoreth my soul. That's Jehovah Rapha, the Lord that heals. Then he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. That's where we see Jehovah Sidkenu, the Lord our righteousness. Thou anointest my head with oil, Jehovah Makadesh, the Lord who sanctifies you And then it talks about dwelling in the house of the Lord, where we see Jehovah Shammah, meaning the Lord is there. So we get these lessons, and another situation where we don't know where uh where or when uh David wrote this psalm. But we know that David was a shepherd. So we get these lessons from the shepherd, lessons from David himself. And there's some interesting lessons that we see. If you ever have opportunity, I think we still have copies in the bookstore. There is a book entitled A Shepherd's Look at Psalm 23, and it takes this uh passage and uh the the writer, the author of that was a shepherd, and so he gives a lot of different perspective that really helps, really illustrates and really uh helps us to understand on a much deeper level about this psalm and about this shepherd psalm, Psalm 23, about the caring shepherd. But we see the Lord provides all the time when the psalmist was was need when the psalmist needed spiritual refreshing. The Bible says that he uh God provided green pastures. One of the things that this this comes out in this book is that the Bible says there, he maketh me to lie down in green pastures. Well, the idea for us to understand is that sheep will not lay down unless they're in a calm, peaceful place. They're very uh uh uh jittery, they they they're uneasy sheep are, but so when they lie down, it's because they're in peace. Unless there's a calmness. When the psalmist, when his soul was weary, the shepherd provided still waters. Now another thing that comes out is that Sheep will not drink from running water. So the shepherd will lead them to still waters where waters are not flowing. And it's because again, they're they're they're shaky, they're they're jittery, they're uh uneasy. And so there the shepherd gives, provides them or takes, leads them to still waters. When the psalmist's soul needed revival, the shepherd restored him. When his soul needed guidance, the shepherd led in right paths. When the soul was confronted with death, the shepherd went with him When his soul was confronted with enemies, the shepherd provided his victory table. When his soul was wounded, the shepherd anointed his head with oil. And hit when his soul needed companionship, the shepherd appointed goodness and mercy And so we get this idea, if you're looking at this psalm, that God is with us, whether it be before us beside us, behind us, in any direction, we see that God is with us. And we see that very clearly here in Psalm 23. There was one man that put it this way. He says, Beneath me green pastures, beside me still waters, with me my shepherd. Before me, a table. Around me, my enemies. Upon me, anointing. After me, goodness and mercy. Beyond me, the house of the Lord. And when we look at this psalm, it's one of the most encouraging psalms about God's character because over and over we see The shepherd is there. The shepherd is providing. The shepherd is there with the sheep. Whether it be caring for us. We see the uh the idea of anointing um the my head with oil. There was a process that the shepherd would take uh the sheep in the evening and would put some oil whether it be on a cut or whether it be uh on some kind of uh that needed healing or something to to help the the the sheep to to heal. There's also something that that that you learn about sheep is that for the most part sheep have no way to defend themselves. They don't have a defense mechanism per se So they need protection. Sheep need protection. And the same thing is true about you and I as sheep. Hey, we we we need God's protection. And so there's a lot of these things that just come to life and come alive as we look at Psalm 23 as we're talking about the character of God and we see him as caring. as loving, as they're with us, present with us. He's there. He's leading us. And the character of God is as the caring shepherd or the great shepherd. Lastly, when we look at Psalm 24, in Psalm 24, it says this is the idea of the conquering shepherd. the conquering shepherd. So we get three different views. We have the view of Christ and what he did in his sacrifice for us, where he's suffering. And then we also see next God with us in in terms of caring for us and protecting us and and guiding us and leading us and then we see uh uh God on the throne, God in victory in Psalm chapter number twenty-four, or Psalm twenty-four. And we hear he is referenced as the conquering shepherd or the chief shepherd. Now this whole idea revolves around 1 Peter 5. 4. When the Bible says this, and when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. The main thing there is talking about when the chief or that that I want to draw your attention to is when the chief shepherd shall appear. Alright? Because there's coming a point where he's coming back. He is returning. He is going to come again. And when we look at Psalm 24, it it points us to this fact because it's taught now this this Psalm Was mi uh uh one of the things that they believe this psalm may have been written at the time when David brought the Ark of the Covenant from the house of Obed-Edom, who was holding it for the time and they were bringing it back to Jerusalem and it was a time of jubilation and a time of celebration. And this psalm, uh many times in the temple worship, it was there was a a morning psalm that was designated to sing. on a specific day. And so there would be a different morning psalm on each day of the week. Psalm 24 was the morning psalm for Sunday. the day Sunday. And many times this points us to uh i i i it to god and for god in his glory and for god on his throne now this psalm The way it was uh done, it it's called antif antif antiphenal psalm, which means there's a there's a there's it was like sung like a choir. And it was sung responsively if you will. And and when you look at it some it's it's it's like there's a a question and then there's an answer. And then there's a question again and then there's an answer. And as you walk through it, it's really neat. The Bible says this. We'll just kind of walk through or read it in 24, one through uh Psalm 24. The earth is the Lord and the fullness thereof, the world and they that dwell therein For he hath founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods, who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place He that hath clean heart, or he that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessing of the Lord and the righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob, Selah. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lift up. ye everlasting doors, and the King of Glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates Even lift them up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of glory. Selah And this passage really, what some would say that it prophesies the triumphal entry of Christ. And when we look at it, we see it especially in verse 7, lift up your heads, O ye gates, and ye, and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors, and the king of glory shall come in. And so there's this idea that when we read it, understand the King of Glory is Christ He's marching in victory. Some would say, and if you look later in the scriptures in 1 Corinthians 2. 8, Jesus is referred to as the Lord of glory. And this some would say this is a called a millennial psalm. A millennial psalm because it's as Christ enters his Dwelling place. So it's the king of glory. It's the king that is going to reign. The king that is on the throne in all his glory, and that's what we see. Now One thing to point out is that in this passage, the gates are mentioned twice. And some believe this is a reference to Christ's coming again. Because we know that uh on the day that he came in riding on the donkey, he came through the gates once in Jerusalem. He rode in to the gates and they they praised him and exalted him and they said, Hosanna, uh uh Hosanna uh Glory to God and the highest and oh that was Christmas, right? Hosanna to the Lord Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. That's what they said. Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. And so when we look at that, we see But there's two references to the gates. So he went the some think that it's because he went through the the the gates the first time on that day, and then he's coming a second time and he's gonna go through those gates And he's gonna reign, and he's gonna reign in J Jerusalem, and he's gonna go through that gate those gates again. And it's a reminder to us that Jesus is coming. He's coming again. And so that's why we have the the conquering shepherd. This is in his victory. This is when Jesus is going to rule and to reign. Now, in your notes, I also put just kind of some comparisons to three different views on the shepherd Psalms right at the bottom. And those are just for you to look at. And Psalm 22 refers to the Savior. Psalm 23 refers to the satisfier. And Psalm 24 refers to the sovereign. Psalm 22 looks at the foundation. Psalm 23, the manifestation, and Psalm 24, the expectation. 22, Christ dying, 23, Christ living, 24, Christ coming. And 22, the focus, the cross. 23, the focus on the comforter, and 24 on the crown for the king of glory. So just different things that you kind of see uh uh in these passages, but just Some things to look at as we close tonight that we need to remember is we see in this passage Three things. We see his suffering, his security, and his soon return. And again, it's learning about God's character and how we are to respond to those things. Understanding that he suffered and he loved us so much that he would suffer the most brutal execution method for us. His security as we look at Psalm 23, we see that he cares for us and he wants to protect us and he wants to lead us and he and we know that he will do so in in the right way and in a loving way and in a caring way. uh uh better than we could ask or think. And then in Psalm 24 we see the the king. He he truly is the king. He truly is reign, he will reign. We see Jesus in uh Jesus Christ in all his victory. And we need to understand that In his character, it's important for us to know because that's how we're going to respond to him. There is a book that I read one time that really Put some things into perspective for me. And you know, the Bible that we read, it's not just there to tell us about mankind about you and me. It's not just there to tell us about history, about what's occurred over the ages or what's happened with God's people. But it's also to tell us about who God is, so that we can truly understand who He is and His character so that we can get to know Him. And so that we can have a greater relationship with him. And so that's many times we we you know we look at it and we we we look at the scriptures And many times we'll look at it and say, God, what is it that you're trying to speak to me about? What is it that you want me to s you know you want me to look at in in this in this Bible verse? But perhaps it's something that God wants us to to know about him. Something that he wants us to think about him. to consider about him. And so when we look at that, we look at these shepherd psalms and they they point so much to Jesus and to God and to his character and how important it is for us to have the right relationship with him. And so that's the shepherd Psalms. That is the conclusion of that. And I don't know if anyone saw anything else or wanted to point out anything else in reading that. I think that's all right. Well, if there's nothing else, then I'll give you, let's let's close in a word of prayer and then I'll give you the homework. Amen. Lord, we do love you. We thank you for the day, and we thank you, Lord, for your goodness to us, and Lord, just for understanding and knowing how it is that who it is that you are. And Lord, how you care for us so much and how you desire for us to live. And Lord, I just pray that through this time in your word, and uh Lord, as we come to church, Lord, that we wouldn't just be putting in our time, but that Lord, it would be a time where we learn more about you, that we learn more about your character, but also that we learn how to be closer to you. so that we can uh Lord just have the right relationship with you in this time. And Father, we thank you that we have the promise that you're coming again. Lord, and as we wait your soon return, I just pray that you would help us to live in a way that pleases you. And we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.