We have a couple weeks, uh weeks left uh going through the gifts of grace, looking at the different gifts that we have been given and uh how we use those in the church. We did take a couple weeks of basically introduction, about three weeks to look at the gifts that have been given, the gifts that we've gotten, the gifts that are gone, and then we're taking a week to go through each of the seven gifts that are described for us in Romans chapter 12. And just kind of by way of review, kind of the overall guiding thought that we're we're looking at here is the my my understanding. And what I've seen in the scripture is that we have each been given a gift to use. It is one of the seven that are listed here in Romans chapter 12, and we're to be using those to serve one another. While we have been given a single gift, we also have all of the gifts and more things as responsibilities. So as we look at each of these gifts, we also look at how, while that may not be my gift, that is a still responsibility that I have. Every gift, uh, as we say, is a responsibility for all of us. When it comes to these last three gifts, the gifts of giving, the gifts of ruling, uh, and the gift of mercy. Uh it's very kind of it's these are kind of easier to see, well that that's me or that's not uh as we look at these gifts. More so than when it comes to there's some more overlap when it comes to prophecy or teaching or ministry, some of these things Like, well I I seem to be gifts in that area, but i is it really my gift? These three are kinda cut and dry. I is that me or not? Am I am is my primary impulse to to be a giver, to m to meet needs that way? Is uh is it me? Am I the one that um is is likes to lead and take charge and be in charge of people when it comes to ruling or or is it me that I'm I'm a merciful person, I'm full of compassion and I and I care about people and that's primarily how I I meet other people's needs is just having an emotion an emotional connection with them These are fairly easy to identify. So that being said, if if your gift is not one of these three, don't tune out of these lessons because they, while it may not be our gift, It is our responsibility to exercise these disciplines as believers, as Christians. Today's gift is the best illustration of that. Wouldn't it be nice or wouldn't we like to, at least in our flesh, those of us that don't have the gift of giving say, well, I'm going to leave giving to those guys. The people that that is their gift, I'm letting them take care of that. I'm just going to use my gift. uh which is not giving. We'd in our flesh we'd like to like say that, but we understand that we all have a responsibility to give. Uh we understand that uh no matter who you are, whether it's your gift or not, you do have a responsibility to give tithes, offerings, meeting the needs of others, caring for the poor. We'll talk about a lot of that during our lesson today. So we have this idea that we have this responsibility. God has called us to be generous. I'll give you a hint about generosity and giving. The more you do it, the easier it is, and the more fun that it becomes Going into it first time and trying to give a new Christian counseling them about, hey, you're taking these steps of growth, God wants you to be tithing and And and that's that's sometimes a hard step, but once you start doing it, it gets easier and easier over time. And then it gets more enjoyable over time, especially as you get more creative. Uh with your gift giving, we have a lot of uh we have a lot of fun Some of the most fun that you'll ever have is secret generosity. I'd encourage you if you've never done it, g give it a shot. Try to be secretly generous. You'll just have a good time. For example, you could come in next week with a nice, nice box of chocolates. And you could grab one of these teens, come up to Caleb here and say, hey, go over it and give these to Miss Lisa, but don't tell her where you got it. So he goes up to her, hey Miss Lisa, somebody wanted me to give you And she'll get it and she'll get this big smile and she'll look around and you'll be watching from over in the corner and just you'll just enjoy it. It's a lot of fun. And next week Miss Lisa's gonna get a bunch of chocolate. Um and you'll you'll know it was somebody that was in Sunday school uh today that that gave it to you. But it's it's fun. It's fun to be generous. It's fun to to give uh to others. We would in we'd be encouraged. To do so. You'll have a good time being generous. So I say this as a reminder that each of these gifts that we discussed is also a responsibility. I know at the end of each lesson we have the point, the gift desired. How should we try to have this gift an exercise in our life as a responsibility? And I don't take a lot of time on that point because this isn't primarily a teaching of why you should be generous. This is a teaching on the person that has the gift of generosity. And so we're going to just let Pastor pick these different gifts up in his theories on just a word. And he'll give it the application for you. How are we supposed to be merciful or generous or having showing ministry, things of that nature? We'll uh enjoy those studies as they come along. So we have these responsibilities. As we look at the different gifts, I've been trying to give you an illustration of how the gifts are used in the church so you can kind of relate to okay that that sounds like how how I would use my gift or or whatnot. And I I kind of thought of a different illustration for today, a different kind of style of illustration than we've looked at in the past. Because one of the things that I've said regarding the gifts, or one principle is that the gifts are not limited to offices, neither are offices limited to gifts So this usually comes out in the gift of prophecy. Some people who who teach this, and as I've said several times, lots of different opinions when it comes to how the gifts come out in the Bible and what we see there. If somebody has a different interpretation than me, I'm not going to get upset about it. Um but as far as what I've studied in the Word of God, I see that the gift of prophecy is given to to a wide range of people. Well some people would limit that to an office And say only people with the gift of prophecy can be pastors, or only or every pastor must have the gift of prophecy. I don't see it that way in the Word of God. So to illustrate this idea that no gift is limited to office, I would like to consider maybe an illustration of different pastors with different gifts and what would their ministry uh look like to kind of kind of help us understand how the different gifts uh work in a single office We've discussed during the lesson on prophecy that not only is prophecy just not required for pastors, but it is a responsibility of pastors. Pastors can or may not have this gift. Sorry, I'm always losing my place there. Just every Christian has every gift of responsibilities. This is actually especially true of pastors specifically. God when He gives requirements for pastors, all the gifts that we have here are mentioned as part of their responsibility. For example, they're called the prophesy when they preach. They're given uh they are serving in ministry. It is a requirement that they be apt to teach. So all the gifts are the same thing. specifically listed as responsibilities for pastors. So a pastor has a responsibility to fulfill in all of these areas, but he will also have one of these as his gift. So even though you see all the characteristics or you should see all the characteristics in every pastor, they'll all handle their ministry slightly differently based on their gifts. So for illustration's sake, and this isn't a hard, fast rule, but just kind of to to to see how the gifts are at play in different um ministries. A pastor with a gift of prophecy will likely focus on the preaching ministry. He will be a dynamic speaker that preaches hard against sin. These types of preachers often will be the ones asked to preach revivals for other churches A pastor with a gift of ministry will likely get hands-on with the work of the ministry. They love the work, the knocking on doors, taking care of buildings, helping the church found as projects, running the bus. They feel like the ministry is happening most when they are working. A pastor with a gift of teaching will love to study. They'll very often be in their office during the week studying the Word of God. They'll have sermons planned out for weeks in advance and be very detailed in their organization. They'll love Bible classes, church institutes, and Bible studies. They will be pastors. These types of pastors often end up as authors. A pastor with a gift of exhortation is going to be a man of the people. He will not feel like ministering is happening unless he's with the people. He'll want to have people at his home. He'll develop close friendships within the church family. He'll find opportunities just to spend time with church members. He'll plan lots of fellowships. He sees people grow by spending time with them A pastor with the gift of giving will be very eager to be involved in benevolence. He'll likely have a very strong missions program. He'll be very interested in involving the church in projects and needs of those around him. These types of pastors will be excited about ministries like food pantries, rescue missions, reformers program. He will push for a smaller salary for himself and often be working a job just so the church can do more financially for the ministries. A pastor with the gift of ruling will be a good administrator. He will delegate and he'll be always pushing people to be involved. He'll have a focus on planning and details. He'll seek to see people grow through their responsibilities A pastor with a gift of mercy will be a very compassionate pastor. He'll never miss a hospital visit. He'll be there for every birth, every sickness, every death. Never forget your name. He'll be very involved in counseling He'll want the church to have a mission ministries like reformers, rescue missions, ministries to shut-ins, hospital visitation, and nursing homes. Now, every biblical pastor is going to preach, minister, teach, exhort, give, lead, and have compassion, but each of these will have different methods and focuses depending on their gift So as you see, every gift can be in an office, and it'll just you'll just do it a little bit differently. And that's using your gift. So today as we continue our study, we're going to be going on to talk about the gift We've talked about prophecy, we've talked about ministry, we've talked about teaching, we've talked about exhortation. Now we'll go on to the gift of giving. So if you found your place there, In Romans chapter twelve, we're looking at verse number eight. It says, Or he that exhorteth on exhortation, he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity, he that ruleth with diligence He that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. Let's open with a word of prayer this morning. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your Thank you for what we can learn from it. We thank you for those you placed in our ministry and you've given different gifts to, Lord, as you've seen fit. Lord, you want each of us to use our gift as we've seen We serve you and we serve one another, Lord. Thank you that to for those you've given, this gift of giving, Lord, that you want to give to others through them, Lord. And they're a great blessing to the ministry, Father. I pray you'd uh help us as we study your word and what it teaches about this. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So as you look at the definition giving to find, and again there are notes available in the back, and we're already kind of into the lesson there, but those are available on the back table for someone that would want them. But the gift defined, giving in the Bible Kind of as a whole, if we look at a broad topic, the word give shows up eight hundred and eleven times uh in the Bible. So that's the word give. I didn't add to that giving or gave or have given. I didn't look up anything else, just the word give 811 times. So God has a lot to say about giving. It happens a lot and shows up a lot and is an important topic. throughout the Bible. Just a couple simple principles. This could go on for a long time, the study of giving the Bible, but three principles that I would like to draw out this morning. Giving in the Bible is an expression of love. Giving is an expression of love. For God so loved the world that he gave. Giving is an expression of love. It's how love is expressed. Love in the Bible is an action word. It's not an emotion, it's not a feeling, it's an action, it's what it's what you do, it's something that you show to others through your actions, and God shows his love through his gift of his son, Jesus. Jesus Christ, that God loved the world, that He gave. Giving is a sacrifice of self for the benefit of somebody else Sacrifice of self for the benefit of somebody else, and that's only going to happen through love. Greater love had no man than this, that a lamb man lay down his life for his friends. It's a sacrifice of self for others, and that's what love is. Love is Giving is love. It's an expression of love. Giving in the Bible is also a directing of love. There's a well-known verse in the Bible of where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And this is talking about laying up treasures in heaven. But the principle there is where you're putting your treasure, that's where your heart's going to be. When you invest in something, when you give to something, you're going to have a heart for it If you say, well, I just I'm having a hard time ha having a heart for the things at the house of God, well, start putting your money there and you'll start caring about it a little bit more. You can direct your love through your giving. It's a way to direct your heart. Uh for example, um several years ago I was started to to s to save some money, I opened a retirement account and another investing account just to just to tuck some money away and save. And I picked a wide range of companies and stocks to invest in as I did so. And I'll tell you what, I have zero care about makeup. Um but one company that I that I bought some stock in several years ago, I don't own it anymore, uh, but was the company Ulta, which is the makeup company. You know what? Suddenly I had an interest in how makeup was doing it Um because I because I had some money there. I it directed where where my not affection, I didn't have any affection for it, but there is there is there is it is you can direct your heart through through your finances. And you what you put money into, it'll direct your affection. So giving in the Bible, it's an expression of love and it's a directing of love. Giving the Bible also is based on what we have been given. Matthew 10, verse 8, Jesus told the disciples, Freely ye have received, freely give. What you've been given is what you're going to give to others. Giving is based on what we have received. What we do for others is based on what God has done for us. So that's the source of giving what God's done for us. There's an amazing picture of this in Matthew chapter 14. I'd like you to turn there with me this morning. Matthew chapter 14. Have a couple passages of scripture we'll look at today. As I was studying this idea of giving, it really hit me this story, a very, very familiar story, is the feeding of the 5,000. Matthew 14, verses 15 through 19. Teaches this principle very clearly. Matthew 14, verse number 15 says, And when it was evening, his disciples came unto him and said, This is a desert place. And the time is now past. Send the multitude away that they may go into the villages and buy themselves victuals. But Jesus said unto them, They need not depart. Give ye them to eat. And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves and two fishes. And he said, Bring them hither to me. And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass, and took the five loaves and the two fishes. looking up to heaven, he blessed and broke and gave to the loaves to his disciples and the disciples to the multitude. So question from this Bible story, this parable, not parable, I'm sorry, this Bible story, this miracle that took place of the feet of the five thousand Who gave food to the multitude? The disciples did. The disciples gave food to the multitude. Jesus gave food to the disciples. The only way the disciples were able to meet the need of the people that were there is that they received provision from God, giving based on what they had been given. Jesus didn't give to the multitudes The disciples did. Jesus gave to his disciples and his disciples gave to the multitude. It's God giving through individuals. That's how giving takes place. It's God gives to you and God gives through you as you give to others. So this is a great picture of this that giving is based on what we have been given. Another interesting uh fact here about this story is that Jesus told the disciples to give before he provided what they were going to be giving When the disciples only had five loaves and two fish, Jesus told them, give it to the multitudes. And so they had to be willing to say, okay, well, here's the five loaves and two fish. Not sure what's going to happen to it, but this is what we got. So Jesus gave them the command to give before they had enough to give, but they were willing to give what they had, and then Jesus gave them more so that they could meet the need that he called them to meet So Jesus gave through the disciples. So we give based on what has been given to us. That's the principle of giving in the Bible. As we get to this idea back in Romans chapter 12, the idea of the word giving that is found there, we can go back. He that giveth, let him do it with simplicity. This word giveth means to share or to impart to. It carries the idea of giving among to those around you. That's the idea here of this word giving. It's to share or impart to especially those around you. It carries the idea of resource responsibility, a sensitivity to how one can use what they have for those that are in need The focus is not on the giver, but on the one who has been being given to. That's the focus of this word giving. When you're giving, it's not the fact that you're the one giving it, it's the fact that you're meeting someone's need. That's the focus of this word giving that is seen here. This word shows up in Luke chapter 3, verse 11 and kind of illustrates what this word means. It says he answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart, that's the same word, forgiveth, let him impart to him that hath none. He that hath meat, let him do likewise. He said, You have two, somebody has none, take what you have and give it to them. One of the things you have. So sharing among to impart to someone else to to to meet somebody's need, focusing on the need that's there and giving to them. That's this word for giveth. Giving it um to to others. So that's the word, the gift of Now, how is it described in Romans chapter 12? What are the commands that Paul gives regarding this gift of giving? First of all, if you look in verse number eight again, it says, let him do it with simplicity. Let him do it with simplicity. First admonition. Now this is a break from the pattern that he's been giving. The last three gifts he gave the command to wait. Waiting on your opportunity, waiting on your ministry, waiting on your teaching, waiting on your exhortation. But now he changes it up with giving. He says, when you're giving, do it with simplicity. What does this mean? The word simplicity carries the idea of singleness, of something that has become one thing. It's a focus on the purity or the solidness. It's all one thing. That's the idea of this word simplify Simplicity. So really there's two ideas in there. First of all, it carries the idea of sincerity. That would be a single purpose. When I'm giving, I'm giving for one purpose because I see a need and I want to meet that need. I'm not giving to extend influence. I'm not giving to create a debt or an obligation. I'm not giving to get get recognition for myself. When I'm giving, I'm giving with simplicity, I only want to meet the need. That's the single focus that I have is to meet the need that is there. So this idea here is a singular purpose, no ulterior motives. You're giving just to be a blessing. So it carries the idea of sincerity. It also carries the idea of generosity, singleness as in giving the whole. That I I'm willing to give it all. Whatever it is that needs is is needed, I I can do all of it. That's the idea of the singleness to meet the whole need. It carries the idea of generosity. The words that are related to this word for generosity that is tied up to the idea of simplicity, the words given in the Concordance are bountiful. liberal and copious bestowal. Uh copious bestowal just overflowing a gift. That's the idea of this bountiful generosity that is seen there. So that's this word simplicity. It says when you're giving, do it with singular purpose and be willing to do it generous That's the first admonition that Paul gives. If we go down to verse number um verse number thirteen. We see the extended description that's been given for this gift. We've been looking at how these other verses relate back to the different gifts. We see two principles given in verse number 13, distributing to the necessity of the saints and given to hospitality. So these uh these other commands or admonitions that are given, first of all, distributing to the necessity of the saints. This idea of distribute carries the idea of sharing with others carries the idea of partnering with somebody, to join somebody in their time of need. That's this word distribute. It really carries the idea of a partnership. When we get to this idea of necessity, so you're partnering with somebody in their need, partnering with their necessity, this word necessity carries the idea of lack. It's tied to the idea of someone who's missing employment. There's a clear example seen of this in the early church. There were those who had needs that specifically stemmed from the persecution that they were facing, and those needs were first met by those within the church. sharing with the other believers. Remember the story of Barnabas. He had a piece of land. He sold it. He brought the money to the disciples and distributed this to the necessity of the saints. And then this happened again with Ananias and Sapphira, although they didn't give the whole. They didn't give with simplicity. They kept back part of it and lied about it and and God killed them as a result for lying to the Holy Spirit in that story. But this was what was happening. There was needs in the church and people with means said, well let me meet that need. Let me distribute the necessity of the saints. So the necessity that is there. These needs were met first of all by their local church, but they were also met by other churches. The Corinthian church took a collection for the saints of Jerusalem. We see this in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 verses 1 through 4. We can go there and look at that. 2 Corinthians Corinthians eight verses one through four. A description of the collection that was taken for the saints at Jerusalem Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed upon the churches of Macedonia, how that in great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality For to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power they were willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift and take on upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. So they gave to meet the needs of the saints. They gave to meet those who had a lack, who had a necessity. So those with the gift of giving are told to distribute the necessity of the saints. Distribute, share with others. to the necessity, to the lack of the saints. The saints refers to other believers. When it comes to generosity in the Bible, we have several different responsibilities. First of all, we're to give to God. We understand that um we have tithes and offerings that we we um that belong to God. When we have money that we've earned, we have a portion of that that that belongs to God and we are to be generous with Him, not only with our tithes, which is required of us, but also with offerings, with with the extra to be generous with God. We're also to meet the needs of our families. This goes even beyond our nuclear families. Widows that we see are supposed to be taken care of by their children and nephews before they're to be taken care of by the church. So meeting the needs in our family, extending beyond our nuclear family. We also understand that we're to be generous to the poor. We're to be generous to the fatherless and the widows. But there is an emphasis in the Bible on meeting the needs of other believers within our local church. You remember that giving is an expression of love. It's how we show love to one another. The world will know that we are Christians when we love each other. Jesus said, Hereby shall know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one for another. How is that love seen? That love seen is through giving. If we're giving to each other. So if we're neglecting the needs of our church family, we're not representing Christ to the world. So we have a special responsibility when it comes to meeting the needs of the saints. Love requires giving. If we're going to love each other properly, we're going to give and we're going to meet the needs of those within our congregation. So this is the idea of distributing to the necessity of the saints. Thirdly, we see in verse number 13 of Romans chapter 12 that they're to be given to hospitality. This word given to carries the idea of pursuing, to chase after something. They should be on the hunt for opportunities to be generous. They should be eager to meet the needs of others. This goes to what we're talking about in the introduction about the joy that comes from giving. The people who had the gift of giving should be eager to pursue the opportunity to use their gifts and to give to meet the needs of others It's interesting that in this passage dealing with givers, Paul makes just some very gentle admonitions when you compare it to the other gifts. Remember back when he was talking about prophecy, now that was his own gift. And he knew that some of the struggles that you have with that. He was very, hey, we just don't love people the way we should when he's talking about people with prophecies, that we need to deal with this. And you go to some of these other ones and say, hey You need to just wait your turn. And he but with giving, he's like, hey, go after it. He's encouraging, encouraging the givers. He encouraged them just in their natural gifts of generosity. So give into, pursue, then he goes on to talk about hospitality. This word hospitality means fondness of guests. to have a fondness for guests. This goes back to the idea of this word giving being focused on the one who's receiving the gift. That you're meeting the needs of people. It's not just a matter of meeting a need. It's not just a matter of giving some money towards something or some time to something. It's seeing that this person needs to feel the love of Christ, and I can do that through my gift. It's the focus on them being fond of guests. This is this idea of hospitality. Givers should give because they love people. This speaks to the personal investment that's involved in giving. You know, sometimes we we may want to give at arm's length or from a distance. Now I'm not talking about giving in secret. That's something that's uh that we understand uh separate from what's happening here, but think of it this way He's saying to be given a hospitality to be fond of the guests. Sometimes it might be easier to meet somebody's need from afar than than to bring them in close. Like, I'll pay for you to stay somewhere, but I'm not going to let you use my guest bedroom. I'll buy you a car, I just don't want you using mine. So there they they're c you can you can give and keep people at arm's length. He said hey be a be a lover of guests. Be be fond of hospitality because because it's not just the fact that you're meeting needs You're helping people. So don't lose people and lose sight of the people in in sight of the needs. Now of course there needs to be wisdom in that. I'm not inviting everybody in. to your home. But there needs to be wisdom there, but don't don't keep people at arm's length. You're not going to help them that way by by um by keeping them out there. So the gift here discussed, Paul gives us these admonitions to do it with simplicity, to distribute the necessity of the saints, and to be given hospitality. As we continue our study, we look at the gift depicted in the Bible. Who had the gift of giving? We've looked with each of these gifts at Christ. Christ is our ultimate example of each gift and the way to use these. And we looked at Christ, what greater example can there be of someone who gave? Ephesians 5. 25, husbands love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Christ gave himself. Philippians two, six through eight, who being in the form of God, thought it not robber to be evil with God, made himself of no reputation, took upon him the form of a servant. was made in likeness of man. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Remember we said giving is a sacrifice of self for the benefit of others. And what greater example can there be of that than in the person of Jesus Christ? I gave a little uh outline here alliterated for you. Jesus gave selflessly No matter what it was going to cost him, he was willing to give. Jesus gave sacrificially. It cost him greatly, but he gave anyway. I made up a word here to keep alliterated. Jesus gave stringlessly. No strings attached. Jesus gave. Nothing required of us. He just gave and gave of love from himself. So Christ, he's a depiction of this love. Another person who likely had this gift is the person of Gaius. Gaius, we see him in 3 John verses 1, verses 3 through 4. He said, Bel Beloved thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren and to strangers which have borne witness of thy charity before the church. So this guy had a testimony of generosity that he had Paul had heard of or sorry, John had heard about from a distance. He said, Hey, people that are there and even strangers have told me about your generosity. So someone who just who just loved to give Someone who else, of Jesus' disciples who may have had this gift, it could have been Matthew. Matthew, we know, had a background in finance, showed his interest and skill with money. He seems to be one of the few tax collectors that were not thieves. And he makes a lot of monetary references in his gospel that aren't mentioned in the other gospels. So possibly the person of Matthew But what I would like to point out this morning as a potential that Judas had the potential to have this gift. He was the one who who had the bag. He was the one that would bring up the poor. But what happened? He loved money more than he loved God He loved money more than he loved people. And uh Judas um Judas his love of money took him away from God. He he died and went to hell. uh because of his uh he he could he loved money more than he loved God. So someone who had a potential that God could have used him in a great way. Um but his love for things um kept him from having that relationship with God So someone who may have had the attention for this gift, so the gift depicted in the Bible. Get to our next point, the gift discussed. What is somebody who has the gift of giving? What does it look like in their life? Someone who has the gift of giving will be sensitive to the needs of others and have a desire to meet those needs. Some of the positive, you could say, characteristics of this gift is those with this gift will very often be frugal, but not always. But generally there's someone who's good with money because if you're not frugal and not good with money, it doesn't matter how much you want to give if you don't have money to give. You can't use your gift if you don't have anything to give. Um so there's usually someone who's good with money. Uh they will exhibit cautious cautious but focused generosity. Again, they're they're usually good with finances, some some negative characteristics, not negative. uh but just where it's it's uh maybe if it's used improperly or in the flesh for or just some things to be aware of when it comes to this gift the people with this gift could be cheap, uh they could be self-neglecting, uh they could be taken advantage of. And they can try to use their giving to influence others. So some cautions for those that have this gift. Number one, you need to give with wisdom You don't want to create dependence in those that you give to, and you don't want to give to someone that's going to harm themselves with your gift. But you can reason your way out of giving to anyone You can look at any situation and say, oh, there's a need. Well, this need wouldn't be there if it wasn't for this. Or if I give them this, they might do that. You can reason yourself out of any gifts. So understand that you have a responsibility to give And the person receiving the gift has is responsible for what they do with it. So give with wisdom, but still give. Be generous that way. Another thing to understand about giving is that giving is not just financial. God has given you three great treasures, your time, your talent, and your treasure, your finances. God expects you to give all of them to Him And giving is not only your only responsibility. Using your gift of giving does not free you from your other responsibilities as a church member. Just because you give doesn't mean you you shouldn't be prophesying or shouldn't be ministering or shouldn't be teaching or shouldn't be exhorting other people. Just because you you have this gift doesn't mean you're exempt from the other responsibilities Just like someone who has the gift of ministry isn't exempt from giving, someone the gift of giving is an exempt from serving. We still have the other responsibilities. So some cautions there. Then we have the gift developed. How do we get better? If this is my gift, what should I do to improve in this? We're told to stir up the gift that's in you and to develop it. So how do we do this? Number one, we can develop our gift by expanding our giving. Now by this I don't mean j I don't just mean just well just give more. That's that's not as simple as I'm trying to make it here. Well I mean Expand your giving. I'm talking about giving in more areas. We've talked through a list of ideas in which we've been called to be generous. God spoke to my heart about this matter a few years ago. We have responsibility to the poor. What have I ever done for the poor? How have I ever been generous in that way? So looking at forgiving and and it's not just checked off because I drop in my tithe in the box every week. How else can I be generous? We have the fatherless, the widows, it's my extended family. What other areas can I be generous in? So given more areas, we can also give more things. We can give our treasure, we're very familiar with that, giving our money, but also giving our talents. What abilities and skills do we have that we can use to serve others and to serve God? And also our time. Are you willing to give your time to serve the Lord? Now there are many people in our church who are worth more than the jobs that they do at work party. We got a $50, $75 an hour person doing a $10 an hour job But it's not about just giving the finances. Yes, they could hire somebody to come in and clean, but it's more important they're coming in here and cleaning themselves because they're giving their time to God That value is there, even though the job may not seem that valuable. So giving your time, the time is a valuable gift they're giving to God. So give more things, give in more areas. So expand your giving. Secondly, we can grow in our giving by focusing our giving. Remember that we're giving it as a way to love people. Consider the reminder to be given to hospitality. How close are you willing to get to the needs of others? So focus your gifting and that it's not just well I'll do that, I'll meet this need, I'll pay for that, I'll do this. Well how do I help this person? Maybe they don't just need somebody to pay a bill. Maybe they need something maybe they need somebody to spend time with them. Can I give my time to help them Focus your giving. And thirdly, evaluate your giving. Consider your motivation. The admonition that we're going to look at in 2 Corinthians 9 verse 7 is not given specifically to those with giving, but it was given to a church family And so those of the gifts of giving would be included, but second Corinthians 9 7 says, Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. So evaluate your giving Are you giving intentionally under the direction of God? Are you giving grudgingly? Does God have to force you to do it? Are you giving of necessity? Do you feel like you have to do it? Are you giving cheerfully? So consider your motivation. And secondly, consider your purpose. Remember, we were told that those with a gift of giving should do it with simplicity. The single purpose, my single purpose is to help a person. is to meet a need. It's not for self-promotion. It's not for purchasing influence. It's not for creating a debt or an obligation. What's my purpose in giving? How do I help people? And lastly, this morning, getting back to full circle of what we talked about in the introduction, is the fact that this is not just a gift, it's also responsibility. the gift desired. Every one of us have a responsibility to be generous, to be giving. We just read the verse in 2 Corinthians 9 7. Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity For God loveth a cheerful giver. This admonition is given to every man, the first two words in the verse. Every man, every Christian should have a spirit-led, cheerful giving Spirit-led cheerful giving. This word cheerful is the Greek word hilaras. That comes translated into our English English word hilarious. It's kind of an interesting picture, but just the opportunity to give should be so overwhelming that You just have to laugh. I can't believe that I get to do this for God. It's just the get your giving statement in the ear and like seriously? That's how in the world did I do that? That's just God enabled me to give and that's It's just hilarious that I get to do this for the Lord. And not that your giving is a joke, but it just is so overwhelming that you can't help but laugh that God gave you this opportunity to give. That's a cheerful giver. Another admonition for all of us when it comes to giving, we see in Ephesians 4. 28. Now this is the passage on replacement, what we how we are different after our salvation, but it says there, let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him labor. working with his hands the things which the thing which is good that he may have to give to him that needeth. You know, people work to meet their own needs. Verse I looked at a couple weeks ago, Proverbs in my own personal study, Proverbs 16, 26, says, He that laboreth, laboreth for himself, for his mouth craveth it of him. When you're working, people in this world they work, they work for themselves. Because their mouth craveth it of them, they work so they can eat. They work to meet their own needs. That's the motivation of work for an unsafe person. All around the world, people that are there, they're working to meet their own needs. But God says here in this passage on replacement, he changes that He says, as Christians we have a higher purpose. Look at you're not looking at it, I'll read it to you again. Ephesians 4. 28. Let him labor, working with his hands the things which is good, so he may have to meet his own needs No, so he may have to give to him that needeth. When we work as Christians, we're not just working for ourselves anymore. We're working so that we can have, so that we can meet the needs of others. We have a higher purpose than just ourselves. This is contrast in this passage with stealing. Stealing is entirely selfish. Just for me. No matter what it does to somebody else, I'm benefiting myself. It harms others to help yourself. But giving deprives self in order to help others. So we have here this admonition to give, to work in order to give. Acts 20, verse 35, a third verse there. I have showed you all things. How that so laboring you ought to support the weak. And remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. So we have this admonition for all of us. Yes, God has given some of us and placed in our church givers, and we're thankful for them that they have a heart to meet people's needs, but that doesn't negate our responsibility. If that's not our gift, to be generous. Generous towards God, generous towards others, distributing to the necessity of the saints, given the hospitality. We all have these calls on our life and our responsibility, but God has given some this gift specifically.