Uh Colossians chapter one and verse eighteen now. And he he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning of the firstborn from the dead, that in all things He might have the preeminence. We're talking about Christ. You can't go wrong talking about Christ. He said, If I be lifted up, I'll draw all men unto me. And of course he's talking about being lifted up on the cross. But also by extension, if we'll lift him up, he'll draw people to him. So we'll talk about Christ. Remember this: that preeminence means first Or highest ranking. So Jesus is to have first place in all things. All things not friends or family or recreation or possessions or business. Jesus Christ deserves the preeminence He deserves it. God says that he's earned the right um that uh for that in our lives. And that in all things he might have the preeminence. So the reason that he deserves the preeminence in our lives is that he is preeminent himself. In everything that he is and does. So in this lesson today, we want to look at how Christ is preeminent. How is he preeminent? We'll pray first and then we'll look at the preeminence of Christ. Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus, thou thank you for these dear folks. We're faithful to the services. And Lord, not just these folks, but Sunday school teachers and classes all over the building right now. We pray your blessing upon everyone who's serving you, hungry, to learn your word. Challenge us afresh, I pray, O God. I pray this lesson that those who have been saved the longest would still find nuggets in this lesson that will challenge them and encourage them. And we give you praise, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. First we know that Jesus is preeminent in his person Who he is. No one who has ever lived was like Jesus Christ. He's set apart. He's way above everyone else For example, Jesus has always lived. You can't say that about anybody else. He didn't begin in a manger 2,000 years ago. Rather, he lived with the Father in heaven. before he ever came to earth. He preexisted is what we say. He pre-existed. There never was a time when Jesus wasn't or didn't exist. In fact, Jesus Christ was the creator on Creation Day. Look at our text again, but back up a few verses to verse 16. Verse 16. For by him, that's Christ, were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions. or principalities or powers. All things were created by him and for him. Next verse. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. He ranks first in his person He is before all things. Do you see that? Before. That means he's first and he pre-existed. So he's first in his person. Something else about his person. He gave up his comfortable home in heaven. Why he had it made in heaven with his father. In John chapter 17 and verse 5, go there with me. John seventeen five. Seventeen five, and now O Father. Glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was Boy, he had it made. In heaven, he lived in luxury and majesty. But on earth, the Lord of the earth couldn't find a place to lay his head. Remember that? So he left the greatest to become to live on earth in the least. He became flesh and dwelt among us, the Bible says. Jesus, the Son of God, came to earth. We call his coming the incarnation of Christ. It's just a big word, just means that he came uh to live in flesh like us. He was preeminent in his person. Something else about that. Christ is preeminent in his person because he was born of a virgin. Nobody can claim that. Preeminent means he's first, he's foremost, he's prominent, most prominent. No one has ever been born that way before or since. Matthew chapter 1 and verse 18 says, Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together She was found with child of the Holy Ghost. In verse 20, let's skip a verse, but while he That's Joseph, thought on these things. Behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in the dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David Fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. Skip down two more, three more verses, and it was a fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy. Behold, a virgin shall be with child. And shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted, is God with us. This godly young lady Virgin, Mary, was not promiscuous, and she was not married either. She was not immoral, she was pure And so, but she s supernaturally gave birth to the Savior, Jesus Christ. That's a preeminent birth. And so there's never been another to match it It stands alone. It is world class birth, we would say. It was preeminent So he's preeminent in his person, but also uh in his person he's pr he was preeminent in his character. That's his person also. Hebrews 4, 15. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet what? Without sin, that's right. Without sin, preeminent in his character. Now, the Bible says that all have sinned And comes short of the glory of God. And it's talking about you and me. But it's not talking about Christ. He never sinned. No guile was found in him. No one can boast that. Only Christ. He was and is preeminent in his person. Jesus ranks number one, and we ought to elevate him to that position in our lives Alright, number two, Jesus was preeminent not only in his person, but in his preaching He was preeminent. Mark chapter 1 and verse 22, 122. Mark, I'll I'll wait for you to get there. Lubricate my voice. Well that snow was pretty this morning. Uh we had about four to five inches up our way in. in uh Dallastown, Pennsylvania, on the car. But only about two inches on the ground this morning. But getting that snow off that car, that was fun Oh man with that brush, brush, brush, same spot, three, four times, next spot. And uh but it all worked out. And we got here on time Mark 1. 22. And they were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught them as one that had authority and not as the scribes. John 7. 46 says the officers answered, never man spake like this man What were they saying? They were saying he's preeminent in his oratory, in his teaching, in his preaching, Jesus was pre-eminent. We learn that the style of his preaching was preeminent. For example, they say that Moody, when he preached was powerful. And they say that Tory, who replaced him, was thorough. R. A. Tory, one of my heroes. And Spurgeon, of course, was known as the prince of the preachers, but nobody measured up to our Savior Jesus Christ. No one ever preached like Jesus. He preached and taught with authority. The Bible says, never man spake like this man. Never, never, never, and never has yet Any man spoke like him. His preaching style was preeminent, not just prominent, but the best of anyone ever. All right. Let's go on We know that the content of his preaching was preeminent. Well, we know he preached on love. He taught us about love, didn't he? We don't always follow what he said, but he he preached on love. His content was preeminent. First rate, he preached on holiness, he preached on mercy. He preached on obedience and heaven and hell and repentance and faith. He preached on death, burial, and resurrection. His death, burial, and resurrection And then he preached that he's going to return. Boy, I like that part. He preached on the important things. He covered everything that we need to know. He preached his pre-existence to these Jews. When he said in John 8 and verse 58, Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, before Abraham was I am. What was he saying? I existed before Abraham. He taught that. He preached that. His content was preeminent. Not only that, but the timing of his preaching was preeminent. He was fearless, although the hypocrites were against him, and they always are against solid preaching. But hypocrites were against him. He preached nonetheless. He let them have it. In John chapter 8 and verse 55, he preached. Yet ye have not known him, talking about the Father. But I know him, and if I should say I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you But I know him and keep his saying. Boy, that's I that's right in your face preaching. That was straightforward, wasn't it? John 8. 59, four verses later. Then took they up stones to cast at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by And so, yeah, they didn't like it. He knew by foreknowledge they wouldn't like it, but it didn't matter. He still gave the full counsel of God. And uh we admire them. It was preeminent. He was also wise. He caught them in their words. How many times? we read about that in the Gospels. One of them is Matthew 21, 25. Go there with me. Matthew 21, 25. The baptism of John, whence was it, Christ said? From heaven or of men? And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, from heaven, he will say unto us, Why did you not then believe him? But, next verse, if we shall say of men, we fear the people, for all hold that John, John, as a prophet You and I sometimes are dumbfounded in situations. We we get into discussions with people and sometimes we can't uh answer the questions or we don't know what to say to them. We have those situations. But Jesus always knew what to say and how to say it. He was pre eminent in his timing. It was pinpoint. It was spot on. He knew what to say Truly his preaching was preeminent. It was the greatest. He ranked number one in his preaching. He was preeminent in his person. He was preeminent or first. in his preaching. And then Jesus was preeminent in his power. In his power. We read that Jesus had power over nature. He commanded the winds and the waves to obey him, and they did it. They obeyed his voice. That is power that no other man has ever had but Jesus. Jesus, it was preeminent power. He defied nature when he walked on the water. No other man has ever done that except Peter, and Peter only did it as he was empowered by Christ. Christ and he only did it for a few seconds. Jesus had power over disease. We read over and over that he uh found a dis uh disease and healed it. He never found a disease he couldn't heal. He's able to do all things and do them well. Nothing stumped him medically. And so he healed lepers and mentally deranged, and the blind and the deaf, and those with fevers, those with palsy And those with a withered hand, and those that were lame. He even raised some from the dead. Why? How? Because he was preeminent in his power You see, no other man could claim this unfailing healing power. Jesus had power over any situation that arose. I mean, in his ministry, he turned the water at the marriage feast into wine. They ran out of wine. And so he supplied it by turning water into wine supernaturally. He fed the five thousand and their families out in the wilderness with five loaves and two fishes. And he prayed, blessed it, broke it, gave it to the disciples, they distributed it, and brought back a whole bunch of food left over even after five loaves and two fishes were magnified. So on another occasion, he fed 4,000 in two different situations. And so no man has ever been able to duplicate these feasts No wonder Nicodemus said in John 3. 2, listen to this now, Rabbi, we know that thou and a teacher come from God. For no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Right. Nicodemus got it right. What was he saying? He's saying, You're preeminent. And so he's preeminent in his power. He even admitted it. Jesus admitted that he was preeminent in his power. In Matthew 28, 18. Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. That's preeminent power. You can't say that and I can't, but he could. Could I ask you, if Jesus was so preeminent in his person and his preaching and his power, why is it taking you so long to come to Christ? Christ, if you're lost? And why is it taking you so long to decide to make him first in your life? If he is preeminent. Make him preeminent in your life this morning. I'll talk about that more in the morning service. But that's not all. Jesus was preeminent in his provision. His provision. His mission was to seek and to save that which was lost. No one ever provided more for humanity. than Jesus Christ did. He ranks number one in provision. Consider this, that every man is destined to hell because he's broken God's law. We all deserve to go to hell. All of us. There's no s there was no sacrifice that could appease God the Father in our behalf. So therefore man had and has no hope. So Jesus volunteered. He not only left his comfortable home in heaven that we talked about, and lived sinlessly among men on the earth and performed miracles, he also suffered rejection. rebuttals. He suffered false accusations from his brethren. Later there were false witnesses trumped up and and uh false charges against him. And as the Son of God, he was tried by what the false witnesses said, and found guilty by mere men. He could have called ten thousand angels, we know. And delivered himself and slay them, but he let them carry out their devilishness because it was all part of his father's plan The Bible says who being reviled, reviled not again. He didn't come back at them, like you and I come back at people He didn't do that. Mankind needed a spotless sacrificial lamb that God would accept for their sins, and Jesus said, I'll do that. He was preeminent in his provision. So Jesus yielded himself to be that Lamb. He blood, suffered, and died for us on the cross. and for me and for you. It was not just that he died a vicious death. It was much more than that It was that he shed his blood, which is what the Father required, even in the Old Testament. John the Baptist called him the Lamb of God, that's a sacrifice, that taketh away the sin of the world. What a provision. What a provision of salvation for you and me. He's preeminent in his provision. But in the Old Testament, the blood sacrificed on the altar was not enough. The high priest had to deliver that sacrificial blood to the Holy of Holies at the mercy's feet. uh to complete the atonement for God to be a peace. So the it wasn't just the shed blood, but the um The delivery of that to the Holy of Holies, the mercy seat. So Christ did something else. Christ as our great high priest, the Bible calls him, delivered his atoning blood into the heavenly holy of holies. How do you know that, preacher? Hebrews chapter 9, verses 11 and 12 tell us that And now he ever lives to make intercession for us at the right hand of God the Father in heaven Amazing. I remember when they told me that the lymphoma had come back after the the uh treatments and Three months after I was cleared, then they said you have it again and this is a real this is really bad news And so we took it to the Lord, and I remember thinking to myself, Lord, I'm not the only one praying about this. You're interceding for me. That's what the Bible says. He's interceding for us. I'm part of the us. And I remember having the thought I was walking around the gym, gymnasium, we lived in the prophet's chamber during those days. And I remember having that thought, Lord, and prayer. Lord, you're interceding for me. Lord, you get your prayers answered I'm counting on it. I'm counting on healing. I'm counting, Lord, on you bringing me out of this. And he did. The song is still true. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. No one ever provided for me like Jesus Jesus. That is, he's preeminent in his provision. He provided the sacrifice, he provided the evidence of his lordship. He received God's acceptance in the resurrection and is providing intercession today in our behalf. He's preeminent in provision. Something else. Connected to that thought, Jesus was preeminent in his proposal. In his proposal. Go over to John chapter 3 and 16. Jesus offered the water of life to whosoever will, and he said that those who believe and drink will never thirst again. That's quite a proposal. That's what he said though. He offered rest to the weary, to whoever would come unto me talking about to him. He offered the bread of eternal life to him that cometh unto me, talking about to Christ, and he shall live forever. These all boil down to one proposal that he made, and it was preeminent. John 3:16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. He offered eternal life to whoever would believe in him That's quite an offer. I say that's quite a proposal right there. It is preeminent. Some say may offer you a sweepstakes. Or they may offer you a job or a property, but no one ever dared to make such an offer who also had the credentials to fulfill it And he did. Jesus ranks number one in his proposal. The proposal is made again to us this morning. You are the whosoever. He simply meant if you would believe in Jesus as your Savior, that you would have eternal life, everlasting life just for believing on the Son, trusting what Christ did on the cross to be sufficient to cover our sins. Honor to God. Could I ask you, have you placed your trust in him alone to save you? That is so important. It's not just about having church. It's about the person of Christ. What are you going to do with Christ? You need to receive him as Savior if you haven't done that yet. He would make you a first-class proposal based on a first-class provision. Make him preeminent in your life today. Come to him today. Before the end of the next service. The end of this service would be better. Now what time are we done here? Quarter after. Quarter after. Alright, we have time. John chapter sixteen. Finally, Jesus was preeminent in his promises. And his promises. He promised eternal life to those who believe in him as Savior. We've already spoken about that. What a tremendous promise. Nobody ever can make that promise. And make us stick. Nobody. And he did. He promised that the Father would hear and answer our prayers if we prayed in His name, Christ's name He promised that. In John 16 and verse 23, you're there now. And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily I say unto you. Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. Now I personally, in my prayer life, I believe we can talk to the whole Godhead. I believe we can talk to the Holy Spirit and the Father and the Son, but the instructions that we have from Christ is that we talk to the Father In Jesus' name. Or in other words, because of what Christ has done, with the authority of Christ. behind it, the invitation of Christ behind it, we are to talk to the Father, and if we do that, He will give it you. Praying is asking, and he promised to answer our prayers. So pray for wisdom. You have a decision coming up. You ought to be praying about that decision. And you ought to ask for wisdom. James 1 says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of the Father, and give it to all men liberally and upbraideth not and he shall give him. But uh He's got to ask in faith. Nothing doubting. And so pray for discernment. You have to discern between two things. God can give you that discernment to do that. Ask Him. Pray for love and compassion. One of the things I'm studying for um par um husband and wife conferences coming up. And I was studying how we can and we don't do this. If there's a love loss in our husband-and-wife relationship, we can pray to the Father and ask God to increase our love for our mate. And he will do it. And so pray for love, pray for compassion, pray for others, pray for your needs. He invited us to do that. Pray for strength. Pray for inner peace. Pray for healing and help. We pray to the Father in Jesus' name, and He'll give it Christ has promised us God's concern for our request, and that He will answer if we will pray. He didn't say if you think about it. Yeah. He didn't say if you just muse on it, uh sit around your home and stew about it. That's not where the answer comes That doesn't bring any glory to God. It's when we express our reliance on God alone in prayer. And we go to Him in prayer. Ah, He's waiting for us to die. do that. Then he promised that he would, another promise here. He promised he would never we would never be alone. Well it's a lot of people that suffer from being alone today. And so he promised that as we did his will, he would be with us He tells us to go and preach and teach the gospel, to be a witness for him in Matthew 28, 20, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. And then he says, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Again, he said, when we are in need When we are in need, he says that he'll never leave us. Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 5, what a powerful verse. This is. Middle of the verse, and be content with such things as ye have, for he hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Well, he's talking to them about being content. That means that they weren't content. It means that there were some needs there. And he's saying, I'm I'm not going to leave you. I'm not going to forsake you. It doesn't matter what you have to go through. Glory to God. I'm going to be there right with you going through it. God will not forsake you. You're never alone as a Christian. Then he promised that he would return for us one day. Amen. Glory to God. I get excited about this. John chapter 14 and verse 1. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in me, Jesus said. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, Jesus said, I will come again and receive you unto myself. That's the rapture Receive you unto myself that where I am, there ye may be also. He wants us to be where he is. So he's going to come and bring us to himself. Yes, he created. Yes, he came as a virgin babe in a manger. He did all of that He was preeminent. Yes, he preached and performed miracles, went about doing good. He died a horrible death. The worst. Yes, he arose from the dead and ascended back to heaven, where he is interceding for us at the right hand of the Father right now But Christ isn't done. Calvary wasn't the last act. There's a curtain call. If you will. Jesus is coming back. He promised to return for us. Now all of his promises And his prophecies of the Old Testament about his coming the first time, they were all fulfilled. And the prophecies and promises of him coming the second time will likewise be fulfilled He's preeminent in these promises. They are the greatest promises ever made. And there's far more than any of the ones that I mentioned. I'm limited by time this morning, but he promised us eternal life, access. to the Father in prayer for our needs. Promised us abiding presence. Everywhere we go, we go with him It says, go with God, and he'll go with you. He promised us that one day he will return for us so that we may be with him forever. And he doesn't break his promises. So, we see that Jesus is preeminent in his person, preeminent in his preaching. Preeminent in his power, his provision. He was preeminent in his proposal to us. Nobody ever made that proposal to me. And he's preeminent in his promises. We serve a preeminent Christ