As I said, the theme of the conference was true riches. The emphasis is on the fact that we would rather have Jesus than all this world has to offer. Just singing that song each night uh in the service with the orchestra and uh uh organ and everybody and then and then as everybody starts getting excited and singing with There are strong voices and that's coming out, then the instruments all drop out and fall away, and everybody's just singing it, and it turns into more of a of a prayer from your heart than just uh just singing of a song and just very powerful services where we saw God meet with us and challenge us uh to consider uh true riches and what really is true riches here on earth and and uh living for eternity instead of living for today. We see the text verse that the kids were exhorted or encouraged to memorize here, 1 Timothy 6, verses 6 through 10 But godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into this world and are certain we will carry nothing out. And having food and raiment let us be therewith content, but that But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition For the love of money is the root of all evil, and while some men coveted after have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. I'm going to take just a few minutes and talk about these verses. We've uh recently spoken dealt with the idea of contentment as we came back from the Philippines and were really impressed upon uh my heart just the idea of being content with wherever we are. So I'm not going to belabor that thought, but I want to just talk about this and consider what I've titled tonight the true cost of riches. The true cost of riches. There are many today that are consumed with the accumulation, the acquisition of wealth This is why someone who really doesn't have any money to spare will take their last two dollars two dollars and play the lottery And in the hopes of winning it big, of getting that large sum, I've told uh you about my dream, my recurring and ongoing dream of finding a million dollars Uh that's just been part of my life for many years. I have found a million dollars in the most unusual and unique places in my dream. It keeps coming up in different aspects and new creative ways to find a million dollars None of them have come true yet, but uh Mary's trying to help with that by saving me a dollar at a time on on coupons, and so she's working towards my million. Uh fifty cents at a time and a dollar, but she goes on double coupon day and maybe sometimes triple, so we get a dollar fifty off instead of fifty cents, but I do appreciate her her efforts there to save me a million dollars, even if I can't find a million. But uh, you know, I probably need to adjust my dream because a million dollars is not anywhere near what a million dollars was when I was a teenager. Uh but alas, that is just my recurring dream. Well often uh when uh people compete in these different competitions like America's Got Talent or things like that, they will uh ask the contestants What are you gonna do with a million dollars if you win it? And you know, it's fun to hear the kids, they're like, I'm gonna get a dog. You know, I mean uh that's their aspirations with their million dollars. They you know kids don't have a concept of uh what it is that they're getting, but uh You know, what would you do if you got a million dollars? Sometimes I think we consider uh wealth and we look at that, but we don't maybe consider the true cost of wealth. In our text here tonight, he does address that. So first of all, I just want to look, do a little Bible study on these verses here. What is true riches? What is true riches? He says, But godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. Two times in these first two verses here, Paul tells us that true riches is not a matter of how much you have. It's not a matter of how much you gain, because outside of contentment How much you gain will never be enough. It won't matter how much it is, and you can truly be content where you're at. But true riches really is godliness. It is godliness. That's what was tried to impart and communicate to the young people this week through the different services uh where they were preaching to them and helping them to see. Uh I think it's maybe in the heart of most young people to be able to afford that motorcycle, to be able to get that car, to be able to buy the the clothes that that they aspire to dress in, you know that that acclamation or or uh acquisition of wealth that they wanna they want to and so the the whole focus of the conference was really uh listen, what is true riches? What what is going to make you truly wealthy in this world is not how much money you have in your in your wallet, but it's how spiritual you are before God, because godliness with contentment is great gain. It is godliness that brings contentment. It is godliness that is true riches. Rich in godliness. Godliness that we hoped throughout the week that the young people would get a desire for. Man, you I wonder The transformation that would take place in our churches, the transformation that take place in our country, if young people sought after godliness like they seek after money. If they gave that much effort and desire to gaining godliness as they do to gaining wealth. In the parallel passage over in Philippians chapter 4, don't turn there, I'm just going to reference a very familiar verse, but in Philippians 4. 13, you guys know it. I can do all things Through Christ. That parallel passage that deals with contentments at well as well ultimately Culminates in this verse that he says, I can do all things through Christ Jesus. Understanding Paul reveals to us the secret is that relationship with Jesus Christ. That contentment is found in Jesus, in godliness. Hey, he tells us here, you brought nothing in this world, we're going to take nothing out. It what you you you're gonna go out like you came in. We're not gonna be able to carry any of it with us, no matter how much we gain through their time here on earth. The only thing that is of any real value beyond the grave is godliness. That is the only investment worth making. Because beyond the grave Nothing this side of heaven is going to matter. We know ultimately it's all going to burn up. But Your labor in the Lord is not in vain. Your godliness is not in vain. Your time you spend reading the Bible, the time you spend being a witness to your lost neighbor, to the person at the grocery store, the time you spend uh down at the prison uh sharing the truth of the word of God with those inmates. The time you spend serving the Lord here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, whether it be in One of the many different ministries we have during the services or even during the week coming in and cleaning and helping to maintain the property, all of this is an investment in eternity. And it will be carried with us beyond the grave. That is what true riches is. So these True riches that we seek for in godliness, but many are bound up in the riches of this world. So he tells us what the costs of these riches are. the riches here on earth, the riches that people seem to be drawn to and to desire. In verse number nine, he says But they that will be rich. He's saying those that would rather acquire and have wealth here on earth, that is their pursuit and that is their goal opposed to godliness He says, hey, they're going to fall into temptation and a snare. Into many foolish and hurtful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. Beloved, wealth will lead men into the tempter snare. This will take you down a road of foolish actions. You know, you guys have all seen it, the lottery winners, and the crazy lifestyles that all of a sudden they live. The foolish actions that they take, the dumb things that they do. I looked it up one time, I don't remember now off the top of my head, but the vast majority of them are broke again within a few years They lose it all because of foolishness. Wealth will lead men down tempt or snare to do things that they should not do Foolish actions ultimately will cause you great hurtful, hurtful lust Things that bring pain in your life. Things that are hurtful, things that you didn't even realize or understand. He says here to the point That it is like you're drowning in the cesspool of your own life. He says, which drowned men in destruction and perdition. This week more than once the story of the prodigal was brought up. This young man who wanted all of his wealth. Give it to me now. Carried it off into a far country and living high on the hog until he found himself living with the hogs. Yeah, that story was mentioned several times and we know in that story that the Bible says that this prodigal came to himself. With his life literally a waste of what it could have been. A waste. That word perdition Drown men in destruction and perdition. That word perdition literally means waste. Waste. You'll find that in the pursuit of these things will lead to a wasted life. A wasted life. Pastor Love preached using the story of the prodigal son and He told a rather lengthy story about being out hiking somewhere. And how he was really enjoying the trip. It was fun. On his way he met somebody and they were talking and they were conversing and They were just walking on this trip. He was just out going to go walk a couple of miles in the morning out in this mountainous area. And he was walking and talking with this person and didn't realize how much time was passing. And then finally the the guy that he was walking with said I gotta go and and he left and he was enjoying and on his way out he was energetic and he was full of energy and excited and so a couple of times he ran for a little while And uh then after this guy had left he'd walked for a little further and he said, Well, you know what, I probably ought to turn back. I probably ought to head back. I gotta get back to the church. He was at a get he was speaking somewhere as a guest preacher and so this was not his hometown or where he's at. And he turned around to go back and he kept thinking all the way back, he kept thinking He's turned the next corner. I'm gonna turn around the next corner and there's gonna be the parking lot. And it wasn't there. And he Next corner, it it's gotta be right there. And and he would come around the corner and it wasn't there. And he would see would go I remember that hill. Uh I I think as soon as I cross over that hill, there it is. And he would cross over the hill and it wasn't there. And uh He got ultimately made it back to the parking lot and he said, but what I learned on that trip is that it's farther back than you think. And he said, You see, young people, the lesson tonight is that it's farther back than you think. When you walk down that road of perdition, the road of a wasted life. Everything's exciting and everything is fun and you don't realize how far you've gone until you turn around and decide you want to go back. And then you realize, wow, it's farther back than you think. Now beloved, I'm thankful for 1 John 1 9. I'm grateful and I do not detract from the power of that verse or the importance of it in any situation that If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our clean sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And I would implore anybody that finds themselves drowning in the cesspool of life, waking up among the pig sty uh with the hogs as that prodigal did, I would implore you to come back now. Turn around now. Don't wait. Because ultimately, beloved, what 1 John 1. 9 will not do is it will not give you back everything that you wasted. Oh, yes, you can be forgiven, and you will return back to home and be back with the Father where you ought to be. But what it does not do, it does not restore all the time that you lost. It doesn't restore to you the years that you could have been serving God, that you could have had a right relationship with your mom and dad, the years that you could have been building sweet fellowship with your brothers and sisters, the years that you could have been serving Jesus. with your life. All of those wasted years are gone and you'll never get them back. It won't give you back the lost opportunities that you had. The opportunities to wit and to witness and win other people to Jesus. The opportunities that you had to serve God during those years where you were running from God. The opportunities you could have had to accomplish so much. Those things, that time, those opportunities, those relationships, that's all gone and you can never get it back. And so that's why I implore any and all to turn back today. Don't waste another day. Don't waste another hour. Don't waste any more of your life on the pursuit of this world's riches. I'd rather have Jesus in silver and gold. Turn back now. The pursuit of wealth will lead to establishing a root in your heart. You see, the heart of the problem is the problem of the heart. He says here, they that will be rich. They that will be rich. They that are, that's their ambition, that's their goal, opposed to godliness. opposed to contentment with where God has you. They that will be rich, that that is their ambition, and they're going to go after it. It's going to put a root in your heart. It's going to be a heart problem that grabs a hold of you, that does not want to let go. It is the love of money, and we know that it's the love of money that is the root of all evil, and we say, oh man, but I don't really love money. Very few people, I think, would actually admit to the fact that they love money. But it might be like the lady who said to me, he uh he doesn't have to work so much I've asked him to come home and be with me and the kids. But he loves that job. More than us. Oh, that man would never say he loved money. No, I don't love money. It's just necessary. I just need it to pay the bills or whatever But by his pursuit, by his actions, what he was doing, his wife said he literally loves that job more than the kids and I. I wonder, from God's perspective, what do we love? What do we love most? Where are we putting time? Let me ask you if you can see it. Can you see, beloved, what they thought was going to bring them satisfaction? Look in verse number 10. See, what they really believed that pursuit of money, the love of money, they that will be rich, what they thought was going to bring them satisfaction, what does it bring them? The Bible says it pierced them through with many sorrows. What they thought was going to make them happy brought sorrow. Pierce themselves through with many sorrows. If I could just get this level of pay, if I could just earn this much money, if I could just have that much overtime, if I could just acquire this house, if I could just drive that car, the pursuit of all these things in this life that ultimately are going to burn up and mean nothing. Those that will be rich, that pursue after that, the true cost of it is many sorrows. piercing through the heart of you. We're going to move down in our text here to verses 17, 18, and 19, because I want you to see how to live. Though you're rich. You see, God does bless some people with means and capacity, and there there is nothing wrong with that. And so how are we supposed to live even if if we are blessed of God? You see, the difference is that God brings the blessing and you're content, like Paul said, I know how to both how to be abased and I know how to abound. And maybe you find your place in a position where you're abounding. Well, Paul tells us here how to live in that situation. He says, first of all, stay humble. He says in verse number 17 there, charge them that are rich. So you see the difference there? In the other one, they that will be rich, they that are that's what they're going after, opposed to godliness and contentment. But there are some who God has blessed. And he says, though they that are rich, charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded. Nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. I remember a man who I looked up to for many years, because you know my aspirations as a young man was to be Filthy rich. I I was Scrooge McDuck and me were gonna be buddies. You know, I mean we were we were both gonna be ri I mean just rich. That was my aspirations as a young man, but then God began to change my heart a little bit And I said, well, okay, I still want to be rich, but I do want to be godly. And here's the thing is this man that I looked up to, he was a multimillionaire. He was very wealthy, but he never missed a service. He didn't mind using his Mercer Mercedes to pick up bus kids. He was still humble. He was wealthy from the standpoint of this world and the acquisition to God had blessed him greatly, yet he used his wealth to be a blessing to other people. He was still very humble. You wouldn't know, if you didn't know him, you wouldn't know the amount of wealth that he had. Now he has since gone on to be with the Lord. Can I tell you that he's glad that he lived the life the way he did? That he invested in eternity instead of in today or tomorrow? He was worth millions, but he didn't mind sweeping the floor at work party. More than once I saw him with a broom in his hand The vacuum or carrying a wheel or pushing a wheelbarrow, serving the Lord at the church. He tells us in this verse, hey, stay humble. And in that humility, don't forget to enjoy what God's given you. He says, don't trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. It's okay to enjoy it. It's okay that God has blessed you and you can enjoy some of God's blessing on your life. That's all right, but don't trust in those riches. Not only do we need to stay humble, but we need to stay helpful. In verse number 18, he says, they that do good That they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate You see, beloved, we need to understand that God gives to us to increase our standard of giving, not our standard of living. God gives to us that we might be able to, yes, you can enjoy what he gives you, but God wants to use you to be a blessing to others To have that spirit of giving, being helpful to those that have needs. I like Dave Ramsey. You guys know I listen to Dave Ramsey. I think he gives a lot of good advice, especially in today's world where the credit card debt that people have is just out of control. I heard the other day a lady 29 years old, $950,000 in debt, and only 211 of it was mortgage. $333,000 with student loans, which is complete and utter foolishness. $147,000 on credit cards. Forty-four thousand in a personal loan, and the rest was vehicle debt. Crazy. But I do have one little area that bothers me with brother Dave Ramsey and that's that he encourages people to the acquisition of wealth. He does say briefly and in small ways at the end, like we want to, you know, teach you how to save money so that you can ultimately be a hilarious giver. He likes to use that word, hilarious giver. And uh so he does put that on at the end. But basically the mindset or the idea that's being sold over and over again is once you have everything you want Once your 401k is established and your house is paid for and uh you know all of your needs are met and you have your emergency fund and your cars are paid off and you've got Basically, your vacation fund established when everything else is done, then you're in a position to be able to be a generous person. I would just say we need to be generous no matter where we're at. No matter how much we have, we should be generous to be helpful. And as God blesses us, we need to remember to stay humble and to stay helpful. He tells us here what we need to be rich in, they that do good, that they be rich in good works. That's what we need to be rich in, rich in good works. We also need to stay holy. He says in verse number 19, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. that they may lay hold on eternal life. Beloved, money doesn't buy holiness. That's your relationship with God. I read this week. If your relationship with Jesus has not changed your life, then you found religion not a relationship. Our relationship with Jesus Christ should change our life. We should be living holy lives Laying up for us a good foundation, godliness, and what we do in the service of the Lord is the only thing that we can send ahead. It's the only investment that's really going to count Everything else here on earth is going to burn up and it's going to be gone. Those of you that have lived long enough to have owned more than one vehicle, that vehicle you used to have, it is in a you know, trash heap somewhere. Uh more than likely. And very rarely does somebody it does it get put into some collector's thing and it gets, you know, put saved and in a garage or something. Most of the time they just You know, you love it and it's you take care of it, but ultimately it falls apart, right? You know, I'm sorry, Miss Kathy, one day the van's not gonna run anymore. That band's just gonna give up the ghost She's gonna drive it till there's a million miles on it if she can. But those those vehicles they they fall they some point they're gonna fall apart. That's everything in this world's gonna be that way. But everything we send up ahead. Just think about laying that foundation in eternity. Looking forward, living for eternity instead of living for today. That's what we need to remember when we're coming to do service for God. When you come to help with a day like Faith and Blue Sunday. When you come and serve at Vacation Bible School and it's a long week and you're wore out and you're tired and And you're like, man, this has been a long week and and it's been a lot of work. But remember, all that is for God and it's all for eternity. There's so many things we invest our time and energy in here on earth that just doesn't amount they're not going to amount to anything. And we need to uh live for eternity. Live holy lives. You know the old statement, diamonds are forever. You know they really aren't. You know what? Godliness is forever. Godliness is forever. I remember some years ago a a what at that time was an older man, but it was uh really a young man in his mid-30s. that uh was investing in the stock market during the dot com boom. And he was doing really well. He actually was talking to people about it and telling them how I mean he was making money every day, hand over fist. He was it was multiplying like crazy and he was like, man, I'm gonna retire I'm gonna retire before I'm 40 And he had a plan in the neck the next three years he was going to be able to uh accumulate so much wealth through this. And uh those of you that live through that, you remember that it literally was overnight. And one day he went to bed and he had a substantial investment portfolio. He woke up in the morning and he was worth nothing. And he got up and gave testimony of the fact that he began living for that instead of living for God. That in every morning when he got out of bed, instead of looking at his Bible or spending time in prayer, he would look at the stock market. And he says, I know that God didn't crash the stock market so that he could teach me a lesson that just happened, but I know that through it God taught me a lesson that I'm not to be living for this world. That I'm to be living for eternity. And if God blesses, Amen. And if I end up having to just work a regular job the rest of my days, then then amen. Whatever it's in God's hands. We need to live for eternity. Matthew 6, 19 and 20 tells us, lay not up for yourself treasures upon earth, for moth and rust doth corrupt. Where thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust is corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal. Anything we send ahead is secure. Yeah, I was listening to Dave Ramsey this week and a lady called in and she's like, my husband and I, she could I I don't do an old old voice very well because I'm so young, but Uh she was she was in her mid eighties and she's like, you know, we we we you know we have this money and we have two two hundred and fifty thousand dollar CDs that are coming due and We're just not sure what to do with it, where to put it, because we're in our eighties and we don't want to like put it in a stock market and risk losing it. Uh, you know, so We're just not sure like what we should do. And so Dave just says, well, just roll it over. Just let the CD roll it over and let it go again. That's a secure thing. You're gonna get three percent or whatever it is, but whatever it is, it's secure And you don't have to worry about it. And uh, you know what? Anything we send on to heaven is secure. You're not going to lose that investment. It's not going to be it's not going to be in vain. It's going to be for God. That's what true riches is. Let's stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.