Word of God tonight. Praise the Lord. Thank you again, Pastor Betrell and Church. It's been a joy today to get to know you, and we feel already at home and just thankful for the warm welcome and uh course the lovely place to stay and delicious food and Well, just thank you. And I think it was taken for granted. I I feel bad now, but you know, whenever somebody looks at me they're like that poor guy and they just know that my wife does it all. So that's I don't say anything about that, but uh I would not be here. I wouldn't be anywhere without her and I'm so thankful for the years God's given. What a special day to have Pastors and Mrs. Betrell's anniversary on this day. Isn't that something And I don't think we've said enough about that today. Of course it's about the Lord, but man, what a blessing. Thirty years on today. And so I hope you'll take some time and uh make them feel special and uh it's a blessing and I appreciate their faithfulness as well. Now we've got done scratching each other's back, right? He scratched my back, I scratched his back. I'm just kidding. He really is a f a faithful friend and I appreciate The fact that, you know, there's some friends you can just start where you left off and praise the Lord for that. And it's been a blessing to be here. Take your Bibles if you would. I'm going to put you to the test today. Are you ready for this? Haggai. Oh my goodness, what am I thinking? On a Sunday afternoon after a meal like that, making everybody turn to Haggai, is that even a book of the Bible, Pastor? I mean, goodness sakes. Alright, Haggai chapter 1 I'm not even going to try to help you to get there. It's it's there at the end of the New Testament or Old Testament somewhere. Uh just kidding. It's uh you'll find it one of those minor prophets there. I'm going to talk for a little bit longer because it's taken a little longer for everybody to find it here. But that's okay. It's worth finding. And I hope you'll um I hope you'll find your place there. I hope everybody has an opportunity to see the Word of God this this afternoon. Just a quick follow-up. I I know my intention is not to be long here this afternoon. I appreciate your faithfulness and your desire to continue on. It's such a blessing to see the Lord and what he's doing here. Um but I do have a burden to kind of carry on with what I mentioned this morning. We talked about moving forward in faith this morning in our Christian walk and in our church. in our family and I appreciate the testimonies of how God has brought people. I knew this morning that there were people here, even though I hadn't talked to anybody, I really hadn't heard the testimonies. whose lives have been impacted by the the Word of God through the ministry here. And that's not a tribute to any particular person, although God uses people, but it's a c it's a tribute to the power of the Word of God in your life. And I praise the Lord for the fact that we're seeing victory in people's lives over addiction and over other things, sin of all kinds, uh faithlessness, doubt, and moving on to victory. That's really what it's all about. But I want to talk, if I can, this afternoon, just briefly about this burden that I see in Hagi that I think comes to bear in Christians' hearts and lives, especially those of us maybe that have been saved for some time. Um and I don't mean old. Um I'm fifty but I don't I don't identify as old. I'm just wanting to know that, okay? So I still identify as a young man. But the fact is that we have to we have to get the mentality um that that before, right, the way it used to be, things that used to happen, the way it used to be, is better than where we are today. And here's how it comes out. We're living in a day when uh it's very dark. There's no doubt about it. Our our world is a very dark world. The light of the gospel needs to shine brighter than ever. There's just no question about it. And by the way, I'm grateful that in a dark time the light shines brighter. Okay, so don't ever get discouraged about the fact that, man, it's such a dark world, woe is us. No, I don't think there's any better time to be serving the Lord and giving the gospel as we're hearing people coming to the Lord, the white the excuse me, the field is still white unto harvest So praise the Lord for that. And there's no room for any divine pessimism as a Christian. Help us. We need to be of divine optimism. And by the way, I'll say again, for you young people that are here, if you're under the age of twenty I think that's a significant age, and I'll tell you why. Not only did we read in the Bible today that God differentiated between those twenty years old and older and those that were younger as the ones who were going to go into the promised land. I think that's significant. Listen, all of you young people today, don't let any person above you tell you, man, I'm glad I'm not growing up in this day and age. I don't know about this kind of stuff. Listen. We're growing up in a different you're growing up in a different world than what I grew up in, what my parents grew up in, and you will minister in a different world than I've been ministering in when you get older. But can I tell you this? God has equipped this generation, I think, just like he equips every generation to serve in their generation. And so the fact of the matter is, I'm thankful for this young generation that's growing up to learn who God is, serve the Lord, and will be you uniquely qualified. to serve him and be victorious in the age that they're living. So I have no question that God's doing his work, and I'm grateful for that. But sometimes we get this mentality in our mind Man, it's just the just remember the good old days. Have you ever said that or heard somebody say that, right? The good old days. And uh man, I wish I was about lie back in the good old days. I thought I know maybe it's the old uh Andy Griffith syndrome, you know. I don't know if you ever watch Andy Griffith, but you know, the old days when they used to sit on their front porch on Sunday afternoon drinking the Coke, you know, after church. And it was just slow and everything was great and you know the worst crime was that somebody parked wrong and Barney had to go give him a f you know a fine or something. Whatever And if you don't watch it, you're not missing anything. I'm just saying that it's the mentality that that time was better, this time is worse. That time was good, this time is bad. That time was fruitful, and this time isn't. That time had you know uh some enviable qualities, but we just don't have that today. And I want to show you today that not only is that a non-productive mentality, but it is an I'm going to show you that it's an anti-Bible mentality. And I'm not going to tell you today that you know I'm not going to sit and pick anybody out. I'm just saying let's get a mindset that God wants us to move forward in the day that God's put us in, right? Not look back. as a I again, I'm not I'm not against looking back. As a matter of fact I think it's very important. I mentioned this morning that we we put people in mind of what God is doing. You ought to have monuments. Hear me this afternoon. You ought to have monuments in your life Physical monuments of God's provision and his grace. Now, what I'm talking about is, are there things in your life today? Are there circumstances? Are there material blessings? Are there things that God's given to you that you can point out and say, God has done this in my life? Right? Maybe it's your testimony. Maybe it's, again, something God's provided in a physical, material way. But you ought to have those things. And if you don't, it's not because God's not doing it, it's because you're not recognizing that God's doing it, and you need to mark those so that others know. But also understand that God is not done doing what he wants to do God is not done blessing. He's not done using. He's not done calling people to himself. God is not done. And so we need to understand that there is a need to move forward with the right mentality. And sometimes that mentality can be a hindrance. And so I want to give you, if I can, what I see in the scriptures here from Haggai chapter two. And notice if you would there. I'll give just a brief background because I don't want to go through the whole thing this afternoon. But There was a a move to build the new temple. Um you remember how Nehemiah and Ezra they came out? uh and they were allowed to start rebuilding the wall and then they were going to rebuild the temple and then it kind of got started and then it got stopped and it it was a discouraging time because man they wanted to go forward but it just they couldn't uh There there was some political opposition, there was some legal opposition, and they just came to a grinding halt on the work. And so everybody kind of went back to their houses, figuratively speaking, and they said, well, we can't Build the house of God, so we're just gonna build our own houses, we'll make ourselves comfortable. And that's what they did. They kind of just turned inward. Instead of outward to the work, they turned inward and said, we're just gonna kind of do the things that we know to do it. So they made their houses comfortable. The Bible says they had sealed houses and panels and all this kind of stuff. And it was all wonderful. And God comes through his man Hagi and he says in verse number one of chapter two Um well uh I'm skipping some stuff here today. I almost hate to do that, but chapter one kind of goes back. There was a a move again to start the work and uh uh and and when that work got started again They had laid out the kind of the foundation and where it was going to be and the work started going up and then you you kind of got this You kind of got this group of people that came through and they're looking at the work as it's going on. And they kind of have a mentality that's like, oh man. I, you know, I see the outline of the temple here, but man, I remember the good old days. I remember the days, man, that Temple of Solomon and man I that now you talk about something that was something. That was the day you ought to live in. Now, was it the day to live in, and I'm sure it was. But but look at if you would in chapter 2 what their mentality was. In the seventh day, or excuse me, in the seventh month and one in the 20th day of the month came the word of the Lord by Prophet Hagiah saying. I'm in chapter 2, verse 2 now. Speak now to Zerubbabel, the son of Sheltiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Josedek. Now this is a different Joshua than what we talked about this morning, the high priest, and to the residue of the people, saying, Here's what the message is. You ready? Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? And how do you see it now? Is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? Yet now be strong, O Zerubables, saith the Lord, and to be strong, Joshua, son of Josedek, the high priest, and be strong, all ye people. Of the land, saith the Lord, and work. For I am with you, saith the Lord of hosts, according to the word that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt. So my spirit remaineth among you, Fear ye not, for thus saith the Lord of hosts. Yet once it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land, and I will shake all nations. And the desire of all nations shall come. Who is that talking about? The Lord Jesus Christ. That's right. So this is obviously a prophecy. of the coming kingdom of the Lord Jesus. Now, as often is the case, the Old Testament prophets would see the coming of the Lord as a baby and his coming as a king as one event. That would often be the case. Although there was a great gulf or a great space in between the two events, right? As we know we're sitting in that that pause right now. Okay? So what he's saying is there's coming a time when there's going to be a man come and he's going to The Lord Jesus, the desire of nations, and he's absolutely going to bring his kingdom. But notice it goes on to say this. He says there, um, the silver is mine, the gold is mine, saith the Lord of hosts. And then verse 9, the glory of this latter house, or the latest house here, shall be greater than the former, saith the Lord of hosts. And in this place will I give peace, saith the Lord of hosts. Now, here's what we have really a double application or double prophecy here What he's looking at is he's looking at these men who are standing there, and they're looking at the outline of the temple, and they're they're saying to themselves, Tisk Tisk, you think this is a glorious temple? You should have seen Solomon's temple. God is saying, I want to show you something from this little illustration here, and I want you to see that not only is the last house, this house here. going to be better in its glory than the first house. And I think what he was talking about is spiritually. But he's also saying In a figurative sense, the house was Israel, and there's coming a time when the desired nation's going to come, and he's absolutely going to transform what you even know about peace. He is the Prince of Peace, and there's time coming when he will transform this world. Praise the Lord. I can't wait for that day to come. Now, what I want you to see though is the mentality of those men, those people, those elders that were there. And in verse number two, the Bible says they came in verse 3, excuse me, who is left? among you that saw this house in her first glory, and how do you see it now? And I want to show you this morning and this evening that there is a hindrance in their mind with the mentality that they've had. And I want you to see what was going on in their heart. Now, a couple things that we can talk about. The Bible talks earlier in the first chapter there about how they would In the days of Haggai, they felt as if they were spinning their wheels. He used terms like sowing a lot, but bringing in a little. He said things like eating, but not being filled He talked about having clothes on, but being cold still. He talked about putting their wages in a bag and that bag having holes in it. You can understand the futility of those things. I'm eating but I'm not getting filled. I'm clothed but I can't get warm. I'm putting my my wages in a bag, but the bag has holes, and so it's just falling out. You kind of get the idea that there was a mentality of a spinning wheel. We want to go forward, but we can't. And there's a lot of reasons for that, but God is teaching here that I think Part of the reason was there was a mentality that the bet the old days are past, the good days are past, and we can't see God bless anymore today. I want to tell you today that's a very, very bad mentality for a person to have and a church to have. Don't ever look back at the past at the expense of moving forward in the future. I'll say today that God is interested in us moving forward. Now the past is very helpful. But it is only helpful insofar as we learn from it and recognize God's blessing and then understand God's moving us forward in the future. Proverbs chapter 20 and verse number 17 says, hope deferred maketh the heart sick. When expectation is not realized, this brings discouragement. When you expect something and it doesn't come to pass, that's a little discouraging. And that's what these men were understanding. They were looking at the new temple that was being laid out, and they thought to themselves, man, this is nothing. You should have seen the old one. And I'm saying today that God had to set them straight through his man coming and saying there's a wrong spirit here. Some who were left here had seen the first house in its glory about 68 years before, before it had been destroyed. And here they had gotten this kind of mentality of comparison, mentality of the older was better. The good days are past. They started to get discouraged and they and not only not only did they uh bring about this mentality, but they began to discourage people who were doing right. You know, can I tell you today when you got that idea and you start telling all these young people Hey, the good old days are past. You should have been back. You should have seen that it's a terrible day. I hate the way you're living the day we're living in. It's so bad. You know what that starts to save them? Well What what can God do in our lives? I mean, if if all the blessings have been given, what God what has God got left for us And I'm saying God had to bring a change to their stinking thinking and saying there's no better time to serve the Lord, there's no better time to walk in victory, and there's no better time to move forward in faith than right now. And that's what he was showing them through the Word of God. And I love the fact that they really did learn the in the the lesson. Notice also in our own lives, maybe you're in a place of discouragement as well. Maybe you're in a place where you're looking around saying, Man, I just don't think it used to be so good. I mean, I didn't have all the health problems, I didn't have all the worries, I didn't have all the difficulties. Back in those days were better. I'm saying Regardless of our circumstances, God wants us to understand the good days are ahead of us. As long as there's life, there's hope. And so the unexpected trials and the prolonged illnesses or the hardships that you're dealing with. Those are all things that can cause us to become discouraged. But I tell you this morning, God, or this afternoon, God wants to help us and understand it. Notice God points out the problem here in their mind. So number one, if I could just give you a couple thoughts on my burden, I'll give you number one here. God pointed out their first problem was minimizing the present. and magnifying the past. Now, magnifying the past is not wrong, but if you magnify the past to the minimizing of the present or the future, now we've got a problem. And I'll say today that God wants us to magnify him and magnify what he's done in the past insofar as it directs us and encourages us to the future. Can I take you to another passage? Maybe you have time to turn, or you can find it Ecclesiastes chapter 7. If you go back to the book of Proverbs and Psalms and you'll go forward a little bit, you'll find Ecclesiastes. Chapter 7. Many of you will know and remember that Ecclesiastes was written by who? Solomon. Good. Okay, a wise man. He's written now this at the end of his life. The Bible calls it the him the preacher, and so he is writing, and he's given us lots of wisdom. By the way, a study in Ecclesiastes is just phenomenal. I didn't really understand it. It just sounded like a pessimistic old man that got to the end of his life and said, life's not worth it, you know, whatever. That's kind of the way I interpret Ecclesiastes until I studied it, and it's it's amazing the wisdom in Ecclesiastes But notice chapter 7 and verse 10. Because if you didn't think I was saying right about this being a wrong unbiblical thinking, look at what Solomon tells us in Ecclesiastes 7, verse 10. If you're not there, just listen as I read. Say not thou, what is the cause that the former days were better than these? For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. Did you hear what he said? I know it's Sunday afternoon. I know we all had pastors famous smoke turkey, but I want you to listen this morning. Did you hear what he said? Don't say what is the reason why the old days were better than these. You don't inquire wisely if you are saying that. What I'm saying is, if I could just bring it into some modern understanding today. Don't get in your mind that the good old days were the only good days. I'm thankful for whatever that was in the past, but we have a tendency as humans to forget the bad and remember the good many times. And that's what happens. I'm saying today, Solomon, the wisest man that ever lived, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, said, Don't look back and say, man, I wish we could go back to those days and make it better like that. What did we do in those days that made everything so good? God is saying, I have something for you today. And by the way, sometimes the way God blessed in those days is not the way that He'll bless in our day. So don't look back and try to replicate what they did when it comes to the process or when it comes to the program or when it comes to the whatever it is. Look at what God's doing today and trust Him for the blessing. May God help us that we would have the mentality of saying, I'm not going to look back at the past and maximize, emphasize the past in a minimizing the present type of mindset. I'm believing this morning, this afternoon, that it's important for us to have the right heart. If God is led in the way, then what we are doing today is just as important and just as open and relevant as what was done in the past. And I believe today that we need to be careful. By the way, all the men and the women of faith of old seem to be bigger and better than us, don't you? I mean we say the word Apostle Paul. Everybody's like, whoa, Apostle Paul Of which we should be very highly respecting the Apostle Paul. Can I tell you the Apostle Paul is just a man like you and I? As a matter of fact, his testimony said I'm not just a bad person. I'm worse than the bad people. Okay, so Paul came to the Lord as a murderer. Right? Now I'm not emphasizing his sin, I'm just saying. Okay, so we go through all the men and women of faith, go through the book of re of Hebrews. We c often call it the hall of faith. You know what that kind of does? Kind of puts these people up in this pedestal that are like, we'll never get there. I mean I'll never be, you know, Noah or, you know, you name all of them Ruth. I mean these people were just Pillars, giants of the faith, these are things that we say. You know what that does? It puts them out of reach of us. We're magnifying the past at the minimizing of the future. Or the present. Now, I'm not saying God used those people, but can I tell you today, if they were living in 21st century Christianity, they might be just like the person sitting next to you. Except for them, they would have just been people that in that crisis of moment, in that trial of faith, they said yes to God and not no They didn't even do everything perfectly. But in those moments when God touched them, they said yes. And their life was a blessing. I don't think God put them there for us to idolize. He put them there to show us that people like you and I can follow the Lord in difficult situations and have the same blessings And so may the Lord help us not to magnify even those men and women that God honors to the point where we say, I can never be like them. Do you see how magnifying the past can minimize the present? May God help us from that. That's not it at all. It's a matter of saying, God, how can you use me today? How can I implement your word in my life? How can I take steps forward and not be hindered by that kind of mentality? And so that maximizing of the past can often hinder our future progress. Yes, there can be good memories in times when the God has worked in the past. Praise the Lord. I'm going to give a couple illustrations here quickly in our home When we moved from New York, God did a tremendous work of faith in our lives between the time we moved to New York to pastor a church there. When I went It was my mentality. We're going to be there for the rest of our lives. God was doing great things. The church was growing as a small little country church. Just had 12 people there when we got there. And over the course of the next year and a half, God brought in tremendous growth. I mean, just seeing God work left and right, teaching us lessons. We were we had to be humble. I just I can't even tell you all the things in this short time. But but in that time God told us and taught us things. What happened was very quickly God brought the opportunity for us to be able to move to Cleveland. Now we weren't looking to move. Matter of fact initially I said no, God's doing a work here. But the pastor there said, God's laid you on my heart, would you please pray about it? We prayed about it. God made it very clear to us to leave. I didn't understand why until later on. But the fact is though when we left, God was showing us some things. And so there's some there's some provision that God gave to us, very material things. Now you might roll your eyes a little bit, but one of the things was a kitchen table. We had six kids, all very young, and uh we knew when we were moving to Ohio that we're moving into a particular home. It was the pastor's home before us. It had a large dining room and uh our little tiny dinky table wasn't gonna fill up that large dining room. Well we had a desire to do this. Well God the lot behind this story, I wish I could tell you, but God brought to our church a man who owned a furniture store and uh he became my soul winning partner and loved the Lord. And in part of it he he decided to retire. And as he's retiring he's selling all of his furniture stuff and he He says, hey, nobody wants this this dining room table. It's a five-foot dining room table, but it has ten one-foot um sections you can put in it, so it spreads out to fifteen feet. No wonder nobody wants that. Who wants a fifteen foot table? But that would have it it it would have been perfectly used for our our area where we're gonna put it. Now not fifteen feet all the time, but although we'd take it out there. But God, through some friends of ours and through, you know, some provision, he allowed us to be able to get that table. Now it's a very s you think, well, it's a big deal, it's a table. No, it to us it was God's provision. So our friends sign the bottom of it and you know when we bring people over, uh we spread this big you know, open the table out. It's always a big deal to bring the bring all the leaves out for the table. What am I saying? Every time we do that, we thank the Lord for his provision. This is a it's a monument to God's provision in our life. You're gonna think I'm very shallow, hopefully not, but I want to show you what else God did. So we live in this house, had a very old central air conditioner. Now I never grew up with air conditioning. My wife did. But we had it and it worked and it was fine. Every time we turn it on in the in the spring or summer or whatever, that first time We would all pray and uh click the little thing on and it would make the most unearthly clunk that you've ever heard and then it would blow and blow for the rest of the season. You know, well one time it made the most unearthly cl clunk that you ever heard and then it didn't blow. And it just was not well had the guy come out, yeah you need a whole new system, you know, s six thousand dollars or whatever it is. Well, there's no way I'm gonna pay I can't pay six thousand dollars for a system, so we went without air conditioning. And uh for the next four seasons we suffered through and whatever, you know, and and uh whatever it was. Well God decided to provide for us in a very miraculous way through a neighbor behind us. And I can't tell you the whole story. If you come see me afterwards, maybe I'll tell you. It's amazing. But an unsaved Catholic guy, God used to provide our needs, not just for that air conditioner, but for several other things. And now every time that air conditioner comes on, we literally thank the Lord for his provision. It's a monument to God's provision in our life. Pray for my neighbor. He's still not saved. And uh would love to love to see him get saved. He's a dear friend of ours. What I'm saying is, though, these times in our lives when we have God's provision, it's good for us to mark those things and to recognize them. They're monuments of God's provision. But may I say today that there's never a time in our thinking where all of God's blessings are past, right? That's all he can do. God wants to do that every day. It'd be very easy for us to get stuck on the fact that You know, we used to have this at our church, or you know, we may we we got to this level and that's great. No, God wants to just keep us going forward. I'm thankful to hear about your over and above offering. It's a blessing, isn't it? But you know when that gets paid off in two years, and I firmly believe it will, when that gets paid off in two years, you know that that's a past blessing, but that doesn't mean God's done. He he's got something else for you. What else does he want you to do? I remember as at our church when we were growing up, um we were in debt and my dad came to be pastor and so that he said we're gonna have a program of five years, we're gonna pay off our debt. Five years So it's a program and we raise money over and above our our budget every year. And I remember it was a big deal. People would pledge a lot of stuff and they'd give money and uh we'd pay down that we had a big burning ceremony, you know, like it's exciting, it's wonderful, but you know right after that They said, we're not going to stop giving this money we've been given. We're just going to start giving it to missions. And so we started a huge missions program, and God multiplied our missions program. Beyond that. Here's what I'm saying. God's just wanting us to be able to grow and go forward for Him. But the answer is always that God is still working. And so Sometimes we get the mentality of this children of Israel where they're in Exodus chapter 16. Hear God taking them out of the ch out of the land of Egypt. And you know what they did when they got into that promise or into that wilderness? They said, God's forgotten about us Oh, that we'd go back to is to Egypt and you know, eat the leeks and the g onions and the garlic. I don't know what their diet was and all my kids are like, what in the world do they want to go back there for? But you know the fish and all the things that they had. Oh, that we go back there. Wait a minute. Are you're saying you want to go back to the slavery and all that? Do you see that you see how they forget those things that God has done? He's he brought them miraculously out of the land. He took them across the Red Sea miraculously. He provided for them. I'm telling you, God had shown himself over and over again, but oh, they wanted to go back. God spare us from that kind of a mentality. And so, number one, sometimes we maximize the pra past and we minimize the present. I think that's the first problem. Number two, comparison is the enemy of going forward. Comparison is the enemy of going forward. You look at verse number three, I read this in our passage, Hagi chapter two. Who's left among you? That saw this house in her first glory, how do you see it now? Is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? Alright, so sometimes we look at what's going on today and we say, well, I mean back in the day our bus ran 500. And now it only runs, you know, twenty or fifteen. Oh, you know, God's not blessing. You see how we compare one with another. That's a problem. The answer is what is God doing today? Who is God reaching today? I want to just encourage you that that you would not let comparison be the enemy of moving forward in your faith. Whether it be church, uh in any numerical or material blessings that we can count, don't compare with other things. What is God doing today? And how does he want us to go forward? And so we want to be very clear comparing what could have been with what we have now, or comparing others in their finish where you are in your beginning, or whatever it might be. Comparing your trial to someone else's trial. Don't compare. It's not wise. Let me give you my third and final point here. And that's found in verses four and five. And I I love that it kind of harkens back to what I said this morning. Remember the last point this morning? Maybe that's unfair to ask you. That was like two hours ago. I'm cheating because I can see it here. The point, this last point was that God's presence was promised to them. Remember that? He said, I am with thee. So I think that's what we're seeing here. And and it the goal, the goal, believers, has always been God. Look at verse 4 and 5. Yet now be strong, O Zerubbables, saith the Lord. Now there's that word strong again that we saw in Joshua Is that strong like just buck yourself up? Come on, snap out of it. Dig yourself out of that hole of discouragement. The the temple's not being built? You think it's not a big deal? You think it's little? Uh you get discouraged, you quit about it, just buck up. No, that's not what he's saying. He's saying, grab a hold of the truth that I'm giving you. Grab a hold of my word. Grab a hold of the promise and hold on because that's what's going to give you the strength you need. Remember we talked about discouragement and courage. Courage comes. Strength comes when I grab a hold of God's word and I've got confidence in it and I move forward. That's the same way here. It's not about the fact that the temple's bigger and grander, bigger and better. That's that we don't need a bigger and better temple. He's saying I'm gonna bring you something that's way better than anything you can build. The desire of nation's coming. So the bottom line is don't look at the past. Look at God. Don't maximize the past. Maximize who God is Because he says there in verse number four again, be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedai. And I love how he starts at the top. Hey, leaders, be strong. Be confident in God's word. And then he comes down to Joshua the high priest, be strong. And then to all the people, everybody else, be strong. See, it starts at the top and works down. That faith that God wants to have. And so he gives that strength and he says Verse number four, saith the Lord, and work, for I am with you according to the word that I covenant with you when I came out of Egypt. So my spirit remaineth among you. Fear not. Hey. The same promise I made to your family back in Egypt, it still holds true today. Can I tell you today, church, that the same promise that people that came before us had when they were serving the Lord is the same promise we hold to today. God hasn't changed a bit. People are still getting saved. The word of God is still the power of God unto salvation. The Bible says in Romans chapter 1. I'm telling you today, it still works when we put God's word first in our family. It still works when we put God's word first in our home and individually in our own lives. The promise of God is absolutely true. It never changes. Oh, but I remember the good old day. No, no, no. God's promise still applies today. What God said He'll do in the past, he'll do today. The program isn't done. The promise hasn't been exhausted. The provision hasn't been depleted God is still coming. When his time comes, he'll come, but until that time his promise holds true. And so we be strong, Josh Joshua. Be strong, Zerubbabel, be strong people. It's not a self-assured strength. It's not a strength that comes out of some pep rally and we're just going to get excited again. No, this is a strength in the Lord that just transcends circumstances and difficulties. And I love the fact that he says, be strong and work. You know the bottom line is that doesn't give us permission to sit around and do nothing, right? It doesn't give us permission to sit around and do nothing. It just gives us permission and actually empowerment to say, hey, if God's still working, I got work to do. There's still people in Hunt Valley and Cockysville and all around that need to be saved. There's families that are seeking for the truth. Somebody knocked on your door four or five times, invited you to come out. Someone gave you hope. Let's continue. Why? There's more people yet to reach. There's more ground left to claim. And the future. As Abnam Judson says, is as bright as the promises of God. Praise the Lord for that. You know how to that springs hope eternal. Not some sort of Glass half full mentality that's based on circumstances, but rather a divine optimism that says God is still at work. The best days are yet what God is going to do. Not in the past, they're in the future. So I'm telling you today, let's get out of the mindset, the unbiblical mindset of, I wish we were back in the good old days. And let's stop discouraging these young people in this generation saying, man, it's such a bad day. It is, there's no question about it. But do you think there's never been a bad day before? You never think there's never been darkness before? Let's get back to Bible thinking and let's trust the Lord for the future. Shall we bow our heads and close our eyes? Lord, thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for this little glimpse into the mindset. Lord, oftentimes we fail in this way. Without even realizing it, Lord, this thinking sneaks into our mind and we project a mentality that is not biblical and right. So Lord, I pray that you would help us. Thank you for these dear folks. Lord, it's quite obvious that the faith of these folks has allowed you to do things in people's lives. individually and corporately as a church that are just truly miraculous. But Lord, I pray that the victories of the past would not hinder the victories for the future, and the defeats of the past would not hinder the victories of the future. Lord, we're done with those. We're moving forward. I pray that you'd help us that we might have a mentality that is glorifying to the Lord, that is optimistic in your word, strong by the word of God, and confidence in the presence of God. We pray your blessing upon each of these individuals, and however these apply, Lord, to our lives today. Lord, we need you, and we pray your blessing on your word. May it be effective in hearts today. We pray these things in Jesus' name. With your heads bound and eyes closed, I'm just going to ask if you would quietly stand at your seat. And I would just ask you today, I know our bodies are weary and our tummies are full, but can I just encourage you this morning? If God has dealt with your heart about a wrong thinking or a lack of faith, or maybe this minimizing the present, maximizing the future, or the past, excuse me. I'm saying, let's just confess that for what it is. Lord, I want to be one that encourages, who has faith. I'm forward-looking, not blindly in optimism, but in divine trust in who God is. We have a bright future, church. God's word is still true. Do you put your faith and trust in that? And if the Lord has dealt with your heart, you need to make a commitment to the Lord. Maybe you need to confess to the Lord this morning or this afternoon. Just do it. Move out of your seat. And let's let the Lord do his work as the instrumentalists playing. You're welcome to come.