Turn your Bibles to the Book of Ephesians. In the book of Ephesians, I want you to look at two passages of Scripture. We are getting back to looking at uh mystery tonight, one of the mysteries that are given to us. and giving us understanding of, interpretation of in the New Testament. So turn to Ephesians chapter 6 and verse number 19, and we're going to read that verse, and then we're going to turn back to Ephesians. Ephesians chapter number three. But in Ephesians chapter 6, verse number 19, he says, And for me that utterance may be given unto me that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel, to make known the mystery of the gospel. We're going to be dealing tonight with the mystery of the gospel. Turn to Ephesians chapter 3 and we are going to read a lengthy passage of scripture, but the entirety of this passage deals with this mystery. And gives us a lot of insight with regards to this mystery, the mystery of the gospel. In Ephesians chapter number 3, we're going to read verses 1 through 13. You uh follow along in your Bible here. For this cause, I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ, for you Gentiles If ye have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given to me to you word, how that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote afore in a few words. whereby, when ye read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ, which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men as it is now revealed unto his holy apostle and prophets by the Spirit, that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs and of the same body, and partakers of His promise in Christ by the gospel. Wherefore, I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power Unto me, who am least less than the least of all saints, is this grace given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which, from the beginning of the world, hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ. To the intent that now unto the principalities and the powers in heaven places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God. According to the eternal purpose which He purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of Him Wherefore I desire that ye faint not in my tribulations for you which is your glory. The mysteries of the New Testament given to us, and this the mystery of the gospel, there's a lot of teaching In that passage of scripture, and because of how uh Paul's way of stating things, Paul's a very educated man, and uh you know, giving truths here, and sometimes because of the phrasing is a little bit backwards from the way our mind might work. We start hearing these phrases and it And you've got to read through it and really think about it maybe to to get what he's telling us, but we want to dig into that tonight. Um H. A. Ironside said this with regards to the mysteries of God. He says, Man has his secret things All to be brought to light in due time. God, too, has his secret things, which could not be known until he chose to reveal them The New Testament is not only the answer to the Old, though it is that, but it is far more. It is the unfolding. Of the secret things which God had purposed in his heart before the worlds were made, or the ages began to run their chorus. So H. A. Ironside, that great Bible theologian, says the New Testament really is an unfolding of the mysteries that God had yet to reveal. Now some churches down through the ages have used the existence of the mysteries as a way of trying to uh bring laity to a point of of subjection or almost uh putting them under their thumbs and saying, hey, this is a mystery and Unless you happen to be a uh a leader in the church or unless you happen to hold this position, you don't understand it. This is a mystery and and somehow like they had a uh a corner or a market on understanding what the mysteries were. And they would teach these mysteries to uh laity and teach them as the legends of the church or the traditions of the church sh were these mysteries that are to be followed. But I want you to understand that that's not the case. Ironside went on to say that there are no there are not special truths for a special class of people. But every Christian is privileged to enter into the knowledge of these mysteries. More than that No Christian can properly enter upon the responsibility following his relationship, which stands in God if he remains ignorant of these mysteries. So what he's saying is that, hey, these mysteries are available for everybody. Not only that, if you call yourself a follower of Christ, somebody whose God has saved your soul, you can't properly be a follower of Christ and remain ignorant. You can't call yourself a follower of Christ and remain ignorant of these mysteries because these are given to the church, given to all saints, and all people should understand and recognize them. We're dealing tonight with the mystery of the gospel. First of all, let me give you the definition of the gospel. The definition. Now this is amazing because this the gospel. The gospel is a Bible term. It's a term brought to us through the miracle of inspiration. This is a term given to us in the scriptures that uh comes from there, even though it gets used in a lot of other places today. This is a Bible term. The gospel. It is called the gospel of God in Romans chapter 1 Verse number one, Paul said, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto The gospel of God. It's the gospel of God because he is the source of the gospel It came from him, so it is the gospel of God. But it is also called the gospel of Christ. But the Apostle Paul said that too. He says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. You see, it's also called the Gospel of Christ because it's the gospel of God because God was the source. But it's the gospel of Christ because Christ is the subject of the gospel. Christ is the subject. He is who the gospel is all about. It is his story. Amen. This is the gospel that we see. That term gospel, in fact, is so synonymous today with the idea of truth. And this is the word of God and this is truth. But that term is so synonymous with that that you even hear somebody whose story about maybe the size fish they caught. might be called into question and you will hear them say, no, no, no, that's the gospel truth. You know, somebody uh that there there might have exaggerated some and they'll say, nope, that's the gospel, I promise. The gospel Truth. That term has become synonymous with the truth. And praise the Lord for that. This mystery of the gospel was hid, but it is now made known. unto all men. In Ephesians chapter 3, look at verse number 5. He says, which in other ages Was not made known unto the sons of men as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and the prophets By the Spirit. By the Spirit. You see, he says this was not made known. I mean, can you think about, can you imagine the Apostle Paul preaching and teaching this truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ for the very first time? I mean I'm speaking to an audience tonight for the most part. Everybody here has heard and you understand. I don't even have to tell you what the gospel is. It's in my definition here. We haven't got to it yet, but the gospel is what? The good news, where the good news is what three things? The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. I'm speaking tonight to a group of people that you know that already. But can you imagine the Apostle Paul coming to the Jews? And teaching this truth to them for the first time? He says, hey, this is a mystery. And it was a mystery because they had not heard anything like this before. And he says, this was not revealed unto me by me, but it was revealed unto me by the Spirit of God. Given to us the apostles and the prophets by the Spirit of God. What is that great mystery? The mystery of the gospel, obviously, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. But what was made possible by that? He tells us, look at verse number six. He says, the Gentiles should be fellow heirs. and of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel The mystery here is that the Jew and Gentile were going to be fellow heirs. That the gospel was going to go out, this message was going to go to all mankind. To the Jew and to the Greek. To the whole world. And we would all be made fellow heirs by the power of this message, the gospel of Jesus Christ. The mystery of it. They heard hadn't heard this before. This Bible term, the definition of it, is given un in given to us right in the scripture. Chapter 15, verse number three and four, he says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, and he was buried, and then he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. And herein is the defining characteristic that is of utmost importance to Christianity. Compared to any other faith out there, any other religion. Because Jesus Christ died He was buried, but he rose again. He rose again. That is the gospel. In that is that was a message given to all mankind, the free gift of Jesus Christ given to all mankind, that he died, that he was buried, but that he also rose again. This good news given to all mankind is the power of God unto salvation the power of God unto salvation. It is to be understood by all mankind, not just a select few, not just one nation. One group, one class. It's available for all, and it's supposed to be extended to all. Ephesians 3, verse number 4. He says, Whereby, when ye read, ye may understand my knowledge and the mystery. Of Christ. He says, the Holy Spirit has given me this knowledge, and I'm putting this down here for you. He says, so that you can read it and have an understanding of this mystery The mystery of the gospel that was given to us because aforetime and in ages that are past, God didn't make this known. But now he did. So we see the definition of the gospel, then I want to give you the declaration of the gospel The declaration of the gospel. He says in 1 Corinthians 15, 1 through 4, he says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you. which you've also received. He he declared the gospel unto them. The gospel declaration at first declares the facts. He declares the facts, and we read that verse uh three and four already, that it's the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is the heart of it, the heart of the message. It was declared to all nations and all peace all people that everyone might have an opportunity. To trust Jesus Christ. It was a declaration of the judgment of God on man as well. In Revelation chapter 14 and verse number 6 and 7, he says, And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven. having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on earth, and to every nation and kindred and tongue and people Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment is come. The hour of his judgment has come. Those that have not accepted and received Jesus Christ, those that have not heard and responded to the message of the gospel. are in danger of the judgment. They stand condemned already unless they've accepted Jesus Christ. It's a declaration that all men need to hear. It was declared by Paul that it was given to him by the Holy Spirit, not something that he made up in Galatians chapter 1. Verse eleven and twelve, Galatians one, eleven and twelve. I know I'm going quick through the giving you a lot of scripture tonight, but in Galatians one eleven and twelve he says, But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which I have preached of me is not after man. For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. This is not something he just came up with. It's not something that he thought would be a good idea. It was something that God gave to him, a revelation of Jesus Christ. That this would this is what man needed. And the amazing thing is he felt he had to make it known. He had to make it known. The verse that we we started with. It's amazing to me in Ephesians chapter 6, verse number 19, he says, and for me let me back up. He says in verse number 18, he says, pray this is a familiar passage, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. So we're supposed to be praying always, right? So he's talking about praying. He says, pray always, in supplication and in spirit, watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. And then verse number 19, he says, and for me. So he's saying, Would you pray? Pray always. Pray for all the saints. Persevere in prayer. And he says, and for me, this is the heart of the Apostle Paul. He says, and for me, pray that I have utterance That utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. Now he was here dealing with a group of people that had never known this mystery. And we know from the story in the life of Paul that sometimes they didn't receive that message of the gospel very happily. Sometimes they stoned him. Sometimes they beat him. They chased him out of most cities at some point as he preached this gospel. You know, we might not have the best response. To the gospel at times. It's amazing to me. You can talk to people about anything in the world, but when you bring up the gospel Why is that so offensive? Because it brings them face to face with an Almighty God Where they get called on the carpet for the life of sin that they've lived It draws a line in the sand and says, listen, Christ is willing to forgive you, but you've got to admit that you're a sinner and you need forgiveness. And man doesn't like to be faced with that. They don't like to bring themselves to that point. So sometimes we might not have the best reception when we give the gospel. But my how we need to pray like the Apostle Paul here, pray that God would give us boldness. Pray that God would give us utterance, that we could open our mouth and share the message of the gospel. As we're in this world. That we would have boldness, but not just boldness. You know, sometimes we can open our mouth at the wrong time. Sometimes, you know, we can say the wrong things. And then other times when you're led by the Spirit of God, and it's amazing to see what God does through you. And you walk away saying, where'd that come from? Or why did I say that? Or how in the world? But God just uses that, that exact thing to prick their heart. That verse that you haven't thought of in years comes to your mind and you give them that verse and and they and you walk away saying, Wow. That is utterance. That's what the Apostle Paul was talking about. That God would give you utterance, that you would have the right words to say, that you would know how to communicate that truth of the gospel to the person that you're dealing with, and every person you deal with is different. There are all the different places in their life, and some might be very close and ready, and some you might just be planting a seed, but as we go, we need to ask God to give us boldness and to give us utterance that he might guide our tongue to say the right things. Amen? That's what we need. The Apostle Paul said that's what he needed is he wanted to declare the gospel to all mankind. He felt it was necessary and that he had to do it. It was it was it pulled at his heart. Does it pull at your heart? Do you feel that burden when you're out? Do you ever think about somebody that you talk to? In the grocery store, at the store, at the gas station, or at work. I mean, does it ever cross your mind? I wonder if they're saved. We need to ask God to give us a burden for souls. That he would stir our heart to think about their eternal destiny and be moved to share the message of the gospel with them. The declaration of the gospel. The deliverance of the gospel. This is a powerful thing, and we've taught on this before. I'm not going to spend much time here. But uh in verse number two of uh Uh I believe this is in Corinthians. Um he says the the passage in Corinthians chapter fifteen verses one through four that we've read a couple of times, I think in verse number two he says by which also ye are saved. Talking about the gospel, you were saved because of the gospel. If you keep in memory what I preach unto you, unless Ye have believed in vain. Praise the Lord that when you believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ, you're not believing in vain. It delivers you from the penalty of sin. It delivers you. You don't have to spend an eternity in hell. That is what we deserve. What we have to pay for our sin is an eternity in a place called hell. And we could we could pay our own way and spend eternity there, but The power of the gospel delivers us from that. It delivers us from that. It allows us not to have to endure the penalty of sin. And we, of course, know that it delivers us also from the power of sin here on earth. Praise the Lord Christian, we can be victorious. I know Satan comes and he tempts you and he he tries you and I know that sometimes you you feel the the weight of this old world and the flesh and And you you desire to do right, but you know the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak, and sometimes Christians live a defeated life But understand that's not what God wants for you. Because you've been saved by the power of God. He's changed your eternal destiny From eternity in hell to an eternity in heaven. And he wants you to live and enjoy the abundant Christian life. And that comes By being freed from the power of sin over you in your life here on earth, you don't have to live in bondage to sin. You know, today's world is faced with so many problems. I've been doing a lot of reading on different things that people face because we want to have this uh real problems, Bible principles on Sunday nights and trying to deal with some of these things. And there's major anxieties that people deal with. There's uh there's uh depression that people deal with, there's lots of addictions that people deal with. And uh, you know, just reading about these and trying to get some wisdom that I might be able to help uh people. But you know A lot of those things, a lot of those things are direct result of sin. The depression, the anxiety, the fear, the majority of those things are a direct result of sin in our life. And we want some guy over here with a PhD to tell us how to deal with this. But the root of the problem is the sin in our heart. It's the sin in our heart. We're dealing with all this anxiety about the pressures of life, which we brought on ourselves because of our discontentment. And because of our greed, and because of a lack of self-control, not being able to say no. So we've put ourselves in this position. We bought a house that was too big, a car that was too expensive. And we've gone way beyond all of our means and now there's all this pressure and I don't know what I'm gonna do and how can I deal with this anxiety? The root of it is sin And we could go through a lot of these problems that people are dealing with today. Family, relationship problems. The root of a lot of it is sin. We've been freed from the power of sin in our lives because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You don't have to be a bondage to that. You can, by the power of God, get victory. And not deal with all of these. You see, these are People even get to the point where they make themselves sick, where physically it affects them because of worry and anxiety and all these things in their lives. That's all fruit. The root's way back here. We've got to get down to the root. You're delivered. And praise God, one day we're going to be delivered from the presence of sin. In glory. Amen. Amen. We're going to be in glory. I want you to see that our our duty with the gospel, and I'll try and go through this quick, but our duty with the gospel, we've been entrusted with this mystery. This mystery has been given to us. And the Apostle Paul has taught it to us and given it to us in several passages of scripture here. I want you to know that it's our job to preach it. And Mark 6, 15, 16, 15, he says, and he said unto them, Go you into all the world and preach the gospel. We've got to be doing this. That's what it's about, but it's not just a Saturday morning thing. I mean the Saturday morning is an opportunity where we're going to go out and knock doors and I have so excited about the people that have been participating in that. And 37 people out last Saturday and 430 doors or something like that were knocked on and tracks given, the gospel left in 400 homes. And we had a few calls and some people didn't like it. But that's what happens when you knock on the enemy's door. They might not like it. But praise God. We're fulfilling the commission to go to preach the gospel. As Paul said, he Begg God for utterance to do so. He, in fact, in the beginning of this passage of scripture talks about how he felt he was a prisoner. He was a prisoner because of the gospel, because he was, he had to preach it. And you couldn't stop. I mean, think about the Apostle Paul preaching this to people that never heard it. Consider this in the Old Testament. People in the Old Testament believed by faith like we do. A lot of times when we're talking to people about salvation, we talk to them about being saved to go to heaven. But do you know the truth of heaven is not revealed to them in the Old Testament? They believed in God and were delivered and saved from sin and followed God without the promise of heaven. We're given the promise of heaven in the understanding of heaven in that place in the New Testament. That's an amazing thought to me Paul felt that he was entrusted with this, and we are entrusted with it. In 1 Corinthians 9, verse number 17, he said, For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward. But if against my will a dispensation of the gospel is committed This dispensation, this time of the time of grace, this space of grace we have has been committed unto us to share the truth in the message of the gospel. We are supposed to defend it. Philippians chapter 1, verse number 17. But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. Are you willing to defend the gospel? Philippians 1:17. We're supposed to live it and believe it. In Philippians 1, verse number 27 He says, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. You know, in the scripture, when we're talking about the word conversation, it's talking about your lifestyle, how you live. You know, as a saved believer, our lifestyle is supposed to be different than the world. Amen? Because of the gospel, because we're saved, because we've trusted the gospel. And he goes on, he says, and and whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs that ye stand fast. In one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. Well, there's a lot that God gave us with regards to this mystery The mystery of the gospel. He also says we're supposed to stand for it. In Colossians 1. 23. If ye continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel. Listen, this gospel is the truth. Don't be moved away from the hope that we get from that. Don't let this world and false prophets and false teachers and all these things. Shake your faith in the truth that God has given us in this gospel. This mystery given to us, revealed to us in the New Testament. Was not necessarily known to those in the old, but it was taught. And you know, we can look back in hindsight and we can see in the Old Testament where some truths are given And it's amazing when you think you you look back and you think about the picture God had of the spotless lamb and how his shed was blood his blood was shed for the covering of sin. And how one day the spotless Lamb of God would come and his blood would be shed. But see, we're looking all from this side. The Old Testament states didn't have that So these things, a lot of things that we understand, are not necessarily were not revealed to them at that time. Ironside said this with regards to this truth, and I'll be done. Of the church, the body of Christ, there is no hint. The long history of Christendom is passed over in silence Of these things the Old Testament does not treat. Neither was it there made known unto that man that there should be in heaven, that they should be in heaven. The translation of Enoch and Elijah were strange to the Jews, of which the scriptures offered no explanation. All these were among the secret things which would not be revealed until the coming of the just one, to be followed by his rejection and then his ascension to heaven This message given to us of the gospel of Jesus Christ is vitally important for us as Christians and important that we are fulfilling God's command with regards to preaching it and carrying it to a world. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and your love for us. We thank you, God, for the truths that are here presented, Lord, and for the gift of the gospel. For entrusting us with it. And Lord, we have been saved. If we've been saved, it was because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray that we would hold fast to it, stand strong on it, let the fact that we've been saved change our day-to-day life, and may we pray to have boldness in utterance as the Apostle Paul did to share the gospel. with a lost and dying world. And we'll thank you, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.