Let's go ahead and uh we'll we'll start our Sunday school hour and we'll have uh some time as we're looking at the scriptures. And I wanted to take time just uh uh just a little bit different of a lesson, uh, just in terms of Problems that that people deal with. Many years ago uh I was teaching uh uh a young uh kid's class on Thursday nights. Uh in the evenings and we were uh going through different uh battles, different battles that we see in the scriptures and and battles that people face and And it's not just the battles, the the actual uh warfare battles that we see where people are are combating uh as the Bible says against flesh and blood, uh, but also uh spiritual battles that we face. And one of the battles that many times we have is uh one of the problem with pride Pride is something, and if you were reading along with us, we're going to talk about pride this morning and how it applies. And how hopefully we can learn from what the Bible says about it, how we can identify it, and hopefully we can uh learn how to combat it, how to work against it. It's something uh that To be honest, the world does not see pride as a problem. And when we understand what pride is, you know, we we when we have a a biblical perspective on what the scripture is teaching us. We realize that this isn't something that is desirable. This isn't something for us to want to have. And again, the world has a very different view of of pride. The world does not view self as a problem. You know, you hear many things about self-esteem and and self-worth and self-image. you know, self-help and things like that. Uh uh, but understand that when we look at the scriptures, we we see that self is actually a very big problem So, if you were following along in the reading plan, one thing that stood out to me this week was a king. uh named King Herod. And uh uh uh we're we're gonna talk about him a little bit today, but we're gonna learn three lessons from three kings this morning that we see in the scriptures. lessons of these men who had a problem with pride. So the first one that we're going to go to is in Daniel chapter 4. Daniel chapter 4. Does anyone know the king that we'll be talking about this morning? Nebuchadnezzar. Two kings that we'll be talking about in the book of Daniel today. Nebuchadnezzar is the first one. Very similar situation that we see in these in these uh kings. Uh Daniel chapter four And you can go to verse uh twenty-eight and I'll I'll lay the groundwork of uh of where we're at here in in Daniel chapter four. Uh King Nebuchadnezzar is the king of the mighty empire of Babylon. Babylon was the greatest kingdom in history. If you read the book of Daniel, Uh it talks about multiple kingdoms when when there's a there's a dream about an image and there it has a head of gold and and and it goes on and it has feet Of clay and iron, I believe. And from head to toe, it's made of these precious metals. But the Bible says that that God spoke God said to Nebuchadnezzar, You are the golden head. Uh you were the the the the cream of the crop, the top of the kingdoms, the elite of the elite kingdoms. And that was King Nebuchadnezzar, that was the the nation of bat the the the nation of b Babylon, the Babylonian Empire as we know it. And in uh Daniel chapter four Uh in the very beginning it says Nebuchadnezzar the king unto all people, nations, and languages that dwelt in all the earth, peace be multiplied unto you. So this The passage comes from a little bit different of a perspective because it's almost as if Nebuchadnezzar is the one that is uh speaking. From from N Nebuchadnezzar's point of view, obviously you see that in uh verse four. It says, I Nebuchadnezzar was at rest in mine house And so we see about Nebuchadnezzar, who was the king of this mighty empire. He was a great king, had many riches. But he had a dream that was very disturbing. Now with this dream, uh he had a a uh a Friend, a person who who worked for him, a person that was under him, who he had grown a lot of confidence in. And that was uh the man Daniel in the script. Scriptures, uh the right the the prophet Daniel as we know. And Daniel was uh given a gift by God to be able to minister uh not only uh to many different people, not only to write uh these words of scripture, but also to minister to uh King Nebuchadnezzar. And one of the ways was that Nebuchadnezzar many times had these very uh illustrious uh dreams. uh uh of things going on and Daniel was able to uh g give them the meaning give him the meaning of them. Now Daniel had, or excuse me, Nebuchadnezzar had a dream, and a dream that troubled him greatly. And he spoke to Daniel about it. And when you see that, you see in verse uh number five, it says uh it's talking about Nebuchadnezzar, I saw a dream which made me afraid, and the thoughts upon my bed and the visions of my head troubled me. So again, understand that there was this uh this this dream that he had that was a problem for him. And then in verse 10 It says, uh you see, about this dream, thus were the visions of mine head in my bed. I saw and behold a tree in the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was great. The tree grew and was strong, and the height thereof reached unto heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of all the earth. The leaves thereof were fair, and the fruit thereof much And in it was meat for all the beasts of the field had shadow under it, and the fowls of the heaven dwelt in the boughs thereof, and all flesh was fed of it. And then uh in verse fourteen, or we'll just go thirteen and fourteen, I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and behold, a watcher and an holy one came down from heaven. He cried aloud and said thus, Hew down the tree. and cut off his branches, shake off his leaves, and scatter his fruit, let the beasts get away from under it, and the fowls from his branches Nevertheless, leave the stump of his roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass in the tender grass of the field, and let it be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beast of the heaven beasts in the grass of the earth. So when Daniel heard this dream, the Bible says that Daniel was very upset. He was having a difficult time ru because he he understood, he knew what it meant, and then he goes on to tell King Nebuchadnezzar, you're the tree. And you're going to be cut down and because uh because of your pride and these things are gonna happen to you. And again, Nebuchadnezzar had this warning. It was handed right to him through the prophet Daniel. And so we see later on in verse 28, we'll kind of cut to the chase of Daniel 4. The Bible says this in verse 28. All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezzar at the end of twelve months. He walked in the palace of the kingdom of Babylon. The king spake and said, Is not this great Babylon that I have built? for the house of the kingdom, by the might of my power, and for the honor of my majesty. So here is the point where Nebuchadnezzar Is lifted up in pride and he says, look at this wonderful place, look at this amazing city that I've built. And it's interesting why why we we see that because when we see in the times in this empire And the ruins that are found of Babylon, they made bricks. The entire city was made of bricks. And at the bottom of every brick uh you find inscriptions of the king, the king's name Name. And so when these ancient ruins have been found in Babylon, in ancient Babylon, you see so many bricks with this man's name on them, Nebuchadnezzar, who actually built it. And so that's why in his mind he's saying, look at all these, this entire city, look at this amazing place that was built because of me. And so again, this was a time where he was lifting himself up. He was putting himself uh uh lifting himself up into a place where he shouldn't. And then the Bible says in verse 31, while the word was in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven saying, O King Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken The kingdom is departed from thee. So at this point, Nebuchadnezzar hears a voice from heaven where he is uh He is demoted from his kingdom. He is demoted from his kingdom. You see, uh Then we see, and they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. They shall make thee to eat grass as oxen. And seven times shall pass over thee until thou know that the Most High ruleth in the kingdom of of men, and giveth it to whomsoever He will. So the the lesson to be learned there was that it's God that's the one that sets up rulers, that sets up the kingdoms. and gives it, hands it to uh to uh to whoever he desires, to whoever he wants. And and that was the lesson that Nebuchadnezzar hadn't learned because he was looking at himself and he said, look at this amazing city, this amazing town that I have built. And so we n uh uh n we know the rest of the story. The rest of the story is that Nebuchadnezzar then was made like an animal. He he dwelt again, he was demoted. He wasn't uh deposed from his position as king. He was just demoted. He was cut down. And that that's indicated by the Bible talking about the stump that was left. But he was going about, it says that he had uh his hair grew over his body, his nails were like birds' talons. It was Uh i it it was an awful sight for this king to to be l to to be among the uh the ab among the animals to eat grass and things like that. And then the Bible says in verse 34, and at the end of days And at the end of the days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up mine eyes unto heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me, and I blessed the Most High, and I praised and honored him that liveth forever, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, and he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay at his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? So here at this point, when we see Nebuchadnezzar, his heart is turned. He's a completely different person. The Bible says that he comes to himself, he realizes his mistakes. And uh uh the he the Bible says that he lifts up his eyes towards heaven. So here, this is uh uh there's some that would have debate uh about this, but my personal opinion is that Nebuchadnezzar I believe that he was a saved man. There are some that would say that that he was not, um, but I personally believe that he was. And so uh but all that to s underst to say Here's a king who had lifted himself up in pride, and he needed to humble himself. Now he was humbled in a very real way by God. But also he he turned from that. He he repented. You see that he he has a complete change of mind of his perspective. He changed his perspective to be what is the correct perspective And we see that. So here we we learn this lesson from Nebuchadnezzar and his pride. So Then we move on to Daniel chapter five, another uh story that if you have been in church uh even as a young person, you hear the the the the story of uh the writing on the wall. And here we have the the the story of uh the account of a king named Belshazzar. Who saw writing on the wall. Now Belshazzar, as far as we know, historically, was the grandson of Nebuchadnezzar. And when we see what happens, we see that Belshazzar was king. Uh he was the king and he made a great feast in the beginning of chapter five. and to a thousand of his lords and drank wine before the thousand. Belshazzar, whilst he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the golden and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple, which was in Jerusalem, that the king and his princes, his wives, and his concubines might drink therein. So here's Belshazzar. He throws a big party. And he decides to desecrate the temple furniture and he brings these things into uh into the the his festivities. But when we see that, again, going back, understanding that at this time Babylon was still the greatest empire around. At this time the walls were said to be a hundred meters high, about eighty feet high perhaps. The river Euphrates flowed through the city inside the walls. And this was part of the historical historical account as to why Belshazzar was overthrown. You continue to read during this party. Uh the uh Belshazzar sees a a hand and it writes on the wall and n no one could determine what it is exactly that it said or that it meant. Uh and so at the time they they someone spoke out and said, There was this man Daniel in the kingdom that was a big help to to Nebuchadnezzar. He can tell you. And so Nebuchadnezzar, or excuse me, Daniel came out and was was brought out, and he translated exactly what the writing on the wall was. In Daniel chapter five, verses twenty five through thirty-one we see this, and this is the writing that was written, Mene Mene Teco Eupharson. This is the interpret interpretation of the thing. hath numbered thy kingdom and finished it. Tekel, thou art weighed in the balances and art found wanting. Perez, thy kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians. Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet, and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation concerning him that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom. And that night was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain. And Darius the Medean took the kingdom being about three score and two years old. So understanding again the the river, the the the way this is accounted to have happened is that the river uh of Euphrates went through the the the main uh area of Babylon within the walls. Uh so they had a water source, they had these gi gigantic walls, they had protection Uh and but what Darius the Mead uh had conquered the land uh much around Babylon, and finally as he reached Babylon, it said that uh there was no way to bring down the walls So what he did is that he dug trenches along the river and the river got lower and lower until the soldiers were able to walk under the walls and conquer the city. And that's said to have happened on the night of this uh of this festiv festival, of this party. These things were going on as uh Belshazzar was having this this wicked party. But the thing to understand about Belshazzar's pride, again, going back to the issue at hand, was that he did not learn from the mistakes of his grandfather. And here Belshazzar, the the kingdom is he's completely taken out of the kingdom. He's killed this night. And Belshazzar is taken from uh he he's killed this evening. And again, because of his pride, he didn't learn from Nebuchadnezzar's mistakes. And understand that it's very likely that Belshazzar understood or knew what had gone on during this time with Nebuchadnezzar as he was Humbled and made like animals, it's very likely that if he wasn't around, at least he heard about it and knew that this had happened to his grandfather, and so again, he didn't learn from the mistakes of his grandfather And pride will do that. And so finally we get to what we spoke about or what we read about this week was King Herod, also historically known as King Herod Agrippa. And if you read in the book of Acts this week, Acts chapter twelve, the Bible says this. And upon a set day Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his throne and made an oration to them And the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a God and not of a man and immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not the glory, and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the ghost So there's this very interesting story here in the book of Acts that happens with Herod, who is just like that, killed, killed by God And there's a historical account by a Jewish historian named Josephus, who his account is consistent with what happened So what is said to have happened is that there was this festival that that Herod was at, and in the morning of the festival, Herod came out. in a robe that was made of silver. And as the sun was shining on it, it was as he was glowing. And people were in awe of him and they said You know, Herod, we respected you as a man, uh, but forgive us for not respecting you as an immortal. They lifted him up as a god. And the Bible says too that uh he gave not the God the glory and the account of Josephus is the s uh is the same that he didn't stop the people from saying that. He he he he liked hearing that about uh uh about himself and because of that, because of his pride, he was killed Now, the the Herod, the the the Herodian dynasty, as they call it, there was a lot of Jewish influence in in in in the Herodian dynasty. They they knew a lot about Jewish customs. They had uh some of them had grown in uh uh the the the Jewish way of life so they were familiar with these things they were familiar with their religious beliefs And they knew that there was not supposed to be anything that was lifted above above God. And even though these people, uh the Romans were were pagan, as you will, King Herod still understood, and the people around him gave him these compliments, and he appreciated it. And because of that, he he was lifted up in pride, and because of that, he he was just struck dead right there. So we see this problem, the obviously that kings have, but this is something that is Evident in all of our lives. We see the extremes here with these three rulers, but we all have the same problem of pride. And from the youngest of us to the to the oldest of us, from the from the least of us to the greatest of us, every person deals with this pride. I read about a preacher who said uh uh He I think it was H. A. Ironside. He said, you know, I I I'm struggling he he he felt like he was struggling with pride. And so he he told a a preacher friend, he said, you know, what what should I do? I feel like I'm struggling with this. And his friend told him, Okay. Get a sandwich board and go through the streets of Chicago with the plan of salvation written on it and walk through the streets of Chicago And so he did it. And as he he w he put this sandwich board on him and he was walking through the streets of Chicago and it was talking about Uh i he felt humiliated and he just felt like embarrassed about what he had done, you know, just I mean having to do that. But it helped him. But then the account says that as went once he got home He said he thought to himself, I bet no other man in Chicago would be willing to do that. And uh again he he he just caught himself, you know, and he so it's something that creeps in and whether again, whether you're a young child or whether you're you know a a a grown man and and all these things We have a problem with pride. We can all suffer with this. And so let's learn just a few lessons here as we as we look at the scriptures. I want us to go over some things uh that the Bible says about pride. And uh in that we'll let's look at uh Proverbs. We'll we'll be in the book of Proverbs for the rest of the the rest of the time this morning. We'll just kind of be uh going back and forth, really just looking at what the scripture says here in Proverbs. First and foremost And Proverbs chapter 6 really lays the groundwork for what it is that we're supposed to do, or what it is that God uh thinks of this. Proverbs chapter six, verse numbers sixteen through nineteen, uh the Bible says this These six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him. a proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, and heart that diviseth wicked imaginations. feet that be swift in running to mischief, a false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren. So here we see the the first one is a proud look. That's the first one that God lays out and explains that this is something that God hates. Now the word abomination, many times, we see it in the scriptures, but understand that the main point here is Excuse me, it's pride disgusts God. Abomination means that something's disgusting. It's something that's gross. It's something that's vile. It's something that's offensive. And what we see here is that the scripture is telling us that pride is disgusting to God because it's an abomination. It says that he hates it. In uh Proverbs 16, verse 5, the Bible says, Everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. And so it's so much so that the pride disgusts God that he uses the word hate. And and so it's something that we ought to consider. Uh uh the these things that that that God hates, this thing that that that Disgusts God, and so we need to make sure that we see that, that we're careful with pride creeping into our lives. Next, we see uh in uh we see that pride defiles man. So pride disgusts God and pride defiles man. We see that in Proverbs 21, verse 4. You can turn there. And in Proverbs 21:4, the Bible says this, and high look and a proud heart, and the ploughing of the wicked is sin. Now, the thing is, is that we we we we plainly look at this and we say, I mean the Bible's pretty clear here. It's not, there's really no Reading into what this might say. Pride is sin. A high look, a proud heart, these things, bottom line is that they're sin. And you know, as Christians, many times we need to we need to reject sin. We need to put sin away from us. We want to put down our sin and and avoid these things and and you know no we we we we won't be out you know stealing or or or robbing people or carjacking anyone or anything like that uh but because that's wrong and that's sin We won't be out murdering anyone. That's sin. But we allow pride. And the Bible says that that's sin too And it's important for us to take that into consideration as we read what the scripture says: that hey, these things that we face, these problems that we have, these things are sin. And so This is one that we allow, and it shouldn't be that way. It's one that we have to be careful not to allow to get a hold in our life. Now, another plain and simple passage is if you turn back to Proverbs 13 So we see that pride disgusts God, pride defiles man, and now we're going to see that pride divides. Proverbs chapter 13 and verse 10, the Bible says this: only by pride cometh contention. So, where there is a conflict, the Bible is pretty clear that there's Pride. Whether it be a conflict between people, whether it be a conflict in a marriage, whether it be a conflict among uh co-workers, where there is Pride or where there is conflict, there is pride. And it's difficult because We like to we like to be right. And we like our way. Now This can go very far too, even in the spiritual sense. Because As I was reading and preparing for this, one of the things they said, one of the places where we allow pride, again, any one of us, is in the sense of spirituality. And our uh we we become doctrinally proud. And we have to be careful with that because You know, the way it was put, and I thought it was very good, was that if it weren't for God's grace, we would not have the understanding and the teaching that we do have. If it were for God's grace, we wouldn't uh understand and know the truth of the scriptures. For Him teaching it to us, for Him revealing it to us And many times what happens is that we can become doctrinally arrogant, doctrinally proud, and say to people You know, again, this goes back to the conflict part where you're wrong. You believe wrong. This isn't what this isn't what's right. And we have to be careful with that. And so we have to approach it in a way with humility. Now, again, we can go too far the other way and and and compromise on on truth. That's not what I'm saying. Uh we know that the truth is the truth, but uh it's not, you know, a person is w a as they're lost, they're lost in their Uh they're blinded. You know, and we need to to try to reach them. We need to try to help them and instead of dividing and pushing them away Uh we need to be careful not to not to cause conflict because where there's conflict the Bible indicates that that comes from pride. Now also debatings. You know, we we we are we have to be careful not to you know let's let's go to this next next verse to really uh illustrate that Proverbs 28 Proverbs 28 is where Verse twenty-five. Proverbs twenty eight, verse twenty-five. The Bible says, he that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife. And so what we see there is There are people and that we will come across, that we will meet, that like to stir up strife, that like to cause problems, that like to cause uh conflict. And there's sometimes that people will seek after debates and seek after a conflict purposefully. And the Bible says here in Proverbs 28-25 that a person that is of a proud heart is one that is stirring up strife. And so again we have to be careful that we're not stirring up seeking after conflict, seeking after strife. Now sometimes, if you're like me, you kinda like that stuff. You kinda like getting into debates with people. You kinda like, you know, a and Again, it's not a compromise of truth, but it's a matter of approaching it the right way. And we need to make sure that we're careful that we're not seeking after strife because if we're seeking after strife that means that that's coming from a proud heart and that means that we have to we have to fix that in us Along with that is not listening to other people. Many times, you know, going back to Proverbs 13:10, the Bible says this, only by pride cometh contention. But with the well advised is wisdom. Now the way that sentence is structured, it's saying Here's only by pride cometh contention, but with the well-advised is wisdom. So it's indicating that these people aren't well advised. The people that are proud, the people that are contentious. And what that implies to me is that that implies that they're not receiving advice. They're not well advised because the Bible says in a multitude of counselors there's safety. that there's uh a wisdom in a multitude of counselors that if you're not well advised, if you you're if you're having conflict, if you're proud, it's because you're not listening to other people's advice You're not taking advice from other people. And so we have to be careful with that. The next one, we see that pride disgusts God. We see pride defiles man We see pride divides. Next we'll see that pride disgraces. Proverbs eleven, verse two. Turn over Proverbs eleven verse two. The Bible says this, when pride cometh, then cometh shame. But with the lowly is wisdom. So where there's pride and lifting up And we see that illustrated very well with King Nebuchadnezzar. He was lifted up in pride, then came shame right after him. Belshazzar was lifted up in pride, and then came shame. He lost the kingdom. The same thing with King Herod. All these things, pride disgraces. Pride brings shame. Pride, the other word that you can use is dishonor. Pride brings dishonor. And so understand that pride is a very big problem that we deal with. Finally, this morning, we see that Pride destroys. In Proverbs 1525, we see this all uh peppered around the book of Proverbs Proverbs 15 verse 25, the Bible says this: the Lord will destroy the house of the proud. But he will establish the border of the widow. And other places in in Proverbs, the Bible says that Pride goeth before destruction. And so we see this idea that pride destroys, pride tears down Pride brings down. Now, this also applies spiritually. Pride destroys eternally. Because it's pride that holds people back from trusting Christ as their Savior. It's pride that holds people back, and what we see in the scriptures is that Putting your trust in Jesus as your Savior means that you are allowing Him or giving Him control of your life. And most people, a lot of people, they don't want to turn the ring. They don't want to turn over the control to God. They want to control their old life. They want to control their their own destiny, they want to do what they want to do. They want to in control their own desires and things like that. And that destroys them spiritually. That pride, that wanting to be in control of it. destroys them. So pride we see, just pride defined, if you will, is an attitude of independence from God. It's a spirit of ungratefulness to God, or it's esteeming other ourselves better than others. So if you see these attitudes coming up in our lives, we have to be careful and we have to Consider is pride creeping into my life at this time? Is pride creeping in into my into my heart So, indicators of a proud person. How can you identify? Here's just some some maybe some practical helps. A proud person becomes irritated when corrected for mistakes. We can all be guilty about that at times. A proud person accepts praise for things over which he has no control. A proud person has an ungrateful spirit for all that God has done. A proud person often finds himself comparing with others So really, when it comes down to it, when when you look at these things and It's very difficult to sc find a scriptural solution To pride because it's so prevalent and it can come up in so many areas of our lives. And it's hard to find examples, but we see again with Nebuchadnezzar He humbled himself. Now, there's some other examples that we see in terms of the solution for pride. There was one man that said the solution for pride is to know God his character and the truth about him. And there there's a lot in that. Understand that Isaiah, Peter. They were humble. They weren't proud when they saw God for who he was. And when they said, Woe is me. And that needs to be our attitude if we're going to truly humble ourselves. Is see many times we compare ourselves to one another, and the Bible says that that's not wise. But even in that That's not the measuring stick. The measuring stick is the scriptures, or as a person, the measuring stick is God, is Christ Himself. And when we measure ourselves against that You know, we don't want to do that because we know that we don't measure up. I can compare myself to another person. I can compare myself to Pastor Derek, you know, and I can come up with things But that's not what the true measuring stick is. That's not the standard. The standard is Christ. So as we again As we see pride come into our lives, it has to be something that we put down. And how do we put that down? Is being closer and knowing who God is, learning about God and what it is that He desires what it is that his character is like and the truth about who God is and what he's done for me. And that helps us. It's not going to eliminate it. I wish it were the case. But it's something that we need to we we need whatever help we can get to put down the pride in our life. So That kind of summarizes our Sunday school lesson for the morning. Let's go ahead and close with a word of prayer. dismissed. Father, we do love you and we thank you for the day and Lord we thank you for Lord for the humility and the meekness that you showed in our life, Father, or to us. uh by coming and and dying on the cross for us, Lord, and living uh in this world, Lord, you humbled yourself so much that you came down from your throne in heaven. Lord, and became flesh and blood like us, Lord. And Lord, we do thank you for that. But Father, I just pray that, Lord, this matter of pride, that you would help us to Lord, find and search those areas in our life where we see it creeping in. Lord, I pray that you would help me, Lord, in this area as well. Lord, you know it's a But Father, I just pray that you would help us to be closer to you, that we would uh Lord truly uh be a people that that humbly seek you and and seek after you and uh Lord what it is that you desire in our life Lord, I do pray that you would bless our service now as we continue this morning. Lord, continue to be with Pastor and Mary as they travel and Lord strengthen them and uh Lord give them uh the the help and they the the strength that they need for for the for the days and for the upcoming week Lord and Lord we'll thank you for it. We ask it all in Jesus' name. Amen.