Amen. What a song. Praise the Lord. It's a blessing to sing that. We'll understand it all by and by, Brother Crane. We'll we'll know why why things are the way they are and what we've endured and uh different situations we've gone through and sometimes we look at it and say why why but you know one day we'll know It's amazing how fitting that is for what we're going to talk about tonight and some aspects certainly could uh tie it to what we're going to be dealing with. Want you to get in your Bibles to the book of Ephesians. Uh that's where we're of course studying the first chapter. And uh I'll be there shortly. Ephesians. I suppose Ephesians is one of the books in the Bible that I have here that are as as marked up as any of the books probably that I've studied. It's always fun to go back. I'd encourage you to to make notes in your Bible, to put references in there, you know parallel passages, lessons that you've learned, things like that. Uh then when you're reading your Bible in your devotions, those things will come back. You'll remember those truths I told my class I was teaching in Nehemiah there at the Bible College, and uh I told them that all of my tests are open Bible And I said, I don't care if you write the entirety of my notes in the margin of your Bible. Doesn't matter to me. You can put as much in your Bible as you want. Here's the thing, I know this because I went through Bible college As soon as the test is over, I'm gonna forget everything I crammed to have. I'm it's gonna be gone because I have another final and it's I'm gonna go right to starting English as soon as I get out of that class and here's what I know that they will have that Bible with those notes for the rest of their life. And they'll ha every time they read in the book of Nehemiah, they'll see those notes. They'll put those things together. And I said, I don't care how much you put in the margin of your Bible, all of my tests are open Bible and you can y mark it up, put put the answers in there, whatever you want. Make it as easy for them as possible. So all my students got straight A's in in uh in the Amaya uh class, but uh really I I want them to have something they're gonna be able to use ten years from now And the truth is a lot of things that we learn real quickly we forget. And even in a service like this, a lot of times we forget. Some people ask me, uh, what did you preach on last week? And I'm well That was seven days ago. Come on now. And I'm the one that preached it and I can't remember. Uh, you know, I'd have to go back and look, and that's because our mind gets busy on what's next, you know, just like uh Professor Royalty was talking about on Sunday that uh How often do we ponder and think about the things that God teaches us? And do we just let our mind move on to the next thing and we don't really dwell on it? And uh that's the whole idea behind these quizzes and and just they're just for fun, but basically to try and help us kind of stir the memory banks a little bit. And repetition is the key to learning and hopefully give you some things, but I would encourage you to mark in your Bible a little bit. We are in Ephesians chapter number one. We looked last week at the Father's provision. I'm sorry, the Father's plan tonight. We're looking at the Sons provision. In Ephesians chapter 1, verses 7 through 12, just for the sake of context, because we're going to go verse by verse down through this, so I want to read it in its entirety so you kind of see it all together. And I want you to keep in mind that we're dealing with the Son's provision as we go through this tonight. We see Ephesians chapter 1, beginning in verse number 7, down through verse number 12. In whom we have redemption through his blood The forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace, wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence. having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he hath purposed in himself. That in the dispensation of the fullness of times, he might gather together in one all things in Christ. both which are in heaven and which are on earth, even in him, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, Being predestined according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will That we should be to the praise of his glory who first trusted in Christ. We know Paul here is writing to the Ephesian saints. He's commending them for their faith and he's encouraging them to faithfulness in the uh coming hardships. Things that are going to come up, the trials that they're going to face, and he's encouraging them to faithfulness in that. And he's informing them of the great blessings that there are in Christ We see tonight as we get into the Son's provision, first of all, the Son has provided for us the redemption through his blood. In verse number seven, redemption through his blood. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. Beloved, I want you to to note several things. First of all, in whom we have There's a present possession stated here. This is something, beloved, that we currently have. It's not something that we're going to work for. It's not something that we are going to be able to attain if we stay faithful long enough. If we hold on till the end, then maybe we'll achieve this, or maybe we will receive this. No, no, it's a present we have, in whom we have, beloved. You have, if you put your faith and trust in Christ and asked Him for the forgiveness of your sin, beloved, redemption has been provided. It is something you presently have right now. Now redemption is to pay the price for. Redemption is to buy back. Those living in New Testament times would be very familiar. with the concept and the idea of redemption. Jewish law made means and provision through which men could buy back or redeem, as we saw in the story and the book of Ruth. Oh how how the the provision had been made I'm sorry this is just distracting me the provision had been made that uh they could buy back the property in in the the the land uh that had been given as an inheritance then throughout the Old Testament when that inheritance that God had given them, if for some reason because of uh poor judgment or Bad decisions. They they lost the land that was their inheritance. If somebody had the means or the capacity, they could buy that back. They would have been familiar with that. Many of the kids would have grown up hearing stories about how they were redeemed or how God brought them back up out of Egypt, how he saved them from that slavery. And listen, let me tell you something. It was not just something historical for them, something that they just heard about. The fact of the matter is, is that the auction blocks were full during those days. In the Roman Empire there were six million slaves. The the men and women being bought and sold like cattle on a regular basis. And they certainly would have understood the principle or the idea that somebody could pay their debts, that they wouldn't have to work the rest of their life In servitude to pay their debt. Somebody, if they had the means, could pay their debt, could redeem them and give them their freedom. Beloved, that's what Jesus Christ did for us. He had the capacity and he redeemed us, he redemption that we currently and presently have because Christ was capable and he was willing. But notice, beloved, the amazing price that it cost him. He says here, in whom we have redemption, what are the next three words? Through his blood. We have redemption through his blood. Beloved, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. And the fact of the matter is Is that Jesus' blood had to be shed for you and I to pay our sin debt? He had to give it all so that we could be free. He shed his blood for us. The Jews grew up under the law, and they knew full well what it took to have their sins covered under the law. You understand, under the law, beloved, they would sacrifice the blood of bulls and goats and that spotless lamb for different offerings would be made, and that blood would be shed to cover their sin. It didn't take it away. Hebrews chapter nine uh tells us Hebrews kind of bridges the gap between Old Testament truth and New Testament grace, and he says in Hebrews 9. 22, and almost all things are by the law purged with blood. He's saying, listen, we know that the law has told us over and over again that the fact of the matter is that the shedding of blood is how we covered sin, and that without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. Understood correctly, beloved, they knew, they understood that the law itself could not save, but it could cover The law itself stood as a schoolmaster. The law itself was a method by which it would show you that you need to be saved. Right. That's the the the the role or the job of the law. In Romans 320 he says, Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified. The deeds of the law, listen, they understood no matter how much they wanted to keep it, they couldn't keep it all, and no flesh is justified, even if you could keep it all. What are you going to do with yesterday's sin? What are you going to do with the sins you've already committed, with the ones, the times that you didn't keep it? Even if you could keep it from here on out, listen, you could not. Do anything about yesterday's sin. The flesh is not justified through the law. They understood that. They knew that. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. That's the fact of the matter is the law showed them they were sinners, that they needed a Savior, and that they knew that there had to be a shedding of blood for the covering of sin in the Old Testament and the shedding of Christ's blood for the removal of sin. Under grace. Can I tell you that Satan hates the blood? And that's one of the biggest tragedies about many modern versions. They remove the blood I don't understand the motivation or don't know why. I mean I think there's some aspects of which, you know, talking about the blood and Christ's blood being shed and and whatever that that you know maybe Th there are people I mean I d can't imagine in today's society people being sensitive about that when this junk they watch on TV is vulgar as can be and and people being killed left and right and blood being shed and uh all these kids are playing video games where where blood is being shed like crazy. I don't understand why it would be a problem but There's some motivation that they have to uh remove the blood. In several places they change the w change the word blood to death. Without death, there is no remission of sins. That's that's not what the Bible says. Without the shedding of blood. And that is a great travesty. And one of the reasons why we believe in using the King James Version, because those Things have not happened. The only thing I can think is that it is a plot of Satan to remove that key element. From the salvation of men, and whether men would not understand it. We see here not only the amazing price, but we see the amazing pardon I mean, just think about this. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. What a blessing to have our sins forgiven. It is unearned. It is undeserved. But what a glorious truth to know that your sins can be forgiven. I mean we value so much when somebody we care about or somebody we know Somebody who is a we call friend and we go to them and we say, listen, I I am sorry. And they say, don't worry about it. You're forgiven. And you just you just say thank you so much. I I that means so much to me just to to know that things are right between us and that you've accepted this apology and that that you've forgiven me. But that's A transgression that happened once against an individual, and we ponder and think about the great transgressions that we've sinned against an Almighty God and to think that He has forgiven us. What a blessing to have and to know that amazing pardon from Him. We see lastly in verse number 7 moves us right into our next point, but we see the riches of His grace. That last phrase, according to the riches of his grace. The availability of Christ's grace, beloved, it is The riches of his grace make sure that there is sufficient grace for the saving of any soul. Paul, who himself declared himself to be the chiefest among sinners, Found that God's grace was sufficient to save his soul, God's grace was sufficient to sustain him in sorrow, God's grace was sufficient to Bring him through his thorn in the flesh that he carried continually with him, he said, boy, God's grace is sufficient. And it is sufficient for Paul, it's sufficient for you and I. It is the riches of his grace. There can be no dollar value or no amount put on it. It is a statement. uh of magnitude, the availability of his grace, truly, as we ponder and think about it, we can bring to light that very well-known statement, Grace is what? It is God's riches at Christ's expense. Grace, the riches of God given and provided to us through Jesus Christ who gave Himself. The fact of the matter is, beloved, that Christ became poor so that we could be made rich. In 2 Corinthians 8, verse number 9, he says, For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Ye know the grace. The grace that moved upon Almighty God, Jesus Himself, he says, Yet for your sakes He became poor that ye through his poverty might be made rich. I mean, you just ponder for a second and think about the fact that Jesus Became poor for you and I. I mean, l let's let's think about this brother brother Crane's dealing with the shingles and this residual stuff and he's in pain all the time and uh he he's just looking for a little bit of relief and wants to get through this and We all have pondered and thought about the day when we get to go to heaven, when we get to shed these old bodies, and there's no more aches and pains and no more sorrow and no more heartache and we get to be in heaven and we look longingly for that. Beloved, God gave that up and came to earth. He had a perfect body. He didn't know any pain. He had all power. He had all knowledge, and he gave it all up. And was clothed in humanity for you and I. Beloved, he was mocked and made fun of by his creation. And ultimately killed by his own creation. I mean, you just ponder and think about Excuse me. I have a cough drop here somewhere, I'm gonna eat it. Uh you just think about the fact that How offended you and I get when something happens to us Somebody mistreats us in some way. It might be somebody we don't even know. That we probably are never going to see again. But we get so irritated and bent out of shape. We get so man I can't believe they did that to me. I can't believe they treated me that way. I wouldn't treat my dog that way. And the fact of the matter is, is they are a human. They are quite literally, maybe in your eyes they're not equal with you. But they're just another human. But here, God Was mocked and made fun of by his creation. He became poor so that we could be made rich. That's the riches of his grace. Boy, my father is rich in houses and lands. He holds the wealth of the world in his hands, of rubies and diamonds, and silver and gold, his coffers are full, and his The riches are untold, beloved. This is not just the riches of some financial wealth and we know he owns a cattle on a thousand hills, but beloved The greatest magnitude or example of his riches is the richness of his grace. His grace that is sufficient for you and I. Those spiritual blessings that many times we overlook and don't ponder, boy, I'm a child of the king, a child of the king, with Jesus my Savior, I'm a child of the King. Verse number three in that song says, I once was an outcast, a stranger on earth, a sinner by choice, a stranger by birth But I've been adopted, my name is written down, an heir to the mansion, a robe and a crown. Beloved, the riches of God's grace are pretty good thing. Pretty rich, pretty powerful. Not only are they amazing, but we see their abundance. He says he'll make it to abound towards us. Beloved, God gives it to us not sparingly. Not reluctantly, but abundantly. He abundantly gives this to us. He abundantly gives us the grace. Whatever grace you need for whatever you're going through, God's grace is sufficient. He will come there in your hour of need. He'll help you through that hour of sorrow. He'll lift you in that time of torment. He'll carry you through the storm. His grace is sufficient in every need. And it's abounding towards us. The poet said, There is a fountain full and free, not carved by men, nor bound by sea. It rises where the mercy flows, And deeper still it ever grows. No cup can drain its endless store, No soul exhaust its sacred pore For every thirst, for every fall, there is grace enough. There is grace for all. O boundless gift O vast supply, that reach as far as earth and sky, eternal love, unchanging face, there's always more of God's each Eternal grace. That grace, the richness of his grace, it's an abundant grace. It's an available grace. And we see in this verse here the application of that grace. He says In verse number eight, wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence. Now, beloved, in application We're going to apply this in just a minute. But in context, he's saying that God uses wisdom and prudence in the extolling out the giving of his grace. That God realizes what he's doing and he does so with thought and with wisdom. And he does so prudently, the giving out of his grace for you and I to meet our needs. But in application, we can say, boy, part of that grace for you and I is that there's wisdom available to us. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Boy, how much better off would we be in our lives if we functioned and lived in the realm of wisdom? If we made wise decisions, if we acted prudently. You see, prudence, beloved, is more than just being careful It is active discernment from the application of wisdom. Prudence is active discernment. When we have wisdom from God, we look at our life and we're able to make wise Decisions and act prudently because the wisdom that God has given us. Boy, sometimes you see people and they make such unwise choices. And you know the end of that road. They didn't use the wisdom of God. They didn't act prudently. But we have that available to us by God's gift. He provided that for us. We see thirdly here that he provided the revelation of his will in verse number nine. He says, having made made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he hath purposed in himself The mystery is revealed, beloved, having made known unto us the mystery of his will. Now, a mystery means to reveal that which was unknown. This is not a mystery like a mystery novel. It's not a mystery like something that you have to solve. In the Bible, when it describes or speaks about mysteries, what it is is speaking of something that God the Father knew. And he chose to keep hid or to not reveal until a certain time. And then God makes known that mystery for you and I He has made known the mystery to us. Now I preach 14 messages in a series on the mysteries that are found in the Bible. So we're not going to dig into those tonight. uh the the different mysteries that are there. But there are things in which God uh made known his will unto us. He revealed to us this particular mystery for this reason or that purpose He has made known. You talk about insider information. I mean, wouldn't it be nice to know You guys have all heard about how some of these politicians they they they're they're making millions, right? Because they know about one company or another that's making some change and and they're able to invest that direction and and they've got the inside information which Is supposed to be illegal. But listen, as Christians, you got the best insider information that anybody could have in the world. The mysteries of God have been revealed to you through this book. We've got, he has made them known to us. There's never been a better tip-off out there. As a child of God, you are in the know tonight. You are in the know. And there are many people who are not, but you've been blessed to be in the know. Not only has he given us the Father's plan, but he's made known unto us the mystery of the Son's provision. How Jesus Christ gave himself a sacrifice for us. Notice, beloved, the motivation is stated here. Having made known unto us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure. The motivation is that it was pleasing unto him to do so. Now we can't understand the love of God. In our finite, and let me say honestly, our selfish mindset. Human nature is selfish, and there's no way around it. We fight against it. But that's just the reality of life. And inside of that realm, it is so hard for us to even comprehend the love of God for mankind, let alone live. And love others like God does. But notice with me, I'm let me read for you, Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 7 and 8. When when God described the reason that He loved the children of Israel, why He chose them, listen what He says. The Lord did not set His love upon you. Nor choose you, because ye were more number than any people, for ye were the fewest of all people But because the Lord loved you, and because he would keep the oath which he has sworn unto your fathers, hath the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of bondmen. He said, boy, the love of God was shown him. He brought you up out of Egypt. And this love, he didn't love you because you were so special. He didn't love you because you were the best nation in the world. No, he loved you because he chose to love you. Because it's what pleased him. Can I tell you tonight, beloved, that God chose to love you and I? Not because we're all that in a bag of chips. Not because we're deserving. Not because we bring to the table such amazing things and therefore God obviously God loves me. No, the fact of the matter is, is I'm a wicked sinner and and undone, yet God chose to love me as he choo chose to love mankind. Why? Because it pleased him. His motivation was that it pleased him to do so. And he purposed in his heart to do so because it pleased him. Him. It was his good pleasure. We see in verse number ten that the pro also the provision of Christ, beloved, is that one day we're going to have a reunion. We see the reunion in Christ. Verse number 10, that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ. Both which are in heaven and which are on earth, even in him. This is the mystery that Paul was speaking of in the previous verse. This dispensation that's described here, the fullness of time has been revealed. The time had come. And God was going to lay out or expose or reveal unto us his plan. All of time and all of creation is moving ultimately towards God's schedule. God's plan and that will be fulfilled in the end. Let me just tell you that we are dispensationalist We believe that God deals with men differently and different ages. That's what a dispensationalist believes. That that God isn't did not different times call for different things. Because God is dealing with men. His relationship with men has changed because of that. For instance, you have the the Age of Innocence. Which is from creation to the fall. This is the age, this is a time, a period, or as we would call say a dis Dispensation, a time when God dealt with man in a very different way than he does today. Why? Because man had not sinned yet. He hadn't fallen yet. There was a closeness and a personal relationship there that he had with man who knew no sin that we can't understand or comprehend today. That he dealt with Adam and Eve in a much different way during that time than he does today. You have the time or age of innocence, you have the time of conscience between I mean from the fall to the flood. And you have the time of government from the flood to Moses, the time under the law, from Moses to Christ, and we are currently living in the time or the age of grace. I think it's in the book of Ezra that he describes or talks about a space, a little space of grace. You got that little space, that little window, and I know for us it's been a lot of years and compared to uh a human life that now, you know, because of the goodness of God and the advancement that He's allowed medical fields to to make. I mean people are living much, much longer, older and older, and uh you know, you got people pushing a hundred and and and plus, uh but a hundred years, you know, what's that among six thousand? Um but when you think about God and eternities, uh what's six thousand? A day is a thousand years. Thousand years of the day. Um it's it's something we can't really even comprehend or understand, but the fact of the matter is, is we are currently in the window of this little space of grace, this time where God's dealing with us through The grace that was bestowed upon us because of his son. We don't bring offerings today to be sacrificed on an altar. And slaughter animals to shed their blood and pour it down on the horns of the altar. We don't do that today because that's not what's required. We're not under the law. That is, that was what they had to do under the law, but we are under grace. Jesus became the sacrifice, the one sacrifice for all. And when we turn to him and accept that sacrifice, our sins are forgiven. But what he describes here is the time when Jesus is going to come and he's going to set up his kingdom. The Bible says every knee will bow and every tongue will will confess. There's gonna be a great reunion. And I tell you that no matter where we're at in this world, the the blessing is, the provision of the Sun is that we're going to be reunited with him one day. He is going to set up his kingdom. Every knee's going to bow and every tongue's going to confess. It doesn't matter how much they mock or make fun today. The fact of the matter is, is one day they're going to stand before Him and they will know the truth. And we will be given glorified bodies. And we will have perfect knowledge that's going to be fulfilled. We see that Christ is the central truth in the Father's plan. Any theology out there that does not have Christ as the central truth is anemic at best and flat-out heresy at worst. Christ is central to the Father's plan. Those in the Old Testament looked forward and believed in the same way through faith in the coming Messiah. We look back at the cross, at Christ's sacrifice. And put our faith and trust in the Messiah that's already come, the work that's already been done. And one day we're going to be reunited, brought together with him. We see the reward of an inheritance in verse number 11. In whom also we have obtained an inheritance. being predestined according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. Peter tells us that it's an incorruptible inheritance. Bl in in first Peter one verse three and four he says, Blessed be the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again, unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you This is an inheritance that's not going to go away. It's reserved in heaven, an inheritance for you. Purchased for us by the shed blood of Jesus on the cross. Prepared for us by the Father, and it's an inheritance that lies there for you and I. It is an incorruptible inheritance. He describes this as being predestined according to the purpose. Listen, the Father planned it all. There has never been an inheritance more Uh that that more thought has been been put into, that more effort has been extended in. I think of families who desire or want to leave an inheritance to their children and they may plan and figure out, okay, this is gonna go here and this is gonna go here and uh I read a story about a very wealthy lady and she had a guy there at her house taking care of things and He was such a nice guy and he was so uh friendly and he was talking to her and and uh he said, boy, you y you're so amazing. I appreciate your help so much. Uh I don't have any children, I've got no family, and and so I'm just gonna give you everything when I pass away. Have you ever had a dream like that? Some extremely wealthy lady just gave you it all. And uh he was really excited about that. And she did, as far as she she she put it into his name. But The fact of the matter is is he found out later that about every other week she would change who she was given all of it to And she so she outlived her commitment and she changed and gave it to somebody else. Maybe two or three different people by the time she actually passed away. But listen, this is an inheritance that that the father planned and it's there for us. We get to look forward to this inheritance. It's predestined according to the purposes, and we know that that was established before the foundation of the world. 1 Corinthians 2. 9 says, But as it is written, I have not seen nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. We can't even comprehend what God's prepared. The inheritance is there and available to us. We see lastly tonight the recognition of His glory. That we should be to the praise of His glory who first trusted in Christ. Note the distinct placement. First, it's who trusted in Christ. I'm going to flip this verse around and we're going to work look at it in reverse because The first step is that you've trusted in Christ. The other two things are not applicable until you've trusted in Christ. This is a distinct placement. Salvation is the starting point. And after you receive Christ, beloved, your life And all that there is is tied up in the glory of God. We see the display of praise. The fact of the matter is that the Christian is to praise His glory. This is an echo that's kind of carried through this chapter. Would you look? We look last week at the Father's plan. Would you look at verse number six? The very end of verse number six, where you see a you'll see a period there, uh, how it's broken up in our Bible. The first thought where we looked at the Father's plan comes to a conclusion and look at what he says here. To the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. You see, to the praise of the glory of his grace. We have a very similar statement there. Now look in verse number 12. Again, uh this comes to a period. If you look there, verses seven through twelve, there there there's no periods, but you get to the conclusion of this thought here that we're looking at tonight and he says that we should be to the praise of his glory. And then look at verse number 14. The next concluding thought is we're going to consider and think about next week in the Spirit's Pledge He says, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise of his glory. Three times this thought is driven home and brought to a conclusion for us that we are to praise God, that our lives, could I state it like this? You and I were not only saved from something, but we were saved for something. And that is our lives, we are to be salt and light. Our lives are to bring glory to God. And notice what he says here: our declared purpose In the very first part of this verse, verse number 12, he says that we should That we should. The fact of the matter is, is we should be bringing glory to God. Why? Because we have been saved. Because our sins are forgiven, because we know Christ as our Lord and Savior. He says, therefore, Christ has provided this inheritance that has been promised, this Plan that has been fulfilled of the Father since the foundation of the world, of it all, you should be bringing glory to God because of it. This should be a cause for our praise. Beloved, the world may never pick up a Bible. But you've heard it said, the only Bible the world might ever read is you. Is your life a testimony of the grace of God? Are men pointed to God because of What he's doing in your life and the light and salt that you are. What's on display in your life? You've seen different movies that have been made of men throughout history. They've taken their memoirs or they've taken somebody's biography that has been written or their autobiography that they wrote themselves and they put together a movie and they put it on the screen and this was their life I wonder what would be said about our life. Would that what was displayed on the screen In our ending days or after we're gone, would our life point people to Christ? Would it be something that God would be able to use? This is what we should be doing. The sun's provision. It's sad that most of the world has no idea what's coming. But sadder still is the fact that most believers have no idea what's coming. But we have given to us in the pages of this book God's revealed will. The mysteries have been made known But we've got to pick it up. We've got to study it. We've got to strive to learn it so that we can live it out and bring honor and glory to God here on earth. Earth as well we have the chance. Let's stand with our heads bowed in our eyes closed.