A man was sitting at his breakfast table reading his newspaper when his wife kind of nonchalantly sauntered into the kitchen there and matter-of-factly stated You have forgotten what today is, haven't you? And of course, defensively have not She walked out the other door to go into her room to get ready and he quickly got his keys and left before he was challenged on uh He could remember uh what the day was and he thought, well throughout the day today I'll figure it out. He's looking at the calendar and thinking all day it's not an anniversary, it's not the kid's birthday, it's not Valentine's Day, he just couldn't figure it out. All day he's wondering what in the world it is, but he figured I better not take any chances, so on the way home he stopped and got a dozen roses and a box of chocolates and and uh he came in and and walked into the kitchen where she was preparing the evening m evening meal and he said surprise and he presented her with And uh chocolate and she says, Oh honey, this is the best groundhog day ever We we all have a challenge with our memory, uh with being able to remember things. That's uh one guy said uh you know I graphic memory, the problem is For a lot of us, we we just challenge to remember things. But regardless of uh your strength or ability uh to remember, we're gonna try and motivate you or challenge you with regards to memorize. Today, as we conclude this series of lessons on the mind. And uh we've studied and looked at many aspects of the mind this morning. We're looking at the committed mind. Regardless of what the world teaches you and I about life and about success and being victorious in this life, the Word of God very clearly tells us that good success comes from the Word of God. Joshua 1 8 says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, and thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then Thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. We find good success in proportion to our commitment to the Word of God. Uh meditating on the Word of God, memorizing the Word of God, making it a part of our life. Now I had no idea six months ago when I committed to this course of study these thirteen weeks that we've looked at the mind. I did not know that this lesson was on scripture memory you certainly wouldn't have got it from the title. Uh the title is the committed mind. I presumed that the lesson was on being fully committed to God. Like, okay, we've studied the mind. Now let's let's set our mind. Let's like Jesus Christ as as a flint. I mean just purpose. The mind is going to go and go and not Give in, give up, or give out. We're going to be a mind that's committed to God. Amen. That's the direction I thought this lesson was going. And when I began to study, I thought, whoa. has nothing to do with that at all uh from the title there but uh I guess the idea of committed mind is committed scripture to mind is what he's uh trying to say. And so uh it's very interesting though because Our theme for next year is So Bountifully, So Bountifully, which we'll give you a lot more information on that as we have our vision night and so on, but Uh with regards to that, sowing bountifully, one aspect that I was going to and had in my scheduled plans to take some time and deal with sowing scripture into our lives. spending time memorizing the Word of God. That was in my plans, my intent for this coming year. And we have several things planned that are going to help you with that But I thought it was quite interesting how in God's uh timing this laid out as just an introductory or uh conclusion of this year, introducing, bringing in next year, just to get us maybe thinking about this as we launch off into this year. So let's look at these scriptures that uh talk to us about our heart and about our mind that challenge us to uh commit God's Word to our heart. Deuteronomy 6, 6. Miss Trudy? And these words are this day. Deuteronomy 1118. Is that you? Oh I'm I'm sorry, I skipped that one. Uh Psalm Psalms one nineteen eleven, you're you're correct. Okay, again, having God's word in your heart is is key to maintaining a right relationship, to not sinning against God. Romans chapter 10 and verse number 8. But what say He says, Hey, the word is nigh. It's right here. It's in my mouth. Right right at the clip uh you know on the edge of my tongue. Uh have you found uh times in your life where people ask you a question and you said, Oh wait, there's a verse about that. But you just can't quite call it to memory. You can't quite find the reference. You can't quite get it there. He's saying, hey, this is right here. It's on the edge of my mouth. It's right in my heart, the words which we're able to preach, because they're right there. Colossians 3:16. Bo. Let the word of Christ dwell in you wishely in all wisdom. Singing and admonishing one another in songs, pens as spiritual psalms, singing with praise in your hearts, O Lord Yep, let the word of uh Christ dwell in you richly. My wife had all she can take. Five minutes and she's like she's like I'm out. I'm sure there's something going on in Sunday school that they need some uh help cover or teacher or something. But uh let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. That's what we need. The word of Christ to dwell in our heart and to dwell there richly. So We're going to talk about this and give you some real just practical things about memorizing scripture this morning. First of all, specify uh it's important to start. You've got to start somewhere, right? What a better time to introduce this than when we're coming into a new year You can kind of think about it and say, you know what, I want to memorize some scripture this coming year. Set a time to start. It's important. A specific point in time. You know, to fail to plan is to plan to fail. And you need to plan to do something. The fact of the matter is very little is accomplished in our life outside of us planning to do it Very little happens that we haven't set our mind to, that we have not committed and said, okay, this is how I'm going to do this, this is when I'm going to do this. I'm gonna get to this on Thursday. Whatever it is. If we haven't planned it, if it's there's been things on our gonna do list for a long time. You know, sometime I'm gonna do this, but uh, you know, we're going to Set a time and say, hey, this is when I'm gonna do this. Now you can work on your memory any particular time that's useful, any useful time. Any time that you're free, just find a time to do it. Most effective will be a set time, a a uh consistent time If you can set a time and say, okay, this is the time I'm going to work on scripture memory. It's going to be this day, this time every week, I'm going to do scripture memory. This time every day, I'm going to work on scripture memory. Just set a time. You need to specify a place. Specify a place to try. You want a place that's going to limit the distraction. There's lots of distractions in our life. You know, you can you can work on scripture memory uh driving down the road in in an empty car. You can work on scripture memory standing in line at the grocery store I have worked on scripture memory standing in line at uh at Hershey Park and at Six Flags. I mean those lines are forty-five minutes, an hour long, you know You're there for a while. But that's not really where you want to really try and commit things to memory. That's just kind of more like review and a place to just, hey, I'm just going to run through my verses real quick since I'm standing here Uh that's a whole lot more profitable than running through a few YouTube videos. Amen. Uh now I I do that too, so uh not knocking you, I'm just saying that what where's what's going to be the most valuable investment of our time uh maybe uh run through some scripture memory. So you can do scripture memory any place. Uh but if you're going to get serious about it You want a place that you have very little to no distractions, that you can really commit some uh focused energy toward. Uh of course Christ set the example where he took time alone, God alone, where he was by himself and could Commit time to spending time with the Lord. In Matthew 14, 23 he says, And when he had set the multitudes away, he went up into the mountain apart to pray, and when the evening was come, he was there alone. You know, in today's world many of us resist being alone. We we resist the the quiet place. Uh is just our makeup, our nature today is to be in the middle of it, to be in the thick of it, to always be doing something, to No dead space or no dead air. I mean, we want something going on all the time. Some people come into the house and the first thing they do is turn the television on. just for noise, just for something happening in in the home. We don't want it to be quiet and and we need it quiet if we're going to get alone with God. Uh someone has said the difference between uh genius and an average person is what they do while everyone else is sleeping. What they do while everyone else is sleeping. My boys and I were having a conversation about this this week, and uh Tim's like, do you know, a lot of people say they gotta sleep eight hours a day. If you sleep eight hours every single day, you have slept a third of your life away. And I said, this is true. This is true. You know, uh how how much time uh do we give to sleeping and how much more valuable would it be to give it to uh spending time with the Lord? So we see secondly here an inclusive system. An inclusive system. You want to consider the teacher. Consider the teacher. Jesus Christ is the greatest teacher. He set the example for us. Uh he set the pattern for us, and we know that Jesus Christ was very skilled in using the scriptures. You say, well, I suppose so he was the scripture incarnate, right? And so you're like, oh, that's not fair. He was scripture. I mean that would that's hard hard example, hard standard to set, Pastor. Well, uh I understand, but he is the great teacher. He often used the scriptures to defend against Satan, to stand when temptation came, and he used the scriptures skillfully And we ought to use the scriptures skillfully. You know, I remember Christ said, he quoted Deuteronomy chapter 8 and verse number 3. uh when Satan came to him and tempted him uh concerning uh you know his hunger. And he said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God Having Scripture right on right at hand, ready in your mind to be used to defend against Satan and to give you strength to stand when when other things would cause you to fall. Use Scripture skillfully When we have committed scripture to memory, we'll have it ready at hand. Choose a topic. I would encourage you to memorize topically Find a topic that's going to be help to you, something you're interested in, you know, maybe an area that you're struggling. So I'm struggling in this, so I need to get some scripture to help me stand in this area. Maybe a particular area of sin that you're facing or dealing with, or maybe something that you just want to understand better or know more about. Maybe like heaven, you want to know more about heaven. Well pick a couple of scripture verses that talk about heaven or about going there. Um you know maybe you need some scripture to answer uh the critic in your family or at work regarding a particular thing. And you know, when when you next are confronted by them, you'll have scripture at hand to present to them instead of just your thoughts or just your ideas. You can say, well the Word of God says And listen, the authority is in the Word of God. It's not in ourselves. And so having that at hand to be able to use, you say, you know what, I need some some sh scripture to be able to give this. There's some areas that you might, you know, maybe it's pride you're dealing with or worry uh or selfishness. Maybe you want to know more about the virgin birth or about salvation. You know, you can find things and say, well, I need some scripture on this. There is uh a we gave these away several years ago, Bible Answers for Every Need. And uh this is just basically a topically organized book. Here's the armor of God, and here is Looks like maybe ten verses on the armor of God. Here's death, uh deliverance, fellowship, forgiveness, glorifying God, heaven, hell, holiness, justification. Love, lust, marriage, murmuring, peace of God, prayer, pride, redemption, repentance, Satan, seeking, servanthood, uh suffering, temptation, tithing, truth, unbelief witnessing. There's a lot of scriptures in here divided topically. You also can And the concordance will give you topically you say, Man, I need some scripture on that. How do I find it? Well you get in and use a concordance or use a uh uh topical Bible, uh you can use those and they'll they'll give you some verses on that and pick ones that are useful to you and uh that have that you understand to be able to share. List them out and start committing them to memory. Then you also need to get a method of review, a method of review and practice You know, find some way to review them, to practice them. You could do something uh old-fashioned like this. This is my scripture memory cards from when I was in college. These are dated 2-1-1994. These are my scripture memory cards. And I always left them in these because then I could just flip through them and just go one to the next, one to the next. I put the reference on the back and the scripture verse on the front and I could flip through them like that. I also could put here how many times I had quoted it after I had committed it to memory, my review schedule and stuff like that I kept on the back. So this is from 1994. This is from about 2005, much newer uh book. Uh but very similar just a pattern to uh keep and remember and start going through these verses, having them memorized. Writing them does help you. Just getting them writing them out yourself will help you to start in the more senses you can involve in the process. uh the easier it will be to remember. I also have uh this, which is this I just cut in half so that I could keep it with me all the time. So I could review it. This is pre-uh smartphone. This is pre-uh apps. So keep keep carrying this around with you all the time. I use these for a number of years. But in 2012, I started using an app on the phone. And the apps are very functional. But any plan only works if you work the plan. That's the thing. It doesn't matter one downside about the apps is they make it so simple that they do everything for you that you're not investing any energy into it and uh all of a sudden you're not doing it. The apps are great. They'll work. They help you to review. They keep track of your review process. If you haven't looked at a particular verse, it'll say it's been six weeks since you've reviewed this verse You know, it's been 12 weeks since you reviewed this verse. And so it keeps your verse scheduled. You're like, oh, I gotta get into these verses and review these ones, you know. And uh it'll you'll you'll have the ones you're working on for memory, and then you have the ones you're reviewing, and uh you can organize them topically so that you have topically ready in your mind uh scripture for when uh you need it, you know. So have some form of review or practice. Have something established that works for you. Now listen. This is not Vacation Bible School. This is not a uh nobody's gonna be handing out any ribbons. Uh nobody's gonna be patting you on the back and saying good job, and we're not giving away any uh Certificates in church on Sunday, but there's reward in memorizing scripture. Hide God's word in your heart. Are we committing Scripture to memory and putting any effort or work into this? It's vitally important that we be doing that. Let's start memorizing Scripture, committing it to memory. So we See here thirdly that the intent of sound, the intent of sound, the idea here is that we need to be audible in our memory. Quote the verse out loud. This morning I came in here uh and I was walking up and Miss Trudy said hello and I said hello and she's like oh are you okay And I said, yeah, I'm doing fine. She said, your voice sounds kind of gravelly. I said, oh, I was just preaching through this morning's message. So I was my voice is a little gravelly. She's like, she's like, uh well, I said I was just preaching And uh there was a couple of questions about what I was preaching. I said, Oh no, I was preaching through this morning's message. I preached through it two or three times long before I preach it to the to the church. I was I was just walking around this morning and saying, God wants you, amen. We've had some fire for Jesus and I was just walking around preaching, you know, and then people come in and I get more civilized and you know, get get quiet and uh anything, but I hadn't spoke since I was walking around the auditorium doing that and so it came out. But listen. Uh that helps me a lot when I go back to preach it, that I have preached it out loud, that it wasn't just in my mind, that I've gone through it and I've preached it out, I've said it out loud And that'll help you in your scripture memory. Again, involving more senses, the more senses you involve, the easier it will be to commit things to memory. Although the Bible tells us very clearly many times that we're to hear the Word of God. Luke 1128 says, but Uh yea, rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God and keep it. Hear the word of God and keep it. Therefore whosoever Matthew seven twenty-four, therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine And do it them. Again, hearing the word of God, making a point to hear the word of God. Revelation 3. 22, he that hath an ear to hear, let him hear. And so we ought to be hearing the word of God. So it would be good for us if we're going to work on scripture memory to do so audibly, to say it out loud. It will help you. And there's a reward for application. Let me encourage you, get verses that mean something to you. Apply them to your life. Get it something directly applicable to your life and your situation. That'll be a lot easier to remember than something randomly out there just, oh, this is a good verse. And you you start randomly memorizing a verse, but there's no context there. There's no application to your own life. There's no personal meaning And without that, you're not really going to grab a hold of it and retain it. There needs to be that personal application, somehow tie it to your life. then uh there is there is great reward for application. Uh the plan that works the best is the plan that you work, uh and so find one that works for you and and get after it. Take time, put energy into it, put work into it, so that you can rememorize scripture. Now I know we've got people here all ages. And you remember back a few years ago as a church, we were memorizing a verse every month. One verse a month. We did that for three years because we had a three-year Bible reading schedule we were working on and every every month we memorized a verse and there was many people that participated in that. But you know in three years there's some that in three years they never did memorize a verse But you know, uh course they're like, oh pastor, you know, in my memory I can't I can't do it. But uh Miss Lois, who was in her nineties Would come in and say, Pastor, I got my verse memorized. And she would say her verse to me every month. Had her had her verse memorized. Here's a lady in her 90s still committing scripture to memory. And what it what it commits come comes down to, I know it's not as easy as it was when you were ten. Or 20. And they're like, Pastor, or 50. You know, that was a long time ago for some of you. And you're like, it's a lot harder now. I understand. That's going to take a little bit more work. But there's reward in committing the time and energy and effort to it. And so it's worth it's worth doing. Some verses are harder to memorize than others. Some are easy, some are quick Don't get frustrated. Just keep working at it. Just commit some time to it. It's worth the effort. The Word of God is precious. Proverbs 3, verses 14 to 15 says, For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver. the gain thereof than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies, and all the things that thou canst desire are not to be compared to her. Of course, in context of this, she's talking about wisdom, but we know wisdom comes from the Word of God, committing the Word of God to memory. So there's uh interesting shift We can use the body's rhythm to help memorize scripture as well. We've already said this, but the more senses you use, the more it will help you remember. Um, you know, little children are able to commit to memory uh songs even before they read. How? Why? Because it's put to a rhythm of music. And they they're in in uh using their senses and it's it starts it's audible, it's allowed, and they commit these songs to memory. Well you and I uh we can commit things to memory as well. And uh I would encourage you when you're working on memory, it would help you to walk. To be walking. Find a place to walk and do your memory while you're walking. It'll help you remember. It'll come faster that way. Also, you get the added benefit of some exercise. See, you are killing two birds with one stone. You are you are you know, hitting a home run there, you're getting double blessing there. You're m meditating on the Word of God, memorizing some scripture, and at the same time getting some exercise and uh staying healthy physically. So it's a good thing You know, have and use your body's routine. Incorporate movement to aid in your memorization. There's benefit to it. It takes intense study. It takes intense study. We we've mentioned this already, but the idea of uh having a will to review it, you've got to be willing to spend some time and to review it. You've heard the saying, if you don't use it, you lose it Right? Uh I was talking to uh Fred today out in the foyer and uh he was talking about how, you know, going to the gym and he goes to the gym every morning and That's a little bit of exercising that's a good thing. You don't you don't you you don't use it, you lose it. All your strength and the ability that you have, if you don't get out and start using it, you're gonna lose it. Uh how many of you can remember Uh well let me ask you this way, how many of you forgot pretty much everything you learned in school? I mean uh I mean I know as a general rule you know but I mean, you take a fifth grader, you know that old show, are you smarter than a fifth grader, you have a fifth grader come home with their homework and hand it to you and say, can you help with this Um I don't think you have to do homework today. Don't worry about it. We're gonna go we're gonna go to the mall or something. I mean you're looking at if you're like fifth grade homework, how what in the world? How how Um, you know, you just don't use it, you lose it. It's not something you're all the time, something that you're uh got in your mind. You know, this week I had to uh write down my parents address Uh and I for the life of me I could not remember the zip code for Chesterton, 46304. I lived there for seven years. As an adult, and for many, many years, it was readily right on the tip of my tongue. I mean anybody has to zip for Chesterton, it would come out. And uh but I'm sitting there in my office and I'm trying to write this address down and I had to text Mary and say, what's the zip protesters? Because I hadn't used it in so long. You know, and and that's something that I used regularly for many years And but it's been some years since I needed it. So what I'm saying is without review, you're going to lose it. You can't just say, oh, I memorized that verse. Everybody here has got verses that they committed to memory, and they're gone. Uh you don't remember 'em. And uh so we've got to have some system of review, plan uh and have a system review. As I mentioned, the apps that are available today, there's many different scripture memory apps that are available. Experiment with a couple and see see what you like They even the apps even have games in them. They will play games and leave words out and you've got to find the word they left out. They will there's all kinds of different games that are part of the of the memorization process that you can use. We and you have to give the reference, or they'll give you the reference audibly and you have to uh say the the verse I mean so there's lots of different ways of review, so an app can really help with that. Um but set up some type of system. Uh review your screen if you once you commit something to memory, you ought to review it. at least once a week for a while. Once you've really got it down, then you could move it after a while of having it on once a month. You move it to uh once every three months or once every six months. But if you don't review it, you'll lose it. And uh so there just have a system and there's lots of systems out there. on my memory cards back here that I did uh many years ago uh on the back here um it shows it tells me here uh that I I reviewed this once a week for 25 weeks, once a month for 20 months. Uh then To every fift fifteen times for the preceding months, I I kept records here of where I was at on that particular verse Now this is from many years ago. Now it's all kept in the app and the app keeps all of that for me. But have some type of system and work it. Okay. It does take work to review. It takes work to review But we know that repetition is the key to learning. More importantly, in regards to this, it's the key to memory, the key to remember. So there was a noted Bible teacher uh Michael Ballister who uh took Bibles and distributed them in a small hamlet in Poland. It was shortly before World War One Ballister gave a Bible, one Bible, the only Bible that he had with him, to a villager who was converted. The new believer then passed the book on to others that began as that he began to win to the Lord Shortly, after some time, there were two hundred people that had become believers through this one Bible. Because it was World War II began, of course Ballister had to leave years later when uh after the war when he was able to go back and visit this village. He came into the village and found a group of Christians meeting together for worship. In the service, he was so excited to be reunited with them and talk and fellowship and they were giving testimonies and he said, Hey, would anybody here be willing to quote a verse? And people looked at him kind of like they said, verse. Do you mean chapter They only had one Bible, and in that group there was 13 people that could quote the entire book of Matthew and Luke. There were several that could quote the entire book of Genesis. There were some that could quote the entire book of Psalms. One Bible that had been given to a small group of people and they had committed large portions of it to memory. We have several Bibles ourselves, but how much of it committing to men? How much of it do we have readily available for the Lord to use? So the intent is set. Uh that is have a goal. Find a time, find a place, set a time to be able to do it. You know, success brings excitement. Success brings excitement. As you begin to memorize, I would encourage you to start with the verses that you know. Verses in your mind you say, well I know that already. But you might be missing a word or two. You might not be able to call the reference. You're like, well I know that verse, but I'm not a hundred percent on the reference. The address I always I I don't know if it is it 177 or is it 717? You know, or you know, just the things that you know but not quite there or maybe you haven't reviewed them in a long time. So start with those. Start getting those down and putting them in the things that you have already in your mind, but maybe just need to review and start collecting that level of verses. I have in my Bible here Um let me just flip through a couple of pages and see. Um so I have in my Bible I go through my Bible and if I commit a verse to memory, you can't see it because it's very small. This is underlined in green. So when I commit a verse to memory, it gets underlined in green in my Bible. And so all through my Bible I have verses that are underlined in green. When I add another verse, I underline it in green in my Bible. And that's the only things that are underlined in green. Now when I'm preaching, I do my study, I do that in blue, and general study I do in black. And uh the pens that I use are in the bookstore. and they don't bleed through your pages and they don't fade over time. With those that are in the bookstore, they're available for you. You can get those anytime. And they have really, really fine print. fine tips and they have really bold tips if you if you got bold print and you want a more bold line. Uh because I have small print and uh small text I use the fine fine ones there to do this underlining. But Have a system start memorizing mark it out and you'll be shocked even how many verses you really know already. You know if you say well how many verses could you quote right now you say uh five seven 10. But I'll bet you for many of you, it could be 25, 30, or 40 with just a little bit of review. We've just given a little bit of review of those verses that you you you you know but you don't know. You know? So start with those. Start listing those out and work on those. Just get those back into your mind and then add to it as you continue to work. Obviously, failure brings discouragement. So don't set a goal that you're going to memorize 300 verses this year Gotta do one a day, bless God. We're gonna get three sixty five by the end of the year, you know. Uh that might be a little ambitious Uh there are some of the kids that probably could do that. Uh, you know, they memorize fifty verses in a week of camp, you know, and and uh of course that's just to be able to say it to somebody and uh then it's gone. You know, it's not it's not there long term, but they they do that. They they can do that. We're not quite that uh adverse at it. Your goals, you want to have smart goals And uh I threw this slide in here for you for those of you that don't know what SMART goals are. SMART goals are specific, they're measurable, they're achievable. You know, you don't want to set a goal that's not achievable You need a goal that's achievable, you need a goal that's relevant, and that it's time, that has a time that you're going to get there. Uh and so your goals this year and I normally teach a pretty good lesson, I say It might not be any good, but I'm saying I take a whole lesson and teach on on the new year and setting goals and and establishing uh For this coming year and we will be giving out this evening our uh New Year's resolution cards and you can kind of set some goals for this coming year and We have different areas where you can set goals spiritually, uh physically, mentally. You know, I wanna I want to improve in this area. Well, that is a pretty vague goal. I want to improve. So how are you gonna improve? Oh, I'm going to improve by doing this, getting specific, but not it also needs to be achievable, you know. So look at your goals that way, and as you're going to set a goal for scripture memory, uh set something that's achievable. Uh how about this? Set a set amount of time that you will give to a scripture memory. You see, I mean, I'm going to memorize 40 verses and the first verse you try takes you four weeks, you know. Oh man, this is so hard. This is, you know, some verses are hard The wording is not normal for us. But if what your goal was is I'm going to take 15 minutes every week or I'm going to take 10 minutes every day or whatever it is, then you have met that goal. You've committed that 10 minutes to scripture memory and you're going to do that. Now you can always Do more. You know, say, oh I'm gonna I'm Uh, you know, it you need something achievable. So set set a little bit, and if you're free or you have time or you're standing a line at Hershey Park, then you can do a little bit more, you know. You can While you're while you're there waiting, but uh if you start making a pattern of it, you'll you'll find that you you're sitting in a doctor's office. Many times in the doctor's office I've done that. I pulled my phone out, just going over my scripture memory. All the verses are right there. I can run through them, and it's so convenient with this because you have it with you all the time. Uh I don't have to carry that big thing of uh cards anymore. Uh you know, and uh you're like, oh I I wasn't supposed to wait, but now I've been waiting twenty-five minutes and you know you got twenty-five minutes worked on scripture memory. But you have to have a pattern of that. You have to have that established and set up. So maybe set a goal of how much time you want to commit to it. And don't make it too high. There is great gratitude in memorizing Scripture. You'll be very thankful yourself. You'll be blessed by God for doing it. Um and you'll you'll be you'll be thrilled at the progress that is made in your life as you commit scripture to memory. If we get to the end of this next year, it'd be exciting to see how many scriptures you're able to this year commit to memory and what difference it has made in your life Jesus used the scripture many times to stand against Satan. And when that temptation comes If you have that scripturally scripture ready at hand, we're talking about the mind and uh controlling the mind and and sometimes just having something else specific to think about. Something else specific to take your attention can pull you away from that temptation. But you've got to have that readily available. It has to be a pattern in your life, something that's established and set up. So let me encourage you this year to commit some scripture to memory, find something that works for you, and uh let's be involved in that. It's going to go right with our theme this coming year of sowing bountifully, and I hope we'll sow bountifully the Word of God in our hearts this coming year. I can tell you the one that I use uh but uh there are several and I've been using this one for years and it might be um There might be better ones now because this I've I've been using this since 2000. But this one's the title is Remember Me. Uh it's a little red uh icon. Um so remember me is a little Bible app that I use uh for scripture memory. There there may be several others, but that's the one that I use.