Of our verse on there. They put it back, no, he's on the song still. But this verse this month, um it flows very easy. Proverbs uh thirty Uh one thirty. And uh well you're going to Exodus for Sunday school lesson, but the verse for the month. And uh favor is deceitful. And beauty is vain, but a woman that fears the Lord, she shall be praised. That's the verse uh looking at this month where we get to celebrate Mother's Day and uh the uh you know wonderful blessing that uh mothers are to us and so many would look at their mother and think of her mother in light of Psalms I mean Proverbs chapter 31 and the virtuous woman. But this verse here, let's say that together. The favor is deceitful. And beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Let's say it together. Let's say it together one more time, and then we'll say the reference at the end. Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Proverbs 31:30. So this morning I came down into the living room and uh Melissa looked at me and she had a big smile on her face and she said, Dad, I memorized the verse already. And I said, You did and she's like, Yep, I got it. I got it. She was so happy and she says, I got it down. She's like, It just took me a minute, you know. And uh so this one flows pretty good, uh, you know, unlike last month's where you had the repeated phrases different directions and so on, may it kinda confuse you when you try Trying to say it, you get them in the wrong order and so on. So this one we should be able to learn relatively easily and uh encourage you to participate and be a part of that uh as we as a church do that. So you should be in the book of Exodus. And uh chapter number twenty, as we've been looking at the Ten Commandments now for for a while. Uh I really was planning on taking ten weeks to cover this. Uh I did not realize but I wanted each study to be as thorough and as profitable as could be and not that's not just rushing through it. So it obviously is taken a little bit longer than that and then of course with different things we've had going, we we got off and then came back to it. But in uh Exodus chapter 20, the Ten Commandments are found in the first seventeen verses. Let me just read those again. I know we've read them a few times, but every few weeks I like to just read the passage together. And God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and the fourth generation of them that hate me and showing mercy unto the thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. What number is that? Four, correct. Very good. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God, and in it thou shalt do any, shalt not do any work Thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in the sixth days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them is, and rested the seventh day. Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is in the Thy neighbors. That is thy neighbors. That passage of scripture there, the Ten Commandments, which we've seen, uh, although it is in the Old Testament, although it was given uh to the children of Israel is is applicable to us today. It is something that we certainly can apply to our lives and and if we as a people, as a church, as Christians, and And as a nation lived by these Ten Commandments, it would drastically uh improve society and a country. And America founded upon biblical principles Many, many years held the Ten Commandments up in revere and looked to them as a foundation for laws and for guidance. But that day is gone. People don't want to do that anymore. They're taking the Ten Commandments off the walls of the courtrooms and etcetera and removing the foundation of law that we have in our country today. So this uh the ninth commandment, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor, is a safeguard against the reputation of individuals. Um you know, here we're talking this, shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. And this, of course, is dealing with the reputation of an individual, and that, you know, you know the difference between reputation and character. Character is what God knows you to be. Reputation is what people believe you to be. And certainly your character is more important. What you are on the inside and what God knows you to be. to be certainly is of utmost importance. And your character, we should be sure that we are made of good character and that we are what God wants us to be. all the time, whether people are present or not, is not just what people think of us, it's it's what we really are before God. Certainly that's of utmost importance But reputation is important as well. What people perceive you to be, what people think that you that you are, and how that you uh live or act or or what you do, uh your reputation is very important as well. And God believes it's important, not just for us as individuals but the protection of other people's reputation. He says, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy brother, uh thy neighbor. You don't want to be guilty of doing this. Proverbs 22. 1 tells us that a good name is rather to be chosen than great ridges. We need to protect our name And do what we can to safeguard our reputation. Um some people say, well, I don't care what people think, I'm just gonna do what I want. That's not biblical. We have a reputation and we can't influence people, we can't help people if our reputation is so destroyed that we have no influence. with people. So we've got to safeguard our reputation and and you do that through through many ways but being careful how how we live and how we act. But Um turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter five. Uh familiar scripture. I just want you to see it. Uh Matthew chapter five. Nope, I'm in Mark. Here we are. And uh verse number eleven. The Bible says here, Blessed are ye when men shall revile you. And persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. You see, there will be some people that will say false things about you. There will be some people that will not adhere to this command, and they would attack you or, you know, disparage your character and say all manner of evil against you falsely. Um well if you endure that for the sake of Christ, God says you're blessed. Blessed are they. God's going to bless you for enduring that. Uh understand that if you're doing what's right and doing your best and and trying to please God, that that is not necessarily a safeguard against somebody falsely accusing you of of doing And uh there may be people that would come and still, after all that you've done and all of your faithfulness and all of your effort and all of your work, some people would come and still want to attack or say something falsely against you. Well y you can't do anything about that. You just be faithful to God, trust God, and keep moving forward. And God says He'll bless you for enduring that. And obviously those who are breaking this commandment that are saying manner of things falsely against you, uh they of course in in one day will be judged for that. So we need to protect our character. This command, like the eighth command, uh is one that truly hits home for all of us. This idea of bearing false witness against thy neighbor really needs to be taken in the scope of or in with the background or the foundation of. It's not just the idea of very false, uh saying something false against somebody else, against your neighbor, but the idea of all falsehood is addressed here. And in a general way, we as Christians and all people should strive to be truthful in our actions in everything that we do. God hates lying. God hates those that are dishonest in their actions. and in their speech. Proverbs six, verses sixteen and seventeen says, Uh these six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are abomination unto him a proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood. We know that God hates lying. We see that last one, and as people, we look at that hands that shed innocent blood and we think, that's right, man. And if somebody innocently kills somebody else or or kills somebody that was innocent, man, that person was innocent and they should be judged and that they should go to prison and and And we would get irate about somebody that we see that sheds innocent blood. Yet in the same verse, God talks about our pride and our tongue. And he is saying, listen, God hates that. He realizes the destruction that it causes. Uh pride. and a lying tongue, the destruction that it causes, is on par with shedding innocent blood. How it destroys things And God hates it. Proverbs twenty twelve twenty-two. Lying lips and abomination to the Lord, but they that deal truly are his delight. You see the contrast there. The contrast, Proverbs 12, 22, between Between lying lips that are abomination, and he that speaks the truth is his delight. If we speak the truth, we are delighting God. God's delighted in that when we speak the truth in whatever situation. And just like the last commandment that we dealt with was stealing, and I talked about how we as uh uh Christians uh need to guard against this uh and be careful in what we do and honest in the way we approach things. This is something that we deal with lying. We've got to be careful because this is human nature and the old man. And And we want to protect ourselves. You know, from the time a little child, he asked him, you saw him throw that rock through the window, and you look at him and you say, Did you throw that rock through that window? And he looks at you and says, No. I mean you stood right there. He saw you see him. And he would still say, no. Why? They want to protect themselves. They don't want to Reap the the judgment that's coming for having broke that window. Uh and it they people have to be taught not to lie. They don't have to be taught how to lie. We uh look at this command and need uh uh something in our lives for it. So let me give you several things here this morning. First of all, the father of lies. The father of lies. All of this comes uh we know from the devil. The father of lies. In John 8. 44, he says, Ye are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. John 8 44. Jesus speaking there to the Pharisees, saying, Hey. You're of your father the devil because you're lying. And Jesus, of course, we know hates lying, but we know that He was associating this practice of dishonesty and lying with Satan himself, the father of lies. You know, it's through lying that Satan corrupted man. Back in the book of Genesis, in chapter 3, I believe it was, where he says, hath God said? Ye shall not surely die. You're going to know he lied multiple times and ultimately corrupted mankind by his deceit. And uh mankind uh you know, of course, gave in to that and fell. It was also through Lyme that he crucified Christ. In uh Matthew twenty-six sixty, they looked for somebody to come and testify against Christ. You know, he could find no fault in him, and they looked for somebody to come and to testify, to to say that Christ did this. And the scripture there says, They found no one except two that would come and testify falsely. Two people lied, uh, said all manner of evil falsely against Christ. And Christ was crucified. We know that ultimately is the fulfillment of uh prophecy, and that's what God had to had to happen, but people lied through the deceiving of the devil. The devil is the father of this. We are never any more like the devil than when we're lying. We are we we are uh putting ourselves right in his home territory. We are associating ourselves with him. We're We're we're joining him at the hip or whatever you want to say. Uh but we are never any more like the devil than when we're lying. He is the father of lies. And uh as Christians we want to be Christ like. When we tell the truth it delights God and if we want to be Christ like we're going to be truthful. Because these two things stand in opposition to each other. And on one side we're like Christ and we're honest and we're truly And on the other side, we're like the devil, and we're associating with him and practicing deceit. Psalms 58:3 says, The wicked are estranged from the womb. They go astray as soon as they be born speaking lies. This is the nature of man, and we have to guard against it. No Christian Has ever reached the point where they are beyond temptation to lie. Hopefully the level of our outright blatant dishonesty is minimized and brought to very, very few infrequent and and you know, limited times. But there's things that arise in our lives, just goofy things that come up and and you know you might be talking to somebody and you're talking about uh that you We're in this line of traffic and you're talking about it and you're like, you know, man, there were 76 cars in front of me. And you know there was only seven cars in front of you. But in telling the story you got, you know, just y you got into it and then you exaggerated. And if you're like me, the Holy Spirit like knocks on your heart and says That was not honest. And then you in your mind you justify. You say, well, it's just a story. It's just a, you know, it's not a big deal. It's, I mean, nothing is no Ramifications are going to come from that. And the Holy Spirit says that was not honest. And as Christians, we have got to get that right and f Fix it right then. Otherwise we will make it a practice to be dishonest and it will be easy for us. And we don't want to do that. So something as simple as that When that Holy Spirit touches your heart, you need to go, Oh, that was a slight exaggeration on my part. There was only seven cars, not seventy-six, and whatever the thing is, but I I Dare to say that everyone in this room has been there in some point or another, uh where that type of thing or close to it has happened. And I would encourage you that we do not want to be that way. So the father of lies, let's see secondly the function of lies. The function of lies. In society today, lying is commonplace. It's even thought to be okay if you have a good reason. Politicians lie to get into office. And people just think it's fine. Why in the world would a lying, dishonest politician be re-elected? Why? They're like, oh, he was just running for office. He promised us the moon, but nobody actually believed he was going to give it to us. He should not be he should be held accountable for that. He should not be able to promise this and do something completely different and everybody say it's okay. They ought to be able to say, hey, he said this, this is what he's going to say to do. And but politicians lie to get into office. Salesmen lie to sell product. Advertisers lie to gain profit. And you know, it just it it goes on and on, and it just seems to be almost as though it were acceptable. Um, you know, uh pastors lie. To tell a good story. To illustrate something that they need to illustrate. They'll they'll they'll get up and they'll be preaching a point and Illustrate it with a story that did not happen or that didn't happen the way that they said it happened in order to try and get a point across. That's just as much of a lie. And it's just as much dishonest as anything else. And God's going to hold people in my position accountable for that dishonesty But we think, oh, it's okay. And it's not okay. Lies manifest themselves in many different ways. Obviously, we know a lie is any statement of untruth. any time that we're untrue. Uh but there's lies that come as a as from a motive of malice through trying to out and out just do harm to somebody else. Um and sometimes even We could say like a uh among my kids, one of the kids won't even know who, like let's say spilled the drink in the living room. And one of the other kids won't even know who did it, but they'll wanna get you know, their brother or their sister or whatever and they'll come in and they'll be like, Andrew spilled his drink on the floor in the living room and left it there. They won't even know who did it. And maybe it was somebody else altogether. But they're wanting to get them in trouble. That's a lie motivated out of malice. And that happens. It's something that people deal with. There's lies that come uh in the form of boasting. Braggadocious. Uh I I went in Indiana. Uh I went and visited one of my friends, a guy that worked for me, and uh he was showing me his house and he was very excited about his house and he was thanking me for teaching him how to do things and how to build and work and he was showing me what he did and he's like now I'm just telling you right now I'm gonna take you on my bragamony tour he's like I'm gonna show you what I did in my house and he was saying thank you to me for teaching me has meant the world to me. He's changed my life and given me so much. And uh my dad goes, Which one? Yeah. But uh he's he's like, Oh this is my bragamony, but we we sometimes brag about things that we've done and we make it out to be a little bit greater than it really was. And that is a form of lying. People lie for profit. Sometimes we can lie by our silence, by not even saying We can lie by implication. Uh trying to one guy trying to get his uh first mate in trouble on a ship, uh said went and said the first mate was drunk today. And And the first mate said, Well the captain was sober today uh by implication, uh implying that uh today was the only day the captor was the captain has been sober. And And uh just that putting that question in somebody's mind. And uh you know, we could talk all day about illustrations, but you know the way our minds work and how we try and turn things and and And m m make them to our better and to protect us or to improve our position, lies come in the form of flattery. Sometimes false flattery. I read this from somebody. They said flattery is to say something to someone, say something to their face that you would never say behind their back. False flattery is when you would say something to somebody's face that you would never say behind their back. I mean you walk up and say, Wow, you look really good today or you you you did a really good job on that and then But in your mind you leave and you're thinking they messed that up royally, or they they they look like a slob today, or whatever. But that false flattery uh and And we should guard against that. Um you know, uh we lie to ourselves. The fact is, is that you're not near as bad as some people think you are. You know, you might have people lie about you, you're not near as bad as some people think you are But do you know what the truth is? You're not near as good as you think you are. That's true, you might not be as bad as some people think you are, but The truth is we're not near as good as we think we are. And we need to keep that into perspective. I want you to see the progression of line. Turn to 1 John chapter 1. All the way towards the end of your book there. First John. The progression of lying. Chapter one. So chapter one verse number six. Verses six through ten here we see a progression of line. Um He says, if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. So we lie to others First of all, he's saying if we if we tell people, oh, I'm a Christian, I love God, but then we walk in darkness. We do the opposite. We lie and don't speak the truth. We're telling other people something that is not true. And then for the sake of time, just skip down. I'm just going to read it. But if we walk in uh in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, the Son, cleanses us from all sin. Verse number eight says, if we say that we have no sin We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. So we lie to others and then we lie to ourselves. So we we we say, first of all, we tell everybody, oh, we're Christians and we love God, and then we walk in darkness. We've lied to everybody else. But then we lie to ourselves and we say, oh, I know I'm walking in darkness. I know I'm not doing what's right, but there's no sin in me. Then we lie to ourselves. And then don't you see the the progression here? He says if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But verse number 10 says, if we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. So then we're lying to God. The progression of lying. If it's not dealt with at the very beginning, we progress and get worse and worse, as with any sin. Lying has the power to do much damage. Psalms 52, verse number 2 says, Thy tongue deviseth mischief like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. Thy tongue deviseth mischief like a sharp razor. Lying has the power to do much damage, as we mentioned in the beginning with uh six things that the Lord hate, yea, seven are abomination. unto him a proud look, lying tongue, and they that shed innocent blood. Um the destruction that comes is on par with shedding innocent blood. Verse 5521 says the words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart. His words are softer than oil, yet were drawn swords. The words of those that would speak speak lies. You know, it doesn't even have to be true. An accusation False in its entirety, can still destroy. Can still destroy. Can still take down. In today's world, obviously I didn't live. fifty years ago. Praise God. Uh a hundred years ago. Some of you are like, what? Good thing there's no old people no old people in here. This is a young service class right here. See, God forgive me. I'm a liar. False flattery right there. See you guys caught me right on the false flattery. That's terrible. Um unbelievable So now you made me lose my train of thought. Yes. Oh what I was saying is this world many years ago, at least in America, is you were not guilty until proven guilty, you were innocent until proven guilty. But it seems like in today's world that you are guilty until proven innocent. um especially once an accusation has been made. Um and because this world is so overly conscious and overly protective, and it's almost got us on the mindset of I'll just take one area for instance and this is an area where we are so protective of of people and we should be, but uh in the misuse or abuse of children And we should protect the children. Don't think for one minute that I would would think or or lean anyway the opposite. But we have gotten to the place where we are suspicious of everyone. Regardless of who they are. If anybody leans down and hugs a little girl We look at them and think, what are their motives? What are they doing? Do I need to report them? They probably need to be turned in. I'm gonna watch them. We've gotten this mindset that everybody is guilty of this. Heinous crime and the thing is is the the world has conditioned us to the point where uh if you don't report something you are liable And you could be held accountable for what he did. And so now it could be nothing at all but just to maybe protect myself just in case, especially in our educational system teachers reporting, children. The kid could have fallen on his bicycle, but now mom and dad are being uh looked at by social services, child protective services, because the kid fell. Because the teacher doesn't want, oh hey, I just got to turn this in to protect myself. I gotta turn this in. That kid had a bruise. And now mom and dad are guilty until proven innocent because of a false accusation. We've got to be careful about this. Lying has a power to do major, major destruction. And you can't get it back. You say, oh, it was a lie. Too late. There are people that will believe that about that person for the rest of their lives, regardless of the truth. They'll believe that. The destruction is already done. There's a story, probably very familiar to you, but the there was a man that was lied about, and it It destroyed his business. He lost his business. It destroyed much of his life. For the remainder of his life, he really was in hardship because of the accusations of another man. When he was on his deathbed in the hospital, the man that lied to him, lied about him, came to him and said, I'm so sorry. Will you please Please forgive me. I lied. And this man on his deathbed said, I will be glad to forgive you. But would you do something for me? And uh the man says, I'll do anything for you. I I'm so sorry for what I what I did to you. He said, Will you take this pillow right here? And he pulled his pillow out from under him and he says, Will you pull it apart? Go to the window and dump it out. And he went to the window and he pulled the pillow apart and he dumped all the feathers out and the feathers flew away and some flew in the room feathers went anywhere and he says I did it. Seems kinda weird. And the man said, Now I want you to go pick up all those feathers. And the man said, That's impossi I I could never get all and feathers. And he said, right. He said, you know, I can forgive you. But that doesn't undo all the damage that was done. It doesn't put the pillow back together. It doesn't fix it. So the line does tremendous damage. Hitler lied about the Jews. He blamed them for the hardship that Germany was facing economically. and rallied the Jewish people I mean rallied the the German people against the Jewish people and six million Jews were murdered. Lying has power to do much damage. Um the future of lies. I'm sorry, the future of liars. The future of liars. We know that Revelation 21, verse number 8, says the fearful and the unbelieving and and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone. Which is the second death. All these sins listed here can send a person to hell. And many other sins. This sin is by this list is by no means conclusive. But the implication here Is that even something, even a sin as small as a lie, can send somebody to hell. How many lies do you have to tell to be a liar? One. Uh so even even uh the smallest lie can send a person to hell. Now we praise God that through the blood of Jesus Christ uh He has the power to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Righteousness, and that he can wash us and cleanse us from that, and that we are not in danger of the judgment. Uh we can be forgiven of that sin of lying, and we we can go to heaven. Praise praise God for that. So those that have not been washed by the blood of Jesus Christ, their ultimate end is the same as the devil's, the father of lies. They're going to spend an eternity in A place called hell. They don't have to. God's provided a way for them to go to heaven. And praise God for that. They can go to heaven if they accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. But understand that Jesus in his blood has washed away your sin. You and I are no longer in danger of the judgment, but we will face a judge one day. And we're going to give an account for what's done in our body, whether it be good or bad. We're going to give an account for the words that we say. Matthew 12, verse number 37 says, For by thy words thou shalt be justified. And by thy words thou shalt be condemned. Every liar is going to be found out someday. If not here on earth, then at the judgment in heaven. So somebody's lied about you and and you think, man, I wish I wish that it would be exposed and they would they would show okay the damage is probably already done. They may never be exposed here on earth. But at the judgment, they will be. Then we know the truth will come out. And we, for what we say and what we do Know that if we don't get that right, don't confess it, don't have God uh wash it away, that we will be judged for it. Uh it's not I'm uh oh I'm saved, I'm gonna go to heaven. You're still gonna give an account for the things done in your body. Be blessed for those things that you've done that are that are good, and be judged for those things you've done that have been bad. The last point here which I do not have time to cover is the finish of lying. How do we finish with this? How do we done with it? How do we stop lying? I'm just going to give it to you real quick. I don't have time to really teach it. But first of all, if we're going to stop lying, we need to love the truth. Love the truth. Jesus Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father by me. We need to love the truth. We need to hate lying. Love God and Him. David said, Thou desirest truth in the inward parts. God wants truth. Do we love the truth? We need to learn the truth. The Bible says thy word is truth. Learn the truth. Love the truth, learn the truth. John 17, 17, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. You get sanctified through the truth, the word of God. So we learn the truth and then live the truth. This is where your Christianity comes into real practical living. Live the truth. Love the truth, learn the truth, and live the truth. If we're going to be uh stop with the lying, that's what we've got to do. We have got to live that way. Wherefore putting away all lying, Ephesians 4. 25, putting away all lying, speaking every man truth with his neighbor For we are members one of another. That's what Christians were supposed to be doing. Learn the truth, love the truth, and live the truth as a Christian Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and your love for us. We thank you, God, for these commandments that have uh so clearly uh been given to help us.