Those of you wouldn't want to pick those up, but we are in the middle of James. We began last week. I gave you the dates forty-five to sixty, uh forty-five to fifty, uh the rough dates there. Uh we talked basically about the aim to exhort believers to a life that stands up to their lips. That uh listen, our our life should match our lips what we say and of course that overall challenge knowing that uh faith without works is dead and that Yes, we have faith in our heart, but we ought to be living up to that, that our life ought to reflect it. Uh to warn concerning the use of tongues Uh just the use of uh this old this little member that uh is a big part of what James, just practical teaching that we have from him to describe the nature of godly wisdom. to instruct in prayer and uh effectual fervent prayer and to guide in uh the need for restoration there Now we're going to talk about James just a little bit. The author, James is the half-brother of Jesus. There are four individuals that are key or prominent that carry the name James in the New Testament. Uh this is James the half-brother of Jesus. This is not James the disciple. This is not James the son of Zebedee. Uh so a distinguishing characteristic, the author here is James, the half-brother of Jesus. And uh according to John chapter seven, we learn that he was unbelieving, that he remained a Jew, that he didn't believe in Christ or Jesus as the Messiah. And uh you know what did Jesus say uh about that, the idea that uh uh uh prophet is without honor in his own country. And that principle is that literally uh I mean you can think about w a brother looking at his you know, they grew up together and he's looking at Jesus and he's saying, Okay, I know you're a pretty good kid and I was the problem child, but I mean uh you're saying you're God? I mean just You can imagine that in growing up and being the brother of Jesus and trying to convince him or James actually to believe that he was the Messiah. It would be quite a challenge. I mean we're going to talk about Joseph some tonight and uh just think about Joseph and what Joseph's brothers did to him. And and just the aspect of, you know, well, for him to come around to the point where he would believe that his brother was the Messiah is a lot. And so he was unbelieving for a long time. And yet, uh in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse number 7, uh Jesus reveals himself. He he shows himself after the resurrection. unto James and the Bible says that he believed. And uh he at that point probably the Spirit of God and and the time And of course, him having risen from the dead, uh James confesses his faith and belief in Jesus as the Savior. So this James was also the pastor of the church of Jerusalem. We know that he pastored the church of Jerusalem there and uh is used of God mightily in that uh uh realm. We learn a lot from him because of that. He was martyred. Um we don't know exactly how he was killed. Uh there are a couple different beliefs, but that uh very strong Jewish historian, uh a trusted Jewish historian, Josephus uh who has I would encourage you to you want to learn history, uh Jewish history. Josephus is probably the most well known, recognized name in regards to that. And uh he believes that he was martyred at the order of Ananias the high priest. uh that the high priest had him stoned to death in uh roughly sixty two or sixty three AD. And so we know that he was martyred. We're just not a hundred percent sure how he his life was taken, but that's what Josephus believes. The audience that he was writing to, to the twelve tribes that are scattered, and really dealing with the persecuted Christians that were scattered in Judea and Samaria. Um I think that in verse number one, James uh chapter one he says, James, a servant of God of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greetings. So he's he's writing to them, to the Jewish believers, some from every tribe, but those that had come to know Christ, they were scattered abroad. Why why were they scattered? Because of persecution, right. The persecution caused them to to scatter, to spread. Uh it wasn't comfortable, and so they determined that they were going to try and you know avoid uh the persecution as much as they might be able to, and so they kind of got s scattered abroad, and so he's writing to them uh these practical truths. And uh some key words that you would recognize uh but brethren is fifteen times it's mentioned. Uh faith uh as it's contrasted with works. So over and over again, faith is mentioned thirteen times and works is mentioned twelve times as these two really uh two sides of the same coin, they play off each other and they are continually contrasted and we know that uh as we've talked about the book of James and how it impacts us with regards to that faith without works is dead. And so some strong truths that are taught in the book of James. And there's so many. I I love James for its practical uh you know day-to-day teaching right where we live, right down on the ground floor, as it were. And uh first of all, saving faith is sanctifying faith That process of salvation and the faith that we have in Christ is going to begin that process of sanctification true saving faith begins a process of change. It's not going to happen immediately and it's not going to it's not n This change is not requirement of salvation, but it is evidence of salvation. It is a result of salvation. Um you know, if you started taking some medicine uh for a skin rash that after a few days uh the medicine the rash starts to go away and that's evidence that is that it's ta that it's t that it's working, that it's doing its job. And what happens is when you get saved, you get changed internally and things begin to be evident on the outside of you in the works and the action that you take. And that's what James is really driving home, that saving true saving faith is also sanctifying faith. It brings about that change in us. He says In chapter one and verse number three, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. The trying of your faith, trying is the testing of your faith. So there's some testing that's going to come. And the testing of that faith worketh patience. That worketh patience literally means to be made complete. It brings you to maturity. It brings you to another Bible word would be perfection, which means complete. And the trying of your faith, it works in you to bring you to a point of maturity, that sanctifying process. Saving faith is also separating faith. Now do you know that the truth separates? And I'm going to be dealing with our theme, uh united in Christ in the morning service this morning. But uh, beloved, the foundation of being united is that we're united in Christ. And so we never sacrifice truth because on the altar of unity Because unity, uh, because truth ultimately divides, and it's going to divide between people that believe the Word of God and people that don't believe the Word of God And we'll see that all through the New Testament, but oftentimes as Jesus describes or or names people, there there's truth divides. And He says here separates. There's several areas where you see it separated in verse chapter 1 and verse number 22. He says, be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. So it divides those that are doers that heard and are doing what they heard. They're putting into practice what they've been taught and those that are hearers only. That they've just been hearing it. They aren't actually making any changes. Uh we see it separate between those that are clean and dirty. In uh verse number twenty-one. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity and of naughtiness naughtiness and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. So the the the contrast there between those that are changing their behavior Those that have heard the word and they've received it, and those that have continued to participate and be involved in these actions uh that are that are not good. Uh he talks about it separating between uh those who are friend of God and those who are the enemy of God in chapter four and verse number four He says, uh, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God. So just saving faith is going to separate in these areas. And there are there are others that are mentioned. But we understand, beloved, that when you get saved and God does a changing work in your life, if you begin to be a doer of the word and a follower of Christ, you don't have to separate from your old friends. They're gonna separate from you They're going to end up leaving you. They're not gonna want to go to church with you. They're not gonna want to be around you as you are singing the praises. You're riding in your car and you're listening, you know, to uh godly music and they're like, What is this? and And uh they're they're they're just gonna say, you know what, I I don't want to be around that, and they're gonna end up separating from you. You won't even have to do anything, because that's saving faith is separating faith. Saving faith is serving faith. We know of course we're to be a doer of the word, right? We're not just to be hearers only. We're to be a doer. We're to serve and be actively doing what God would have us to do. Saving faith is sacrificial faith in chapter 2, verses 15. 16 and 17 he says, If a brother or sister be naked and destitute and of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works So here he's talking about the the giving to others, the sacrificing if somebody comes with a need and and you say, Oh hey, go Be warm, be filled, you know, enjoy life, you know, but you don't do anything to help them. He says, What is that? That that's dead. That that that is not not good at all So true saving faith is going to start to bring you to a point where you're willing and want to sacrifice for others. It's sacrificial. And there's some powerful word pictures that he gives us. Uh there's a number of them here and just some great word studies, but it's amazing the the descriptive characteristics, the the imagery that comes into your mind as he describes these different things. Like in chapter one and verse number six where he talks about the wind tossed waves of the sea. Uh you know, just describing that Excuse me, giving us that uh word picture. He says, But let him ask in faith nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind, and tossed. So just describing that, putting that imagery in your mind of that wind-tossed wave just just flying over and and no resistance there at at all. And he over and over again you see he uses kind of picturesque language to g draw an image in your mind. He talks about the withering grass and the fading flowers. in chapter one and verse ten and eleven. Uh he talks about the burning heat of the sun in that same verse there, verse number eleven. Uh he talks about the idea of looking into a mirror in chapter one and verse number twenty-three. Just the idea of beholding yourself in a mirror. For if any Be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man beholding his natural face in a glass that picture of just, you know, idea of looking into a mirror and seeing yourself. And he talks about just not making any change. You saw it, but you didn't make any change at all. So he draws that picture for us. Uh of course talking about the tongue, he gives us a lot of picturesque language when he gets into that. Uh in uh chapter three where he talks about a bit in the horse's mouth and how that great big body is turned and uh s round and moved just by with a little bitty bit in uh in a horse's mouth or the helm of a ship And how the helm of a ship can be moved by that smallest little p port. And then, behold, how great a matter, a little fire kindleth, the image of a fire, and how it engulfs and inflames everything And that same imagery for the power of the tongue and how the tongue can kindle so great a fire He talks about the taming of great creatures in chapter 3 and verse number 7, vapor, that imagery of vapor and how it fadeth away. Uh moth-eaten garments in chapter five and verse number two. Uh especially some of you older folks probably have seen that. I don't know if Just seems like I d I don't know if the garments are getting stronger or we have much cleaner closed up houses. We don't seem to have that too much anymore. But I remember grandma's closets, they all smelled like mothballs, I can tell you that. Uh because that was a problem I guess for a long time that, you know, those moths would get in there and just eat Eat up the cloth. And uh so Moth eating he draws that imagery there uh describes r the the power of rust and how rust uh just eats away. uh you know I uh my suburban out there is a beautiful truck. Uh it's only a twenty fifteen and you would think by twenty fifteen they would figure out how to make the lower end of a car so it doesn't rust, right? Nope. Uh I've got huge sections of my car which you cannot see, uh, but they're rusted out. I mean completely gone. And uh it's very disturbing to me. I really don't like that. I like having a vehicle that's in good shape and that is is sound, uh but it's all rusted away. I mean you can take your finger and push it right through the metal. Just push it right through uh because it's rusted away, the power of rust and how it just eats away even something so stable and strong as that. In chapter five, verse three he mentions that. He describes labor and wages in five four And uh the early and latter reigns. Uh he describes those things. So just all through the book here, just giving us picturesque language that kind of brings uh uh things alive as he describes and and teaches us, but he does so in an effective way. And uh I was talking to uh some college students on Tuesday night the class I'm teaching on the book of Nehemiah and I was describing these are young men, they're preparing to go into the ministry and I was talking to them about their responsibility to bring the word of God to people. And I said, the fact is, is the word of God has power. It's quick, it's powerful, it's sharper than a two-edged sword. That is where the power is. But your responsibility, the Bible calls it the foolishness of preaching. Your responsibility is to strive to be able to bring that across in an effective way. That means you need to learn how to use your voice. Your voice is a tool. That means you need to practice. You need to learn how and when to raise your voice to drive home a point. And you need to learn how and when to keep your voice soft and steady, to to bring solemnity to what you're saying and Realize you don't just get up there and open up and the whole time you're yelling and screaming and you know from the time you open until the time you close you're yelling. That's not very effective. You need to use your voice as a tool, just like any other instrument, and God will help you develop that. And then you need to try and find ways to bring the Word of God alive to the people with pictures, with illustrations, with examples, so that it's effective, so that it communicates uh very powerfully the truths. Jesus did it Jesus used all the time practical world examples that the people that he was speaking to would understand. And that allows you to be able to effectively communicate. And that's something that we see here that James does over and over again, just giving us these word pictures that bring alive the message that God has for us. Then I have an outline for you here. We're not even going to take time to read it. This copy directly out of Wilmington's Guide to the Bible. And this is just the main points. I just gave the main points of his outline. His outline is almost four pages long eight and a half by eleven if you've seen Wilmington's Guide to the Bible. It's a big book and it's almost four pages of outline. Uh so I just took the main points there and gave you that. If you don't have Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, I think we have it in the bookstore, but it's a great resource. uh just a powerful book for getting uh brief uh understanding of a passage or what's going on in in uh in the word of god and very very good tool to use uh if you want to study the word of god So we're going to continue on with the uh general epistles getting into 1st and 2 Peter now. 1st and 2nd Peter. This is where the new notes would pick up. Last week we uh concluded with James there, but now we're going to get into 1 and 2 Peter. The date of 1st Peter here was 63 to 65. As I described and talked about on Thursday night, many of you were here or you were watching online, I'm sure, but uh this was right the the writing of this book was right in the middle of Nero's great persecution. Uh it was right when Nero began to really uh publicly and with the authority of the government persecute Christians. And so a lot of what Peter is writing about is addressing the believers' stand and strength to endure in the face of this great persecution that Nero was bringing. So we see here the aim, the aim is to strengthen the brethren. Now in your notes do I have Luke chapter twenty-two written down? You got that in your notes? Okay, so the reason is is because in Luke 22, verses 31 and 32, let me read it for you. He says, And the Lord said unto Simon, Simon Behold, Satan hath desire to have you that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Now it would be almost 30 years later that Peter would be pinning these words, that he would be writing 1 and 2 Peter to the believers who were being persecuted mercilessly. And God would use him to ultimately fulfill what he said for him to do all the way back there in the book of Luke, that he was going to be used to strengthen the brethren in the face of this great persecution. And uh what an amazing thing that not only did he was used there to strengthen the brethren that were enduring that persecution under Nero, but now for all eternity. His words that are part of Scripture have been used over and over and over again to strengthen the brethren in the face of whatever hardship or persecution that we too are enduring. And so the aim was there to strengthen the brethren. To explain the relationship of trials in the face of or in regard of God's purposes for our lives. Realizing that God's purpose can be fulfilled and ultimately God can use trials, tests, persecution in our life to accomplish His will. We know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them that are called according to His purpose. And so trials and tests that come into our life, although uh sometimes they're brought by God, sometimes they're allowed by God, but we know that regardless, we know that they are all there To perform and to work out God's will, God's purpose in our lives, to bring us to a place of better understanding of His love. to learn how to pray, to uh prepare us for what he has next for us. We know ultimately that God has a plan and his purpose is being fulfilled. And so he he gets into that in verses one through twelve. Then to instruct and motivate believers to lives of holiness. In the face of all this persecution, we're we're not to just throw aside what is right and and uh you know forego what God would have us do. No, we're to continue to live holy, pure lives. Um Look in chapter number one if you're in Peter there. Uh I'm still in James, but let me get to Peter and verse number uh 13 I guess let's let's begin there. He says, wherefore gird up the loins of your mind and be sober and hope to the end For the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy. So be ye holy in all manner of conversation. He's like all manner of conversation. That word conversation is lifestyle in all matter of life in all these matters. We're to be holy. Why? Because Jesus Christ was holy. He is the example for us and He lives as our our example, and we are to follow that. So He says, In the face of all this, be holy. Don't fashion yourself according to these former lusts, but follow God. So he clearly teaches that there. Um He calls for submission. For submission, over and over again in this book, you'll see that uh he calls for submission. Uh submission of believers to civil authorities. that we are to be subject to these civil authorities. He calls for the submission of servants to masters. He calls for the submission of wives to husbands and husbands to God. And uh we all are living in submission to somebody. Um, you know, even the guy that owns his own business, people are like, It's mu it must be nice to be able to do whatever you want, boy, you're the boss. Well, in i in one respect maybe yes, but ultimately the guy that owns his own business has three hundred bosses. Or how many other clients he has, you know, every one of them is people that he answers to. And he has to fulfill the responsibility or commitments that he's made to them and so on. And so all of us are under somebody and we need to learn how to submit. And he calls uh for submission. We'll see several places in here that that takes place. To discuss the proper attitude of believers in the midst of suffering. Look at chapter 2 and verse 20 and 21. Chapter 2, verse 20 and 21. He says, For what glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? But if when ye do well and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps. So again, giving us that picture that um Jesus was the example, he suffered, he did so patiently, we are to follow that. He kind of qualifies it and says, listen, if you suffer sometimes we suffer because we made some poor choices. That's one thing. But he says, but when ye do well And suffer patiently. This is a good thing. And so he encourages us to that, gives us that example, that we should have that proper attitude, the attitude of Christ in the face of suffering. to give imperatives to the pastor for the work of the ministry. Now an imperative is a command, it's a directive. It's a little bit beyond suggestion, right? He's kind of being very direct here. He's really kind of saying this is necessary, and we see that in chapter five. In verses 1 through 4, he says, the elders which are among you I exhort. So we see he's talking to the leaders, the pastors here. He says, I exhort. Who am Who am also an elder and a witness of the suffering of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. And he gives him some direction to he said, feed the flock of God which is among you. Take the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. So the pastor is supposed to feed the flock, not fleece the flock. There are a lot of ministries today that are real interested in fleecing the flock. They want to get all they can. That's not what the pastor is supposed to be doing. The pastor is supposed to be feeding the flock. That's what he's telling them very clearly here. You're not supposed to be doing this for filthy lucre sake. That shouldn't be your goal or ambition or ultimately your desire. Your desire should be to feed the flock, to help them. He says, neither as being lords over God's heritage But being an example, uh he says an example to the flock. The fact is is the pastor is not to lord over the flock. And there's a lot of people talk about that today because they don't like strong leadership. The job of the pastor is to lead But he's not the Lord over the flock. I'm very, very careful. Very rarely will I ever tell somebody, I think this is God's will for you. I I have to be very fully convinced in my mind because God has to work directly in the heart. You're God's children. You're children of God. God speaks to you directly. You don't need the pastor to uh guide you in your life that way. I try and give you biblical principle. I point you to Christ. That's the pastor's responsibility, but you should pray and seek God and know what God's will is for you based on your personal relationship with Him. And uh if you know you want very like what do you think I should do, Pastor, I can give instructions and say, well this is what I would do in that situation or here's what I would try and avoid, but uh very rarely do I tell somebody you need to do this. Uh because I think you ought to be able to get a hold of God and God should tell you what you should do. And it's something between you. We pastors not to be lording over the flock, um taking total control and y you know, you've heard the horror stories and we don't need to get into that sometimes pastors getting meddling in everybody's lives and dictating who who marries who and and all these things. This is between you and God. And uh we pastor needs to avoid that type of spirit and mindset. There they are not God. A pastor is not God. He's just to live as an example and to feed the flock. And verse number four he says, And when the chief shepherd shall appear So the benefit and the blessing of doing this job that God has given you is God's blessing and honoring you. He calls a believer to humility. to humility. Uh we we need to be humble. In the face of hardship, in the face of victory, whatever it is God calls us to humility verses uh chapter five verses five through seven again dealing with this idea of submitting yourselves he says likewise ye younger submit yourselves unto the elder Yea, all of you be subject one to another, be clothed with humility. For God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace. unto the humble. Humble humble yourselves therefore unto the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. So just calling the believers to humility. seeking that we would live humble before God. To warn the believers against the enemies of their soul. And you of course know chapter five, verse number eight, be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom you may devour. And so he's warning the believers. These are the purposes for which Peter was written. Warning them about the enemies of their soul. So the author, we know the author was Peter, and uh th there's no question there that that we know more about Peter. Than any other New Testament character outside of Christ. There's more written about Peter than any other New Testament character. And this is pertinent, I'm going to tell you in just a minute, an interesting thought. But according to Boyd in his Bible handbook, page 640, he says this about Peter. Peter is referred to 210 times in the New Testament. Paul, the next closest, is referred to 162 times. If you were to combine all the rest of the apostles, all of them together are only 142 times. So all of the other apostles 142 times, Paul 142 times, 162 times, but Peter 210. So outside of Christ we know more about Peter than any other. He goes on, he says, after Pentecost, uh po Peter is seen as the dean of the apostles. the most prominent figure in the first half of the book of Acts, the one who opened the way for the Gentiles to enter the church. And we've talked about that as we went through the book of Acts. And so we know a lot about Peter and his life and the Lord used him mightily. So some personal information about him. His father was Jonas. I've given you the references there. You can turn and read those. His brother was Andrew. His brother was Andrew. And he grew up in Bethesda. We know that he was married, but we don't know if he had any children. So that's unknown. I'm not sure what the Catholic Church does with the fact that Peter was married, but uh we know he was married. Um he was a resident of Capernaum. According to Mark chapter 1, verse number 21 and 29 and 30, he was a resident of Cumpertium. We know he was a fisherman by trade. God called him to hang up his nets and to from now on you'll be a fisher of men. After the crucifixion, Peter went back further, but he said, I go fishing. And the other disciples went with them. He went back to what he knew in the face of the loss of his master. Peter, we know he was uh You know, shoot first and ask questions later was the kind of guy Peter was. Uh he was definitely, you know, o open mouth insert foot. I mean he was gonna get into the thick of it no matter what. He he was just jumping into everything Which is part God uses that. Peter was the only one that said, Man, Jesus, you're walking on the water, let me come unto thee, you know. He's the only one that said, Let me do it. You know, he he over and over again, he kinda jumps into some things Uh sometimes it gets them in trouble, but it also gives them boldness to be used of God in a mighty way. We know that he was part of the inner circle. What a privilege uh to be amongst those that Christ would often call to go with him and To get away from the crowd for a few minutes, would you come and watch and pray? And Christ giving them some very special instructions and teaching them individually. In the face of all that, we also know that Peter was the one who denied Christ. So a week ago, I think it was. Time flies. Whenever I preached on uh signs of salvation, um I've had more discussions and and conversations with people over that message than any message in recent history. Uh just very God used that in a lot of people's lives. Um but uh uh in several conversations with people, I took them to Peter and I said, here's the thing that you need to understand. The the signs of salvation are about what's going on in your heart, what's going on in your life. These are evident But by no means am I preaching sinless perfection. By no means am I saying that you're not going to fail if you're just because you're saved, you're not going to fall short. You're not going to, you know Uh we we all are still going to sin. And I take them to Peter and said, Peter who preached at Pentecost and three thousand souls were saved, Peter who uh walked on water with Jesus, Peter who was used of God mightily, at the same time, Peter's the one that denied Christ. So Somebody would look at that and say, he denied Christ? Well then he was never saved, but he was saved. And so sometimes we're going to fall short, we're going to disappoint ourselves, and we certainly are going to disappoint our Lord. But that doesn't mean that you're not saved You have to look at the evidences of salvation in your life. Did the Holy Spirit convict you of that? Did the Holy Spirit be try and draw you back? Is that happening? And if it is, then that's a testament of the fact that you are saved. Because not not that you're without sin, that you're without uh problems, because we all still have a sin nature. And it's a sad reality that we're still battling with that, we're still fighting it But God used Peter in a mighty, mighty way, even though he was the one that denied Christ. He also was used, obviously, to pin a couple page uh books of the New Testament here. And uh, but he was far from perfect. Jesus looked at him once and said, Get thee behind me, Satan. Jesus called him Satan. And uh then he says, hey Peter, I want you to write a couple books of the New Testament. And so it's not that you're going to be perfect, but there ought to be some evidences of that in your life. And so he gives us some key words here, s obviously this book being primarily about how to continue in the face of suffering. The word suffer, suffered, or suffering appears twelve times throughout the book, obviously by implication many other times, but specifically the words appear. The word glory appears twelve times and that's because a lot of times uh they are contrasted. This suffering that we're going through right now holds no candle to the glory that shall appear, the glory that's gonna come. And so he talks about that in contrast it many times throughout the book. picturing that in uh chapter five verse number four he says and when the chief shepherd shall appear you shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away and so talking about the glory that's going to come in we just Love God and endure and follow Him faithfully in this life, and one day we'll we'll be in glory and we won't have to battle with this. Grace is used eight times Found in eight of the verses here. And then I don't know why I left off the number for submit and hope. But uh submit is two times if you want to note it in there. Uh and then hope is four times. As he uh submitting and some forms of submit would appear a number more times, but just the word submit is two times here. Some strong truths that are taught. I'm going to try and go through this quickly so we can at least conclude this one. Some strong truths. When suffering comes, we're to follow Christ's example. Christ's example. And I've listed here several things that he's given us. Suffering, how do we deal with that? First of all, we deal with it patiently. I read that verse already, chapter 2, verse number 20, when you suffer. you know, for things that you did, but when you suffer doing well patiently, that is that is good. Uh we suffer for the sake of righteousness in chapter three, in verse number fourteen. He says But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye for righteousness' sake, so we suffer for righteousness' sake. Be sure that suffering is because of righteousness and not because of foolishness. Okay? We suffer for doing well in 317. We suffer with rejoicing in chapter 4, verse number 13. I spoke on Thursday night about this idea of how do we continue to be faithful in the face of suffering, and we talked about being armed with the attitude of Christ, aiming for Christ's acceptance and appreciating the affliction. Learning to appreciate the affliction. That is suffering with rejoicing. He says in verse number 13 there, but rejoice Inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering. So we do it with rejoicing. As Christians, sufferers Christians, and we suffer according to the will of God. Chapter 4, verse number 19. And then we see Peter gives us the promise of our inheritance. In chapter 1, verses 3 through 5, he describes this for us. He says, Blessed be the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. This promise given to us of this inheritance that we're going to come. inheritance that's incorruptible, it's undefiled, and it's not going to fade away. And that inheritance is is there. It's waiting for us. And uh so we get to look at that. Um Peter gives us a contrast or or both privilege and responsibility of a chosen generation in verses nine and ten. Uh these are familiar verses. He says, but ye are a chosen generation. That's a privilege. To be a chosen generation, to be a child of God, that's a privilege. But with that privilege You are a royal priesthood, a holy nation. Those are responsibilities. That's a responsibility. We're we're the privilege of being a child of God, but the responsibility is to be a royal priesthood, to be a holy nation. a peculiar people, a responsibility that he gives us there. And then in verse number 10 he says, which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God. We're the people of God. That's a privilege. And we have not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. That's a privilege. So in these two verses, he gives us three privileges and three responsibilities. uh that come with those privileges. So he teaches us those those things. Then we see here uh basic outline that I've given you from uh Boys World Bible Handbook. We're going to close there for the Sunday School hour this morning. We'll pick up with 2 Peter next week and just continue on as we go through these general epistles. Lord, we love you. We thank you for the time in Sunday school. I pray that you go with us into the morning service. Speak to our hearts. Use your word in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. You're dismissed.