You know, we've been talking about the church. This morning we're going to talk about the focus of the church. You can turn your Bibles to Matthew twenty-eight. Matthew twenty-eight. I've been excited about uh this study um you know as I think about or look at the church. I've been thinking about doing a complete advertising campaign for our church. And uh the the the whole idea Like you know you see these billboards out there that they say, you know, if they show this really old decrepit guy and the billboard says, not your grandfather's church. Uh I would think about doing a whole advertising campaign and say this is church the way it used to be. This is your granddad's church. This is a church that still preaches the Bible, that still that still sings the old-fashioned hymns, that still gathers for worship at normal times and has normal services. You know, if you want a rock fast church, you're gonna have to go somewhere else. This does this is your granddad's church. And of course we use and implement uh technology where we can and in a respectable fashion. And uh you know, uh I thought about the idea of an old fashioned church with with a modern twist or something, but I want to stay away from that. That word modern all the catholic on a uh just weekly R the way church, the church wave used to be a message. Well, we're going to look this morning about part of what we want to keep as our focus as a church. And this this is going to be a little bit of teaching this morning because I really want uh the mindset of those that attend or are part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church to realize what it is we're doing. Why we do what we do, what is our focus What is the driving reason for what we do? In Matthew chapter 28, the Great Commission is given to us in verses 18, 19, and 20. If you look there, Matthew chapter 28 Beginning in verse number 18, follow along, and we're going to reach in these first, as he says. And Jesus came, and he spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. This Christ, after being uh Given or recognizing, stating the fact that God had given unto him all power, with the authority of God Himself, he gives to the disciples the commission And he says, go into the world, preach the gospel, baptize people, and teach them the Word of God. That's what he tells them to do. And we know from the very last statement in this verse that this was not a commission given solely to the disciples that was going to die with them, that it was their responsibility. And they were going to do it, it was him, because he says here in law I'm with you always, even unto the end of the earth. This, by that phrase there, the commission that we see was not just given to the disciples, but to the disciples and through them to the entire church. That all of us are to be involved in this. This is something that's going to continue as a commission for the church until Christ comes back. Amen? That is the focus of the church. If I was to summarize it, it could be said very succinctly in that The focus of the church is to evangelize the lost and edify the saints. The focus of the church is to evangelize the lost and edify the saints. So I want you guys to say that with me. Evangelize the lost and edify the state. So the focus of the search is to evangelize the lost and edify the state. Well, that's the focus. So that's it. I guess we're done. I'm glad I didn't get any amens. I wasn't sure what I was gonna get there. I didn't know if I was gonna get uh a bunch of amens, already amens Yeah, let's pray and see this and this. If you would allow me to. That is succinctly put the focus of the church. But could I elaborate a little bit? Here like I'll pass. I think that was something Yeah, here we go. I try not to be too long, but I want to elaborate on that focus a little bit. It is to evap life loss, it is to edify the state. And below it Everything that a church does, every effort put forth, every ministry, every program should fit squarely into those two goals. Maybe into one or the other, or sometimes there's a little bit of overlap from one or the other. But anything that a church is involved in that can't fit squarely into those two objectives needs to be discarded. Needs to be left off. They think the church needs to stop doing it. Because this is the focus of the church Only inside the framework of the Great Commission can a church continue to thrive as a work of God. Now you might have a gathering. But you don't have a church. You see, God is only going to be in and a part of and be blessed in something that is fulfilling those objectives. Fulfilling and completing that great commission. This is why we at Valley Baptist Church have a strong mission emphasis This is why we have a missionary update every Sunday morning. It's not because we want to fill the Sunday morning service. It's not because we needed something and thought, well that would be nice to do, let's throw that in The goal of a missionary update every Sunday is to keep what's going on around the world before God's people. That we would have a heart and a burden for what's taking place in Africa. We can't go there ourselves, but we send a missionary to go for us. And we want to know what how the ministry is going and the souls that are being saved and the impact that we're making by investing in that ministry So every Sunday we have a missionaries update. And we have missionaries come through. I try to have a missionary about once every other month. It doesn't always work that way, but I try to look at it about six missionaries a year if if we can, uh, to to just keep missions and a worldview in front of us. That's what we're supposed to have. So if the focus of the church is to evangelize the lost and edify the state, I'm going to put it in another way. The first thing here, vagizing the law, I'm going to put it this way, the focus of the church is the preaching of the gospel to sinners. The preaching of the gospel to sinners. In Acts chapter 1 and verse number 8, he says, But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem And all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. Ye shall be witnesses unto me. He's telling them God's going to give you power to do this work, and you're going to be a witness, and you're supposed to be a witness in Jerusalem. In Judea, in Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the earth. Now I have Pastor Gus this morning play our welcome video, which kind of succinctly states our mission as a church. As a church, we're on a mission to see the world minister too, and we give our money, material, and manpower to see this accomplished. We begin with those nearest, our neighbors, and all nations. We want them all to have an opportunity to hear the message, the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's our mission, that's our goal, that's our focus. Those nearest, beloved, is our Jerusalem. For the individuals, those nearest would be our family. Our loved ones, our our close friends, those that we get around. Every single Christian should have a heart's desire to give the gospel message, the death, burial, resurrection of Jesus Christ, to those hearers. To our loved ones, to our friends, to our those we come in contact with. Now for the church, those nearest would be our Jerusalem. That would be the Baltimore area As we as a church head out of this and we head, we go to different places. We live over in Park Middle and Park Hidden and And Monken and and Sparks and Ricer South and uh almost Aberdeen. Those people that are Pennsylvania. And uh we have people come from a long way. And with us living right on the border, our Jerusalem reaches into Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania need the gospel too. Whole lot, you know. Partly or future. We want to reach to those, this is our Jerusalem, this is our area where we minister, the bus crop goes out, and the Bible club goes out, vacation Bible school, all these things in an effort to get the gospel to our Jerusalem. Those nearest us, then our neighbors would be Judea, Samaria. Those would be people that we're not necessarily close to, that we aren't going to have a relationship with, but we might have opportunity to do them good We might have opportunity to come across their path, or for the individual, it might be somebody that you meet at a gas station, it might be somebody that you would might never see again, but you're going to be neighborly to them and say, hey, can I tell you about Jesus? Your neighbors, those that you have opportunity to do good, to him that knows to do good and to it and not to him it is Those are our neighbors, those that we might have opportunity to do good would come in contact with in on a church realm, on a church level, uh that's our Judea, that's our Samaria, that would be all of Maryland All of Pennsylvania. Some people may even extend that Judean Samaria to the entirety of the United States. And say, Pastor, how in the world is a church in America supposed to be do something about the United States. But we support a church planner. The church planner goes and finds a church in Richmond, Virginia. Church planner goes and finds a church in Idaho. church planners building five church in Chicago. And we we support these church planners around and and they go and they reach that region in that area and they reproduce it and Fulfill the great commission to the church, and we, by extension, have a part in what's being accomplished there. We support the prison ministry, and the prison ministry goes on to prisons all over the country. What are you? Reaching those that are incarcerated with the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And then he says we as a goal mission statement, we say all nations, those nearest our neighbors in all nations. And that of course is the uttermost part of the earth. Reaching out to the rest of the world. And our world is small today. I mean it's mind-boggling to me that in the middle of church I'm hearing from a missionary that just baptized 45 people in a river in India. And I got photos of it already I mean we're it's a small world. I mean it's just if if it's it's never been easier to try and reach into other parts of the world with the message of the gospel. That's one of the exciting things about the work of uh that our missionary brother Gene Shark does. This radio planting missionary, he goes and spells radio stations. There are small radio stations in locations where the countries are closed and they install a radio tower right on the border and it reaches hundreds of miles into a closed nation And all those people in that closed nation are getting the uh gospel message twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. They can tune into it, tune into it, uh listen to it. Not another way to carry the gospel into those places. But that radio is carrying it right over the areas. They can reach into those and he's installed many of those stations like that. Installed uh recently did an update on a radio station in Iraq. And uh, you know, in that region, reaching over into Iran, that's just the gospel. That's the focus of the church The gospel of Jesus Christ. Someone said this, the business of the church is to preach the whole gospel to the whole world. That's what we're supposed to be doing. And all, every one of us should be a part of that. Every one of us should be involved in that endeavor. Giving the gospel out Sadly, there's many Christians who ever endeavor to give the gospel in any way. And where's it supposed to be? David Dawson said the silent pew is the curse and the plight of Christianity today. Silence from the few is death. It's not just a pastor supposed to be preaching the gospel. The gospel message is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the fact that Christ came and died for sinners. And wants to see people saved. Putting the faith and trust in Jesus Christ and Him alone. And we're all to be involved in that endeavor. We're all to be giving the gospel to a lost world. If we're going to give the gospel, we need God's power to do it. He said you shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. In Acts chapter 4, we've just been reading in Acts. It's an exciting book as you think about the church starting and all that God did and added to the church daily such as to be saved. But the disciples went forth and act force with great power and boldness the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord. That's what we're talking about, the resurrection of God. They did it with great power. You need God's power if you're going to be with us. If you're going to go into this world and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, you need God's power because there is an adversary. There is some opposition to that message. You would think everybody would be excited to hear that Jesus Christ came and died for them and wants to save them, take them to heaven when they die. But as we see even in the book of Acts, there was great opposition because we wrestled not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of dark living. This is spiritual battle, spiritual warfare that we're involved in, and any time we endeavor to go and snatch from the clutches of Satan the soul of the men, there's going to be opposition. And we need the power of God to give us victory. You say, okay, Vactor, amen. How well, how do you get the power of God? There's a lot we could talk about there. This could be an entire message or something But we could summarize it as they did in the book of Acts, chapter 4, where they were talking about how they preached with great boldness Well, it says there now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled And they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. That they had been with Jesus. Well, the power of God spent some time with Jesus. They looked at these men and they they looked at them and they said, these guys are unlearned, these guys are ignorant men. Nothing too impressive about this I mean we could have Alex stand up and everybody would say. Not until present, right? The interns. We ought to give them a good love offering just because all the views they take, you know, these poor guys. We're a little nicer than the girls. Not a whole lot nicer, but a little nicer. to the girls. But you know what? You can have the power of God. You spent some time with Jesus. That's why we live high the cross of Christ and do all we can to exalt and lift up Jesus. We need power because Satan, that's our enemy. is how to stop the work of God. Satan will do all he can. If he can hold the message of the gospel in any way, he's going to try and do that. He'll put things in your path, he'll he'll cause you to forget tracks. You'll be on your way out, and you'll be like, oh I'm gonna grab those tracks before I leave, and you'll get in the car and you'll leave and you'll get to the gas station, you'll be like, okay, I'm gonna give a track. And I forgot in the home. Satan halt is a message. Oh, he halted the message. Hey, if he can hinder the members of a church in any way to keep them from giving the gospel, from being what God wants them to be, and from having power on their life, Satan's going to do it. And he can hurt the minister or cause damage to be done to the testimony of God's hand, he'll do it. That's Satan's objective, that's his goal. The focus of a church beloved is to preach the gospel to almost the dying world. The message of the gospel that is to be the focus. Every program, every ministry, everything a church does is to be focused on getting the message of the gospel out. I read about a church that was a powerhouse of gospel preaching in the early 1900s to the 1960s. The Broadway Presbyterian Church was known as a powerhouse of gospel witnessing in Upper Manhattan. They preached the message of the gospel. But in the 1960s, a subtle change began to take place. The focus was taken off the preaching of the gospel and was put on massive speeding programs for the homeless. Over the next few years, this thriving powerhouse of the gospel for Jesus Christ slipped from a membership of over a thousand to a hundred Twenty people attending the church. By the nineteen nineties, there were less than a hundred people attending the church. And it might They lost the focus of what a church is supposed to be In the soup kitchens that were established and funded by the church, prayers of gratitude to God were not even offered at the meals. Out of concern that the clients might resist. At a church, at a meal provided by God's people, they were afraid to say we're going to stop. And we're going to pray to thank God They lost what they were there for. It was discovered after years of having this ministry to the homeless. That they were continuing to feed year after year the exact same thing. No change was taking place in their lives. That's because the life-changing message of the gospel was discarded in favor of free food. But free food does not transform lives The power of the resurrection of Jesus Christ transforms us. And the church needs to maintain its focus on that issue A church can become consumed with good causes. It may be worthwhile endeavors. But at the center of it, there must be an objective, a goal, to preach the gospel. We have here at the church a ministry, it's called Hunt Rally Helpers. And Hung Valley Helpers goes out into the community and we we help people that have needs. We might clean up somebody's yard for them, an elderly couple, or we might uh, you know help cut up a tree that fell across somebody's driveway or we might help uh somebody get moved that needs some some help moving from an apartment to this apartment. We go out and we do things as a church But our goal, our focus for Hunt Valley helpers is not so that we can help an elderly lady across the street. That's a that's a great endeavor. The good thing to do is not so that we can help somebody get moved from one location to the other. The goal and the objective of hot valley helpers And so that while we're over there moving something from here to there, we can say, Have you heard about my Jesus? Have you heard the transforming power of Jesus Christ, what he can do for you? This and we're here and these young people are going to gladly move all this stuff because we want you to know there's somebody that loves you. And the reason we would bother to come all the way out here and do this work for you is because of what Jesus has done in our hearts. And what he's done is he given us a love and a compassion and a concern for the people of our community. And we want you to know Jesus. And listen, if you're involved in Hump Valley Helpers, if we go out and we move somebody's trash or clean up a tree or get them moved from one location to another and fail to give them the gospel, we have failed in the objective of that ministry. Right. The goal is to present the gospel. We use that ministry, that tool, that endeavor to be able to get into the hole that you know the old addicts, people don't care how much you know it's something you care. So we're out in the community and want to try and let people know we care. But the objective, the goal is not just to move somebody's trash. There's services for that The goal is so we can tell them about Jesus. And every ministry, every endeavor of our church should be have as its core, as its focus, as its objective, to preach the gospel. We're going to preach the gospel, beloved, and do it effectively, we need to have compassion. Jude 22 says and some having compassion. difference. You want to make a difference in somebody's life? Have compassion. I read a story of an evangelist who was on his way to a big meat. He was asked to preach at this big conference, was a little bit full of himself on the way. By the old testament. He said he had to stop for gas and I don't know if he was in New Jersey or if it was some years ago, but he stopped at a full service gas station. And uh this young man kind of loopy baggy clothes hanging all over his body and fluid tucked down over his eyes, came We're entering out, you know, really excited about pumping gas, right? This pattern's like, oh boy. This evangelism. The kid sticks the pump in there and starts building the gas up and they're it's taken forever to get the gas in the tank. And this evangelism is taking See that never post all the people's only things doing it like halfway. It can't take that long to fill up this tank. Why are these post-proofing so slow? He's getting kind of frustrated, you've got to get to this meeting, right? So this kid gets done pumping the gas and those things and things up. Tells him the total, and the evangelist pulls out his wallet and gives him a credit card. The uh boy walks inside. He was in there forever. What in the world how hard is it to run a car The kid comes back out again as slow as you can move as to his move. You know the ambition against today. This kid comes out and says this car didn't work. Oh, are you kidding me? The man just pulls out another card, gives it to him, the kid goes inside, and repeats the entire process and comes out and says, I don't know if it's your cards or if it's our machine or what, but this didn't work recently. The banter said, You guys still take cash, don't you? He gives the kid the cash and goes the kid goes inside. Is he minting that change in there? It's like, what in the world? Kid finally comes back and gives him this change. At this point, this evangelist is so frustrated It puts the thing in car drive and slams the pedal down and peels out on top of the little ding ding ding ding thing, you know And then takes off on his way to this important meeting. Sorry, we need to think so poorly of the interest. A pastor would never do that. Hey, we get in a pless sometimes too, right? He's driving on this way to this meeting and you know who can The Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit came, started poking that man, he's traveling his feet. He's like, oh yeah, you're you're a big old preacher. You're gonna go stand up and preach God's word? Did you get to him. You can't even witness to him now because it's such poor testimony you have. Boy, you're a loser. The Holy Spirit has beaten him up Finally he decides I gotta go back. He turns around and he goes all the way back to that gas station. After all the time he lost, now he's losing more time because he didn't have a good testimony. young man. And he said, young man, I need to apologize to you. I treated you so poorly. I didn't value what you're doing. I I did wrong, I'm sorry. The man looked up and with his hat up. He said, Mister, Okay. Everybody used to go. See beloved In this whole lonely world, there's a lot of people that can treat it that way by you Somebody that actually has compassion and takes time for people is the exception. Everybody feels it that way. We should have the compassion of Christ And love people where they are and give them the gospel message. Some having compassion for people Psalm 126, verse 6 says, In the go forth meetings, hours coming in. You want to see somebody say compassion. True compassion will cause you to do that which you wouldn't normally do It'll cause you to get out of your own shell and go beyond what you're normally comfortable doing. Because you're motivated by love. I read this week a story of a couple who endured a very tragic event. Their son went into the military. He was gone serving our country. They had heard periodic updates from him, different letters, different messages, different things, but then ultimately They stopped. For some time they didn't hear anything from their son, and they thought, oh no, the worst just happened. But a call hadn't come yet, and they were holding out all hope. Finally a call did come. It was their sons. Oh, the relief they had and the joy they had. Wow, we we thought maybe something had happened to you We thought you were you were dead. He says, no, no, I've got good news. My commission is done, and they're sending me home. And they were so excited and rejoicing about it. He didn't just go back and he says, Mom and Dad, I just I got a big favor to ask of you. I have a friend and He was wounded. Actually both both of his legs were blown off. And he he it's going to take a lot of care, it's going to take a lot of effort to help him kind of get back. to to normal and to to be able to live and exist in society. You know, I really care about this guy. Would you be willing to let me bring him home and could he live with us? Mom and Dad him hard around a little bit and talking back and forth and ultimately they said, son, we we can't do that. And after all, we're we're not young anymore. And don't saddle us with that kind of badges, son. We can't do that right now. And he said, okay. Okay, yeah. The next day, they received a call from the officer in the military. I said, sir, I am the regret to inform you that yesterday about this time. Your son committed suicide His body was going to be shipped home and arrived home with his son. He shipped his body home. He was transported to the funeral home with mom and dad went into the funeral home See her something for the last time. There they saw her something without lands. She decided one of her parents. So she don't like Compassion, love will cause you to do what you wouldn't want to do. And if we're going to care about this world that's lost and dying, if we're going to To do something beyond the ordinary that we're going to reach into our community and community in an impactful way is going to be motivated by a heart and passion. That is beyond the law. Do you have compassion for the lost today? Not only are we to be evangelized in the lost, but we're to be edifying The same. Ephesians chapter number four. If you'd like to turn there once you look at these texts, Ephesians chapter number four, we have And you want to actually build for a second for installations, patients. In a while since we were used to supply but we have that more often. You got Ephesians chapter number four, verse number 11 and 12. We see this edifying of saints put another way. It says here in Ephesians chapter 4, verse number 11. And he gave some prophets, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the Saints, the work of the ministry for the edifying of the body of Christ. So not only is the church supposed to be preaching the gospel to the sinner But we're supposed to be perfecting the saints. We're supposed to be perfecting the saints. That's the objective and the goal of the church It's a process of perfecting the thing that's supposed to happen in the scope of the church. Yes, beloved, God loves you. And yes, God will take you as you are. I like what one guy said. He loves you too much to leave you that way. God will take you as you are, but God wants to do something in your life. Do you realize the idea the very idea of perfecting the states has the implication It's that there's some things that aren't perfect. Right? There's some things that aren't perfect yet. Now listen, if you are perfect already then turns in three. Right. Because we're we're just a bunch of spinners here We love God and we're letting God work on us one week at a time. This process of perfecting the saints, letting God do things in our lives. Show us the imperfections. And he says here that he gave some apostles and some preachers and some teachers and some evangelists those men, those people that are involved in the ministry of presenting the word and preaching the word of God. For the perfection of the states, to tell you areas as in our lives that we're supposed to be improving That verse we had as a uh verse of the month couple years ago that we hit sport, we know more children cross to and fro, drink up there, women's doctor, but I was like and cunning crappiness whereby they lie to me to see the speaking the truth as well and your growth material of all things, even the head, which is Christ. That verse, there's several things that summarize what we're supposed to be doing. You know, there's supposed to be some truth presented. Speaking the truth in love And try it and speak it as well. So listen, I mean what would you think of a friend that didn't tell you if you had egg on your face? I mean that's a phrase gotta tell you, you know. This morning I'm not gonna tell you who it was. But there was somebody come walk into the foyer And uh your tie was tucked into the truck. You know, it's not really where that's supposed to be. It's not really what you want. Looks a little goofy. You want it out, right? So I just pulled him, I said, Hey, just see no. I stuck in. He was like, Oh, thanks. But you know I mean if you want to go there, you can keep it there. Most people know where that way. Just to let you know, that's what a friend does, and that's what the ministry of the, not just the pastor, but your brothers and sisters in Christ, we are to be edifying one another. Right. That means when they encourage one another and help one another, listen, don't get mad at somebody in church when they come to you out of a heart of love and say, listen, this is something I saw in your he in your life, this is something that I observed Don't look at them and say, who do you think you are? Oh, you're perfect, and so that's why you want to point at me? Listen, they know they're not perfect. If there's anything they know, they know they're not perfect. So they're just trying to help you out of a heart of love and encourage you in the right direction. And that's what we're supposed to be doing to the body. Helping one another, encouraging one another, edifying one another. You know that word edifying means to build up. Listen, we've got a real problem when the church stops building up and starts tearing down. We've got to be careful as a church, and it's something that you've got to fight against because your atmosphere of the devil is going to do all he can to get you. to look over at Bob and tear him down. They're going to try and get you to look at Pastor Derrick and tear him down. Because the work of the church, the job of the church is to be edifying, to be building up. And if Satan can get in and cause us to go the other way, well he'd won a victory. We don't want that at Unvalid Baptist Church. We want to be edifying one another, encouraging one another, helping one another. From the heart of love, speaking the truth in love. That verse says that you may grow up into him which is in Christ. That was just from growing up in these There's some growth, and I'm not going to re-preach it, but I would encourage you to listen to it, the message that I preached Thursday night on the Growing Christian. It'll be on sermon audio this week, I'm sure You can listen to that growing Christian. This should be the objective of our life as Christians to be growing, particularly growing. That's what we should be doing. There's some growing up that needs to take place. There's some truth that needs to be spoken. This is what the church is for, edifying one another, encouraging one another. This is what God wants for us. The focus of the church is evangelizing the lost and the edification of the Saved. And beloved, if you and I, if we make up the church That means you and I are to be involved in these two things. Right? All of us are to be involved in that. I do it, my books Hey, is your gun at least loaded? I mean do you do you at least have some tracks in your car? Do you at least have some some some You know, Samara the other week talking about giving away gospel correct things, the last last gospel correct was in my house. So it gave it up. We'll wrap that here. You can reload tonight. Get some gospel tracks. Get some down around. Take them to give to family and friends to those nearest. Opportunity for this up and give you a couple leaves. How you doing on your doing on your telephone? And we've been building up building up the church. This is something that the the Holy Spirit really spoke to my heart about. Building people up. Building people up. Encouraging them. Helping them to be all that God wants them to be. How are you doing on your head? You know, if you were if you were encouraging Bob and helping Bob and strengthening Bob, you wouldn't at the same time be up there now. So if we were actively endeavored in building up one another, that would that would retail a lot of emotions, right? This is some years ago. Dr. Barry Manner Breach, he's he's one of my favorite preachers to listen to. He's a very exciting guy. Pastor Washington I for a long time. He's an evangelist now and he travels and preached all over the country many years ago. He was preaching at his church here in Washington. I have a had an opportunity to be in his church many times. And uh he was telling a story about how he borrowed a casket from the local funeral home. And he brought it in and put it right down in front of him Sunday morning. Everybody came into church and everybody's wonderful like who passed away. How come there was no email? How come nobody told us? We don't even know who what why are we not dealing with something wrong? And nobody said anything about this casket, right? Serves song singing, all that. Then Dr. Brown gets up to preach and he says Morning than preached the universe of Mary and Avenue Baptist Church. That morning preached on the death of your church. Beloved when a church loses its hopes. It's compassion for a lost-in world and its His endeavor to edify one another in his already will soon be dead. So I don't want to have to preach the funeral the high value administrator. So let's keep our focus right. And this is not just corporately. As a pastor, I would try and keep the focus right corporately. But that means you need to keep that focus as part of your life because you are church.