Turn to the book of Philippians as we've been studying the book, walking verse by verse through the book of Philippians. We are going to look this evening at verses four through eight, the book of Philippians, verses four through eight. Chapter three, sorry. Chapter three. Did I say chapter three? You know, uh sometimes I say things and I can tell by the audience that I said something wrong, but trying to decide whether I should go back and try and fix it or not. Uh how many of you caught my my blubber uh uh on or my fumble on Sunday morning uh on Fred Phelps. Fred Phelps It was about halfway through Sunday afternoon, I'm like, Fred Phelps, who is that? And I asked my wife, she's like, Well, there was people like talking about it and Uh so I think hopefully you guys knew I was talking about. Uh not Fred he's the quack out and uh Fred Phelps, he's the guy that does the the stand against the gaze and you know criticizes military and all he's he's way off the deep end that guy. But uh he's not the swimmer that I was referring to. Um and so occasionally uh I do something like that and I'll see like this little like Something's happening. Should I stop and address it? But I didn't stop. I just kept right on going. So well. But this evening we're going to look at Philippians chapter three, verses four through eight. Oh, along with the read the text uh tonight. He says, though I might also have confidence in the flesh If any other man think that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel of the tribe of Benjamin, and Hebrew of Hebrews as touching the law of Pharisee concerning zeal, persecuting the church. Touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dumb, that I may win Christ. This section of verses here we could continue, we could go further and and include more and we could back up uh certainly to verse number three, but even to the beginning of the chapter and kind of include all of this into tonight's thought. But the title of tonight's message is The Gain of Confidence. The gain of confidence And uh you'll understand as we're going through this this evening that the idea here is not gaining a confidence in oneself, but gaining a confidence, an assurance in Jesus Christ. the gain of confidence that we can have as believers. And while I praise God for the confidence that we can have in Him. Confidence is something that This world strives for and likes to have. I read about a book. I did not read the book, but I read about a book entitled Cycle Cybernetics The author, Mr. Moss, shows how after much research that he did, that there is direct connection between what you personally think about yourself And how people perceive you. And how he was able to tie this direct connection is actually he did a vast amount of research on those people who needed plastic surgery. And I'm talking about needed plastic surgery because they were injured in a car wreck or they were uh injured in a fire or something like that. Not somebody that was just looking for a nip and tuck, okay, but somebody that needed uh plastic surgery. Well, these people are undergoing this plastic surgery uh because they needed something to be fixed That was greatly damaged in a fire or a car wreck or something like that. And he found that their process of healing was greatly aided by their own spirit. by whether they could perceive themselves to be well or not, if they could look and say, hey, this this marred man in front of me is not who I am. And if they could get past that, their process to healing was greatly, greatly aided. And so he, of course, tied this to the idea of the power of positive thinking. And we, of course, would lean away from that as a practice. We don't believe in the power of positive thinking, but there is a level of confidence that people should have. There's an assurance that comes from it. Much of today's advertising is centered around pampering this flesh. The You Deserve It Revolution is alive and well. It in fact is a multi-billion dollar industry. centered around making yourself look good to build and improve your own personal self-confidence. That's what it's about. That's what a vast majority of the marketing is centered around. Is your confidence uh from antiperspirant to automobiles It's all designed to give you more self-confidence. You drive this car and you'll be successful. You have this and you'll be guaranteed you won't stink. Amen, boys. Amen. I don't know if it worked for them, but uh i they at least have c the word of the marketer. Uh I did a quick search. Just typed in confidence and advertising. Article after article after article came up that quite literally this is the motivation behind much of the advertising done today. One article, the title of it is m marketers and why they want you to love you. Because they want they know that's the motivating factor, man. Uh you're gonna buy it if it's gonna help you, right? If you're gonna look better, if you're gonna feel better, if you're gonna somehow be able to improve your your condition One article was confidence, everybody wants more of it, and every brand wants to deliver it. It's it's confidence. This idea of confidence, well we as Christians can gain confidence through Jesus Christ. I want you to see the truth of the text here. First of all, that Paul reveals the possibility of confidence in verse number four there. Paul's possibility says, though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man think that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Paul talks about the fact that he could have confidence in his flesh. That if there's anybody that could have confidence in his flesh, Paul could have confidence in his flesh. Now Paul, of course, is the author of a large portion of our New Testament. Given to us, of course, by the inspiration of God. And I read about one commentator who talked about this idea that the fact that this was not just Paul talking. This was Holy Spirit directed things for us to read Basically saying that God the Father through the Holy Spirit believed that if there was anybody alive in that day that had wherewithal to have confidence in the flesh, it was Paul. You see, it wasn't just Paul bragging. It was the Holy Spirit directing him to say these things, and the Lord saying, Hey, if there's anybody that could do it, Paul could do it. Now this leads me just to encourage you that there is a measure here, a level of qualification. that uh we uh we ought to have if we're going to be communicating something. Um Paul was qualified to communicate or to talk about this topic. Paul had the credentials to be able to discuss this. There's a movement today that every opinion matters. And every voice should be heard. Well, that's not really true. Okay? I know that that's very popular And I'm talking about all the way down to uh little bitty kids that are being told this That they should express how they feel about the situation and all of the adults in the room should stop what they're doing and listen. I believe we're doing our children injustice because they need to be taught to be quiet. And to listen that way they might learn something and have the qualifications to be able to talk about it If you were to ask me tonight about the best way to stitch a hymn in a garment I would say with a needle. I don't know what kind of stitches there are or what kind of sewing patterns there are or what stitch is going to hold up the best. That's not something that I'm qualified to talk about. Now I might I could voice an opinion and I could go online and I could blog about it a and a bunch of wacko people would read it Even though I don't know anything about sewing. Okay? There ought to be a level of qualification that somebody has. You know, I I learned this in speech 101 If you're going to quote somebody, first of all, you need to establish their credentials. You need to say, okay, here is a professor of thermodynamics. at the University of and you're establishing their credentials. And they said that geothermal heating is the most economical way to go. That takes it away. It's not my opinion. I'm quoting a source that is very knowledgeable and giving their credentials. Paul had their credentials. He had the qualifications to be able to discuss this. When I was a kid, I remember this joke that I heard, two men were in a car, and the car wouldn't start. The one in the passenger seat said, did you check the air in the tires? Okay, obviously that person does not have the knowledge uh about a vehicle as to what causes it to go and what doesn't. He's not the one you want to ask about your your car's mechanical situation There is some necessary credentials that people should have, and we've got to be careful today that we are not part of promoting this philosophy or idea that every opinion matters regardless of who they are and what they know or don't know. Um there is somebody needs to earn Their credentials, earn their credentials to be able to speak knowledgeably about a fact. What I want to make clear tonight is although Paul might have had opportunity To have confidence in the flesh, he took that confidence and let it go. He put all of his own credentials on the side. We see the review of the possibility there, but then Paul recites his own performance beginning in verse number five. We see five and six there. circumcised the eighth day. There's a list that he gives here concerning his life, concerning his ability to be able to talk about these matters. This idea of being circumcised the eighth day, he dealt with this first because that was the issue at hand That was the question in the church. That was what was being brought forth to the people, that they needed to be circumcised in order to know Christ. And Paul says, hey, I was circumcised on the eighth day. I have the credentials. I performed and did the rituals that were required. But it didn't save me. No ritual or ceremony, no matter how pious it is presented, will take somebody to heaven It doesn't matter. The rituals. The rituals make a lot of people feel good today. We like the rituals. But they don't save us. We can't have confidence in that. He said, I could have had pride in the relationships that I have. He says, I'm of the stock of Israel. Paul could trace his roots back to Abraham. There were many during that time who could not because they'd been taken into captivity. Coming out of captivity, they didn't have the means or ability to maybe maybe their bloodline was polluted Maybe somebody from their family married into uh a foreign nation and they couldn't trace their bloodline back like that. But Paul said, I could trace my bloodline back. He's saying, I was born a Jew. You see, you remember me telling you that they would tell them that, listen, you need to become a Jew in order to know Christ. Okay, you want salvation, that's fine, but you need to be become a Jew. And and the way you do that is through circumcision. So he's the only here saying, I was born a Jew. And it didn't it didn't save me. I didn't have confidence in that. This pride that comes from a relationship is still alive and well today. I want you to know spirituality is not transmitted through birth. You know what's transmitted through birth? Sin. Sin is transmitted through birth, not spirituality. You can't say, oh well I'm a Christian because mom and dad were. Or I'm a Christian because I'm a member of so-and-so or this and that church. You don't get Christianity by osmosis. You don't get Christianity by having this heritage. This idea of pride in that relationship is still alive today, and let me just throw this out if you ever, and you probably never will and won't have cause to, so this is not necessarily needed. Maybe somebody online will hear this message and it'll help them because nobody from this church is ever going to go to a different church. But If you ever, you know, maybe you could help somebody else with this. If you're going to a church and you look at their doctrinal statement. And in their doctrinal, okay, independent, fundamental, Baptist, Bible-believing church, King James only. But in their doctrinal statement anywhere you find the term landmark or Baptist Bride, you need to run. Okay, this is a philosophy or idea the Baptist writers, also known as landmarkism. believe in successionism, that the church from Christ, they believe that their Baptist church, they can trace their lineage back to Christ Don't tell me how, don't ask me how. But they believe that if a fundamental independent Baptist church was not birthed out of a fundamental independent Baptist church, That was part of this movement, that they are alien, and that they will be observers at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. Not attenders at the Maris Sup of the Lamb. Okay, it's it's a belief in this exact thing that we're talking about here, this pride in relationship. That Paul was talking about. The idea that they can um trace their history back to John the Baptist or not. They believe that true Baptist churches are going to make up the kingdom of God, and therefore they constitute the bride of Christ, and all others are just going to just gonna be observing. We of course don't believe that. We don't agree with that. They do not accept baptism from any non-landmark Baptist church. They would view that baptism as alien. So if you went there from here and said, I want to join your church, they would say, Where were you baptized? They would say, Well, at uh uh you would say let's say you were baptized here if you were uh you know you were baptized here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and they would look it up and they would find out well Hunt Valley Baptist Church was not started or founded from a landmark Baptist church and so you you you are right now alien baptized, you would have to be re-baptized here to denounce your previous church. So it's that philosophy. You got to guard against it. Little things like that. In a good church, that many other things are right on the line, right down the line, you look at and you say, this is good, this is good. Watch out for those terms. Because it's a philosophy and belief that's not right. We're not Baptist brighters. We believe that there are the people going to heaven besides Baptist Now I think hopefully Baptists are teaching the book and we're trying to stay as close to this as we can and we want to want to be as as in line with the doctrinal teaching of the Word of God as we can. But you don't have to be a Baptist to be saved, amen. And that's what Paul is saying here. You don't have to be a Jew to be saved. You can know Jesus Christ and not be a Baptist. Now I think you should be a Baptist, but you don't have to be to know the Lord to be going to heaven So he he said I could have had pride in my relationship. He said I could have had pride in uh my respectability or uh my reputation. He says I was of the tribe of Benjamin This is a a measure of pride from the tribe of Benjamin, the the the one tribe where uh it's stuck with the tribe of Judah. You know, everybody else left. And the northern tribes, you of course know they went apostate first, but Benjamin stayed with Judah, the tribe where King Saul came from, where Paul was initially named after, named after King Saul himself. He could have had pride in that. He could have had pride in his race. He was a Hebrew of Hebrews. Again, the idea of pure blood, not a polluted line of blood. He could have pride in his religion. He says it's touching the law of Pharisee. Not just keeping the law, but the Pharisees went above the law. Listen, there's nothing wrong with going above the law. We shouldn't just Keep the letter of the law, amen. And if we're if we're just keeping the letter of the law, if we slip we fall off the cliff, right? So there's nothing wrong with with going above the law, but you also can't preach this over here above the law as the law. Nothing wrong with saying, hey, let's let's do this now. You guys know um I don't wear shorts very often. Nothing wrong with wearing shorts. Do you think I mean I'm human? You know how much how many times I would rather be in a pair of shorts and a t-shirt? I mean sometimes it is the last couple days have been so hot I would much rather be in a pair of shorts and a t-shirt. Nothing wrong with wearing shorts and a t-shirt. Um but for me as pastor, I I kind of set that rule for myself, just I want to look very presentable. all the time. I want to look very respectable all the time. We we went to a church out in uh somewhere on the Baptist history tour. So here we are a visiting church, coming to see this church, and uh you know, fifteen people, seventeen, I don't remember how many it was, we're coming to see this, and this this church has certain things in it that are part of Baptist history. And uh the pastor showed up to give us a tour uh in shorts and flip-flops. Nothing wrong with that. Hey, it was a hot day. But for me personally, I I want I mean, I don't have to be in a shirt and tie all the time. Praise God, I don't have that conviction. Hallelujah. Uh Brother Wayne used to tell me how his pastor was always in a shirt and tie. I'm like better man than me, amen. But so that's not that's not a biblical rule, it's not a biblical standard. There's some things we might do in our life to try and draw some And you shouldn't take pride in it either. And you shouldn't look down on somebody else that that wants to be in shorts and a t-shirt. Wants to be comfortable. Okay? You know, that that's that's they're smart. Uh they're they're gonna not gonna get heath stroke. Uh meanwhile you and your stubborn self uh butt You know, just the idea the idea that you can't take pride in it, you can't look down on somebody else because they don't measure up to what you want to hold as a standard yourself. He said uh he could have pride in that, his religion. Not just keeping the law but above the law. You know it's a tragedy when we think about the idea of religion that it's going to doom to hell. A vast majority of very sincere and very zealous people There's a very large segment of our population of the world that are sincere in their pursuit of their religion. Paul is clear here that religion is not where we can have confidence. It's heartbreaking when you think about how many pastors, priests, nuns, rabbis Right. Religious leaders that have given their life to the pursuit of good things. Are gonna split hell wide open. Because religion doesn't save. He had zeal, as many do. He went after it. Like nobody else, persecuting the church. Man, Paul, he had a reputation. He had a fervent zeal, and he was gonna do it. Job needs done, give it to Paul. The question I have for you tonight is the level of your spirituality measured by your hatred? Of liberals, cults, society as a whole You see, Paul said, this is not what measures my per my spirituality, it's not my zeal that I had, right? But by Christ. Paul even talks about his self-righteousness, touching righteousness, which is the law of blameless. I mean, how many of us could say we're blameless? I'm blameless. Paul, in the direction of the Holy Spirit of God, said he was blameless. I can't say I'm blameless. When all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. Is your righteousness tonight righteousness found in Christ or Is your righteousness found in something that you are doing? really dug into this thought here, I battled with it because we are a doing church. We are a you know accomplishment-driven people. And so many times we measure our spirituality by what we're doing for Christ. Or maybe what we're not doing for Christ. And we want to measure our spirituality by that. But it's a real conundrum that I tried to battle in my mind because you have on the other side, he says, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. So if you truly love God, you're going to be doing some things and not doing some things. I guess it's a balance that we need in our Christian life with regards to this. What is the focus? Is your heart actually full of wickedness? But you're spiritual because you come to church four times a week? Oh, but I'm spiritual because I'm doing everything I'm supposed to. Well, we know our hearts far from God. You would look down on somebody that just comes to church on Sunday morning. Say, man, if they ever got serious for God, they would be here. But you don't know that their heart is far closer to God than yours. Because it's not about what we're doing. The measure of our spirituality, now I believe that you're gonna see an exercise of faith in somebody's life and you're going to begin to see growth and these things are gonna start to happen. But what happens to us in churches like ours is we get so focused on the doing that we stopped loving a long time ago. We're real good at doing what people can see. What somebody else is gonna notice. Well, I have to be at church because if I'm not, so and so is going to notice I wasn't there. Meanwhile, you haven't picked up your Bible or talked to God in weeks. Where is your confidence in Christ? Where is the confidence that you have in your level of spirituality? Is it what you're doing? Paul in verse number 7 and 8 he reveals to us his purpose. He says, But what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. And doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things and do count them but dung that I may win Christ. I want you to see his past decision here. He said, but what things were gained to me, those I counted. He had made up his mind. He had decided. I counted those things as lost. Paul had already determined what was going to be important to him. When Paul came to Jesus Christ on that road to Damascus, he he he made two qu asked two questions of Christ there. Both of them signifying Paul's ultimate heart heart. He says, Who art thou? The Lord. He recognized him as Lord. was making him Lord of his life, dealing there with the topic of salvation, where Paul acknowledges God. And then Paul says to him, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? He said, what am I supposed to do? There is the level of surrender that Paul had. He made up his mind. Paul could have gained the whole world with all his credentials. But we know what shall the profit of man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul. You know all of false religion could have sent him to hell. We see his past decision. Have you made up your mind about what's going to be important to you? And we see his present determination in verse number 8. He says, yea, doubtless, I count. I count. That is a continual evaluation of his current condition. What is he doing for Christ? I count these things to be gained for me. Upon coming to the knowledge of Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior, he evaluated his life's goals. He considered what it was he was living for and what was the most important thing And he determined, beloved, that it was to win Christ. You know what's amazing is there is no other religion on earth. That even has this possibility. You see, no one is trying to know to know Buddha. They might study his teachings, but he's dead. No one is trying to know him personally. But as Christians, because we serve a risen Savior, we can know Him. We can know Him No one has yet given up anything for Christ when they have a proper perspective. If I said to you tonight, Ben, if I said to you, hey, would you give up a dollar for a pair of brand new Air Jordans? Would you give up a dollar for brand new Air Jordans? Would you feel like you gave up a dollar for this? No, no. No, see the perspective is what is what matters. That's what Paul said. He said, I count it all as dumb. All those things that I could list and say I gave up, but when our perspective is right for Christ. You see, God has never yet taken away something that He didn't give us something greater. If I said, Would you give me your shoes tonight for my suburban? I would have shoes flying at me from the crowd. Sure, mine got there first. Um because it's not you're not giving up anything. You're like, no, there's no comparison. Yeah, yeah, have these old shoes, man. I had these for years. I I'll uh for sure I'll take that. But that's the way we look at our relationship with Jesus Christ. is no Christian has yet given up anything for Christ when they have a proper perspective and when we let go of something or some area of confidence or some wherewithal in this life That we want to hold on to and we think, oh, I've got to give that up for God. God has yet to be a debtor to a man. And he always will return a hundredfold from what you gave up. I ask you, as a Christian, what do we give up for God? The things that we give up. You know you know what they are? They're things that according to First Corinthians chapter three that are gonna burn up anyway. When our works were tried by fire, they're just gonna burn up anyway. They're not really worth much. Jim Elliott said, a man is no fool to give up that which he cannot keep, to gain that which he cannot lose. Yeah, that's the gain of our confidence in Christ. Do you know him tonight? You know it's one thing to know about a person. I've had people ask me, you know, do you know Pastor So and so? And I have to say I know of him, like I've heard his name, I've listened to him on term audio once or twice, uh, but I don't know him personally. You know, uh I know a little bit about Elon Musk, but I don't know him personally. Wish I did. Uh Might get a testimony, amen. But I don't know him personally. You see there's a difference between knowing about Christ And knowing him personally. Do you know him tonight? Do you want to win as a Christian? He says here to win Christ. That term win, that's a victorious term for us. That's a term of success. To win Christ. Do you want to win as a Christian? Do you know him? It was back in December of 2020 that I preached a message entitled Paul's Plan to Win. And I gave you Paul's plan to win in this book. It's fourfold. There are four places that we see the term that I may. And Paul says that I may win Christ. That I may know him, that I may apprehend, and that I may rejoice. So it's been about a half a year since we gave that thought. How are you doing in 2021 as a Christian? Do you know Christ better right now than you did in January? Are you experiencing more victory right now? than you were in January