You know, it's a time that people need to start searching their heart and get real serious with God, am I saved? Not are you a member of this church? Are you saved? And if you're not saved, listen, if you're saved, you're going to heaven when you die. If you stand before God and say, Well, I was a member of the church, uh, you you're going to hell You must be born again. Now, if you would turn to Psalm chapter 42, and I'm going to preach very briefly here. Well no, actually I've got plenty of time. I'm supposed to be done by quarter to twelve, and I've got twenty minutes after seven right now. So so we've got plenty of time. Was that Alaska time or Maryland time? Uh but anyway, uh I enjoyed the Sunday school lesson this morning that the pastor taught on the fruit of the Spirit. And uh that is such a wonderful, wonderful uh uh teaching, but this morning he was finishing up with temperance. You know that's that's that's when you've got control when people cut you off in your car. That's that's when somebody runs you off the road and you've got full control of the throttle and you can get to them and run them back off the other side. No, that's not temperance. That's not temperance. Uh but it's something that we all need. That that Sunday school lesson was very needful for all of us. But anyway, I wanna I want to preach just for a few moments from Psalm chapter 42. Lord, I ask you to bless in a special way now, in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm forty-two, I found I found something in here that I had never I never read. I know I read it. Betty and I read Psalms all the time, but I don't remember reading this phrase in this verse. And I've never heard a sermon on it. And uh I I I shared this in different a couple of different places and uh I preached one time well I think I preached at our church birthday and revival meeting and uh And the pastor from Florida that was was preaching also, he said, Brother Roach, I never saw that. His wife, his wife sent me a thing and said, I never saw that, Brother Roach. And uh and and it was just so it was just it it you you ever read your Bible and a verse just kind of jumped out and latched on to you? And w why didn't I see that before? But the psalmist in in Psalm 42 it says uh as the heart panteth after the water brooks in verse Uh number one, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? The psalmist, then he says in verse 3, My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say to me, Where is thy God? Now he's He's sliding into a a bit of uh discouragement here, a bit of defeat, depression. Verse number four, when I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me, for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them. to the house of God with the voice of joy and praise with the multitude that kept holy days. Then he said in verse five, Why art thou cast down on my soul, and why art thou disquieted with In me hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. He's getting down, he's getting defeated, he's getting discouraged. Verse number six, Oh my God, my soul is cast down within me. You ever been there? Maybe this morning. I'm talking to somebody here this morning. Your soul is cast down within you. You feel just like the psalmist here. In the latter part of verse 7, he said, All thy ways Thy villas are gone over me. I mean he's drowning in his misery here. Verse number nine: I will say unto God, my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? Can you imagine saying to God, why have you forgotten me? And again, maybe there's someone here this morning, you feel like you have totally been forgotten by God. Nothing is working. Everybody seemingly going the opposite direction that you're going. No there's no one to help. There's you're you're discouraged, you're defeated. Uh but this is where the psalmist was. He said again in verse Number 11, why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God. Listen, the key to this discouragement, this the key to depression. Is found here in verse number eight. Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime, and in the night his song shall be with in His song shall be with me. And my prayer unto, here's that phrase, the God of my life. I never noticed that before. The God of my life. You know, I know the Bible talks about the God, God of my salvation. Uh it talks about uh The God of Shem, the God of heaven, the God of earth, the God of Abraham, God of my fathers, God of Bethel, God of Jacob, God of Isaac, God of Hebrews, God of Israel, God of judgment, God of the living, God, God of the Jews, God of God of of the of the the hope and peace, uh our Lord Jesus Christ, God of things not yet seen as yet, God of the Holy Prophet. That phrase God of is in the Bible 2,739 times. 2,739 times. God of my life, one time. One time I have read Psalms, I don't know how many times. I mean, I love the book of Psalms. I read the book of Psalms all the time, but I never saw that phrase, God of my life. You're depressed this morning? You're trying to get out of this depression. Make him God of your life. He wants to be God of your life I mean body, soul, and spirit. He wants to be God of your life. The preacher this morning talked about uh Philippians four, eight, finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things Are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things. God wants to, if he's God of your life, he's God of your thinking. He's God of every part of you. If he's if he you know we've got if we don't think right, nothing else is going to work right. You can't be spiritual thinking wrong. You can't do it. You've got to think right. You've got to think on things that are right. You say, Brother Russ, don't you ever think on anything that's wrong? All the time. I can't tell you how many times I in a day's time I say, Lord, forgive me. Lord help me, help me. Why am I thinking of this? Why am I thinking this way? It's because I've got this old Stan Roach hanging on to me all the time. I didn't get saved till I was twenty-seven years old I was planning to become a mercenary or hitman for the mob when I came back. I went to jail first time when I was thirteen. I mean I started I started smoking cigarettes when I was seven years old and I started drinking beer when I was about about twelve, about thirteen I I mean I mean m my life was a my life was a mess. Was a total wreck. Uh I didn't grow up in a Christian home. I didn't have a church. I never knew a preacher like that. I never set foot in a Baptist church till I was twenty-six years old. I went to Bible college. I I felt the call to God to be a preacher. I went to Bible college. I didn't know I didn't know anything about the Bible. I mean I had the intelligence of your average rock on the water fountain out here. I mean I knew nothing. Absolutely nothing. And uh but you know, you know, today uh I am I I preach the church birthday and I use an illustration. Uh you know, I didn't get to where I am today by myself. Uh I I preached on the tortoise in the church. Well for our our thirtieth birthday. And uh a turtle sitting on top of a fence post, he didn't get there by himself. Independent Baptist Church in Anchorage. We're just like a turtle sitting on top of a fence post. We didn't get here by ourselves. Someone put us here. A turtle wants to get up on top of the fence, but somebody's got to pick him up and set him there. Well, I got to where where I am today, and I know a whole lot more today than I did back then. Now I'm still not still not very bright, but I I'm a whole lot brighter than what I was back then. Uh listen, it's uh You don't get to where you you don't grow spiritually by yourself. We've got to give our life to the Lord. Make him God of your life. I gave God all everything I had. You know, God of my thinking, there was not an invitation given, I don't think the first ten years that I was saved, uh, that I wasn't on the altar. I mean, I mean, my my my life was the for 26 years, the devil pumped me full of of his lies, of his of sin. And and listen, you you don't just you don't just all that's gone all of a sudden. You know a lot of people I know I know my son every once in a while he'll say, you know, Dad, you just need to forget that stuff. Um and I try to forget things from the past But, you know, there was an old man I met at the at the the post office there in Palmer, and uh he fought in World War II. Like he was on on uh Iwo Jima and some of those different places. And uh but he said, Preacher, every morning I wake up now he was almost ninety years old, maybe was ninety back then. And uh he said, Preacher, every morning I wake up, he said, I can hear them boys screaming. I can hear them crying, crying for their moms. He said, I can smell that beach every every morning I wake up. He said, I can see body parts floating in the water. The water's just running with blood. And uh and those guys are just being mowed down like you mow the grass. And uh and young men drowning Stepping off and loaded down and and step into a deep hole and drown. Uh he said, I can hear it every every morning I wake up and listen, you don't go through something like that, and then some some Uh kid come along, you know, fifty years old and say, Why don't you just forget that? Get over it. Get in life. Um it's not that easy Now God forgave me of a whole lot of stuff in my life. I mean a whole bunch of stuff. But the devil keeps trying to throw it up to me. And I've got to rebuke him all the time and I've got to I've listened, I've got to make myself think on take on things that are right. I hear politicians doing things and I think he ought to be Saved. Yes. He ought to be shot saved. In my heart I think he ought to be shot. But listen, I've got to make myself think right. And for that to happen, Jesus has got to be God of my thinking. He's got to be God of every part of Stan Roach. He's got A good friend that I grew up with got me in a lot of trouble with Chuck Satterfield. Uh the last time we we came down from Alaska, they found Chuck in his home dead. Uh he died. Now he made a profession of faith, but he could never get a hold of this thing of making God the God of your life. He couldn't get a hold of that. And uh and he asked me, he said, how do you live a day without sinning? I said, Chuck, I don't. I said, I sin every day of my life. He said, Well how can you be saved and going to heaven? Now he grew up Methodist and you know you'd be saved today and lost tomorrow and saved a day and lost tomorrow and saved a day and lost tomorrow and and I mean just no, you get saved one time. You accept Christ in your heart and life, he gives you eternal life. But daily you've got to fight this old nature. And uh Chuck Good couldn't get a hold of that. You know, he lived his life. He I think he was my age and uh he died And they cremated him and threw his ashes away. And that was the end of it. There was no obituary in the paper. There was no funeral service. It was just he died. They burned his body and threw it out The supreme folly in life is to live, to leave God out of your life. Make him God of your life. Make him God of your being. Make him God of everything you own. Make him God of your wife, God of your children, God of your grandchildren, God of your great-grandchildren. I mean, he's the God of our house. It belongs to him Everything about us has he's got to become the God of our life. Now I believe this is missing in a lot of Christians' lives. You know, we make him God of our salvation, we know that. He's God of our righteousness, we know that. I mean, he's, you know God sees me. He doesn't see my righteousness. He sees the righteousness of Christ. We understand those things. But I had never seen this God of my life. Um it's just a little bitty truth, but with such huge meaning. You make him God of your life today, your life will change. Your life will change. Now when you got saved, there was a change. But when you make him God of your life You're going to see even more of a change. Because it's not just it January twenty-fourth, nineteen seventy-six, I got saved. I became a new creature, okay? The devil was saying mercenary and God was saying missionary. And, you know, I don't want to hurt people. I don't want to kill people. I want to help people. And uh But when he becomes God of my life, listen, that that even ups the blessing of God Because you realize I'm living I'm living my life without him being in control of everything. Now listen, if he's not God of your salvation, you need to look at that Mustang, you need to think about you need to read these gospel tracts. This one here that has the mock one on the bottom, uh the Mach 1 The uh it says the speed of sound as Mach 1 is defined is 742 mile an hour at 32 degrees Fahrenheit, sea level, or 761 mile an hour at 59 degrees. Uh the first man to fly faster and the speed of sound was Chuck Yeager on October 14, 1947. The the mock one on this cover is a 2004 uh painted by Perry and Ken. Ministry Independent Baptist Church. This car has been 165 mile an hour, nowhere near the speed of sound. But it talks in here about when Christ comes, he's going to come much faster than the speed of sound. Much faster. You say, well if the rapture happens before the last one left, I'll get saved. No, you won't. Because When when er i if the rapture happens and those that are saved, they're going to disappear faster than that, much faster than that. I can't begin to clap my hands as fast. Just look think about the sound. Faster than that sound got to your ear, they're going to be gone. You don't have time. You want to be saved? You need to get saved now. You're not going to have time. And when the rapture happens, listen, I I don't know how many big families you got here, maybe there's brothers and sisters sitting around together, husband and wife. One of the saddest things when the rapture happens is going to be the fact that people are going to be left behind. Family sitting there. Family, you know, we have one family in our our church, I think, has ten or twelve kids And uh imagine them all just sitting there together, rapture happens and they all disappear except one. Husband and wife sitting together, wife disappears, husband left. Husband disappears and wife left. It's going to happen. It's going to happen. Now you read on the back of that Mustang and it says, the Lord is not willing that any should perish. It is not God's will that you perish and go to hell and have to face the four horsemen. But on the back, and it says that the Lord is my light, my salvation. There's the cross, there's an empty tomb. God is not willing that any should perish. You go around to the front, the grace, there's light shooting up out of the graze The rapture happened. And it says on the saddle on those races right, the dead in Christ shall rise first. But listen, those that are left behind, then you look at the doors. Those left behind will face the four horsemen of Revelation. And that's only the beginning. That's only the beginning. You read through the book of Revelation and you get over there, you find horses with tails that are full of serpents. With a face like a man, with hair like a woman, teeth like a lion. There's others that they have the tails of scorpions, and all they do is just torment. There's people killing and eating each other. I mean there it is so barbaric during that time. You don't want to be there And my job is to try to reach as many people as I can and your job that are saved. Listen, your job is to do the same thing. There's a lot of people around here that haven't heard the gospel yet. And it's our job to give it to them. Listen, load your pockets with gospel tracts. Carry them with you everywhere you go, because you're going to meet people everywhere you go. Become a soul winner and get involved in the work of God. And listen, this morning, make Jesus Christ God of your life. Mercy