Very, very good. We're ready to get into the Word of God. Would you look down in uh 1 John chapter 2? That's where we are, 1 John chapter 2. We're looking at verses 7 through 11. Follow along with me as we read those The Bible says, brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye have had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning. Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him And in you, because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. He that saith, He is in the light, and hateth his brother, is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness. And knoweth not whither he goeth, because the darkness hath blinded his eyes. I gave you a quote from Warren Wearsby which says the first John is built around the repetition of three main themes light versus darkness Love versus hatred and truth versus error. These three main themes are carried throughout this book. Whereas be says they are intertwined, they're woven in and out of the pages. of this book, even though it's just a short one, that idea and theme continues to come up. And you'll see it over and over again as we go through this study. And I just want you to know I know we've discussed light and darkness. I know we've talked about truth and error. I know that we've talked about love and hatred But again, they're introduced in our text here, and God, in his uh divine wisdom, purposed that we should hear this in this way and in this context, and so we want to take it in that context. and see what God would have us to learn from it. This contrast of good and evil. Often, beloved, the choice is ours To walk in the light or to live in darkness is not just a state in which we have to endure, but it's a place in life that we've decided to enter It's something we've made a choice to do one way or the other. And sadly, many people make the wrong choice and are going through life in darkness and This evening, we're going to get into the Word of God and look at this passage or this group of verses here that I'm entitling The Shared Life We had the privilege of looking at the beginning, verses one, chapter one, one through four, and discuss the joyful life that is God's plan that Christians have, a life that is full of joy, that your joy may be full. And then we discussed the honest life in uh Chapter 1, verses 5 through 10, that God expects us if we're going to be honest with him, we've got to be honest with ourselves. Sometimes people deceive themselves. They don't even know the truth and don't even realize it because our heart is desperately wicked. Who can know it? And we talked about living honestly before God. Then we talked about the satisfied life in chapter 2, verses 1 and 2 And last week we looked at the consistent life, verses 3 through 6, and now we're getting into the shared life here this evening, verses 2 through 7. Beloved, life is so much better when it's shared. It's so much better when it's shared with somebody. I was just this week uh talking to somebody. that called into the church and was needing some prayer and needing some help and just through the course of conversation found that they were in a state of extreme depression that they uh were not in any danger of killing themselves, but they said literally, I I have lost all desire to live. I I don't want to be here I I don't see what the purpose or the reason is. And as the conversation continued further, I found out that life circumstances have left him alone. So he's living by himself. And then I I went a little bit further and I found out that Medical, uh physical circumstances have left him uh with decreased mobility and he doesn't have the means or capacity to get out very much. He's pretty much wheelchair bound and So without any aid or without any help, he's pretty much stuck in the house all by himself. And I said, Well, by and large, this is a big part of your problem. Because the fact of the matter is, is God made us to be social people God made us to interact, and especially if you're a Christian, you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, then you are by design supposed to be spending time with God's people You're supposed to have that brother and sister in Christ that can encourage you, that can you can fellowship with. And I said, where did you or where do you go to church? He said, Well, I don't really. I said, Well, you need to be in a church. I said, I know it's inconvenient. I know it's hard to do it. I know you've got to call mobility. I know getting out of the house is quite an arduous task, but you know what where you're at right now is not helping you That's why you called here. So what you need to do is you need to get to church. You need to get around God's people because God designed us to be a social people. And I want you to see in our text here this evening that a shared life is God's plan I want you to see first of all tonight that the command defined, the command defined. He says there, brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye have had from the beginning. Then in verse number eight he says, Again, a new commandment I write unto you. And I looked at that and I thought, wow, now that is the you know they say there's no contradictions in the Bible. And I said, there's no there's not. There's no contradiction in the Bible. If you believe there's a contradiction, I want you to know that there's an understanding problem. There's not a contradiction. But there's no contradictions in the scripture. God's the author of the scripture, and he wouldn't contradict himself. Amen? So I began to study and look into this, and we're going to dig into that thought a little bit, but I want you to see this commandment that he writes unto them is not a new commandment. It's a commandment that they've had. And this commandment is a commandment to walk in love. Now we just finished and looked at the consistent life. That was last area of study. In that last area of study, one way to know that you're saved, one way to know that you have, that you're dwelling in the Lord Jesus Christ is dwelling in you, is that you have a consistent Christian life He says in verse number 3, 4, and 5, and 6, he says, and hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word in him, verily is the love of God perfected. So that love, that love that comes from God and is to be displayed through our life, is perfected in our hearts when we're keeping his commandments. And he says, hereby know we that we are in him. He that saith he abideth in him ought also to walk as even as he walked. So he says, beloved, if you're a child of God, if you profess to be a Christian, the love of God is supposed to be in your heart You ought to walk as he walked. You ought to be obeying his commandments. And then immediately he gives you a commandment to obey. So he says, hey, you said you're a Christian. You said you love God. You said that you profess the name of Jesus Christ. And I said clearly that if you do that, then you're going to obey his commandments. Now here's a commandment for you. Not a new commandment, a commandment that we've had. And he says, but are you going to follow it? The commandment, beloved, is that we should love one another. And who better to speak about love than John, that beloved apostle, who has a gift to at the same time admonish but encourage. He has a a way about him to uh you know there's there's more than one way to skin a cat, right? There there's more than one way, you know, some people say, Well, I just told them the truth. Well, there's more than one way to say the truth And maybe somebody needs to be encouraged in a particular direction, but uh you can do it in such a way that it's not hateful. And that's something that we'll see often in John's writing is John is able to exhort, maybe admonish. But at the same time encouraged to love. He is at the same time being an example of this truth, even as he exhorts believers to walk in this truth Do you know it's a lot easier to take instruction from someone that's living it? You know, when somebody's living it, when somebody's doing it, it's a lot easier to hear what they have to say. You know, it it's it's one thing, uh, the old that's the pot calling the kettle black. You know, you y you got somebody that you know is not doing it and then they're gonna come and tell you that you're supposed to do it You know, we got some college guys here uh one night late Somebody worked at Little Caesars and they came back to the dorm with a bunch of leftovers Little Caesar pizza when I was in college. And it was about midnight or a little after or something like that. There's supposed to be lights out at eleven o'clock. No pizza parties at midnight. That is not allowed. But the smell of pizza was carried down the hallway and it went into one particular room and then everybody started hear smelling it. And they're like, oh, I wonder where that is. And so guys started getting out of bed and coming over to this room. Before we knew it, we had this room was full of guys. And we're all eating pizza and talking, you know, after lights out, having a good time And then one guy comes in and he eats pizza with us, he jokes with us, has a good time, and then in the morning He went to the Dean Amn and turned in every one of our names for having a pizza party after lights out. If you ever felt like shooting somebody I mean I could we just none of us could bel I mean it's one thing if you would have come and just said, Hey you guys know you're not supposed to be doing this and would have left But he came in and participated, was a part of our sin, and it was wrong. We weren't supposed to be doing it. We deserve the demerits. That's not the problem. The problem is is the hypocritical way in which this guy handled it. And you know it's not, it's this one thing you can't, it's hard to take instruction from somebody that's not living it. Well John lives it and he's telling us, listen, this is how you're supposed to, we, you know, as leaders, we need to learn how to speak the truth in love And John did it. Now he says this is not a new commandment. Beloved, it's not new because it was in the Word. It was in the Old Testament. You might, in the margin of your Bible, if you want to mark something there, you might put Leviticus 19, 18. Leviticus 1918, he says, Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against thy children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord. So there is that commandment which we are familiar with from New Testament passages, but it was in the Old Testament. And he's saying, this is not a new commandment. This was in the word. This is something that you've had. It's not new, beloved, because it's very possible it's something that they had heard before. Because you go back to John, the book of John, you don't have to turn there, but in John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35, he says, a new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another. As I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall men know that you're my disciples, if ye have love one for another. So he says, this is not a new commandment. It's a commandment that was in the Word. It's not new. You've heard this before. Just like We knew we weren't supposed to have a pizza party at twelve o'clock. It's not a new rule, not anything that somebody just made up. It's we all knew the rules and we broke them. And we deserved the demerits that we got. But you see it is new. I looked at this and pondered, so how can this be? Beloved, it's possible for anything. that has been around for a very long time to receive a completely new level of importance in our lives. The first ex the first example of this that came to me was uh recently, I think it was with Brother Taylor, we were talking about uh outfits and dress and your your suits and so on, and all of these young people think they have these brand new fads. These brand new styles. And these older people in here can tell you, no, that style was here in the 50s That style's been around. That that it's our this is like the third time I've seen that style, you know. Some of the ones have been around a little longer. Uh th they're like, yeah, no, that's come and gone and it's come back again, but all of a sudden it's received a new level uh so What I'm saying is that sometimes there's things that are uh present in our lives for a very long time, but because of circumstances they receive a new priority in our lives So I think that's what he's saying. He says, it's not a new commandment, but beloved, it ought to be new in the priority of our life. He said it's something that should be present, but it ought to be a priority. It's new, beloved, because it's new in its presentation. Jesus Christ came and presented it himself. He lived it before men. That Christ was the embodiment of love. God so loved the world, and God sent his only son, and Jesus Christ came and died because he loved. So it's new in its presentation. It was new, beloved, in its prospects. You see, that Old Testament law was written to who? Who is the law given to? The Jews. But in the New Testament, when Jesus Christ came Especially through the ministry of the Apostle Paul. There's a whole new group of prospects. There's a whole new group of people that are now given this lesson, this this word of love, it also goes to the Greek and to the Gentile. It goes to all men. So it's new in that regard. It's new. It's old because it's been here a long time, but it's new because now it is applicable and it is available to us. Beloved, it's new in its power. Not that it didn't have power before, but when it's revitalized in our lives and we live through the love of God, we experience His power. The love of God is not just a command. There is no one, beloved, that's outside the reach of the love of God. And that love of God, beloved, is the power for you and I to live as Christ. It has power to dispel darkness. He says in verse 8, he says, a new commandment I write unto you. Which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. So the darkness is past. This new light shines. He says, hey, if it's true in him, it's going to be true in you. Because if you have him living in you, then what is evident or true, what's supposed to be, uh What was in Jesus Christ's life is supposed to be in our life. And he says, hey, if you're a professing Christian, if you say you have Jesus, then what's true of him is going to be true of you. And he says it's going to dispel darkness. Darkness is past. You and I can love like Christ loved. If it's true in him, it's going to be true in you. This is a self-sacrificing love. A love that's very rare today. Darkness is fast because true light shineth. It's his light that's shining in and through you. Beloved, just as a great composer may take a largely forgotten piece of music and play it with such passion that the world hears it as though it was for the first time. Reviving a piece of music that's been around for a long, long time and people stand in awe of it, but it's not new. It's old, it's been around a long time. But it's new to many because they've now just hearing it. I couldn't help but think about That poem concerning the master's hands, which was battered and scarred at the auctioneer Thought it scarcely worth his while to waste much time on an old violin, but he held it up with a smile What am I? Bidden, good folks, he cried. Who will start the bidding for me a dollar, a dollar, a two dollar, or two? Only two? Two dollars, and who will make it three? Three dollars once, three dollars twice, going for three but no from the room far back a grey haired man came forward and picked up the bow, then wiping the dust from the old violin and tightening the loose strings He played a melody, pure and sweet, as a Caroline angel would sing. The music ceased, and the auctioneer, with a voice that is quite low, Said, What am I bidding for this old violin? And he held it up with the bow. A thousand dollars, who will make it two, two thousand dollars, and who will make it three? Three thousand once, three thousand twice, and going and it is gone, said he. The people cheered, but some cried. We do not quite understand what changed its worth. Swiftly came the reply, the touch of the master's hand. And you see, beloved, an old thing can be made new when it's put in the Master's hand. And that's what we have as we look at this commandment to love one another This is what happened with this old command. It was made new. Isn't that what Christ said he would do for you and I? Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are made new. I hope you don't just let this thought pass over your head and Because we're told to love one another. We're talking about the shared life. We're sharing it with our brothers and sisters in Christ. We're sharing it, and we need to be able to love one another with Christ-like love. A love that is unconditional. God loved us, and that while we were yet sinners, he died for us. We didn't earn that love. We didn't go get that love because we were such a giving person or because we were such a good person before Christ died. No. He loved us regardless. And in today's world, love is given because love's received. We love them because they love us. We like what they do for us and so we'll do for them, but boy, bless God, if they stop doing for me, I I'm not doing anything for them. I just went to Indiana and did a bunch of work for one of my friends. And Caleb had to do a bunch of work for one of my friends. Caleb worked a lot of hours. And uh this morning when we were getting ready to go, well it was last night when we were packing up, but it was this it was morning time. But uh Uh he he handed me a hundred dollars and he's like, I don't want to argue. This is for Caleb. He's done a lot of work and I think it would be good for him. He said, but you aren't worth anything, so I'm not giving you anything. I mean I just worked for three days for you half the night through and got all this stuff done. And I know he was just messing with me and he didn't have to give Caleb anything either. But Caleb was very appreciative. But a lot of times that's how our love is very conditional, isn't it? Oh, I'll do it for you because of what you've done for me. Boy, but Christ loved unconditionally. In today's world, emo-based love is conditional. If you feel like it, you'll love. I love you if you'll love me back, if you're meeting my needs. If I feel like you're doing what I expect of you, then I'll love you Sadly. But that's not the kind of love that Christ has. The love of Christ is unconditional. And I wonder, do we love our brothers and sisters that way? You say, well, yeah, I love him. He's a nice guy. We get along good. Yeah, but what about Don Wilson? What about I mean, you know, there's some people that are hard to love. And you gotta you gotta just ask God for grace and strength, you know. Now I don't know who it is in the church that, you know, obviously there's all these different personalities. And some people you connect with and some people not as much. But our love shouldn't be based on a personality. We're to love one another. Because that's what he says here, this commandment We know, of course, that our love for one another is evidence of salvation to a lost world. He says that darkness is past when that true light is shining. One of the greatest telltale signs that you're not right with God is that you're not right with your brother. It's pretty clear there. This beloved is a very accurate barometer of your spiritual condition. Are you loving your brother? Do you find it hard to get along with people? Are you in general consistently having problems with other people? You know if that's the case, then you're probably the problem. If you're having a problem with a whole bunch of different people I don't think it's all them. You might need to look inward and say, Lord, what's wrong with me? How come I can't get along with people? Might need to consider that. So we see here this command defined. I want you to see the Christian that's deceived. In verse number nine. He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. You see, he's deceived. He saw and said, Hey, I'm in the light, I'm living in the light. I have the light of Jesus Christ. And he said, But If you hate your brother, you're in darkness even till now. Once again, we're seeing this contrast between those who profess Christ and those who truly possess him. Walking in darkness equals walking in hate, but walking in light equals walking in love. The question for you tonight is, do you hate your brother? And I think on the surface we would all say, well, of course not. I don't hate my brother with this word in strong concordance, that word hateth means to detect to detest And I thought, well, that's pretty strong to detest. I don't know that there's anybody I detest. And then I read a little more of the definition, and it says, by extension, to love less. Now why do you have to go put that in there? We went from from detest to loving lust There's a lot of people I love less. Less than what? You know, what's the comparison? Less than Christ? Well amen. I'm supposed to love God first. Okay. Less than my wife? Definitely I you know, love less. I I don't know, but I think that what we're seeing here is that we're to not be a respecter of persons. That we're to love all men. How do you love your brothers and sisters? I sat in the airport today across from a man. I don't know, they seem like they crammed like an extra two rows of of seats in this airport. We are sitting literally Like my feet were sitting next to his feet. We were across from each other but they just it was really crammed in there. Anyways, he was talking on the phone, he had his phone on speaker phone And the whole the whole gist of the conversation, he was talking to this employee or employee or I don't know uh another employee of the same company, I guess. And that guy the whole time We were just talking about how bad things were at work and how, you know, the boss did this and they did that and that's not right and this shouldn't be the way it should be and how unfair that is and Uh this is this is not how we want to do things and just the whole time it was very negative. And you know It seems that more and more in our world that our conversations center around negative things. I sat there with him in my hearing and they were having this conversation, but the Lord struck my heart and just said, you know, how often has that been you? How often has your conversation been negative? How do people hear what you're saying? And I I just said, Lord, I I I want you to help me to be a positive person. I know human nature leans towards the negative. Human nature wants to talk about all the bad things that everybody does and and all of this, but we need to be leaning towards the positive. And sometimes that that might be a very hard habit to break. You know, you might not be asking God to help you quit drinking. If you are, you ought to be, but it maybe that's not your problem. But you know if you've got a very critical spirit, you have a sin problem just like the guy who's drinking. And you need to be asking God, Lord, help me to help me to to get this under control. You know, we spiritualize it. Talk about him like we're concerned and want to try and help him. But that shouldn't be listen, he says if you hate your brother, you're walking in darkness. And what I'm saying is if I'm if I'm a person that's given to tearing other people down, I'm walking in darkness. And that's not where God wants us to be walking. And so we want to change that. We want to ask the Lord to help us not to do that. You know, I don't know if that's you tonight. He says you're walking in darkness, I would say at the very least You're you're living in darkness and possibly you're lost in darkness. Maybe you don't know the Lord at all. How often does the Bible use comparative language? We know that when Christ was talking about, you know, if you you know, he that uh hateth not his brother, mother. You know, that that idea of hating them is we know this God's not saying, listen, you you ought to hate your mom and dad. It's comparative. He's saying in comparison to the love that I have for Christ, it ought to look like hate Right, that's what he's talking about. Well I wonder how much when when compared to how much we love ourselves Do we hate our brethren? If we look at that? Because human nature is to love ourselves, right? So I wonder comparatively, do we hate our brethren? In today's world, we've developed such a suspicious mind about others that we've made it almost impossible to see the positive side of people. We see each of them as wanting to take advantage or or you know ultimately even possibly an enemy instead of an ally. And we've got to guard against that. The Bible says to think no evil. And you know human nature is to think the worst, to think up think evil about people. And he says here, the guy that lives like that is deceived. You say and you talk about how you have the love of Christ in you, but when it's not coming out of you, you're deceived. Because what is in you, what is in him, is going to be in you. And we know that's Christ, but let's put it down where the rubber meets the road and say, is it coming out of us? So we see the command defined and the Christian deceived, and lastly, I want you to see the committed that are delivered. The committed that are delivered. It's pretty amazing when you ponder this in this verse. Notice it I'm going to try and hurry and wrap this up. He says, He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion, you see this, there is none occasion of stumbling in him. That's amazing to me. That when you're are loving your brethren, when you're abiding in that light, there's none occasion of stumbling in you. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because the darkness hath blinded his eyes. This is amazing. You read these words and consider this thought. You want you to see first of all that love provokes fellowship. Love provokes fellowship. We're talking about this shared life, and and we see here he says, he that loveth his brother. Love brings fellowship. It of course brings fellowship with our Heavenly Father, and it brings fellowship with our brothers and sisters in Christ, because we're loving like we should We ought to be sharing our life with each other. And only when we're walking in love is our fellowship going to be sweet. And only when we're walking in love is our fellowship with the Father going to be correct. Amen? So I want you to see secondly that love prevents falling. He says you have none occasion of stumbling The idea there is that there's nothing in you that's going to cause you to stumble when you're walking in light and walking in love. You know what this says to me? That if you're given to stumbling as a Christian, if this is a pattern or a habit in your life that you're not experiencing victory as a Christian, the reason he says you're not walking in light. You're not walking in love. Because he says if you are walking in love, you'll have none occasion of stumbling. That's amazing promise there, amazing victory that's possible. And I want you to see a lack of love, beloved, precludes focus. You understand that it is the plan of Satan to blind the hearts and minds of men I have a whole section on on how Satan blinds men, and w we're gonna we're gonna skip over this because I need I need to conclude, but here here's in our text the important part that sometimes men are blinded by their own hatred. Yes, Satan blinds the minds of people, but sometimes our own hatred blinds us. Hatred, beloved, distorts your ability to exercise good judgment. How foolish is it that a man would reject the gospel? Well, his eyes are blinded, because they would rather live in darkness than to see the light. How many good ideas have been rejected just because, well, just out of spite? Because of hatred. This may be very beneficial for the company. It may be very profitable for the individual, but because it was Brother Dave Hunt that brought it, we're not going to do it. No, we're not doing that. I mean, if Miss Trudy would have brought it, oh that's a great idea. Yeah, let's do it. That's awesome. But because of hatred people are blinded by their own hatred and they won't even take a good idea because of that hatred. Matthew chapter 6, verse 22 and 23, you might want to write that in the margin of your Bible there, next to that verse He says, the light of the body is the eye, and therefore thine eye be single, the whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, the whole body shall be full of darkness. And therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness. You see, beloved, when we're consumed with hate, it becomes a singular focus. And it keeps us from being able to focus on what we should focus on. You know, sometimes it's sad, but it happens. And and I gotta I gotta wrap it up and shut down. But it's sad that it happens that people will come to a church and something will happen. You know Zachary's going to be here for the summer. Zachary or Zach? How do you want to be called? Zach. Zach, okay. We'll try and remember that. So Zach's going to be here for the summer. He's here this summer serving. And uh let's say he does something, because every intern do something. And uh he does something and and offends somebody in the church. And what's amazing is they'll continue to come in church and sit there offended, but they won't get anything out of the preaching. They won't get anything out of the song service. Other people are praising God and worshiping and seeing answers to prayer and sitting in awe of God's goodness, but their eye is singularly focused on how Zach did them wrong. And if something doesn't change, it won't be long and they'll be out of church. These are some powerful verses that we're taught and instructed from the command defined, the Christian deceived, and the committed delivered.