Uh we're gonna move on, even though if you remember I am not com I have not completed the seventh commandment. We had the last point dealing with the seventh commandment, which was titled the safe action, the seventh commandment. Uh is which commandment? Thou shalt not commit adultery. So that one, the very last point, was uh basically uh dealing with the idea of what can we do to keep from breaking that commandment and uh talking about that and I'm actually going to deal with that tonight in tonight's service. It's the last point of our Sunday school lesson but that is something that we as uh America, as people, as Christians deal with uh in in just a a very prevalent way in today's society and it's out there and we are pushed towards that direction and I think it's something that that we all could use and it's enough in in just one point that I believe that Now, um, forewarn you that tonight's service is gonna be meat. It's gonna it's not milk of the word. If you're not really interested in meet you might not want to be there. This is going to be straight straightforward preaching dealing with this principle thou shalt not commit adultery. So we're going to look at that tonight. So since we're going to do that tonight, we're going to move on to the eighth commandment. And the eighth commandment uh Uh if I tell you what it is, can you tell me what the action is? The eighth commandment is thou shalt not steal. So what is the action for the eighth commandment Uh nope you're number ten. That's ten. What is the uh brother Brad has it there? That's thou shalt not kill, that's number six. So number eight, if you yeah, you've got you reach over and grab that and steal it. Steal those three off of there. So that's number eight, thou shalt not steal. Uh no, that's reversed from the way we've done it in the past. So getting you to think uh the opposite direction. Uh usually we give the action and then you can come up with it, but uh risk checking your memory on there. So uh let me get over there. How many of you got something out of Joshua this morning? That was a hard chapter to get something out of, I'll tell you that. That chapter was a lot of uh just uh of the lots that people get that they were awarded to or or went in So I'm looking at that thinking, wow, what are we going to get? The very last verse of that chapter gave me something. If you haven't read it yet, you can look at that later. But I So in Exodus chapter 20, I mean I shouldn't have to turn there to read this verse because uh it's so short, but Exodus chapter 20, verse number 15 is where we find this commandment. Uh the eighth of the commandments is thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not steal. Uh one of the real problems with public education today is that when they kicked God out of the schools Are you warm? How many of you are warm? I'm warm. Can you make sure that's on air and turn it on, Mr. Brad? Make sure it's on AC if you can figure out how to get that on. Um you can't wave and Mr. Glover will come back there. Um so when they kicked God out of the schools, and when they kicked God out of the schools, they kicked the authority. out of the school. Um yeah, if you want to turn on a fan above you, you can stand up and turn on one of those fans. That'll move move some air. I don't want you guys going to going to sleep on me there. Yeah, put it a couple couple of times at least so it's not a good thing. Yeah, we had uh like Brother Taylor was saying this morning, we went straight from uh winter to summer now. It kind of just skipped over over the spring, but uh So every subject that's taught, every topic that's dealt with, every controversial issue that is dealt with in uh the classroom is taught in a vacuum. It's taught without the authority of God's Word. It is taught in just a matter of opinion. And whose opinion is it? And the teacher even may have an opinion one way or the other on something, but that even that opinion is just taught in a vacuum without the authority of God's word. It's just my opinion, your opinion, anybody's opinion about this And this has, for several generations now, moved us as a nation and brought us to the place where we are today, that there is no moral authority. Everything is just opinion. I took this from comments on an article about employee theft. So there is an article about employee theft, which we'll talk about a little bit more as we get further in the lesson, but there were some comments on the bottom of that. And this very clearly illustrates where we are today and people's moral compass. So here was this comment. Somebody wrote in and says, if you know that your employer is going to find ways to legitimize his low wages. And low benefits. Here's looking at you, Walmart. Treat you like absolute garbage Change schedules with no warnings, ignore health issues, fire people for no reason, etc. And you have literally no other job prospects, what is the real moral obligation not to steal? So basically he said if you feel that your employer is not treating you how you think you should be treated, Then you have no moral obligation to keep from stealing from them. If in your mind you think your boss should have given you more hours, well then just steal what you want from him to make up for that. That's what he said. You have literally no other if you don't have another job option, then you can just steal from the job that you have. That is the moral compass, and there was comment after comment after comment in agreement with this. That people have no moral objection to stealing from their employer. Why? Because everything has been taught for generations now with in a vacuum without the authority of God's word. And people find their moral compass in just opinion. The sixth commandment that we dealt with, which is thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not kill, deals with your neighbor's life. Taking your neighbor's life deals with the life of your neighbor. The seventh uh deals with the right of uh his His wife of his you know his his family with the rights of his family. The eight here secures the right of his property. So the first si the sixth secures the right of his life. Your neighbor has a right to live, whether you don't think so or not. You know, the right of his life is just as valuable as yours, and we can't just go take a life because we don't like him. And then your neighbor has a right to his family and you don't have a right to go and to to take your s to avail yourself of that or take uh another man's uh wife or another man's uh husband. That it secures the right of his family. family and this command this commandment uh secures the right of his property. He has a right to property and uh to the property that that is his. Nabum was asked, had he taken a bath? And he said, No, why is one missing? The wicked flee when no man pursueth And we as a nation are given to such uh prevalent uh practices of thievery and dishonesty that the smallest thing And people are like, whoa, did they see that? Was that on camera? Did it get did I get caught for doing that? Uh one CEO was gonna hold a a l a large meeting. Uh He was a director of an airline uh company, not one of the big ones, but a smaller one, and he was going to hold a meeting with all of his employees and he was going to ask them about something and just compl didn't have anything to do with what was missing, but he called oh he was gonna have a group picture. So he calls he called over the thing, I need all the employees down in front of this particular airplane that they were working on. And uh they said they had to wait for the picture to clear the stuff off the tarmac that people dropped out of their pockets on the way to the picture. Because of the things that they had lifted from their job. They thought they were being called over to to go over and check on them and find out who this was missing and They said they had to wait to get the stuff off of the off of the runway because all the junk people were dropping out of their pockets like, oh that wasn't me. Uh but that's the way it is today. People just uh stealing so many things. The fact is That this is the most basic of truths, but it hits home to all of us. Every boy, every girl, every man and woman from the time we're born are given to Stealing, to taking that which is not ours. Outside of strong moral teaching based on the Word of God, man in his nature is given to theft, to stealing. This is what we are. And And man will do it. Stealing has reached epidemic proportions in our society today, and most feel if they're not caught, it's okay. If they're not caught, then it's justifiable for some reason. They think that the Robin Hood mentality makes it okay to steal from the rich and give to the poor. Or that if it's insured, it's okay because it was insured. People don't think beyond the immediate. All those insurance rates are going to go up, not just for that company, but not but for all the companies, and then all the prices are going to go up, and then uh who g who has to end up ultimately paying for that increase? The consumer, all of us, whoever is part of that company, a child will steal from his mom and dad. Employees steal from their workplace. Citizens steal from the government. The government steals from the people. You know, it's not okay just because the government's doing it You know the Robin Hood mentality of of stealing, taking from the rich and giving to the poor? That's what the government's doing. With welfare. We call it welfare and say it's okay. But let me ask you this: if somebody went out this week and stole a Mercedes from me, And brought it to Hunt Valley Baptist Church this morning. And said, Pastor Caleb, I went out and stole this this week. But I'll tell you what, I'm I'll be willing to sell it to you for a thousand dollars. I didn't steal it. Thousand dollars is a good deal. Would it be okay for me to take it? No, that wouldn't be right. And the same is true if somebody is able to work, able to f to take care of themselves. And they take money given to them by the government, which was stolen, taken from other people. It's just as much uh just as wrong. And that is on epidemic proportions in our country, stealing from the rich, the redistribution of wealth, and giving to the poor, and the mind-boggling thing is So many people feel that it's not only justifiable that they are deserved that and that as a country we have to do that, and if we don't do that or we disagree with it, uh we don't like people or we don't care about people. When we get away from biblical principle, the Bible says if a man doesn't work, he doesn't eat. The Bible says, let him that stealeth, steal no more, but go and labor. Go and labor. Even even somebody's stealing to satisfy a need. Like let's say I'm starving and I'm going to steal some bread, most of us will think would say, oh, oh, that that's okay. Well you know what the Bible says? If he gets caught, he has to restore and even above and beyond. It's still not okay, even if it's to fulfill a need in our life. If it's a legitimate need, something that we have to have. But most people aren't fulfilling needs. As a matter of fact, as we're going to look at in a little bit when we get into shoplifting, the majority of shoplifters are are are middle to upper class people that have no needs. They're just addicted to stealing. It's like winning a lottery every time they come out of the store. It's epidemic proportions in our country today. In Proverbs 6, 30 and 31, it says, Men do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his soul when he is hungry Saying, hey, we're not going to despise him. Obviously we understand he's starving. But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold. He shall give all the substance of his house. Still is still wrong even to satisfy a need. It's still stealing and it's still sin, even though most of our society would not agree that it's wrong. Most would gladly condemn a thief. Most in our society would gladly condemn a thief. They would say, oh, that's wrong. But most would not see their thievery as stealing. Oh no, I took that from my boss because he didn't give me all the hours I deserved last week. So we're just we're just putting it back to even. They they find ways to justify uh their own thievery This is an area that's easy to see the difference. I'm not saying it's easy to do, but it's easy for us as Christians to show the difference. between the lost man who is living for this life and a Christian who is living for God and living for eternity. Here is an area where we, you say, sometimes, man, it's hard for me to show them a testimony. It's hard for me to show that I'm a Christian or what have you. This is an area that there is a stark contrast. Between the way the world thinks what's acceptable and what a Christian should think is acceptable. And very easy for us to illustrate that. That is why uh when I was at Home Depot And I checked out with 80 bags of concrete and they rang me up for eight bags of concrete And we were getting other things, and I checked out, and I went outside and I'm loading the bags, and I actually saw on my receipt the eight bags. Then I said, Oh, that he didn't ring me up for those. I went back inside and said, Hey, you only rang me up for eight bags. I mean the workers helped me load it and everything, you know. And and uh it was supposed to be eighty bags And the worker looked at me and he says, you should have left. The employee at the store says, you should have left. Why'd you come back in here? He said, because it's wrong. He said, you could have got all them bags for free. That is the mentality. of much or most of the world that's living for this life, and they just think, oh, if you get out the door with it, it's yours. Don't come back. Why would you do that? So easy for us to be a testimony to the difference between Somebody living for this life and somebody living for God. First of all, stealing is sin. Very simple outline tonight, or this morning. Stealing is sin. It really doesn't get any more simple than this, thou shalt not steal. I mean, it's just straightforward, a command that God has given us, don't steal. But in its simplicity, it's also very comprehensive. If you look up cinnamon cinnamon if you look up those words for steel, here's some of the ones that you're going to come across, okay? Extortion, seize, burglarize, defraud, heist, cheat, beguile, misappropriate, pilfer, pillage, plunder, rob. Snatch, swindle, sweep, fleece, flimflam, sham, embezzle, bamboozle. I mean in its simplicity, thou shalt not steal it. Covers all that. I mean it you you can call it embezzlement or you can call it misappropriation of funds, but it's still stealing. You can change the word, but it's still stealing. So it covers everything. Stealing is sin. For a society to stand, there must be mutual respect and protection of private property. If a society is going to stand, we as a people have to know that stealing is wrong and protection of private property must be Be a part of it. It's a transgression of God's command to steal. Thou shalt not steal. Stealing makes my own needs and desires the motive for my life What I'm what I'm doing. Everything else doesn't matter. The cost doesn't matter. Who it hurts doesn't matter. I'm just going to steal what I need or what I want and what I think is most important. And I'm gonna go do that and everybody else. Nobody else matters at all. A lot of it driven by selfishness. And not understanding those that were hurting. Not only is it a transgression of God's command, but it's a transgression of God's character. And as Christians, this is what should concern us the most. When we understand the character of God and his love for us, we should desire to emulate that, and our job as Christians is to be Christ-like. And that is certainly not what uh stealing is like. That's the opposite of the character of God. In 2 Corinthians 8. Verse number nine, for ye know that the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be made rich. That is the character of God. His love motivated him to give. He had everything he had a right to, royalty and riches and sitting on the right hand of God and in heaven and he gave all that up and became poor that we through his poverty might be made rich. That is the character of a Christian, is to give, not to get. It's to look for opportunities to be a blessing to others, not an opportunity to be To just be a blessing to yourself. Christians work to give, not to get. Christians see the needs of others and deny themselves. Even from what we have, we say, oh, I can do without this so that I can help them. Instead of going and taking what's not even ours to help ourselves In Jesus, to live is to give. In the world, to get is to live. In Jesus, to live is to give. In the world, to get is to live. Many people gauge the status of their life and how they're doing on what they're getting, on what they've acquired. The sum value of their life is the value of their possessions. So stealing is sin. Not only that, stealing is subtle. Stealing is subtle. Our advertising world has convinced us that great people have great things. And this resulting application and this philosophy is to do whatever you must do to get great things. So we see these powerful people on TV shows. or on the in the in the news or whatever and or we look at them and these these people that are lifted up, they're great people because they've got great things and look at all of what they've acquired and that motivates others to aspire to be that and to do whatever they have. Morals thrown out the window. It's to be great is to acquire. It's pushed and we need to, as Christians, guard against it Most stealing is not on the felony level. Most people that are guilty of stealing would be infuriated if you called them a thief. This is where it gets home to you and I. Martin Luther once said this He said, if all the thieves, who nevertheless do not wish to be considered such, were hanged on the gallows There would soon be complete desolation. We would be without both executioner. and hanger. If all who were guilty of stealing were hanged, there would be nobody left to do the hanging. There would be nobody left. It's like Jesus said, uh, okay, you uh who is not guilty, you can throw the first This is something as Christians that we must fight against. It's not okay to steal Last week, a crew of people stole 76 wheels off of trucks at a car dealership valued over $50,000. They went in one night with a truck and trailer, jacked up and set. How many ever trucks that is? 76 wheels. Good math. Divide that by four, how many trucks is that? 76 wheels On blocks and took over what is valued at $50,000 of different size brand new wheels off of brand new trucks. A man in Cobb County stole a twenty-five thousand dollar diamond ring. last week. He was a professional. He did this for a living. This is the second time he's been caught on camera. He does sleight of hand. He he he he goes in and he scopes out the store. He finds a very valuable ring, comes in dressed in a very sharp suit, very nice, uh, and uh he had already picked what ring he wanted to. He goes and he has a uh exact diamond made out of Zirconium. And he goes in and he looks at the diamond. It's not in a Tiffany Mount yet. He's gonna have it mounted to talks to him all about how he's you know getting engaged and all this stuff and uh then at the right time he makes the switch and now it's fake diamonds sitting there And uh then he says, oh, I gotta I gotta make a quick call uh and just make sure that I have these funds ready to be released or what have you, and goes outside and never comes back. Walked out with a diamond and he's been caught on camera several times. And the stories like this we know could go on and on and on because in our world today this Type of thievery is so prevalent. But it's not just out in the world. In many cases, it's also in our churches. You know, when you borrow money, you are committing to pay it back. And as a Christian You ought to pay it back. It's not just, oh, if I unless I get into a hard time, then I don't have to pay it back. Um Uh I uh yeah, if I if I borrow the money and I can't pay it, well then I can just file chapter thirteen and I don't have to pay it. Restitution is still in the Bible. You know there's companies and people out there that have filed bankruptcy three, four, five times? Do you know when you don't have to pay it back? What you're if you have to pay it back, you're a whole lot less likely to do it again. But when you can just, oh, you know what? I've overextended myself. I owe all these people all this money and I can't pay it. Well, let's just wash my hands of that and walk over here and start over. That's what they do. And they can do the same thing again. And the courts make it legal, but it doesn't make it right. As a Christian, you ought to pay your debt. Dave Ramsey, who if you know anything about his story, um was a very young man, very successful, very profitable, m making I mean he was twenty-six years old and was already a millionaire and but he had a lot of things going. Well all of his banks, uh one of his banks was not doing well and they called in his notes like he had 11 days to pay back like a million dollars. And he didn't have it. And I don't know the exact numbers, so if you go listen to his story, my my numbers might be off. But it was so much that he couldn't pay it. Well, in a matter of months, he had to file bankruptcy They took everything he had. He moved back in with his parents. I mean he was down to nothing. He was driving the nicest cars that were available and had all this property and all that and lost it all in a short time He started back at scratch and built himself back up. Even though he had paid, even though he had filed bankruptcy. And as far as the courts were concerned, that was that was expunged. When he started making money again, he paid all those debts back. As a Christian, that's what we should do. We should realize I I bought this car, I need to pay for this car. Not just go drive it for four or five years and if I can't pay it, oh we'll just let let we'll just let the bank have it back after I've torn it up. This is the mentality. We think it's okay because it's the way it works today. But does it line up with Scripture? When we borrow something, we are committing to pay for it. And if we actually had to pay for it, we might be more careful about what we borrow. There's so many things here. Dishonesty in your taxes is stealing from the government. Burglary. There's an account of somebody who had their car stolen. And the next like week their car was back in front of their house with a note that said, We're we're we're sorry, we realized we shouldn't have took your car, and there was two tickets. To a uh well known uh production uh with an apology. So this couple thought, wow, amazing. They utilized the two tickets, went to the production, and when they came Home, their house was empty. They had burglarized their home, taken everything out of their house because they knew that they were gonna be out. Shoplifting. One in eleven people are guilty of shoplifting. Only one in forty-eight get caught According to current statistics. This is up from one in 52 people that were shoplifters in 1990. From nineteen ninety till today, one in eleven are guilty of shoplifting. One in fifty two in nineteen ninety. Every five minutes, two thousand five hundred items worth one hundred and twenty five thousand dollars will disappear from the shelves of retail stores. Every five minutes in America, $125,000 worth of goods will disappear from retail shelves. The sad thing is, is employees account for forty-three percent of this Theft. Forty-three percent of it is from employees. Usually taken from unsupervised sleight of hand at the registers. or purposely canceling transactions that shouldn't be canceled or refunding money that shouldn't have been refunded. About eighteen billion is lost in revenue last year in the US. The average amount shoplifted by a customer is $129. The average amount shoplifted by an employee? nineteen. Where is our moral compass? Many people steal weekly from their employee. Employer. Um and it doesn't have to just be goods. M current studies, people readily admit To completely goofing off not doing any work at least 20% of the time. That turns your five-day work week into four days. You just stole all that time from your employer. You just stole the money that you got paid during that time. As Christians, that's just as much stealing as if you went into the office and took That money off out of the safe. You are working for them, you are to give them an honest day's work for an honest day's pay. And whatever that is, you say, oh well, they don't pay me enough. You agree to work work there for that amount. If you don't like it, you are free to you say, well I don't have another job option. Well then you better be happy where you're at. That's what you've agreed to. We are so selfish today and so driven and motivated by our own wants and desires, we're not looking out for anybody else but Numero Uno. And that motivates everything. When you use an expense account for things that you know you shouldn't, when you take supplies home that you know are not yours, This is theft. The most subtle of all theft that we as Christians are guilty of is what we steal from God. We as Christians many times steal lots of things from God. We steal worship, honor, and glory from Him that belongs to Him that gets bestowed upon us. And we think nothing of it. And God, who is who has done that for us, who has given us that, who has made that possible, is in glory, looking at us, saying, You thief. That honor and glory goes to God. And you took it upon yourself as though you you did that, as though you accomplished that. Wow. We steal time that belongs to God, that's his, and we use it for our own enjoyment or pleasure. We steal treasure that belongs to God that we know is his. Malachi 3. 8 says, Will a man rob God? Yeah, we do. The Bible says, thou shalt not steal. And I know on the surface we look at that and we think, that's right, man, these people in this world out burglarizing and taking things from people and shoplifting from the stores, they shouldn't do that. But what about us? What are we stealing? Lastly, stealing is stupid. Stealing is stupid. Very profound statement. But the fact of the matter is, is sin will cost you. It's wrong. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. You cannot continue to steal from others at the cost of others and try and put it upon yourself and improve your situation. without it costing you. I know that on the surface it looks good to start with, and oh look at I got all this and I got this and look at what I did. And But it's going to cost you. If you believe the Bible at all, remember in your mind, be not deceived. God is not mocked. What so man says So with that shall he also reap. You are going to reap for that action. You never really get away with it. Even though you Also, typically, a small issue or a small practice is usually the forerunner or paving the the way for greater issues. A child who steals a dollar off of his dad's dresser and doesn't get caught and doesn't repent of that. Will steal $50 out of his wallet. And he doesn't get caught and doesn't repent of that and doesn't make restitution. He'll steal from the grocery store. And we'll steal a car, and one day we'll rob you blind. As long as he can get away with it, he'll keep doing it. It's usually the forerunner for much greater problems, as with any sin. Sin will take you farther than you want to go, keep you longer than you want to stay, and cost you a lot more than you want to pay. We know the statements. That's what happens with sin. When you get right, it's going to cost you because you need to restore what you stolen. If you've never had to restore, then you'll very likely continue to steal. Restitution is dealt with in Exodus chapter. 22 verses 1 through 4. If you want to look at that and read it, the Bible talks about restitution, making making it right, what you've taken, and getting that from the Lord. Well let's uh close in prayer this morning. We got uh all the way through this particular topic on Thou Shalt Not Steal, and hopefully as Christians, we are not guilty of that. Lord, thank you for today and the time in your house and pray that you would give us a blessed time together in the morning service. Lord, would you speak to hearts? Would you be