As we get into well, as we think about uh this world we're in, we might stand back and Look at this world and we think of the problems that are prevalent everywhere. Considering, you know, it seems like our country is Uh as divided as it's ever been, may maybe more than it's ever been over every kind of issue imaginable. We look at the world as as a whole and we uh see the heartache that is present and of course the current wars going on in Iran and the Ukraine and you know, just considering these things we we we look at this world and we we just think, man, I know those of you that are older, there's been times in your life you've pondered and thought, well it surely can't get any worse And you wait a few years and you you find out that it that it did. It got worse, and we stand shocked at the pain and suffering that's present present and is all around us. I want you to know that there is a remedy. Israel often found themselves in great turmoil as well. Just as they are here in the book of Jeremiah. When the prophet saw the nation He was driven to tears. His heart was broken over the condition of his people He saw his brothers and sisters who were lost and undone, the state in which they lived, in the rejection of God. So often was his heart broken over the condition of his fellow man that he is known as the weeping prophet. His heart was broken to the point of tears on numerous occasions as he saw the fall of David from his throne and Saw the city of Jerusalem ransacked and destroyed. He saw the people carried away captive by ungodly and wicked nations. He saw religious apostasy take over and rule the country and God's people be judged by a thrice holy God who had warned and warned and warned and yet they did not respond. The greatest heartbreak, brother, though, was that Jeremiah knew that there was a remedy. He knew that there was a solution and yet people refused to respond to it. He knew that there was a bomb in Gilead. I would like to speak to you for a few minutes this morning on the blunder of a neglected bomb. Look with me in Jeremiah chapter number eight. In Jeremiah chapter number eight, we're going to see our text. We're going to begin reading in verse number 18. We're going to read down through Verse number 22, the end of the chapter, our text verse today. When I would comfort myself against sorrow. My heart is faint in me. Behold the voice of the cry of the daughters of my people because of them that dwell in a far country. Is not the Lord in Zion Is not her king in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven images and with strange vanities? The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we're not saved. For the hurt of the daughters of my people, I am hurt. I'm black. Astonishment hath taken hold on me. Is there no bomb in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then is not the health of the daughters of my people recovered? The blunder of a neglected balm. Would you bow with me and let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts? Lord, we come to you now and I come to you humbly and ask for your grace. To preach the thought that you've laid upon my heart in the spirit in which you would have it preached. Lord, on my best day, I'm an unworthy vessel. But Lord, your word is always worthy, and I pray, God, that your word would do its work in the heart of your people on this day. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. We see here, beloved, that there is indeed a bomb in Gilead. He asked, the prophet asked this rhetorical question. He knows that there's a bomb there that available that can heal all their diseases, but the tragedy is then and or was then and is still today that not that there was no Remedy, not that there was no recourse, not that there was something that could heal them. The tragedy, beloved, is that they neglected to take advantage of it. I would have you see, first of all, the bitter reality. The bitter reality is the fact that men have a hereditary disease. It is a disease that every man, woman, and boy, uh uh girl, uh you know, mom, dad, every one of us are born with. It's hereditary. There's nothing you can do about it. It's called sin. It is a sin nature. Can I tell you that in Israel the problems were not political? It was not an economical problem. There was not a problem with inequality. The problem was not in substance abuse. The problem was not mental health issues The problem was not Medicare or Medicaid or medical concerns. The problem was not a lack of education. The problem was not crime. and controlling of it. It was not juvenile juvenile delinquency. It was not the abuse of power by those in leadership. It was not sexual immorality. It was not corruption of leadership. It was not racism or discrimination. It was not pollution. It was not a lack of resources. Can I tell you, beloved, the problem that Israel, the root of the problem, oh all those things are just a manifestation of the problem. The problem is the sinful nature of men. It was the problem in Israel, and it is the problem today. We see in this passage in Jeremiah, Jeremiah, just in this chapter, he deals with them concerning the sin of idolatry in verses 1 through 3. Look with me, if you would, in just verse number 2. In verse 1, he's talking about the judgment of God and how their bones are going to be lifted up and spread out over the ground. But he says, and they shall spread them before the sun, the moon, and all the hosts of heaven. He's saying their bones are going to be spread out for whom they have loved, whom they have served, after whom they have walked, and whom they have sought, and whom they have worshipped. They were worshipping false gods, they were bowing down to golden calves and graven images and idolatry and beloved God is a jealous God and he would not have them uh giving credit to a golden calf when he's the one that saved them from Egypt. God is serious about this thing about idolatry and beloved idolatry is any place that you put I in front of God Anything that we put in the place of our worship and our pursuit of God becomes an idol for us, and we would rather follow that and Bow down to that. And I know many times we don't think about it, but can I tell you anything you put in front of God becomes what you're following? When I was a teenager I was a skateboarder and uh I I know it's hard to believe, uh, but I actually wrote a skateboard a lot, way too much in my dead He uh one day he grabbed my skateboard and he held it out in front of me. And he says, I think that this has become your God. You would rather have this or be with this than anything else. And then he said if I if something doesn't change I'm gonna cut it in half. And I said things are changing, things are changing. Whatever we put in front of God becomes our idol. He deals with idol worship. He deals with continual black backsliding in verses four through seven for the sake of time. Just look in verse number five. He says Why then is this people of Jerusalem slid in back by a perpetual backsliding? Oh beloved, they were the children of God, they were part of the family of God, they were His chosen people, and yet they still continually allowed backsliding to be a part of their life. Are you here this morning? You know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, but you know that you're backslidden You know that you're away from God. You know you're not where you're supposed to be. One day in college we had a guy get up to preach and he said This has never happened before in the history of the school, and it'll probably never happen again. And he says, but what I want you to do is I want all of you to stand up. I want you to move, and you're going to sit back down alphabetically. Now there's about two hundred and twenty-five college students there. We had to all figure out alphabetically by last name where to sit That took about twenty-five minutes for us all to figure out, oh, I'm supposed to be over here, I'm supposed to be over there, and we sat down and he says, Here's the thing. I did all that for one thing, just to get you out of your comfort zone. He says you're not sitting next to your friends, you're not sitting by your buddies, you're not in your normal, comfortable place. And he said, here's the thing. I don't even need to preach because I know that the Spirit of God has already told you where you have a problem. And I moved you out of your comfort zone, so maybe you would move for God. I'm just gonna ask you, are you Are you gonna do what God wants you to do? And he asked the pianist to start playing and we had the invitation. That's it. I tell you that was one of the fullest altars I ever saw in five years of Bible college. You don't need a man of God to get up here and preach until he's blue in the face. The Holy Spirit has already touched you touched your heart. You know if you're backslidden or not. He deals with the fact that they're backslidden. He deals with the fact that they rejected God's word in verses 8 through 12. Look at verse number 9. He says, the wise men are ashamed. They are dismayed. And have taken, lo, they have rejected the word of the Lord. And what wisdom is in them? Boy, the wisdom of God. He deals with this. Boy, we're living in a nation that's rejected the Word of God. They've removed all the authority that God has, and what the Word of God says is right and true. And can I tell you the problems in our country are not going to be solved by some political movement. They're not going to be solved by some some more programs that get passed in Washington. The problems in our country and in our world and in our own life is a problem of sin. We don't need more social programs, beloved. The socialist says there is no God. The socialist would remove God and they say the problem is the environment. If we change the conditions, we will change the character of man. That's what the socialist says. And so they try and have social experiments. Like I remember many, many years ago they went through Chicago and They completely remodeled whole neighborhoods, gave them all brand new houses at no expense to them. Can I tell you it didn't change anything? The every social experiment that they i that they endeavored to do through from the beginning of time till now where they tried to change the character of man by changing his environment or m or improving his condition, whether that's giving him more money or giving him more education or improving his environment, can I tell you they all failed? You can take a thief and give him as much education education as you want, and all you have is an educated thief. He just knows better how to rob you blind. Instead of stealing the thirty dollars off of your uh dresser, he ends up stealing thirty thousand out of your bank because he's been educated. The problem is, is the sin problem that's rested in his heart. We need to acknowledge it and realize that that is the problem. Can I tell you that the Bible is very clear that we all have the problem of sin? You know it does you no good to treat the wrong thing. I read about a man Who ended up dying from multiple myeloma? But can I tell you that when he went to the doctor, they had diagnosed him with acid reflux? For months they were telling him he had acid reflux that he just needed to take some some peptobismol. He needed to be careful what he was eating because he's got a strong acid reflux and they He kept telling him that there's something wrong, there's something is not right, this is not helping until finally they realized he had cancer Ended up killing them. You know, they were treating the wrong thing, and that's the problem when society tries to treat the character of man from the outside. Because the problem is in the heart and it is a sin problem. Romans 3. 10 says there is none righteous, no not one. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Ecclesiastes seven twenty, there is not a just man upon the earth that doeth good and sinneth not 1 John 1. 8, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Psalms 51. 5, behold, I was shapen in iniquity. Psalms 58. 3, the wicked are estranged from the womb. Genesis 8. 21, the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth. Jeremiah 17. 9, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked Psalm seven or Romans seven eighteen. In me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. Romans three twelve. There is none that doeth good. No not one and we could go on and on and on. The Bible is very clear that man has a sin problem. We need to stop trying to hide and pretend it's not there. It is a bitter reality and it's not pleasant to ponder and we don't like to think about the fact that we have a sin problem and when the scripture says there are none that doeth good, no not one. And and the the evilness that is in the heart of man, many people buck up against that and they don't want to be confronted with it. They want to pretend that they're good. Not according to the book. It is a bitter reality, but beloved, can I tell you this morning that there is a beautiful remedy? Verse number 22 he says, is there no balm in Gilead? He asked three rhetorical questions in this verse Is there no bomb in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then is not the heathen of the daughters of my people recovered? First of all, consider the presence of the bomb. Is there no bomb in Gilead? This is a rhetorical question. Can I tell you that God has always provided a bomb? God, even here in the Old Testament, they didn't have the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the old rugged cross. But in the Old Testament, they had a call to repentance. And they had faith in what would come, the sacrifice that would come, and their sins could be covered by the law, and through the sacrifices of animals for the covering of sin, God had provided a bomb, a way that they could be healed. And beloved, this rhetorical question he asked is because everybody understood it was a well-known fact that in Gilead, this small town on the east side of Jordan, It was well known for its healing plant. It was so well known it was exported all over the world at that time. This balm of Gilead. You can still buy Balm of Gilead today. You can order it on Amazon. A well-known plant that was a healing salve that purified the wound and promoted healing. It was just across the Jordan. It wasn't that far away. Can I tell you, beloved, the Balm is as close as your nearest prayer closet? Pour out your heart to him, and he will pour out healing upon you. In Gilead it is said that they had whole orchards of this native balsam plant. A balsam plant. They would take it, and when this plant, beloved, was bruised, when it was cut. From it would flow a healing balm, a salve that could be applied to a wound And bring healing. It was the power of the bomb was well known, it was established. Nobody questioned it. It was something that would provide healing to the wound, and people looked for it. They longed for it. It was exported all over Can I tell you for the true balm of Gilead that there are no substitutes? There is no generic or off-brand that you can buy. There are lots of ointments available today for the wounds you might like Neosporin or you might like the three and one or you might like oh that's an oil you don't want that on there but There's lots of ointments available that you can place on a wound that promote healing. There's some that come in sprays, some that come in tubes, some that come in a container. We have a container of silvedine. You guys know what that's for As for burns, silvodine. If you ever have a burn, I don't know if there's any more powerful of a of a thing to put on a burn wound than silvadine Don't get very much cause it lasts a long time. I think we've had this container since I was a teenager. Come. And we had a lot of booms. Uh But there there's ointments. There's uh oh Mom used to use straight out of aloe beer plant. She had a aloe verless in her room, in the living room growing. She'd just break it off and put that on the wound. Hey, there's a lot of things, but can I tell you that the Balm in Gilead that Jeremiah is speaking of is the shed blood of Jesus Christ, and there is no uh off-brand or generic thing. Oh, there's a lot of options, but none of them work. It is only the shed blood of Jesus Christ on that old rugged cross. But can I tell you, much like an antiseptic, that when it applies, when it's applied to a wound, it stings a little bit. And I tell you, sometimes the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God that comes on the heart of man it stings a little bit. It's applied to our sin and oh we don't like that and oh it's uncomfortable and it stings a little bit, but can I tell you Just like a father or a mother who's n nursing a child back and is applying that antiseptic and he's like, oh, oh, it stings, and you're like, but it's gonna heal It's going to purify, it's going to clean the wound and allow it to heal and not leave any scar. You've got to put it on. Can I tell you that the blood of Jesus Christ, it purifies, it cleanses, and it will heal in the end That shed blood of Jesus Christ. Oh beloved, is completely powerful. Psalms 103 verse 3 says, Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases? That bomb heals all your diseases. Completely. Can I tell you that uh the the the the thrill of knowing the forgiveness of God And having the shed blood of Jesus Christ applied to your heart is that the Bible tells us that you will be removed from the penalty of sin. The penalty of sin is eternity in a place called hell where that was prepared for the devil and his angels, but those that reject the bomb. Listen It's a mind-boggling thought that some would neglect the bomb, but they do, and they end up paying their own penalty for their own sin. But beloved, when your the shed blood of Jesus Christ is applied to your heart and it washes you clean, it purifies and it heals you of that sin problem, it removes you from the penalty of sin. Not only that, beloved, the Bible is very clear that it removes you from the power of sin presently. What a privilege to know that as believers we do not have to sin. You have been given power, you've been given victory over sin. And I know that sin is strong and temptation is real and it grabs a hold of you and it pulls you down. And you feel sometimes like you can't, but greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And God has made you to be an overcomer, and God is calling you today to overcome and to be a victor and to be on the winning side for God. You have been delivered from the power of sin in your life. And praise his holy name that one day When the eastern sky breaks or God calls this old body home, I'm going to be delivered from the presence of sin for all eternity. No longer to have to deal with that great problem. Oh, there have been so many who have been sick, and you ponder and think about the the the heartache of cancer. And how they they go in and they treat you and the treatment almost kills you as much as the cancer does, and then and then they're able to put it into remission for a little while. And hopefully it stays in remission. But it's something you have to continually monitor for the rest of your days because your body has given to that already. That's what sin's like. Here we we have to monitor that, oh, but beloved, we're going to be delivered. We're going to be delivered. The healing bomb of Gilead. Washes away your sin forever and for all. The second question he asks is concerning the presence of the physician. He says, Is there no physician there? It was well known and established, beloved, that there was a plethora of physicians in Gilead. That would be like asking, is there no physicians at Johns Hopkins? It'd be like somebody walking down the street and that they're they're sick and they go right by John Hopkins and and and they could have gone in and got got healed, but they would say, Well, is there no doctors in there? Is it they don't have any medicine in there? Why would you be out here and be sick and and dying and feel so bad? Why wouldn't you go in there? The prophet looks at the children of Israel and the problem that was overrunning their country, and he's heartbroken, and he's driven to tears, and he says, Is there no bomb in Gilead? Is there no physician in Gilead? Can I tell you the great physician Jesus Christ is there and he still makes house calls? He's available. All you have to do is turn to him and cry out to him in prayer. He is available. He is able. Sometimes you get a doctor and you wonder if you've got the right one. You're just wondering, is this the best guy? I mean this is not a this is not a hangnail I'm dealing with here. This is this is a serious thing. Is this the right doctor for this this problem I have? It gives you some confidence when you read some periodicals about him or some articles that have been written or maybe the nurse comes in and says, oh, he has performed uh Three hundred and eighty-seven of these yesterday uh or last year or that he's the foremost uh leader in this field and then you're like, Oh, I got the right doctor. Well can I tell you that Jesus is the right doctor? He is the right one and he has the ability, he is able. Oh, when he walked into Jerusalem on that poem Sunday, he knew full well that he was walking to his death. Oh, he had he had sat in the garden and he sweat great great drops of blood as he pondered what was before him and as he considered dying for the sins of the entire world and the the pain and the heartache and he says, Oh God, if it be thy will, let this cup pass from me. But nevertheless, thy will be done, and he submitted to the will of the Father, and he set his face like a flint for Jerusalem, and he walked into Jerusalem. On Palm Sunday, oh, under the cries of Hosanna and glory to the highest and everybody extolling his virtues, but he understood that within a couple of days they would be crying, Crucify Him Crucify him. And he would give his life and his shed blood would fall from the cross onto a ground, but with every drop it would cry forth, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. The shed blood of Jesus crying from the ground for the forgiveness of every man. Can I tell you, much like the plant? When Jesus' body was bruised, when his body was cut, from his veins flowed a healing bomb. The only bomb that can and ever could heal man's sin problem. There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's. And sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. Dear dying lamb, thy precious blood shall never lose its power. Till all the ransom ones of God be saved. No more. Or there is a fountain, and what flows in it is the healing balm of Gilead that is available. But the blunder is there's so many neglected. You see, lastly this morning, the blundering rejection. The prophet cries out, why then is not the health of the daughters of my people recovered? If you knew this morning that there was something available to heal whatever physical ailment you're dealing with. And we have many around the room today. If there was something available, whether you had to drive to somewhere on this continent or get onto a plane and fly across the world, you would do it. Yet the message has gone forth via radio and internet and the pulpits all over the world about the healing bomb of Gilead, the only means by which Men's sin can be forgiven, and they can know beyond a shadow of a doubt that they're going to have an eternity in heaven, and they've been restored in a relationship with their heavenly Father, their Creator, and yet men Reject it. Can I tell you that if you neglect it, it is the same as rejecting. Where the prophet says, How shall we escape if we neglect Still great is salvation. If you neglect the healing that's there, that's available for you, you you have not been healed You may even know about it, but if you neglect to take it and apply it to your heart, you still are not healed. People reject this bomb because of pride. You see, they think they know better. Well, the word of God is clear and the message of God is clear. The gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection is the only means by which men's sin can be forgiven. There is no question in that. Yet people still believe they have a better solution. You remember Steve Jobs? In 2003, he was diagnosed with cancer. But he's a pretty smart guy. He told the doctors they they it was very treatable. He said if you have surgery and we do this, this is this is not a death sentence. This can be fixed. And he's like, nah, I I don't need that. And so he decided to change, he said, I I'll take care of it myself. And he he he started taking some herbal supplements. He he went and talked to some other people in other countries and changed his diet some. Now those things were probably good for him, but can I tell you they didn't heal his cancer? In 2011 he died from it. Because by the time he went to the doctor and said, Okay, I'm sorry, yeah, I should have done something, they said it's too late. It has spread. It's now all through your body, it can't be it can't be fixed. You see, that's what people do with the sin problem. They're like, oh, I got another way to deal with it. I'm just gonna turn over a new leaf. I'm gonna do better. I'm gonna get baptized. I'm gonna I'm gonna give to the church or I'm gonna give to the needy. I'm gonna go serve in the food lines down in in the city. Those are all good things, but they don't fix the sin problem. Only the healing balm of Gilead, Jesus Christ, and his shed blood can fix the sin problem. Oh, they reject this, they neglect it because of unbelief. They just don't want to admit they're sick. You ever met anybody unwilling to go to the doctor? All the ladies are looking at their husbands. They're they're they're elbowing the person next to them. Uh like come on. You you got a fever, you haven't been out of bed in three days, there's a problem. Oh, I'm okay. I'm okay. I I'll be fine uh uh people neglect the cure because uh they think they're okay. They think they think it's gonna be alright. I mean sin is not that bad. They don't believe maybe that a holy God would send anybody to hell. And so they say, well, no, God loves us, and God would never send anybody to hell. Yes, He does love you. That's why He provided a healing balm for it to apply to your sin problem. But if you neglect it, if you reject it, what hope have you? Jesus addressed the problem in Mark 2. 17. He says, when Jesus heard it, he said unto them, They that are whole have no need of a physician. But they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. He said, Beloved, the problem is they that think they're all okay. They don't think they have a problem, they don't need a physician. So we have to get back to realizing, acknowledging the fact that we're sinners and we need a physician. And that he is the physician. Some don't necessarily reject the bomb, but they they neglect it by delay. You know, I know there's a problem, but I'm just gonna wait. I'm gonna deal with it later. I'm not ready uh to give my heart and mind and body and soul over to God or try and follow him and so I'm going to wait and live my own life for a little while, and then someday down the road, I mean, I know that Jesus is the way, and I know I need to trust him and ask him to forgive me of my sin, but I'm not ready to do that. Isn't that mind-boggling? If you were afflicted with some terrible illness The doctor had a cure right there for you and you said, nah, I think I'm gonna stay sick a little while longer. Just gonna wait a little while longer. It's like the the the Egyptians who uh said yeah we're not ready to get rid of these frogs yet I mean we know the solution, but let's let's take the frogs for another day. I mean the end is the same. Jesus is the answer. The problem with delay, by beloved, is the Bible says, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. You might be like Steve Jobs who found out that it was too late. And beloved, it's too late after you die. And you don't know what tomorrow holds. The fact of the matter is you could go out of here today and on your way home you could pass off into eternity or eternity, you could have a a brain aneurysm, you could have a massive heart attack, you could get involved in a wreck. We don't know what a day brings forth. From the youngest child in our building today to the oldest adult, the fact of the matter is is any one of us could not be here tomorrow. Do not delay. God is holding out the answer for you today in the shed blood of Jesus, the the the healing balm for your sin problem. Don't neglect it. Why not come to Christ today? Church, can I tell you that this is why we've got to keep sending missionaries? Because there is a healing bone that's available. To a lost and dying world that are lost and they're dying in their sin and they're passing off into an eternity where they spend an eternity in hell. And we send missionaries so that they go out in the world and not so that they provide water for a neighborhood or so that they can feed some hungry children or they can put shoes on some kids that need shoes. These are all great things, but beloved, so that they can give them the gospel of Jesus Christ. So their eternity can be changed from an eternity in hell to an eternity in heaven. That's why we've got to keep running that bus out there and continue to pick up us kids and bring them to church because there is a bomb in Gilead, because there is a physician available. That's why we've got to keep having junior church and keep preaching the gospel. Why, Christian, you have got to continue to be faithful. Why you've got to continue to be in your place, why you've got to continue to be a part of the church and continue to serve God, because the fact of the matter is it's real. And Jesus is still on the throne, and he there is still a bomb in Gilead, and the answer is still available for any who would choose to take it. We can't get casual about our Christianity. This is too serious. We've got to continue to be faithful, we've got to continue to be a witness. Why we we stand in awe at the blunder of those who neglect the bomb. Well I wonder, Christian, if we too need some healing. And we're saying, well not yet Not yet. I want one more night with the frogs. I want one more night with that besetting sin. I want one more day pursuing my own will. And then I'll come back to the physician. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed