We've been looking at the topic of prayer here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You see the banners hanging behind me on bended knee with the exhortation, encouragement to God's people to approach life and everything that we do in life on bended knee. I hope that as these messages have gone forth and uh the book that we had in the bookstore, there's still a couple of copies there entitled The Near The Kneeling Christian by the Unknown Christian. A great book. Many people have given testimony in here that have read it already about how it's challenged them and stirred them. There are still a few copies in there and they are half price. through the church here, then you could get it anywhere else. Uh just in an effort to try and get it in your hand and encourage you in this matter of prayer Beloved, I am burdened and stirred to the point that I long to see God do things as a direct result of my prayers. I want to see God answer my prayers. And I hope you desire to see that. Have you ever had cause or need to dial 911? I praise the Lord. As far as I know, I've never had cause to do that. I've I've never had need to do that. Now people have called it for me. Uh no, I'm just kidding. Um Uh no, I I I as far as I recall, I don't think I've ever dialed 911 in my life, but I have on numerous occasions had to dial God's emergency number. You know that number is? Three three three. Jeremiah thirty three three. That was our verse for last month, and I never had the opportunity in the month to speak on that. And I did preach a message back in January entitled The Christian's Lifelines. And that should be available on sermon audio if you would like to hear it, a message specifically with that verse. But that is the Christian's emergency number. Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. You know, I can't I can't help, but if you guys know that little chorus, would you sing it, sing it with me Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Amen. Call unto me How many of you knew that chorus before today? There's a good number of people who have never heard that. Let's sing it again. It's a quick, it's easy. It's a scripture. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not I have a problem trying to do that all with one breath and I get to the end and I don't have enough breath left. Uh I gotta breathe in there somewhere. But uh that's a great song and just something to remind you as you're going through your day, as something comes up, you can call Call God at any moment of emergency, any struggle that you have. Now, beloved, it is imperative that we as God's people and as a church continue in this matter of prayer. That we continue to be involved in the work of prayer, and it is work. But I believe, beloved, that the success or failure of our lives as Christians is based more on prayer than anything else The success and failure of the ministry, the church, Hunk Valley Baptist Church, is going to be dependence more than anything else on this matter of prayer. Prayer, beloved, is an amazing thing. Yes, it's work. Yes, it's effort, but prayer is unique in its accessibility As you think about or ponder the fact that anybody can come to God in prayer. It doesn't matter if it's the somebody comes to God with grand words from the lip of an orator. Or hesitating stammers from the lips of a child. God hears the prayer. Prayer is accessible to any who would want to come to approach the throne and have a simple conversation with God. I still recall when I first began working for one of the men in the church here many years ago. We'd start our day with prayer. And I love the conversational way in which he do it. He would say, Lord, it's me again. We're here, starting our day. Getting ready to just do what we gotta do, but Lord, we want you to bless it. Just having a conversation with God. He's your friend. Prayer is not that difficult. You don't have to, you know, sometimes people get up here behind the pulpit and, dear Heavenly Father, thou great and magnificent one The creator of heaven and earth that reaches from the highest to the lowest. We come to you in the full richness of your blessings. And sometimes God's people think, Man, I can't pray like that. Well, he's just putting on a show. Don't worry about him You know what I'm saying? You're just talking to your friend. You don't have to come to him with some great gr grand words and lift up and try and have a doctorate in theology in order to pray. Anybody can pray. Just tell the Lord what's on your heart. Just say, Lord, I'm feeling lonely today. Lord, I just I'm excited today. Boy, you've been so good to me. I just want to praise you. Lord, here's what I'm feeling today, and just talk to him as your friend. It's unique in its accessibility. Anybody can do it. It's unique in its application. Prayer, beloved, if you think about it, almost always deals with nobler things. It almost always gives an aspiration to higher issues, to greater things to motivate us on to more positive action. The very fact that one is praying is positive in the expression that we believe that Almighty God hears and will answer Prayer. But beloved, prayer is unique in its accomplishments as well. How could we possibly mark or measure the vast benefit of prayer. I mean how could we do it? How could we possibly quantify or put a number on all those times where the Almighty God has intervened On behalf of man. I mean, we just can't quantify it. How many times has God reached down into this sinsick world and rescued The heart, sick, soul. How many times has the lame been given the ability to walk and the sick been healed? How many times has the weary been given strength and the discouraged been encouraged and the depressed lifted from their depression? How many times has God intervened in your lives individually? God, on behalf of you, met your need. I mean prayer is unique in its accomplishments in what it does. And it does not have to be just a pastor or minister in church or a deacon or somebody else. Anybody can come and know the power of prayer in their life. And this morning, as we talk about that which was the theme for the month of April, the power of prayer. Now I know The month got away from me and we've actually we've crossed over. We'll get to this month in a week or two. But but the power of prayer, I didn't want to let that theme pass, that idea pass, and we're not going to deal specifically With the verse, call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. But I want to look at some of the passages in the scriptures where we see a believer, a man, a woman come to God in prayer. and see God answer. Oh, the the the the I had to I had to cross so many off the list. There's so many places in the scripture where God answered prayer in a powerful, real way specifically, and I just kind of fixed three because any good message has three So we got three that we're going to look at and kind of apply them to our life, and I hope that it stirs your heart this morning, encourages you to continue in this matter of prayer. to see God work on your behalf. First of all, beloved, I want you to notice that prayer gives us victory over problems. Turn to the book of Acts if you would, the book of Acts, chapter number 12. Prayer gives us victory over problems. Any of you ever had a problem in your life? Well, I'll tell you, that's the chorus of life, isn't it? That's those those things happen. Problems come up. And I know many times our first response to the problem is is You know, not the correct response. But we ought to be praying, and I hope that you're in challenge this morning with this matter of prayer and it'll help you in your problem and The book of Acts, chapter 12, verses 5 through 17. And I don't think we're going to read the whole passage here, but we have here the story of Peter. Peter was thrown into prison for preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. And notice in verse number five it says, Peter therefore was kept in prison. But prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. So Peter was thrown into prison because he was preaching, and he's in prison there. If you read down a little further, you'll find that not only was he in prison, apparently they thought he was a particularly hostile person or something, because he was chained between two soldiers. So not only was he in jail, that wasn't sufficient, they had him chained to two soldiers. Well, the church of God is on their knees and they're praying and they're looking to see God answer their prayers and are asking that Peter be released. And the angel appears unto Peter in the prison. And his chains fall off. And Peter is apparently in some type of a little bit of a uh uh state as he sees this angel and the chains fall off. The angel walks them out, tells them, hey, don't be afraid. They walk outside the prison. But then I think it's down like in verse number 11 It tells, yeah, verse number 11, he says, And when Peter came to himself, he said, Now I know of a surety that the Lord hath sent his angel and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod. I mean he he said boy I'm free look at this I mean he he just it almost like how did I get out of here? He's like yeah that that actually I thought I was dreaming Have you ever woke up and realized you were dreaming you know you y you thought you won a million you thought you won a million dollars and you were excited. I was talking to the family that I was I was I think it was Sometimes I it was somebody I was talking to. I'm not gonna say who. And they were talking about this lady said, I woke up and I was mad at my husband because we had a fight in my dream. She says, I woke up mad. Uh you know, so Peter apparently kind of woke up and and realized he he's like, hey, this is real. I'm free. And he was excited about it. And he says, hey, I'm gonna go tell the church about it I'm gonna go go and he goes there to to Mary's house and knocks on the door. And when he knocks on the door, they send a little girl. They're in there praying They send Rhoda in, hey, go answer the door. She goes to answer the door, and I don't know if she's probably been trained really smart and she didn't just open the door. She's like, who is it? And uh she hears Peter's voice. And she gets so excited, she says, Peter, Peter is here. And she she turns around and she runs back into the house and she tells everybody praying. Hey, Peter's at the door. Now if you know the story, they don't believe her. You know that gives me some encouragement, beloved. Here these people were praying and they said Peter she said Peter's at the door and they're like, No, he's not And they actually said, maybe it's an angel. They were ready to believe that an angel that looked like Peter showed up at the door, but not Peter. You know, sometimes you're praying, you think, I don't know if I have enough for faith. And of course, we're supposed to pray in faith believing But listen, according to that story, I don't see anybody in the house that was saying, hey, God's releasing him from prison tonight. This is happening. There was nobody convinced on their knees that this is going to take place because they said he is not at the door Then he continues to knock and they go open the door and they see Peter's there. Beloved, God answers prayer. And verse number 17 he says, But he beckoned unto them with a hand to hold their peace. He said, Hey, wait, wait, wait. I'm sure they were all excited. And he declared unto them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. He said, this is what God did, and he told them the story about the angel that came and the chains fell off, and they walked right out of the prison. You know, I'm just wondering, did they not have a martial service back then? I've always wondered about all these people got free from prison, like what happened? Is the prisons just say, oh well they got out? I don't know. I mean uh wha is it okay, like once you're outside the jail, nobody's gonna bother you? Like today they would go after you, right? I I don't know. Yeah. But you know, he got freed from prison. Beloved God can bring a solution to your problem. And I don't know what problem you have in life, but I know that God has the power to help. God can give you victory in your problem, whatever it is. Let me say this to you though, beloved, and that is that God might not always change the problem. But through prayer, he will change your perspective. Sometimes He might not remove the problem, but he'll change your perspective, your view of what's taking place in that problem. On one hand The problem looks destructive. On one hand, it seems to be more that you can bear. On one hand, you say, I can't take this anymore. But then in prayer, God speaks to your heart and your soul, and you realize that God is molding a masterpiece, a treasure beyond measure. God is doing work that only He can do in your heart and life, and you understand what it is, and you say, Okay, Lord, you are a sovereign God. Okay, I trust you, and you've given me victory, even though I'm still in the problem. On Friday I called Brother Gene Sharp. It was Benita's birthday. Eight months after Benita was tragically killed in a car wreck. Through the course of talking, he said to me, he says, Caleb, I told God this morning in prayer. He said, God, I don't understand. I don't understand why you would choose to take her from me. I literally do not know a more godly woman. Anybody more consistent and strong in their faith than she was. Lord, I don't know of a lady that was a better wife or a better mother than she was. Lord She honored her mother and her father. Without fail in 24 years of marriage, I never heard her speak ill of her mother and her father. She always responded to any request they have. Lord, she honored her mother and her father. She said, but at my prayer time I looked at God and said, God You are a sovereign God. And although I do not understand why, I trust you. See my bonita is not here, but God, I know that you're in control. That you rule and reign in the affairs of men. And this was not an accident that just happened, and I'm without her because of some tragedy, but the fact is Is that God you're in control and there may be some reason that I have to bear this. There's a reason why I'm going through this. And God, I refuse to be angry. I'm telling you the words that he told me. He said, I refuse to be angry. I refuse to be bitter. But I love you, Lord, and I trust you. You see, beloved, God was not going to turn that problem around for him. He was dealing with something that was unchangeable, but God changed his perspective in the problem. And I don't know what you're going through, and there's times where God can miraculously take the problem and remove it. God can solve it. God can heal. God can lift you out of that problem. But sometimes God's just going to change your perspective on the problem. He's just going to give you the ability to, even though you're going through the problem, you still have victory. You still have victory because of God. I want you to know also, beloved, that prayer gives victory in our service. Turn back in chapter 1 of Acts. Acts chapter 1. In verse number 14, you know the promise from God given us to us in one eight, and ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Jerusalem and Judea and and to the uttermost. That promise given there we see that the church was praying for it in Acts 1, verse number 14. He says, These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with women and Mary and the mother of Jesus. and with his brethren. They continued in prayer, and then you get to chapter number two, and Peter gets up to preach. Turn to chapter two and verse number forty one. You see Peter preaches and we have this very familiar story here, but He says there in verse number two chapter two, verse 41, he says, Then they that gladly received his word were baptized, and the same day they were added unto them about three thousand souls. Beloved, the only way we're going to see real fruit in our service for God is through prayer. is through prayer. These people got on their knees and they prayed and God wrought a great miracle where 3,000 were saved and added to the church. Now, contrary to the recent articles that have gone out in the newspapers, Hunt Valley Baptist Church is not a megachurch. But maybe if we prayed and fasted and received the power from God, we could be. Amen. I'm not sure how much they would like that, but what I'm saying is God can do something in our midst, but it's not going to happen because the pastor has a great personality, although he does Now it's not going to happen because there's there's such great exposition of the scriptures here, or because there's such talented people at the piano, and we have very talented people People at our piano, and it's not going to happen because the children's choir is so magnificent, although they do a great job. It's going to happen because God Almighty comes on the scene and works in the hearts of men Does what only God can do. It's not a message. It's not a sermon out of a book. It's a message from God God has to reach into the hearts of men and do that work. Pastor Caleb can't do that work. Nobody can do that work. Only Jesus can convict the heart of sin and motivate somebody to change their destiny. God can do that. But we've got to see God do it through prayer. Beloved, the fields are white unto harvest. It's a promise from God. There are around us literally thousands and thousands of people who need Jesus Christ. Why aren't we seeing more fruit? Why aren't we seeing more results from our service? Have we gotten lackadaisical and comfortable and casual in our prayer life? We begin to do our ministry and our work just day by day as wrote expressions of activity instead of motivated by love for Christ. There's a man who receives the nickname of Praying Hyde because of the time that he spent in prayer. He prayed so much. People just said, oh, that's praying hide. That was what he was known for. Praying, hide, prayed, and asked God to allow him to lead one soul to Christ, one soul every week. And God answered that prayer. And for an entire year, praying high was able to lead a soul to Christ. Then praying Hyde said, well, if God could give me a soul once a week, then God could give me a soul once a day And he went to prayer for the souls of men, and God allowed him to read reach one soul to Christ every day. Because he Prayed. He was known as praying high. Those that were closest to him said he rarely slept because he was awake in the hours of night, burdened for the souls of men. Would bring them before God, praying for the souls of men. Beloved, it's a futile endeavor to try and do the work of God in our own strength. Have you ever stuck your hand into a bucket of water and pulled it out? You know, maybe you dropped something in there and you stuck it in there and you pulled it out. You didn't actually make much impact on that, did you? You could even stick your hand in there and swish it all around and move it all, get stirred all up, make a lot of racket, and then pull your hand out, but what happens after a second? I mean you didn't leave a hole in the water, did you? I mean i that's kinda what Christian service is like without the power of God. A lot of activity, a lot of moving around, a lot of shaking, maybe a lot of noise, but when you stand back, not a lot happened. And beloved, that's not what we want. We want God to do great work. And if we want God to do a great work, it's not going to happen without prayer. We need to pray. Elisha prayed a prayer of twenty-six words, and fire fell from heaven. It wasn't some big, elaborate, long prayer. He looked up Up into the heaven to his God and said, Lord, this is for you. This is that you would declare your power among men, that they might know you. you would you send fire and fire fell from heaven and consumed the sacrifice, the altar, and all the wood, all the water. The source of our power is not in us, but it's God working through us. And that only happens, beloved, when there's a proper union between us and in him. We're able to bring God's divine omnipotent power. Omnipotent power is is unlimited. That's a theological word, om omnipotence, the omnipotence of God. That's talking about God's power. It's unlimited. All power is given to him. And we can bring that power to bear to bear in our situation. I remember one time in El Paso, Texas, when we were teenagers, my dad bought a fifteen thousand square foot theater. ten dollars. He bought it for literally ten dollars. And we had ninety days to tear this theater down level with the ground. It was on Fort Bliss in El Paso. And we We we bought it for the materials to be able to use to build with. And we just had to take the building apart, board by board, nail by nail, dismantle this building, and it was dad and a bunch of us teenagers. We went to work. Well the roof was a flat roof, was a gravel roof. And uh we took this gravel and wheelbarrow load after wheelbarrow load dumped it off the end of the building. Then we had dumpsters delivered and we were able to put it in these dumpsters and we had this huge pile of gravel out there in a yard. And we were by shovel load picking this gravel up into the wheelbarrows and putting it into a dumpster. And down the road drives a great big like 9 950 960 cat loader wheel loader. I mean a great big loader. I mean bigger the the bucket's twice the size of this pulpit driving down the road Probably four, five, six hundred horsepower. And we're doing this with a shovel. And we're like, man, it would be nice to have that right now. Oh, we're all there drooling, right? And Dad says, it sure would. Dad jumps in the car and chases him down. So here we are in Fort Bliss. There's this soldier in the co in this vehicle driving it to go do some job and he tells him, Hey, we're over here. You see those kids You see how hard they're working. No, I don't know what that says. But he says, Would you come and help us? The guy says, Sure, I'll help you He came over and I mean in about 10 minutes had all that gravel picked up saved us days worth of work You know, that's what it's like. We're here digging one shovel at a time and God has all power. To come in and do great and mighty things. And sometimes we're sitting back saying, man, it would be nice to have that But God says you have not because you ask not. We're not asking God, and we need to see God do great things. Lastly, this morning, I want you to understand that prayer gives victory over sin. Prayer is what gives victory over sin. When one prays, sin begins to lose its power over us. Oh beloved. If you're here this morning and you praise God for the healing balm of Gilead, would you say amen? Are you thankful this morning that you can be forgiven for your sin? That is one of the most amazing truths of the scriptures that We can be forgiven when we sin, but I want you to understand this morning that prayer was never meant to just be An antibiotic to take after you've been infected with sin. It was never meant to be just a solution to repair the damage that is caused by sin. Prayer is supposed to be a vaccination which keeps you from being infected with sin. You have got to get involved in the ministry of prayer so that that work can be done in your heart and the temptation of sin you'll have the power to resist it. The the attacks of Satan and the darts that are coming, you'll have that shield of faith up to to ward off the darts of Satan. But it's through prayer that that's accomplished. When we live in a spirit of prayer, in the attitude of prayer, the power of sin in our lives is broken. What is it that motivates somebody to come to the place where they're living in a spirit of prayer? What is it that would motivate you to take that time that you could know victory over sin? I would put to you this morning that it is because one has learned the destructive nature. One has experienced or knows how sin will destroy all that is good in your life Sin will rob from you your peace. It will destroy and take from you your purity. It will squash your happiness. It can and many times even affect your health because of sin. You see, it's only somebody who doesn't fear it Somebody that thinks they can handle it. That they just ignore the sin. They think, oh, I'm okay. I can do this. It's not that bad. But when we fear it, when we realize the destructive nature When we realize the work that Satan wants to do in our life, we see the path that's taken us down. It motivates you to pray and say, God, save me from that end. And sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. It destroys all that's good in your life. We've got to come to the realization of how bad and how how hurtful sin is in our life. And when we see that, we'll say, Lord, please help me. Lord, give me victory over sin. Lord, keep me from temptation. Lord, watch over me. Lord, put a hedge about me. Lord, put a hedge about my children. Protect them from sin and from Satan. God do a work. We are motivated to be in a spirit of prayer because We know how damaging sin is. And beloved, when we're praying, God gives victory Could I ask you this morning, do you feel the weight of that sin? Has sin got you bound up? Do you feel that there is no release or no way to quit or be freed from the sin that's Held you bondage for how long? But let me ask you: if you're here today and you've experienced forgiveness for your sin. You know what I'm saying when I say Jesus saved my soul. If that's you, I want to try and get everybody involved. I know that there's probably almost everybody here, but you say, I know I've been forgiven of my sin. Say amen. Amen. Now you could go through this room and every person that said amen, you could ask them, how do you know you've been forgiven for your sin? Sin. And they will say, I prayed. I prayed and asked Jesus Who is the Savior of men and the only one that can forgive men of sin. I prayed and asked Jesus to forgive me of that sin, and He did Every one of them will have that same answer. Listen, maybe you were at home when you prayed. Maybe you were at church when you prayed. Maybe you were at work when you prayed. Maybe you're out in the field or playing in a park. But at some point you came to the realization that you were a sinner and you needed Jesus Christ, and so you bowed your head and you prayed for forgiveness of your sins. Maybe you're young. Maybe you're old. Maybe you're a man, or maybe you're a woman. There are some who thought they were righteous, and there's some who knew they were wicked. But those things are not what was important. What was important is they knew they were a sinner and they prayed. They prayed and asked Jesus to save them. Almost everyone here today can remember a time where you felt that weight of sin and you knew you needed forgiveness. And you And God forgave you of that sin. Now as Christians, sadly, sometimes we get we get involved back in sin. And we need to But we know that when we do, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You see, it's just a prayer away. Prayer gives victory over sin. Do you want to have victory today? Then pray.