Uh so follow along with me in the Word of God as we get this uh story in our hearts and minds in preparation for the sermon to follow here shortly. He says, Now Naaman, captain of the host, the king of Syria, was a great man. with his master and honorable, because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. He was also a mighty man in valor But he was a leper. And the Syrians had gone out by companies, and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maid, and she waited on Naaman's wife And she said unto her mistress, Would God, my Lord, were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. And one went in and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus saith the maid that is of the land of Israel. And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel And he departed, and he took with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of raiment. And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now when this letter is come to thee Behold, I have therewith sent Naaman, my servant, to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy And it came to pass, when the king of Israel had read the letter, that he rent his clothes, and he said, Am I God to kill and to make alive? That this man does send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? Wherefore consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me. And it was so when Elisha The man of God had heard that the king of Israel had rent his clothes, he sent to the king, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? Let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariots, and he stood at the door of the house of Elisha. And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. But Naaman was wroth and went away and said, Behold, I thought he would surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God and strike his hand over the place and recover the leper. Are not Abna and Pafar the rivers of Damascus better than all the water of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage. And his servant came here, and he spake unto him and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee to do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash and be clean Then went he down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God. And his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. I'm going to preach to you this morning a message after a ladies sing entitled The General That Found God. The General That Found God, ladies. That found God. You know, leprosy is a horrific disease. There's a description given here of this general and who he was and tells us many things about him, but the word but is there says but he was a leper. He had this disease, this horrific disease of leprosy that once caught, the infection spread slowly through the body. left untreated as it would have been in Bible times as they didn't have the means and the wherewithal that we do today. Left untreated, this disease removes the senses in your fingers and your toes, and it begins to attack the extremities first. And uh in because of injury and because of the infection, it slowly eats away at all the extremities of your body, your ears, your nose. your toes, your hands, your fingers, to the point where those will literally uh fall off. You'll just have nubs left where your fingers all were, and the damage to you physically is is horrific. Uh it's a very unsightly disease Uh large sores can grow and fester and uh especially even on any type of exposed skin and including your face. It's a disease that eventually will kill you. It will bring death. It's such a horrific disease and so bad was it that even though we have the means today to take care of it Even though really it's it's hard to catch today and once you catch it it's easily treated. Even today there is a stigma with leprosy. Even today there is really a level of almost discrimination against those that might have leprosy because of people's fear of of catching it. And so that remains even this far down in history because of how horrific this is. But, friend, I want you to know that there's a disease that's spreading through the heart of man that's far worse than leprosy. The end results are far more horrific than that. Of leprosy. That disease is a disease of sin. The prognosis is death. Not just physical death, but literally an eternal death the Bible describes where we're separated from God forever and ever. In a place called hell. Sin has the power to bring death and to carry any who are infected with this disease To a place called hell. We've read already the story of Naaman here. For many of us, these Bible stories Like this story of Naaman is what colored our childhood. And what a beautiful and heartwarming story to think about this man Who had this incurable disease and had no hope of curing himself, nothing could be done for him but God. But he found God and God cured him of the disease that plagued his soul. That really is the heart of this story. The heart of the message of this story is that a man who had an incurable disease found God. And God cured him. And so it is with each and every man, woman, boy, and girl who's ever lived. We were born with a sin nature. We were born with that disease of sin that creeps through our heart. And it's incurable on our own. We can't do anything about it. It's there. There's nothing we can do to overcome it, but God can heal us. Would you consider with me this story as we walk through it and just maybe draw our attention back to this and see the lessons that are there for us today and If you don't know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you've been cured this morning of the disease of sin, I want you to know there's hope for you. And this morning we say we extend an invitation for you to trust Christ and be cured today. First of all, would you consider the hopeless condition of this general? His hopeless condition in verse number one there we see that now Naaman, the captain of the host, the king of Syria, he was a great man. With his master, and honorable, because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria, and he was a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper But he was a leper. Boy, you can think about this man and all of the power that he had. A mighty man, this leader of men, a man's man, as it were. the position of leadership he had, the prestige that he had, I mean the ability to give a command and entire segments or regiments of men would would move to accomplish whatever it is he said needed to happen. But he was a leper. How much power he had didn't matter. How much prestige he had didn't make any difference. He was a leper. Not only do we know that this man was looked up to by many others and had an amazing position, but the Bible tells us here that this man was honorable. I think that's amazing the Lord takes time to point out to us that this was a good man. He was a man that had good moral character He was honorable. That means when he when he gave somebody his word and said he was going to do it, he did it. Amen? He had integrity. He he he said his word was his bond. And and and listen, Christian, your word ought to be your bond You ought to be you ought to have some integrity and you ought to be trustworthy. This man, uh when he said something, he did it This man could be trusted. He was honest. He was honorable in his doings. He was of good moral character. He loved his wife and was faithful to her. He was honorable. But he was a leper. But he was a leper. He had a tremendous performance record. You can see what he had accomplished. As he describes here for us that this man had, God through him, had given deliverance to the armies of Syria. They had won many victories in battle. It says he was a mighty man of valor. He had proved himself in a conflict. He could be trustworthy. They knew when they went into battle, Naman was going to be right there at the forefront. He was going to be standing with them. He had courage and he was going to fight with them. God's hand was with him enough that you saw he had victory. He accomplished many, many things. But he was a leper. You see, he had an incurable disease. It was eating him from the inside out. It didn't matter that he was a moral man. He was still a leper. It didn't matter that he was respected or had power or prestige, this leprosy was still going to kill him. It was going to take his life. Can I state for you the obvious truth this morning? Do you see the the direction that we're headed? Each of us were born with a sin nature. With that disease of sin that's in our hearts. It's part of the the passed on from Adam. From the time that Adam sinned until uh the Lord comes back, every person born is gonna have that sin nature. It's gonna be part of us. It's present and beloved, it doesn't matter how powerful you are, you're a sinner. It doesn't matter how press so much prestige and recognition you get in a community, you're a sinner It doesn't matter how much you've accomplished and how many victories you've won or how successful you are as a businessman, you're a sinner. You've got that disease of sin that's in the heart And it's there. And it has the power to bring death. The consequences are the same. No matter who you are, or no matter what you've done. You know what? It doesn't even matter that you're a fine, upstanding citizen with good, strong moral character. You're still a sinner? You are honorable. You have integrity. Your word is your bond. But you're still a sinner. That's in our hearts, it's something that's there that we cannot change on our own, and we have no way to heal it, heal it on our own. Just as the end result of leprosy brings death, sin, when it's finished, brings forth death. And beloved, this is an incurable disease that we can't do anything about. And it doesn't matter who we are, it doesn't matter how successful we are, or how power powerful or popular or our personality, or even or even if you're you're good at uh Good, kind things. We still have something inside that we can't cure on our own Are you with me today? But I want you to see this morning the hopeful cry. The hopeful cry that was given by a little maid. In verses number two and three we see, and the Syrians had gone out by companies and had brought away captive into the land of Israel. A little maid. And she waited on Naaman's wife, and she said unto her mistress, Would God, my Lord, were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. And one went in and told the Lord, saying, Thus and thus, said the maid, that was of the land of Israel. What an amazing contrast here, beloved, between this great man Verse 1 describes Naaman, this great man. Talks about him being mighty, all of his power and prestige, and then on the other hand The word of God take the God puts in here the description of this little maid. This little made. A stronger contrast could not be made between two individuals and their outward ability. Their success in life or what they've accomplished. On one hand, you have somebody who in every way was successful in this world, and on the other hand, somebody who in every way had yet to even start. But she knew God. She knew God. You know this little maid had no reason to help Naaman She had no reason at all. Matter of fact, she really, from a human standpoint, had every reason to despise him. She had every reason to be angry and to actually wish him dead. He was, if not directly, certainly complicit in her captivity If he didn't individually, personally go into her home and take her and bring her as captive and enslave her, they certainly were complicit as they forced her to serve in their home. You know, I can just think about and picture what this little girl thought in her heart and mind is at night. When she was laying in her bed and she longed for the embrace of her own mother. I can think about what was going through her heart when through the day when she was working and serving and doing what she had to do and She was so lonely, she was cold, even though it was a warm day. I don't know. I suppose maybe girls are a little bit kinder. So I can tell you what a boy would be thinking. A boy would be polishing the general shoes and he would be, you know, I gotta polish your stupid shoes. You got them dirty, why don't you polish your shoes, you know Boy, I'll tell you what, if I was a general, if I had his power, boy, things would be different. Boy, you know, if if if I if I if I wasn't this little kid, if I was strong enough Boy, when I when I get strong enough, I'm gonna do something about this. I can see him going through from one job to the next and thinking about this general and thinking, boy, if I was a general, there would be no more pillaging There would be no more burning of innocent people's homes. If I was a general, I would go through and free every single one of the boys and girls who had been taken captive and let them go home to their moms and dads I can see the heart of a young boy getting pretty bitter, pretty angry, day by day, having been forced to serve She had no reason to offer hope. Why would she do it? Compassion. Compassion is the only reason. We just finished studying the book of Jude in Jude 22, some having compassion, making a difference. This little made made a difference. Do you know, beloved, your measure of service is not determined by your size? It's not determined by your powers, not determined by your ability. It's determined by your compassion, by your love. She knew God and she told her master about him. You know, parents, this is why it's vitally important that our kids see God. I don't mean that it's just good that they come to church. That is good. What I'm talking about is that our kids, our young kids, see God working in our lives. They see God real and powerful and making differences in our life. They see Him do some miraculous things for us because one day later in life when they're in a strange country and they're at a place where it looks like there's no hope, they won't know where to go except they'll look back and they'll remember there's somebody that can help no matter how bad things are, and that's God. They'll know that there's a God in heaven. But not if they don't see him. This little girl, somewhere Got some faith in God. For she had the boldness to go to the general's wife and say, oh man If your husband, if the master, if he was just in Israel, I know there's a prophet there, and that prophet knows God, and that prophet could pray, and God could heal him of his leprosy She had faith. She knew it could happen. Do our kids have that kind of faith? That kind of faith to tell others about him? She shared her plan. She offered him hope when there was no hope. You know the world doesn't have any hope. It's funny sometimes how the world addresses things and If you think about the idea of the problem of sin that's in everybody's heart, the world has a lot of answers they want to give you for it. Just like these around him had answers for how to deal with this leprosy. We see in verse five there that the king said, Go, go too, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. And he departed, and he took him ten talents of silver, six thousand pieces of gold, ten Changes of raiment, he brought the letter of the king of Israel, saying, Now when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent name in my servant to thee that thou mayest recover him of leprosy. He sent him to the king and said, Hey Uh I sent him to you, you take care of it. The king thought, well uh we'll just throw some money at it. If I give enough money to the church, I'll be okay. That'll take care of my problem. But it won't. Naaman's still a leper. Doesn't matter how much money you give to the church. We still have a sin problem in the heart. He thought he had authority as a king and he would demand it. He says, I sent him to you so you would recover him of his leprosy. Now now do this. He just gonna demand it. Just say it it's his way. Every man did that which is right in his own eyes. Verse number 7 he says, and it came to pass when the king of Israel had read the letter, he rent his clothes and said, Am I God? Do I have the ability to kill and then make alive? This man does send unto me and to recover a man of his leprosy. And beloved, I want you to know there is nobody here on earth, no church, no pastor that can heal you of your sins. There's nobody that can say a prayer over you or anoint you or do anything that can take care of the sin problem that's in your heart. Only God can do that. Only God can. The prophet hears about the king's calamity and he sends a messenger to him. Verse number 8, he says, And when it was so that Elisha, the man of God, had heard that the king of Israel rent his clothes, he sent the king, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thou clothes? Let him come now to me, and I shall show him that there is a prophet in Israel. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and he stood at the door of the house of Elisha. Note the man of God's confidence. He said, You can, King, don't worry, send him to me. Now, beloved, I believe that God can heal. I believe it. And I try my best to pray in faith believing. And he has the ability to. But I don't know that I would have the confidence to just say, oh, you've got cancer? Come on over to my house. I'll take care of it. And of course Elisha's faith is not in himself. He said, send him over because I know there's a God in heaven. His faith, what I want you to understand, beloved, is our faith is only as strong as our experience with God. Only through having our faith tested does our faith grow. And as Christians, we need God to grow our faith. We might see him do great things in our midst, and we might have the kind of confidence and faith in God that Elisha had. Naaman shows up at his house with all of his pomp and circumstance, his chariots and all of his gifts and all those things. He fully expects the man of God to come out and have a full-on Oral Roberts healing ceremony, you know. Just lift up his hands and anoint him and you know Kawamonga, you're you're healed. What what I mean that's what he expected. It doesn't it's amazing that all the way back here in the Bible, that's how they did it. I expected him to come out and pray over me and lay his hand on me and I was going to be healed. But you see, it's not done how we expect. is done how God said. You know Naaman was at Elisha's house, but he still wasn't healed. Can I tell you that just coming to a church doesn't heal you of your sin problem? Naaman stood there right at the man of God's house. He was there. That's where he was supposed to go to get healed, and he was present, but he still had a sin problem, or still had a leprosy. He needed to be healed because he had something he was supposed to do. There was some clear commands that had to be given that he would know what he was supposed to do, and he had to do them in order to experience healing We read the story. Did you see early this morning, the heavenly cleansing? In verse number 10. And Elisha sent a messenger out to him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. He gives them some instructions, very clear directions on how to be washed, how to be cleansed. He said, Go wash in the Jordan seven times. And thou shalt be cleaned. It's very simple, it's very easy. All he had to do was go dip in the Jordan seven times. This is what God told him to do, and he would be healed of his leprosy. But for him, he said, what? I'm gonna go get in that dirty river. Why would I do that? We got if all I'm going to do is just go wash. I could just go wash in the rivers in my house. You know, he had probably washed many times in the rivers at his house, but he was still a leper. You see, God had given him some very clear, very simple instructions. And the promise of being cleaned. The Bible says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Very clear, very simple instructions. Confess the fact that you're a sinner and that you believe that Jesus came and died for you to forgive you of your sin, put your faith and trust in Christ in Him alone. And thou shalt be saved. But people say, well, that's too easy. I I I can't do that. You see, Naaman's problem is that he was expecting something. in correlation to his position as a general, instead of in correlation to his position as a sinner. You see, too many people come to Christ and they want something in correlation to their position as they are in this world. Boy, I'm successful. I've made it. I've accomplished this or that. I'm this or that, I I'm all these things, but you're still a sinner. And you know what? It doesn't matter if you have five million dollars in the bank like Armando. Or you know, if you're a pauper like Brother Glover It doesn't matter if you're a self-made man or you you're just starting out. You see, over on one end, we're all stinners. At the foot of the cross we're all the same. We're just sinners. We come to Jesus the same way. Regardless if I'm successful in life or if I'm struggling in life, I'm still a sinner and I come to Christ the same way as anybody else. We're all equal at the foot of the cross. And Jesus forgives us all of that sin the same way. What a joy. Naaman's indignation, he was upset that he wasn't being treated as a general. But what he forgot is that he was a leper. And his servant comes to him and he says, man, if you would have been asked to do something hard, If you would have been asked to climb a mountain or to conquer a whole group of men or go into battle, you would have done it easily. You would have said, okay, I'll do it, and that'll cure me. But all you got to do is go dip Why wouldn't you do it? It was pride. I can tell you that pride has sent more people to hell. Because Jesus has offered forgiveness. You can be forgiven. You can know Jesus is your Savior. You can be cured. All you gotta do is ask for it. Oh, that's not hard enough. I'd rather work my way to heaven. I would rather, you know, Naaman, you remember he said there, he says, but I thought He was going to come out and anoint me and pray over the area and heal leprosy. You know, we all have a lot of thoughts Well what does God say? You see, we gotta do what God said, not what we say. And so Naaman's friend who cared enough to tell him, Hey, what do you got to lose? So you're gonna get into a dirty river, and I've seen the Jordan River. I don't know a lot of it's like back then. It probably was worse because they were back then they were using it for everything. But I can tell you, the guy asked when we were there at the Jordan River, he says, Do you want to get in there and be baptized? I'm like, no, I don't want to get in that water. I already been baptized, amen. I got that done. I don't want to get in the Jordan River. He he didn't want to go do it. But his friend said, What do you got to lose? Can I ask you this morning if you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior? You haven't put your faith and trust in him to forgive you of your sin? What do you have to lose? The Bible says, what shall profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? I can tell you what you have to lose if you don't do it. An eternity in heaven. The joy and forgiveness of sin, the pleasure of knowing the Lord is with you each and every day as you walk through this life. That's what you have to lose. Don't let pride keep you from accepting Christ today. Naaman does what he's told to do. Look down at verse number 14. He says, then went he down and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man. The man of God. And his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a little child. And he was cleaned. He was cleaned. Hallelujah, he was cleaned. And he wasn't just cleaned up. He wasn't just got a bath. But the Bible says that his skin didn't just get healed of the disease. But it was made like a little child's skin. I look around the auditorium today and I see a few people that could benefit from a dip in the Jordan. I mean, we could use some refreshing, amen. We we we could use some some rejuvenation of of some of that skin that's showing some wear and tear from the years in the sun and the hard labor I can imagine this man as a general at one time probably was injured in battle and had scars. And I can imagine he had uh worn and beaten sick skin from being in the sun for many hours of practice and and being on the battlefield. And yet here when he came out of the Jordan River, his skin was that of a child's skin Beloved, when God comes in and God cleanses you, he cleanses you all the way beyond, beyond what just might be expected. Expected or thought, he washes away every sin as though what does the word justified mean? You heard that just definition? Just as if I had never sinned. To be cleansed by God Beloved, you're washed and made clean by the blood of Jesus Christ, and that that problem of sin is taken care of, but it's not just taken care of. Every sin you've ever committed and ever will commit is covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. Just as if I had never sinned. Cleaned and given skin like that of a child. Amazing. You say, Pastor, how can that be? You know what, I can't explain all of it. But I have faith that God's promises are true. God said If thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. It's a promise from God. You're here this morning and you've experienced that rejoice in the cleansing power of the blood of Jesus Christ. And if you're here today, and maybe you're like Naaman, maybe you have something eating you from the inside out. And it's been there for your whole life. And you've tried to do good things to take care of it. You've tried to You know, be a good person to be respectable. You've tried to be kind and everything that you've done, but you know in your heart that problem is still there. Would you come today and let us give you at least the opportunity To let God make you clean. To let God wash away that sin.