Yeah, it's it's possible, okay. So you'll you you may end up in a situation where you're gonna need was shared tonight. But not only that, those of you say, Well, I'm never planning on getting married Well, okay. This is applicable. There's things that are in here that are applicable to other relationships, applicable to friendships, applicable to how you handle and deal with conflict in the workplace, uh applicable to different places. Um so I'm sorry Keith, you can't just go to sleep. You gotta he's like he's like, as I'm marriage, right? So I'm out. I like I'm out. Yeah, I I understand, but uh obviously the Word of God, anytime we open it, there is uh things that are applicable to all of us. You don't have to be married long before you're faced with the reality of life. You know uh the jokes on marriage and the comments about well the honeymoon's over uh those jokes uh uh you know, they stereotypes come from somewhere. Okay. Uh the the jokes are rooted in uh in truth. And uh that is the fact of the matter is for most The reality of their marriage is far from the dream that they anticipated it would be. They quickly learn that it is not the eternal state of bliss that they had envisioned. But that there's bills to pay, there's conflict to resolve, there's contention that has to be worked through, there's problems in the home, there's hardships that have to be endured You never knew he could smell so bad. You you never knew that she woke up looking like an extra from a horror film? You you didn't know this I mean you were faced with the reality of life not long after you you get home from the honeymoon uh things uh are made aware Somebody uh talking to me uh expressed the idea that uh their marriage was begun or started based on a lie. And you know, the more that I pondered that for for them, for their life, I thought, you know what, the fact of the matter is is pretty much almost all relationships, uh marriages are started that way. Uh because do you understand that the dating uh aspect, the dating time of life that really it is one hundred percent geared around you doing everything you can to make sure that the person that you're trying to win their heart does not see you at your worst You're doing everything you can so they don't know what you actually smell like. So they don't know what you actually talk like. So they don't know what you how you actually respond to things. I mean you were putting your best foot forward through that whole time so that you can win the heart of somebody that you're going to spend the rest of your life with and they will learn exactly what you are Uh but the fact of the matter is is that beginning period really is based on the idea of you know presenting the best side of yourself so that you might win their heart and then it's after you get married You begin to see the reality or the truth of each other. You learn those things about one another that maybe you didn't know before You learn the things about one another that maybe you don't appreciate as much as some of the other things that were made evident before you got married. You see, beloved, I want you to know that Satan is the enemy. And Satan would do all he can to disrupt and destroy the home of anybody, but especially the home of a family that is desirous to please God and serve God with her life. Satan wants to come in and disrupt and discourage and destroy the foundation that makes up that home and the relationship between the husband and the wife. The question is, are you willing to make your marriage the miracle that you dreamed it could be, and that God desires it to be? Although it is not easy, it is possible. Because God does give us a plan and direction for how to have a miraculous marriage. And the fact of the matter is any marriage that is functioning inside of happiness and they continue to be together is a miraculous marriage When you consider the fact that in excess of 50% of marriages end up in divorce It is a miraculous thing when a husband and wife continue to be committed to one another. You take that to another step where a husband and wife exist and live together in holy matrimony happily, in a state of happiness. When Mary and I were dating, she's the only girl I dated in college. even though she dated a bunch of guys, but we won't go there. No, I'm I'm just kidding. She is the only girl I dated in college, but we were dating and I told her I says, you know what, I I'm not sure I even want to do this. I don't I don't I don't want to get married I I don't I I don't and if we're not gonna get married there's no reason for us to be dating, so I I'm not sure. And she she was like, Why? I said, Because you see All these people are miserable. All these married couples that name the name of Christ and you know they're going to church and they love God, but you can see they're miserable. They don't get along, they're not happy, and why do I want to sign up for that? And so we purposed in our heart by God's grace and with his strength, if we if we were going to get married, we were going to be happy. We we were going to have a happy home. Twenty-eight years later we're still working on it. But I praise God that He has given us a measure of grace to be able to have a home where we love and enjoy one another. So I do know that it's possible. In the face of society, in the face of so many others who just exist, it's possible for your home to be the miracle God wants it to be. A couple of years ago, Brother Todd, Pastor Todd at the Marriage Matters Conference, he put together some skits and he recruited some people to I think Pastor Gus did one. I think Brother Aaron uh Glover did one and he had several other people. But basically the skit was the ingredients of a good marriage. And they had to stand up there in their chef's hat and, you know, stir a pot and do these things to talk about the ingredients of a good marriage and give out some different ingredients. Well, I want to talk to you tonight about the ingredients of a miraculous marriage. First of all, you need to keep a right relationship with God. In John chapter 15 Look at verse number five with me if you would, in John 15, and verse number five. We're going to read down through verse number seven. He says, I am the vine, you are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same, bringeth forth much fruit. For without me ye can do nothing. If a man abide not in me, he casteth forth as a branch and is withered, and a man gathereth them and cast them into the fire And they are burned. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. You say, oh, Pastor, we thought you were going to give us something new tonight. We thought you were going to give us something miraculous that was going to fix our marriage. I am. And you say, well, no, we uh we already know this, Pastor. We've known this for a long time. That we know you've got to keep a right relationship with God. Okay, are you doing it? Are you doing it? Understanding, beloved, that a right relationship, this abiding with God, is necessary. It is paramount to have a right relationship with one another. God has given to us the tools and the possibility for a happy home. Are you doing it? Do you have a personal and intimate relationship with God? Are you maintaining that relationship? The fact of the matter is, is when we are personally walking with God, we are a better everything. You're a better employer and a better employee when you're walking with God. You're a better boss when you're walking with God. You're a better church member when you're walking with God. You're a better citizen when you're walking with God. You're a better Sunday school teacher when you're walking with God. You're a better piano player when you're walking with God. You're a better choir singer when you're walking with God. And you're for sure a better husband or a better wife when you're walking with God. When you have a right relationship with God, when you're maintaining that closeness with your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and allowing Him to shape your lives. If you have a right relationship with God, he will help you to maintain a right relationship with your mate and with others There's been times that I got upset at my wife. Now I know you all thought she was perfect But she's not. Just telling you. There's times she that I I got upset with her. And you know what? In my mind, I was justified. I had reason to be upset. And I voiced my opinion. And I let my uh frustration come out, I communicated with her in a negative or derogatory way, or I gave her my two cents. And I felt better for about a minute. And I walk away and I'm like, well, she deserved it. Well, I was right and she was wrong. And in my mind, I'm battling through all this stuff. But you know what happens? I sit down to study for my message on Sunday. And the Holy Spirit's like, Yeah, you ain't doing none of this until you fix that. I'm like, Well, I had a good reason for getting upset at her and I'm trying to read my Bible and all the words are like not even making sense and I'm just like this is so irritating. I don't want to do this. And I have to get up and I have to go and apologize to her for the way that I treated her and for how I spoke, regardless of whether I thought I was justified or not, how I responded was wrong And what I'm saying is when we're maintaining a right relationship with God, God will help you maintain a right relationship with your mate. We know it, but are you doing it? You see, we don't want to walk with God because we know that God is going to make us change something in our life. God is going to make us give up a sin. God is going to make us apologize when we don't want to apologize. God is going to make us swallow our pride. and and give up on our own desire or ambition and we're not ready to do that. We want to keep everything the way it is. And so we stop walking with God and start fighting with our mate. That's what happens. I want to say you want to have a a miraculous relationship It begins, it starts with maintaining a right relationship with God where we come to Him honestly and say, search me, O God, and try me and see if there be any wicked way in me. God help me to be the husband I need to be. Help me to be the wife I need to be. Help me to be the mama and daddy that I need to be in this home Lord, show me where I need to change and what I need to do different. Show me how to be the right kind of husband for my dear wife. Show me where I need to submit. Submit to my husband. Show me where I need to stand up for my wife. Show me, God, let me be what you want me to be in this home. When you're having a right relationship with God, God will help you. But you want the miraculous relationship in the home while you leave God out of it. But it doesn't work that way. Abide in him. Abide in him, and he abides in you. And he says, if ye ask anything that ye will, it shall be done unto you. On one hand, you want to say, oh, pray for my marriage or pray for me or pray for us regarding this, but you're not walking with God. He says, if you abide in him, you can pray. And God will answer your prayers. And bring healing and bring hope in your relationship. If you and I would just simply walk with God, we could avoid a lot of the pitfalls. That end up destroying so many marriages. A lot of the things that husbands and wives are arguing over would be settled on our knees if we were really walking with God. If we were letting God speak to our heart, our wife wouldn't have to play the part of the Holy Spirit. Our husband wouldn't have to correct us because we are submitted and yielded to a holy God. So I'm saying you want to have a miraculous marriage, the first ingredient, beloved, is to keep a right relationship with God. Secondly, you need to keep on forgiving. Keep on forgiving. Turn to Colossians chapter number three. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians. Colossians chapter number three and verses twelve thirteen and fourteen. He says, put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering. Well, if we had some of that in our homes, we'd be blessed, wouldn't we? Forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. Let's be real. Your mate is gonna do something that annoys you Your mate is gonna do something that hurts you. It's gonna hurt. But God says to forbear and to forgive. Forbear one another and forgive one another. Just as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven you. You said you loved them. Do you love them only when they're doing what you want? Do you love them only when they're fulfilling your desires? A love that's real forbears. A love that's real forgives. It is only When forgiveness is necessary, that we get the privilege to show our love. That idea of forbearing there is it literally means to endure. uh is the idea of long suffering and patience. We're gonna have to endure some things. You're gonna have to be patient with your mate sometimes. You're gonna have to forbear and endure sometimes. But that's what love does. You see, we're no longer putting up a front. We're no longer hiding who we really are. We're no longer, I mean our mate sees exactly what we are. And that's the miracle of God's love for us, is he knows exactly what you we are and he loves us anyway. And that's what makes a miraculous marriage is our mates over time they learn exactly what we are. Nobody knows somebody this side of heaven as well as a husband and wife know one another. And yet you love them anyway. That is a love that's like the love that God has We need grace to forbear one another. He may break your trust She may break your heart. He may say some things that are hurtful. In the heat of the moment, in the in a in an argument, things are communicated That hurt, but forbearing one another, being patient with one another, being long-suffering with one another, understands those things And God tells us to forgive. You know, Christ forgave us. He didn't look at our problems and say, well, I'm done with him. I'm not going to forgive them anymore. There's one too many problems he's created. No more. I'm not going to forgive him anymore. No. God has forgave us And if we want to know and experience the forgiveness of God, then we must forgive others. And sometimes we're willing to forgive Joe at church or we're willing to forgive Brother Lee for being rude by the front door. You know, we're willing to forgive others, but those who we say we love the most are mate. We're holding something against them? We're not willing to forgive and let go what they did. Hey, I understand the hurt was great. The fact of the matter is, the greater the love, the greater the hurt. That's the reality of life. Because you love deeply, when something happens, there's going to be deep pain. But that does not negate our responsibility to have that love come through in the form of true forgiveness for our mate. True forgiveness. Do you know, beloved, what keeps a home together? It's not love. It's commitment. It's commitment. God has made a commitment to you and I. He said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That is a commitment that is eternal. That is a commitment that is not going to change. That a commitment is not based upon my performance. And commitment in the home, that that commitment that's going to last and going to endure the test of time learns how to forbear, it learns how to forgive, so that you can continue to be committed to one another. If I asked you for the definition of grace, what would you say? Unmerited favor. What's another way of saying that? God giving me what I don't deserve. It was God's grace that saved us, that unmerited favor of me receiving something I didn't deserve. Can I tell you, sometimes your mate needs to receive something they don't deserve? They need to receive the forgiveness from your heart, and maybe they haven't earned it in your eyes, maybe they don't deserve it from your perspective, but that's what grace does That's when grace comes through. Grace says, Okay, in my mind they don't earn they haven't earned this, they don't deserve this forgiveness, but I understand the command of God and I know I want to continue to love and care and be with my weight, my mate, and so I'm going to give them something they don't deserve. I'm going to give them the grace that God gave me. When He forgave me, I'm going to forgive them. That's what forgiveness is. And recomm in in Romans chapter 12, verse 17 and 19 He says, recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men, dearly beloved. Avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Some of us husbands and wives need to get out of the way. We need to let God forgive them. Have the heart of Moses. Have the heart of Paul and pray for God's mercy for them. Pray that they'll know the forgiveness of God. But we need to recompense to no man evil for evil. That is not the way to have a miraculous marriage. The way to have a miraculous marriage is to forgive one another The third ingredient is you need to learn to meet your mate's needs. Turn to Ephesians chapter 5, familiar passage of scripture on the home and the family. Ephesians chapter 5 Verses 25 to 29. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. That he might sanctify it and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man ever yet hateth his own flesh, but nourisheth it and cherisheth it even as the Lord, the church. You see, men were to dwell with them according to knowledge, the Bible says. We're to love them as Christ loved the church. to give ourselves for our mates. Too many are concerned primarily with their own needs instead of the needs of their mate. We need to go back and we don't have time tonight to do a study on Corinthians chapter number 13. But it might be good for some of you husbands and wives to do a study on 1 Corinthians 13 and look at everything that real true love is. what it really means to have a godlike love, the kind of love that we're supposed to have for one another, that agape love. Not just faleho love, not just the love of a brother for another brother, but agape love, the kind of love that God has for us that's unconditional, that is selfless. You see, the kind of love the world has would be an immature love. It is a selfish love. The more mature you are, the closer you are to God, the more mature you are spiritually. You're able to exercise and have and use an agape love. That is a selfless love So you have those two loves in contrast to one another all the time. In our flesh we want to love with a a immature love, a selfish love, where the love is about me and what I'm getting out of the relationship But when we get closer to God and have a right relationship with God, we begin to love our mate with an agape love, which is a love that's sacrificial, that gives and looks to meet the needs of our mate instead of the other way around. These two loves in contrast on one side an immature love is selfish, a mature love is selfless. An immature love uses sharp words, a mature love uses soft words. An immature love criticizes and a mature love compliments An immature love is rude. A mature love is courteous. Immature love is hurtful. A mature love is helpful. An immature love expresses needs. A mature love expresses gratitude. You see, true selfless agape love The kind of love that God has for us and the kind of love that we're supposed to have for our mate. That's not something that we can or will do in and of ourselves. It takes spiritual maturity. Which goes back to point number one, walking with God. And when we're walking with Him, God allows us to live in such a way that we see their potential instead of their problem. We can love them even through the heartache. The home that's built on this kind of love will be a home of joy. It'll be a place of happiness. It'll be a place you love and long to be The Bible tells us that we're to love, we're to nourish and cherish one another. To nourish is to care for. To do all that I possibly can to assist and help, to nourish, to care for, like a. parent, a mother would would cherish and nourish and protect her child. We're to nourish our relationship, our mate, that way, protect and love and care for them. Do all we can to assist them. Yet so many relationships are not based on what I can do for my mate. They're based on what is my mate doing for me. When was the last time she made me happy? When was the last time he made me happy? Imagine for a moment a marriage Where both the husband and wife are 100% dedicated to meeting the needs of their mate To create an atmosphere where the other could be in a right and close relationship with God where the other is highly esteemed and honored, where the other is able to grow and be all that God wants him to be. Imagine a relationship where both the husband and wife are trying to do that for one another. That home would be a little bit of heaven on earth. And that home is possible for any husband and wife who's willing to follow God's pattern and do what God says The last ingredient I'm going to give you tonight is you need to be willing to change. We need to be willing to change. We would all say, if we're talking to somebody else, that we're not all that we should be. I mean, I can't imagine the level of narcissism for somebody to say I'm all I should be. For somebody to say that, well, I can't improve. I couldn't be better than I am. And yet, how many times have I heard things like this? She knew what she was getting when she married me. He ought to love me the way I am. I mean if she loved me, I wouldn't have to change. If he loved me, he wouldn't be asking me to do that. You see, that goes back to two previous points. One is are we living to satisfy ourselves or to meet our mates' needs Are we truly walking with God? Because I can tell you this, if you're walking with God, God's going to point out where you need to change. We would all graciously and humbly, however false the humility is, we would all say, oh, I have areas I need to grow, I have areas I need to change. And yet when we get into the relationship and talk about the husband and wife, we want to say, oh, it She ought to love me the way I am, or he ought to love me the way I am. I don't need to change. Let's just turn that around for a second. I could say, Mary, if she really loved me, she would accept me as I am. But then let's turn that around. Am I accepting her like she is? You see, on the other hand, I want her to be what I need. I want her to make some changes in her life. I want her to do some adjustments, and yet I expect her to just accept me completely as I am. You see, there's changes that can be made on both sides. It just depends on how you're viewing it, how you're looking at it. And if we are walking with God correctly, then God is going to begin to point things out in our heart and mind, areas where we need to be willing to change. And I'm not even talking about sin. Sin is a whole nother matter and you that's between you and God and that needs to be dealt with. I'm talking about areas where I need to change so I can be what my mate needs to be. me to be. You want to say, well, I'm a really good husband. You want to know if you're a good husband? You need to ask your mate. You say, well, I think I'm a pretty good wife. Yeah, but what does your wife or what does your husband think you are? You see, our goal and objective ought to be what our mate needs. That means I might need to make some adjustments in who I am In my personality, in how I interact, in how I communicate. And I ought to be willing to do so. Why? Because I love her. And if there's something, if she's asking of me, if there's something that I can do, I should be willing to do it. If it's beyond the scope of my capacity or my ability, I need to ask God to give me the strength to do it. Why? So that I can be what she needs. On the other hand, how thrilled am I going to be as a husband if I have a wife who's striving to be what I need? Man, I'm blessed beyond measure. But I can't expect that from my wife if I'm just going to ignore her needs, if I'm going to live for myself, if I'm going to just do what everything in life's about me, and yet I want her to live for me. It doesn't work like that. You have to learn to meet each other's needs and be willing to change if there's something that needs to be changed. We need to be forgiving and forbearing for one another. Yes, I know You say, well, she wants me to change this, and you just said she ought to be forgiving and forbearing. This is a true statement. She should be forgiving and forbearing. But that does not remove your responsibility. to change if there's something that you can or need to change. You see, we're we're real good at pointing at the other person and saying, here's what they need to do. It's always easier for us to see everybody else's problems, right? For us to see their need. They gotta change this or they gotta do this. It's easy for us to point that out. But it's hard for us to look honestly at ourselves. And so, okay, yes, they need to be forbearing. They need to be forgiving, but do I need a change? Am I forcing him to be forbearing? continually of this area in my life, of this thing that really I could just change and we could be done with it? If you're maintaining a right relationship with God, he's going to show you and tell you where you need to change. This goes back to the type of love that we have. Do we have an agape love? A selfless love? Or a selfish love? Here's the thing. Yes, I have communicated passionately with you tonight. I've been very serious about this because I know that Satan is out to destroy our homes. And he will do all he can to put husbands and wives at odds with one another. And stir up contention in even the godliest of homes. And disrupt every other part of your life. And my heart breaks for you. Because it does not have to be that way. It is possible to have a home where you're happy and you enjoy one another and you spend that time together and and it is a little bit of heaven here on earth. And so I'm just pleading with you to do it God's way. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed