Look this evening uh at the responsibilities of a deacon Tonight we're going to, as a church, vote and put a new deacon into uh place to fulfill the role of one that's stepping off. And uh per our agreement as a church and the pattern which we follow they serve for three years. At the end of three years, one has to step down And uh they can only serve for three years consecutively. They have to set off for a year and then they can be elected or voted to be back on the board and they can serve for another three years. But the way that works is we have three mm members of the Deakin uh group and and they uh of course that means every year we have one that's in rotation, coming off and coming on. And uh that gives other people opportunity to serve. And so we're going to be looking at that tonight. Now, back in Jan on January 28th in 2023. for I preached on the requirements of a deacon and bibli talked about the biblical requirements. So I'm not going to cover the requ requirements tonight. I'm just going to read through them very quickly for you just to remind you that we as a church want to be sure that men that are serving in that regard also meet the requirements. So let me just Give those to you quickly. Uh these are found in the book of Acts and uh in 1 Timothy, but they are to be men of good report. That is that they are to have a good reputation amongst the congregation and in the community, by the way, not just in the congregation. There are to be men full of the Holy Spirit. that are men that are known to walk in in the power of the Holy Spirit, they're to be full of wisdom. That is, they're to exercise and show discernment in their personal life as well as in the life in the body of the tr of Christ here at the church. They're to be full of faith, walk by faith, known to walk by faith. They're to be grave. That means dignified. That means somebody that commands respect among the congregation. So uh somebody that has grave, so that is grave in their in their way they do their demeanor, how they carry themselves. They're not to be double-tongue, that is to be their clear and consistent in their communication. They're not to be given to wine. That is, they're not to partake of any alcohol. Now I don't believe any Christian should be taken of any alcohol, but certainly it's a specific requirement given to us in the book of Acts in 1 Timothy regarding the office of a deacon that this is a requirement for them. They're not to be greedy of filthy lucre. That is not to have a love of money, that that's not their driving focus and force in life. They're to be sound in faith and doctrine. That is, they're to know the Word of God, live by and follow the Word of God. They're to be proven. That means not a novice. That means not somebody uh excessively young or immature there to be proven, to have a track record, to uh to be well known and established in that regard, to have some maturity about them. They're to be blameless, okay? Not sinless. But there's not people going around accusing them of things. You know, they're to be blameless. They have a reputation that withstands in the community. Uh they are to be the husband of one wife, that is, they uh can have one wife for life, or one living wife, and so That requirement is a biblical requirement. It's not as popular today, but it is a biblical requirement. So that those that hold the office of a deacon cannot, somebody that has been divorced cannot serve in the in the capacity of deacon. Why? Because that's what the Bible says It's nothing against them. It's not it's just there are some things in life when that tragedy strikes, it it it hurts and there is some things that make so now you cannot serve or fulfill that office. That's just what the Bible says, and we want to follow the Word of God. Amen? So then they're to rule their house well. Okay? They're to rule their house well. That means their house is to be in order. Their relationship with their wife is to be in good standing. Their kids are to be in subjection. Their kids are to be following them and and in obedience. So this is the requirements, but we're not going to talk necessarily about the requirements tonight. We're going to talk about the responsibilities. and look at the the responsibilities that uh the deacons have first in the biblical pattern and principles that are given to us and then what they are responsible for here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Um I had you turn to the book of Acts, didn't I? You want to put your finger there? We're going to be there in just a moment in Acts chapter 6, but first I want to begin and read in Ephesians chapter 4. So we're going to be in Acts chapter 6 in just a minute, but in Ephesians chapter 4, I want to read verses 11 through 16. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some preachers and teachers. For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in the unity of faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about by every wind of doctrine by the slight of men and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive. But speaking the truth in love may grow up unto him in all things which is the head, even Christ For whom the whole body, here's the heart of what I want you to get of these verses here. This is the body of Christ that God has put together. He says, for the whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth according to the effectual working in the measure of every part Making increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love. Beloved, the body of Christ is to be a finely tuned Body that is fitly joined, that is put together by Christ to fulfill the work of Christ here in this area, to function as a light to our community. And this body of Christ, I believe God puts the body together. It's fitly joined. God brings people to the church that the church needs And that they need this church. They need the body that's here. They need the brothers and sisters that are here. They need the pastor that is here. This is what they need to help them take that next step in their life. That's a body of Christ that's fitly joined together. And we are joined together there. Why? For the effectual working of the measure of every part. Every part that's put together has a responsibility, a role, and a job to do. And when they are they are supposed to be accomplishing that. for the measure of every part, making an increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love. Here's the thing, beloved, I want you to know that this is never uh the election or the uh appointing of men into the position of deacon is never a matter of a contest. It's never a matter of contention. The body is fitly joined together. We are all to be working together to try and accomplish the will of God here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church There are men that are willing to serve and uh that uh have made themselves available to serve, and so as a church body you You recognize them and say they meet the requirements, and so we are going to elect or put them into that office for a period of time And so uh I just want to you to understand that the goal here in all of this, whatever it is, it should never be a contest, it should never be a Oh, look at how important I am, or look at the position that I have, or or whatever. No, everybody's fulfilling their role. Everybody's fulfilling their job, whatever that job is. from the individual that willingly serves and takes out the trash after the service or uh uh turns the sound equipment on or or or controls the live stream, uh, you know, or sings in the choir, or keeps the nurseries, or teaches Sunday school. There are many, many parts. And every part is to function and do its job so that it's working together. It's every joint doing what it's supposed to do so that the church can move forward for the edifying of itself in love to the furtherance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is what we want as a body of believers. Now this is going to be a very practical lesson tonight as we are talking about this this evening. You're going to have the option. It was brought up. A qua re question was asked with regards to maybe a couple of other people serving as deacon and tonight you'll have the option to nominate somebody. And so we're going to just consider that and think about it. Is you're going to nominate somebody You need to make sure you nominate somebody that meets the biblical requirements. It shouldn't be something you do carelessly or something you do just because they're your friend It needs to be something that you have prayerfully considered and not just, oh, I need to nominate somebody because I have a blank space on on here and I need to fill the blank up. I need to put a name down. You don't have to. If you haven't prayed about it, if you haven't seriously thought through it, then maybe you shouldn't nominate somebody. Maybe you need to wait, because it should be something that we as a church prayerfully consider and say, okay, is this what God wants us to do? Beloved, it's it shouldn't be done carelessly. Um I want you to understand that if we ever as a church have a deacon Like Brother Smith was talking about a week ago on Sunday, Sunday morning, you remember he was talking about his dad got put in the deacon board because he had money? If we are ever in a place where we put somebody into the deacon board because they have money or they have status in the community, then I have failed you as a pastor. Because I have not adequately taught on the importance of this and an understanding of what the roles are and the responsibilities, because that should not be the motivation. It should not be just because somebody has status in the community. It should be because they're godly and they walk by faith and they have spiritual insight and discernment and they're grave and they meet the biblical requirements. that uh we have listed off here already. Now I tell you to be careful about who you nominated because I also need to ask you to humbly uh well I ask you humbly to trust me as your pastor once you have made that nomination. Because I want you to understand just because they have been nominated does not mean that their name is going to be on the ballot. Because You, as far as you know, you might believe that everything about this individual is solid, and you might not know that they actually are a struggling alcoholic. You might not know that. You don't need to know that. I shouldn't have to, as a pastor, get up here and say, well, uh, you know, Gus was gonna be a deacon, but we can't elect him to that because he's an alcoholic I mean, we don't want to tell the whole church that, okay? Now he's not an alcoholic, obviously. Somebody online is gonna they're gonna catch just that last part, and they're like, what? I had no idea That's how the rumors get started. So Pastor Guntz is an alcoholic before next week. It'll be in Texas. His mom and dad will be calling him and asking him, Do you have a problem drinking? Uh that's not the case. Uh that's not the case at all. But what I'm saying is sometimes you might not know that there are s there are other situations. You might not know about things in their family that they're struggling with. And there's some dynamics there that you don't need to necessarily know, and we don't want to get up to the church and tell everybody But for them right now, they're not in the place or position to be able to fill that office. And so i everybody that has ever been nominated at the church here Regardless of who they are, regardless of whether they were qualified or not, I personally went and talked to them, and I want you to know sometimes that's an uncomfortable conversation. for me because they have been nominated but they do not meet the biblical requirements. But I go to every person that's been nominated and I tell them, I want you to know that there's people in the church that respect you I know that's hard to believe. There's people that actually respect you. There's people that believe. People would even think me worthy of that. And so that there's an honor in that regard, but I but I have to be honest with them biblically and say, listen, biblically you don't meet the requirements because of this or because of this. And that's an uncomfortable conversation for me. So I'm asking you to prayerfully consider and careful about whose name you just uh happened to put down because I will go talk to them. I will uh let them know they were nominated. And uh also The reason her name is not on the ballot may be because they chose not to be. Maybe they meet all the requirements, maybe They are they they biblically they meet all requirements and I'll tell them listen it you know you are certainly welcome and willing to be you know if you're willing to be on the ballot we would be honored to have you on the ballot And uh they may say, you know what, Pastor, right now I got too much stuff going on in my life. Um Brother Mark has served before And uh there was one year with all of his different surgeries and things going on, he said, listen, right now is not going to be a good time. I'm not going to be able to be as much help as I have been in the past or whatever. I think that for right now you should take me off And so we didn't put him on the ballot one year because of that. Because he said, listen, right now I don't I'm not going to be able to be as helpful as I would like to be, so I think it'd be better for me not to be on there right now. So it's a They they they do have a choice. You know, we can nominate them and you can elect them, but they can decide not to do it. I mean it's a personal thing. So maybe sometimes it's just a matter of they say Well, it's not for me right now. And there have been some that meet all the requirements. They're godly men. We love and appreciate them. But they said, listen, it's not it's not for me. And and that's okay. They certainly can choose to do that. So I just want to talk to you about the responsibilities here. And as there are no specific duties given to us in the scriptures, nothing lined out exactly what they should do, and this is the job or responsibility of the deacon, then all we have to go off of is the pattern uh that is given to us in the scriptures, the principles that we can see and that we can glean. Now without any direct response responsibilities listed, that's what we're going to do. So we see first of all that they are to serve. We understand that. That is the primary function of a deacon. The word deacon, the title literally means Servant. It means to serve. Deaconas means to serve. And that is the job that they are supposed to do. It is noteworthy that the very first deacon, uh gave his life for the church. He was sacrificed. Uh he was stoned. And so, you know The job is really to give yourself to the church, to give yourself in service to the church. The deacons were given responsibility to help with the physical ministry so that the The word in the scripture is elders or the pastors could give themselves to the spiritual work of the ministry. And so that's what the role or the responsibility of the deacons was to do. Uh if you're in Acts chapter 6, let's look at that passage of scripture now, Acts chapter 6, verse 1 through 4. This is the description of the situation that arose in the church. that motivated the church to elect or recruit some men to serve in this capacity of deacon. So in Acts chapter 6, verses 1 through 4. And in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplied there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, Is it not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. So we see here that there was a need that arose in the church, and there was a need to help serve. The members of the congregation whom were not being adequately, the needs weren't adequately being met because of the, you know, everybody only has 24 hours. We have limits on our time. And so the capacity of the elders or the pastor was not uh sufficient to be able to meet all these needs. And they said, Well, why don't we get some help to do that? So they were brought in to serve the people to help meet these needs. The result of the unmet needs was unnecessary and fleshly discord among the brethren. And I tell you that there's never a good justification for fleshly discord. We see it here in this passage of Scripture, and they said, well, we would be more effective spiritually if we were less busy physically. And so let's get some men to help with this. But there was fleshly discord that had arisen among the the the flock there because uh some people felt like their needs weren't being met as effectively as others and and so on, and you know how that discord arises because Satan loves to bring that into any any group. Um but they appointed deacons to help fulfill and to meet those needs. So they serve the people. They're here to serve the people. They do that. under the leadership of the pastor. They're there to serve the pastor. When you see the illustration given to us here, the pastors were serving and they said, well listen, Uh it's it's too much work for me every service to come over here and move this thing and to put it over here where it needs to be because I'm so busy moving tables that I can't do what I'm supposed to do right here. And so the pastor says, boy, I need some help. to move the table so that that's one thing that I don't have to do. So you understand they were serving the people, but they were doing it, they were serving the pastor, helping carry the the responsibility or the burden that the pastor is carrying. Does that make sense? So they serve the people. They serve the pastor. The pastor, beloved, is called to lead, feed, and protect the flock. That's the pastor's job. To lead, feed, and protect the flock. That's what he's supposed to be doing. And the deacons come alongside and help with that In uh Acts chapter twenty, you don't have to turn there twenty-eight, but he says, Take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost has made you overseer to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. So the the the the pastor is to be feeding the flock. We see in Hebrews chapter 13 three times that the church is supposed to um acknowledge, remember, thank the Lord for those that rule over them. The pastor's job is to rule, and we don't like that today uh as a society, as a people generally, uh we just have a real problem with any authority, but that's how the Bible set it up. The pastor is to lead and the deacons are to come alongside and help carry the burden Whatever that burden is, whatever the need is for that particular pastor, can I tell you the need for one pastor could be greatly different than the need for another pastor? So the role of a deacon or responsibility of a deacon at the First Baptist Church of Tonganoxy may be drastically different. than the uh role of the of a deacon or responsibility of a deacon at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. It's it's based on maybe the the ability the skills, the weaknesses, the strengths of the pastor who's serving in that particular area, and there's areas that he may specifically need help So they're to come alongside. Um I often ask God to give me wisdom uh on how to lead the flock. how to adequately and correctly feed the flock, what series of messages we need to be looking at, guide me in the preparation and care of this. But the pastor's role and job is to lead. That's what I'm supposed to do. And I'm not a very demanding leader. Gus and I were talking this week and I said, I really I don't push that much. I don't drive that much I I really don't. I I strive for what is called servant leadership. That's what I strive for. And a a a leader that drives Will ultimately drive people away. That's ultimately going to happen. A leader that leads people will only lead people as far as he has gone Because you're leading them, you can only go as far as he has gone. But a leader that serves Will help you go as far as God wants you to go. And that's my desire. And I've had conversations with many of you that my goal is to try and help you be all that God wants you to be. You will quite possibly, and I prayerfully hope so, go beyond me in your walk, in your spirituality, in your soul winning. capacities and areas where you will excel beyond. But I don't want you to be limited by my weaknesses. I want to try and help fulfill God's will for you and help you be all that God wants you to be And my goal is to help facilitate that, help try and find a way to make that happen so that you can be all God wants you to be. That I feel is my role as a pastor, to lead by serving you. So I don't recall who it was, but just recently there was someone here preaching that said, maybe you remember, the deacons are the only people in the church that can't tell me no. Brennan said that? Oh, brother. Brennan said that. Now he said the deacons are the only people in the church that can't tell me no. Now, I don't lead like that But here's what I desire. I would hope that the heart of the deacon would not want to tell me no. That's what I want. I I don't lead like that. I would probably never say something like that. But my goal is I hope that the deacon wouldn't want to tell me no. That his desire would be, hey, we're serving together, let's let's accomplish this work of the ministry. Let's do what God wants us to do here. So We see, beloved, that they're to serve. They serve the people. They serve the people by helping the pastor get the work done. They serve the pastor. But also, we can kind of apply this principle one other aspect, and that is that they help solve problems. You see this problem arose in the church. There was a problem there. There was people's knees weren't being met. There was something there. And so they help solve problems. And this is a large part of the responsibility of of a deacon is to help solve problem. The church was blessed because these men were brought on to fulfill this role, to solve this problem. So deacons are problem solvers Deacons should always, always be promoting harmony in the church. Harmony and unity in the church. They serve to help solve problems. Uh they serve in one problem they solve is with the area of protection. If you want to turn there, can I show you some verses in 2 Corinthians chapter number 8? Beloved, the deacons help protect the testimony of the pastor and the church in business matters. They they function in that that role and responsibility. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 18. He says, And we have sent with him the brother whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches. And not that only, but who was also chosen of the churches to travel with us With this grace, which is administered by us to the glory of the same Lord and declaration of your ready mind. Avoiding this, that no man should blame us in this abundance which is administered by us. Providing for honest things not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men I want you to hear that last verse right there, not only in the sight of the Lord, but in the sight of men. Can I under can I I cannot exclamation point Say this emphatically and important enough. I may stand up here and say, before God, I'm as innocent as the day is long. But if half of the church thinks I'm guilty I'm not meeting that requirement. It says in the before God and in the sight of men. Can I tell you? that the deacons provide protection for the testimony of the pastor and the testimony of the church in the community. If you know this passage of Scripture, the grace that he's talking about there, this whole passage deals with grace giving, and other churches had given by grace a s a large or substantial amount of money, and they had given it to them, and they said, here I want you to take this money and you're going to go distribute it unto the churches. And so he says, wait a minute, if we're going to be carrying this money, I want somebody else to go with me that can stand as a protection so that They can say that everything was done correctly, above board, and honestly, without any question. They they stand as a protection. The pastor probably had no intent of doing anything wrong But for the same reason that I wouldn't be downstairs in my office with a lady in the church all by myself That we may be as pure as the day is long and as a driven snow, but if I'm in that office with a lady by myself, I open myself up for somebody else to say, whoa, wait a minute, what what was the pastor doing in there with her all by himself? Oh my goodness. No. So my wife is in there to provide protection. So that the testimony of the pastor is not damaged, so that the testimony of the church is not damaged. And so the deacons function in that role as well. They help to protect the testimony of the pastor. That's why I don't do very much at all with the money as far as handling it. Whatever, and that's why you know they they handle a lot of the stuff with regards to that. There's other people in the church that do it, but they function in that role. to make sure, like when we're making a decision about something, and we're going to talk about this a little bit as I get further down in my notes here, but as we talk about their specific roles here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. but they help protect the church, testimony of the pastor and the congregation. And that is very important because as he said here, providing For honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. Beloved, we need to protect our testimony this way as well. Yeah, we know God. God sees and God knows and we can say, well, bless God, I'm honest before him, and there's no question. But if there's a question this way, then I have not been wise in my actions. I have been foolish. I've allowed something to happen that has raised a question, and now people wonder, has Pastor been honest? And so this is why one of the reasons the deacons are part of the, they help to protect the church in that regard, okay? It's very important They act as a sounding board and to help form protection so that no one has to wonder if things are being done done correctly, decently, and in order. Let me just say that a church is not required biblically to have deacons. There is no re if you read the passage of scripture, it says that a need arose And when the need arose, they appointed deacons. There are other churches in the New Testament that there's nothing said about deacons. When Paul was talking about setting things in order in the church, he mentioned several things that needed to be in order in the church, but said nothing about deacons. So deacons are not a requirement, but any pastor with some wisdom would have some men at least that would function in this role to be sure that his testimony is protected and the testimony of the church is protected in the community. Because this is very, very important. And so this is the the blessing that these men bring uh to help protect the church in that regard. So although it is not maybe a biblical requirement, we see the need for them, and so as the need is there, we should have them, okay? As problem solvers, they often are going to be involved in or find out things about the church, about the ministry, or even about the people that is not public knowledge. So they need to be very careful about this. Sometimes in deacons meetings I'll even tell the men, I don't want you to tell your wives this. This is not something that even your wife needs to know. This is a burden that you have to carry. Don't share it with them. Because this is not something that And that doesn't happen a lot, but there's sometimes very sensitive things that happen and they they need to protect the people involved. They need to be careful about people's uh feelings and uh situations and There's there's so many things that the that a church and and a pastor may get into. There's even legal matters. There's stuff that happens. It's crazy. I'm not going to chase down that rabbit. There's there's just a bunch of foolishness sometimes that you wish you didn't have to deal with. Like why do we have to bother with that? Uh it's just ridiculous. But especially in today's world and the legal ramifications of things, we've got to be very careful how things are handled. And so here's the thing, deacons need to have a measure of spirituality about them where they can still see somebody and they see the potential, not the problem. They need to be able to see the potential, not the problem, in the individual. Because sometimes they become aware of things that uh they need to carry that burden and prayerfully pray for the individual, and that takes a measure of spirituality about them. Um so it's very, very important. Um I just want to mention before we move on to what they're going to do at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, what their responsibility is, uh that There is an unscriptural trend that's taken place in many denominations today where the deacons have been put in the place of leadership and the pastor has been put in the place of servitude. That's upside down according to the biblical pattern. A lot of times there's a deacon board and the deacon board runs the church. I was just literally a week ago talking with somebody that I wouldn't normally have a chance to talk to. I just happened to be sitting in a waiting room and was talking to this individual and he was telling me that he serves uh on the deacon board of his church and that they had to tell their pastor this and this and this and this. And basically they they told the pastor how things were going to go and that these this is he was not going to be able to do this or be able to do that And that's an that's an upside-down. That's not a biblical pattern. Can many of you might be familiar with W. A. Chriswell, the pastor of First Baptist Church in Dallas. There's a lot of things that I would not necessarily recommend about him. Um but he did write some books and he he was talking about this idea and he said the idea of a board of deacons is strange and unknown to the New Testament. A deacon-led church will always be a weak and pitiful congregation. They will flounder before every wind of secular change God has ordained that the pastor be the spiritual leader and the ruler of the congregation. Where he is that and capably performs that, the church will grow in strength and go on forever Where he is not that, and where he has become a hireling of the deacons, the church will wither and die. God, in his infinite wisdom, has set the order of the constitution of his church. Blessed and happy is the congregation that follows that order in the mind and purpose of heaven It is far better to refer to them as a fellowship of deacons than a board of deacons. Now, that's just semantics, but the the principle is that we need to understand that their role is not by a biblical pattern ever been to rule the church. It is to come alongside and serve the people, to serve the pastor and to solve problems. Okay, now I know this is a very systematic study tonight, basic study on biblical principle and the responsibilities of a deacon from the Word of God. And we need to know what it is so that we know what our deacons are doing, especially since in a lot of places that role has been flipped. and people have a perception of the deacon's job is to rule or to command, and that's not the case. So what are the deacons at Hunt Valley Baptist Church responsible for Now, as I said earlier, every church can be a little bit different, and their responsibility directly is going to change based on the needs of that congregation. A congregation that has uh a hundred people in it is going to have vastly different needs than a congregation that has a thousand people in it. And so we understand the responsibilities are going to be different. We have established clearly that their goal or their job is really to help carry the load for the pastor. And if they're help carrying the load for the pastor, there may be some things specifically that one pastor is not very good at that he really needs help with, that the deacons can help, and another pastor may be very good at that and he may not need it the help with that, so that's not what the deacons would do. And so we've got to be careful not to, you know defying the role or responsibility of a deacon based off of history and the churches that we've come from or that we've known in the past, uh, because they're not Hunt Valley Baptist. That's why we are a local independent Baptist church. We're independent. That means we're not tied to an organization. That means we don't function by uh a uh conventions rules or a denominations uh set of guidelines. We are independent Baptist Church. This Word of God is our sole authority for faith and practice. This is what we try and follow. Okay. So with that established, we know that the role of the deacon is to help the pastor, never to hinder the pastor. Okay, that's important. So deacons here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church are going to do several things. First of all, they are expected to be a part. of whatever is happening at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. That is to be involved in whatever we're doing. Deacons are asked to serve and be a part of whatever is going on. That would include work party. So deacons are expected to be at work party. Not once a year. Every time we have work party, unless you are providentially hindered and you're sick and cannot be there, deacons are expected to be here I think if they're going to be making decisions for the direction of the church, they ought to be involved in fulfilling that direction. They ought to be involved in making that happen. They ought to be involved in serving in that capacity. They ought to be among the most involved people in the whole church. They've signed up to serve the church. Why wouldn't they want to be at uh work party? Okay, so their their their goal is to support harmony and unity, their goal is to serve the church, and so part of that is they're expected to be at work party some years ago somebody came to our church and they were shocked to see deacons at work party. They actually came to me and said, I'm shocked to see the deacons here at work party. The church they had come from They would have work days at their church and they said they never saw a deacon show up for those. No deacon and I mean very rarely did a deacon ever show up. They were very surprised, but they were also very encouraged and thought, well, this is this is amazing. This must be a unified team going the same direction. So it says a lot. So they're expected to be at work party, they're expected to be part of the soul winning and outreach of the church. Deacons are signing up to serve the church, they're expected to be at soul winning outreach. That is, they're involved in the outreach of the church. In leg in, unless providentially hindered, they should participate in what we're doing as as a church for outreach. Saturday You know, we don't have a nursing home ministry right now, but if we had a nursing home ministry, maybe they could be involved in that. Uh we of course have the prison ministry, which went phenomenal this last week. They had 17 on Friday night. And uh they saw two people saved. Uh I thought somebody might give a testimony about it tonight, but I don't know if there's anybody here that was in Friday night's uh stuff. But they saw two people saved Friday night, so a great night. But maybe they're involved in that. Uh maybe they're involved in uh you know, John and Roman's distribution. But somehow I believe every church member should be involved in outreach and inreach. There's two aspects of ministry. There's the aspect of reaching out into our community and ministering to those that are out there, but there's also the aspect of serving and ministering to the to the church itself. And so there's both aspects, and I believe every member should, but certainly the deacons are going to be required to. If they're if they've signed up to serve the church, that's the very definition of the word, and so they're going to participate. in the outreach ministries of the church. The first deacon, I'm sorry, the first soul winner in the New Testament was a deacon. In uh Philippians, uh I'm sorry, in Acts chapter 8, verse number number uh five, Philip uh was sent out and he is uh the first soul winner that we see there, deacon in the church. So they're going to be active in the soul winning outreach ministries of the church. Uh they're going to con to participate, attend and contribute to monthly deacons meetings. We have a deacons meeting uh once a month in less something happens that we can't like sometimes anniversary Sunday's on the last Sunday of the month and we're not gonna that's usually when our deacon meeting is and we're not gonna leave anniversary Sunday and come over here and have a deacon's meeting and then go back. I mean we usually just well we'll do it next month. So occasionally it gets canceled, but basically once a month we try and meet and go over the business of the church and answer any questions that uh might be raised and just make sure we're together and unified on what's coming up in the calendar. We talk about the next event that's happening and what might need to be ha prepared for that and that kind of stuff. So they will be men that I ask and look to for wisdom concerning church matters. We have situations arise sometimes in the church that We need wisdom on right away and I'll call them up and say, hey, what do you what what do you think about this? There's something that arose this week or I just got a phone call from the lawyer because of this or there's this situation and I need some wisdom on this. So there are men that need to have some wisdom and some some uh you know uh prayerfulness about them that I could call and ask them advice. Um so they obviously help serve the Lord's table. Uh we always use the deacons when we serve the Lord's table and then Because we have three, we usually recruit one of the men of the church to help participate in that as well with four men serving, but the deacons as part of their role and responsibility. uh serve the Lord's table here when we have uh the Lord's Supper. Um they help meet the needs of the flock. That means participating in, you know, visiting shut-ins, uh going to funerals uh you know s hospital visits, uh reaching out to, making phone calls, meeting the needs of the flock, calling and and just making sure that the needs of the flock are met. That's the job of the deacon. So they're they're helping with that. Obviously they're expected to be at all the church services uh as you know as they're supporting the church, the functions of the church. You know, you cast your vote by your presence. That says a lot. And you cast a big no vote when you're not present And so you you show your support for the church and the work of the ministry when you're present and you're there. And and how can you effectively serve if you're not there? So as deacons are expected to be at all the church services. And several people whose name was on the ballot, they decided tonight they want to take their name off the ballot after they heard this. They're like, forget it. So they have a responsibility to handle things biblically, that is, in their relationships as well as their contacts with others in the church Deacons help review and establish the annual budget that we present to the church. So we review our last year's budget and look at the next year and say what are our changes, what needs to be adjusted. Uh insurance is going up, electric's going up, we gotta change this, let's move some stuff out of that category, uh, and let's put it in this category or whatever to just be able to bring uh a suggested budget to the church uh and they do that every year and present it to the church. They also help with I would say medium-sized financial decisions. Here is a church Uh I I I want the church to be unified in any step we take. Uh I'm very cautious about doing anything uh crazy, uh even with the deacon support. So most things I bring to the church. Most things, if there's any area of concern or or like let's say we want to buy a skid sear You know, I wouldn't go out and spend twenty thousand dollars without talking to the church. We would say, hey, are we for this, right? Um and that's what I did months and months ago. I said, what do you guys think about this? We talked about it, we presented it, we We talked several times about it. We said, okay, we're going to try and do that. We put some Christmas offering towards it. And uh right now, Brother Lee and uh Brother Taylor are looking, they're shopping for something. But I'm saying I wouldn't just go out and do that. But if we needed to spend a couple thousand dollars to uh buy something you know for the church that needed to happen I may say hey guys what do you think about this? Do we should we get this? Like let's say an air conditioner broke and it's gonna cost two thousand dollars to have Frank re fix it or something. Well I don't need to bring that to the church for a vote. Uh it's something that needs done, but I would talk to the deacons and say, what do you guys think about this price? Do you think we could do better? Uh or should we go ahead and have Frank do it for this? It'll be a blessing to Frank. And you know they'll say, Yeah, let's just have Frank do it. Or or no, you know what? I know of a guy that can do it. And so we talk about things like that. I would say medium-sized or smaller expenses, we we talk through those to make sure, again, that there's accountability, that there's a a measure of, you know, the pastor's not just out here doing whatever he wants to do uh that the church is together and moving forward together, uh unity in the church is very, very important. And so I tr I take that very seriously and and guard try to guard tenaciously against giving place to the devil, allowing the devil to to get in somewhere because of just uh not handling things in the wisest fashion. Not necessarily wrong. But if there's a wiser way to do it and and often we'll talk through things and and we'll make adjustments in our pattern or our plan and how we're presenting it so that we you know giving the church more time to talk about it or whatever so that we make sure we're moving together in unity and the church the deacons help guide in those things. And they of course will do whatever else is needed. Other things is needed. There may be lots of other things. There may not be much else Uh I'm certainly not a hard taskmaster. I'm not a driver. I don't push. Uh basically I want people to want to do it. And if they want to do it, I'm going to encourage them and help them to do it. And if they don't want to do it, unless their last name is Botrell, I say okay. You can do whatever you want, you know. But at least he's glad about that one aspect I think. She's finally out from under that, you know. She gets a choice now, amen. Uh but That's kind of where we're at. Beloved, as it we want to be a team unified, and serving the family of God together for furtherance of the gospel and for the cause of Christ. And that's what the role and the position of a deacon here, the responsibilities of a deacon is. And I pray and I trust that God will put together the team that He sees fit. And we will uh continue to serve the Lord together for many, many years to come. This is basically, I know it's just really a Bible study tonight, but just kind of trying to show you the the motivation from the book of Acts, what caused them to need deacons. And so we see there was a problem that arose They helped solve the problem. The problem was they needed people to serve tables, so they served the tables. Why was the problem there? Because the pastor had limited time and he couldn't do it. So They effectively are serving the pastor, helping him carry the burden of the work of the ministry to fulfill the cause of Christ in that local church. Alrighty. Um really just a Bible study tonight. I don't know that we need to have an invitation, uh, but uh I think I'll close in prayer and then