Well, don't we serve such a wonderful God? And God is good, and uh daily I'm overwhelmed with his grace to us, and we're not deserving of it, are we? As his people. And I'm so thankful that the Lord has led my wife and I back to this church just for a few days for this missions conference. I love this church. And this church is, uh God has used it in such a way in my heart, in my life, and in my ministry. And even as I go away from here, I don't forget about you guys. I don't forget about what the great work that God has done. And daily as I'm uh continuing on deputation, I think back of what God did here in my heart, how He trained me and prepared me uh for the work that he would ultimately have me to do in Canada. I'm so thankful to be here with you all. I so thankful for the the theme That we are to be united in Christ as we go and carry the message of the gospel. And as we come and think of that theme, I can't help but feel Think that I'm thankful for my salvation, aren't you? If we didn't have our own salvation, then we wouldn't be able to go and tell. It's because God first reached us that we can go and reach others. If you have a copy of God's Word this evening, I'd invite you to take it with me and turn to the book of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter number 6. And really this evening I have not a a complex message, but a simple message, but a message on the home. If you think about what the Great Commission is, if you think about what missions is, it's going and telling, isn't it? It's going into all the world and teaching the gospel. And before the church was, the home was. We understand that in the book of Genesis, the beginning of God's Word, He created marriage as a foundation for the home. And he chose the home as a medium, as a foundation to spread his word and to spread the knowledge of him. And as you find your place there in Deuteronomy I'd like to read a verse in Judges chapter 2, verse number 10. God's word says, And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers. And there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel Isn't that such a sad verse? Isn't that such a tragic verse? But did you know that the only thing that it takes for the knowledge of God to disappear from the world entirely is for one generation To not share the knowledge of Him. All it takes is one generation to not pass on the torch and to pass on the knowledge of God. For the next generation to not know of him. And that's what this verse speaks of. It says that they didn't know God. They didn't know the wondrous works that he had done How could this possibly have happened? We're talking here of the generation that had seen the Jordan River drawn back and driven back as they crossed over into the Promised Land. This is the generation that had seen the walls of Jericho fell as they were led into the promised land to capture and take the land that God had given to them. They had experienced and seen in a personal way the glory of God and his provision over them, but yet it says that their children knew not the Lord. In Joshua chapter 4, verses 6 and 7, it says that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones? Then ye shall answer them. But they hadn't. It says that when their children came and they saw the stones of memorial that the fathers were to teach their children. They were to remind them and tell them how that God had brought them out of the land and into the promised land, but they hadn't told them. And if you found your place here in Deuteronomy chapter 6, I'd invite you to begin reading with me in verse number 1. God's word says, Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go to possess it. that thou mightest fear the Lord thy God to keep all his statutes and his commandments which I commanded thee, thou and thy son, and thy son's son, all the days of thy life that thy days may be prolonged. Hear therefore, O Israel, and o observe to do it, that it may be well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily, as the Lord God of thy fathers hath promised thee. and the land that floweth with milk and honey. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children And shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house. And on thy gates. As we read this passage of Scripture in Deuteronomy chapter 6, we're really looking at a time uh of change. We understand that the people were on their journey to the promised land and we know that Moses was leading them. He really had been set as a pastor or as an overseer over the people as a shepherd, if you will, and he was leading them and guiding them by the wisdom and knowledge of the Lord. And here as they approach the promised land, Moses is really teaching them, and he's giving them final words as they enter in. They are standing in the plains of Moab before they enter in, and Moses is telling them how they could continue. He is telling them how the knowledge of the Lord would go on. And he's telling them that that would be done through the medium of the home. That the home would be a place of worship and of the knowledge of the Lord to abound as the parents taught their children And so I'd like to speak just for a few moments this evening on the unending chain of gospel witness. So many times as we think of the propagation of the gospel and the great commission to go and to tell the whole world We think of it spatially. We think of going to all the ends of the world, but also it extends to every generation. And it's a uh it extends through all of time. And so let's pray and ask that the Lord would do a great work in our heart individually in each family and as well as in this church family this evening. Heavenly Father, we are so thankful for the great work that you've begun already in each of our hearts. And Father, that has indicated that each of us have come this evening expecting a blessing from your word. We're expecting a great truth where not just that we could hear, but that we could be doers of. Father, as we come around the gospel, And around the Great Commission, Father, we know there are many that do not have the knowledge of God. They have not received eternal life that we have received. And Father, how shall they hear without a preacher? And Father, we know as well that you have established the home as a primary means of expanding your kingdom and Lord, spreading your knowledge. And Father, I pray that as e each of us are part of a home, whether or not we have our own homes yet, Father, where we are in in our lives, we know that Lord, you've placed each of us in a home, and we all have our own duties to do and our responsibilities. Father, please teach us from your word how that we can better spread the knowledge of Christ and the gospel of Christ. Father, please help us this evening as we look together at your word. Please bless us in a way, Lord, that's above all that we could ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. We ask these things in the name of Christ and for his sake. Amen. As Moses is teaching the people, and really as he's teaching them on teaching, There are several things that I'd like for you to see from out of this passage in Deuteronomy chapter 6. The first is the foundation. If you'll notice it says, the Lord our God is one Lord. And then it says, and thou shalt. The first thing that Moses is teaching to the people is that the very nature of God determines the nature of the response. As Moses is teaching the people, he is telling them about God Himself. And as he teaches them, he is telling them, this is not optional. This is not a suggestion from the mouth of the Lord, but as God is one God, as he is our Lord, so are you to do as his people. First notice that he says here and this word that Moses uses here, it's not a passive word, it's not a passive listening and the option of obedience, but rather it's requiring obedience and reaction from the people. It really means to receive with the intent to act. As Moses teaches the people, he is expecting, and God is expecting that the people will act on what they hear. And why? It's because God is what God is and who God is determines what he requires of his people As God is our God, as he is our Lord, he is not expecting his people to hear his word and turn away, but to do his word. If you'll remember what James wrote in his epistle in the first chapter, in verse number 22, he said, Be ye doers of the word. And not hearers only. God desires that his word would not return void in our hearts, but that we would respond to his word and do it. Secondly, Moses says, one Lord. And really he was guarding against polytheism that was prevalent in the land of Canaan. In the land of Canaan, as they were a pagan people, a polytheistic people, they had many authorities in their lives. Maybe if they didn't like what one God said, they could go to the next one and hear what they said instead They had many authorities, but the people of Israel were not like that. They had one Lord. They had one authority. And God, through Moses, here is teaching his people that he is unique, that he is not like any other, that he alone is in power and in might, above all others, above the world, above the universe, and that there are no other gods besides him. The exclusivity of God demands obedience. Our God cannot receive partial devotion from his people. He desires, and really he demands that his people obey him completely. He says, firstly, love the Lord thy God with all thine heart. And this word heart really means the seed of thought. It means the intellect and the will. and the decisions of our lives. And all these things belong to God. Sometimes we think that our own thoughts are ours and that God has separate thoughts, but really God is saying that even our thought life is his and is to be yielded to him. And secondly, he says, with all thy soul, And this is implying the existence, the life, and the being of his people. Do you know that the entirety of your being belongs to God? There is not one thing in your life, whether physical or otherwise, that belongs to yourself, but you are the Lord's. And as you are the Lord's, you are to obey him. You are to do his word and obey his word. And finally, he says, with all thy might. And this carries the idea of resources, physical resources, a physical capability and capacity to work, and faculty to work. And again, all these things are to be yielded to the Lord. Everything that we own, everything of our bodies, every thought in our minds. Every desire that we have, every will of our hearts is to be desired to the Lord to be used. What then is the connection to the home? We know that Moses is teaching on the home What's the connection? Well, if God demands total love from his people, then that means that the parent who teaches faith in him must have this love. Moses is teaching the people that the parents are to teach their children. And if the parents are to teach their children, then they first must have this love. Moses begins with the love of God as the foundation of teaching. If you know God, then you will desire to teach Him, and you will desire to tell your children of Him. Why? Because you cannot teach what you don't have. If you don't have the knowledge of God, if you don't have the love of God in your heart. And in your mind and and in every part of your life, then you will have no desire to teach your children. You'll have no desire that others would know him as you know him. The love of God drives us to teach others about him. And total love really leads to teaching. If you look in verse number six, it says, and these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. And then what's the next word? And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. Firstly he says that these words that I command thee shall be in thine heart And then what's the natural outflow? In verse number 7 he says, And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. So the knowledge of God first begins in the heart of the parents, the life of the parents And then by the love of God, as it constrains them, they teach their children. They continue on that knowledge. And notice the direction of the teaching. It says, unto thy children. As the parents' heart is filled, the children are naturally taught. As the parents live in the knowledge of God and the love of God, As they go through their daily lives, they cannot help but teach their children also to love Him, to share in the love and to share in the knowledge of God As he says it, he he almost says, upon your heart. And really there is a constant pressure and weight of God's word upon the heart of the parents. God's word is something that shapes their lives. It's not something that's passive. It's not something that just sits in a book and sits on the shelf for most of the week and then comes out periodically. It's something that has weight. It's something that has real tangible value in the heart of the parents that drives them to teach their children God's word is shaping them, it's shaping their conscience and their desires, and it's guiding their family to the knowledge of God. The second thing I'd like for you to notice, not only the foundation being the love of God, but secondly notice the method. If you look with me beginning in verse number seven, It says, And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontless between thine eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house. and on thy gates. Notice again he uses this word teach. Something very interesting is this word teach it specifically is used nine times in the Old Testament. And eight of those nine times it's used directly to mean a soldier sharpening his arrow And this one time as Moses uses it to teach the people of Israel, he is using it as a metaphor as parents teach their children. If you think of an arrow in the quiver of a soldier, he sharpens his arrows so that he can fire them, so that he can use them and send them out. What does that sharpening require? Well well it requires daily attention, it requires constant attention, it requires repetition. You don't just sharpen an arrow once, you you sharpen it many times to make sure that it is prepared. For the work that it's to do. As it's sent out, it is to be sharpened and prepared. And he tells them to sharpen and to hone their children. And what's the extent of this teaching and of this sharpening? He says, and he uses kind of a comparison and contrasting, he says, as you're sitting and walking. And so he's telling them that they are to teach and they are to direct their children. in all places, no matter where you are, whether in the home or whether in public, you're to teach your children. He says, when lying down and rising up, and he is speaking of all times. There is not a time when the child is to not be under the direct guidance and teaching of the parents. The parent is to continually shape the life of the child, to make it ready for the work that God has for it. He says, bind them for a sign upon thine hand. He is saying to them, Whatever you do, in all of your actions, no matter what you find your hand to do, Remember the teaching of the Lord. Teach your children and all that they do to remember the Lord and to look to Him and to love Him. And then he says, between thine eyes, and really uh he is saying that it's to be in their forehead and in the fore of their thought. It's to be in their mind as they go about their day, as they have many thoughts racing through their minds. Their thoughts are always to return to the Lord and of his knowledge and teaching. Then he says, upon the post of thy house, and obviously he's speaking of the home life. He's saying in the home life of your children you are to teach them and guide them. And then he says, on thy gates, being the public portion of the house, he is talking of the public life, teaching the children how they ought to behave in public teaching them how they ought to carry themselves so that others can see that they know God as well. Because the parent's heart is filled, they must teach their children. And because teaching is the method, really all of life must be involved. Teaching is not just a one-time thing in the day, but really it's a continual thing. As the children is in the house of the parents, as they live with them and see them all the time, the parent has opportunity all the time to teach, and they can choose whether or not to teach them of God. And then finally, I'd like for you to see in this passage the mission. We know that Moses was not just interested in the specific homes of the people of Israel. He was not just interested in the specific generation that he was speaking to, but he was interested that the knowledge and the teaching of God would continue. He wanted it to continue beyond this generation. And we know that the world drives, or excuse me, the home drives world evangelism. The home is the center of world evangelism. The gospel first affects a home. And then it affects the community, and then it affects the world. Look with me at the end of the chapter, beginning in verse number 20. It says, And when thy son asketh thee in time to come, saying, What mean the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments which the Lord our God hath commanded you? Then thou shalt say unto thy son, We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and the Lord showed signs and wonders, great and sore upon Egypt. upon Pharaoh and upon all his household before our eyes, and he brought us out from thence, that he might bring us in, to give us the land which he swear unto our fathers And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive. as it is at this day, and it shall be our righteousness if we observe to do all these commandments before the Lord our God, as he hath commanded us. We see these two phrases, thy son asketh thee, and then what's the response? The Lord brought us out And so what is Moses saying? Moses is saying that as your children come to you as parents, as they come and inquire of who the Lord is and what he had done. They could tell them of his salvation. They could point them to the past and say, Well, don't you remember that the Lord brought us out? The Lord brought us out of the land of Egypt, out of bondage and slavery. And into the promised land. He could tell them of their salvation. The Christian Father is to tell and to show his children salvation. Not just to tell him, but also to show him in his life. He is to personally display the effects of the gospel And how it has transformed him. We know that God's word is a living word. The gospel is a living gospel. It's not stagnant. It's not only words, but it's transforming power of Christ. And the father and the mother of the home, the leaders of the home, are to display this power for their children, that their children wouldn't have to look any further than their own home to see the Lord exalted. to see the salvation that he wants to bring to them as well. And this is why Moses was showing the importance of teaching in the home. If you remember Psalm 127 and verse number 4, it says, As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. We've talked about the importance of teaching in the home, but where does missions come into it? Well again, if you think of an arrow, arrows are not meant to just stay in the quiver, are they? As you sharpen them, again, it's not just so that you can display them and say, look at how sharp my arrows are. No, it's so that you can send them out. And children are taught and grown in the nourishment and admonition of the Lord in the home that they could go to the world Really, they're small missionaries that the parents are training to send them out and give the gospel. Again, Moses was not just concerned with these families before him being preserved, but really of the generations multiplying, of the knowledge of God multiplying in the land, as the people of Israel were set as a light on the hill. It couldn't be a light if their children would not go and tell In Habakkuk chapter two and verse number fourteen, it says, For the earth shall be filled with the As the parents train their children in the knowledge of the Lord, and they equip them with the gospel of Christ, ready to be sent out. and ready to tell others. The Great Commission really begins in the home. If you remember the words of Christ as he uh was giving the Great Commission to his disciples, he said in Jerusalem, in Judea, and the other parts of the world. And it began in their hometown of Jerusalem. And so the Great Commission begins in the home. If you look at Malachi chapter four, beginning in verse number five. We know that these are really the last words being spoken before a phase of prophetic silence, before the New Testament would come. And in Malachi chapter 4 and verse number 5, it says, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. And if you'll flip over to Luke chapter 1 on the other side of the prophetic silence, we see that this is brought about by John the Baptist. Luke chapter 1. Verse number seventeen. God's Word says And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. Why? To make ready a people prepared for the Lord. We know that the entire existence of John the Baptist was to make way and to make the people ready for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. As the Lord Jesus Christ was sent by the Father to establish his kingdom on earth, not a physical kingdom, but a spiritual kingdom, we know that John the Baptist came preparing the people. And how did he prepare the people? It says he turned the hearts of the fathers to the children. He brought back unity to the home. The fathers that had once turned away from their children, and the children turned away in rebellion from their fathers, as the home was split, John the Baptist came back to bring unity. And unity in the home leads to the gospel spreading. And in the same way, we must prepare for the coming of Christ by bringing unity to the home. We know that we are in the last days and Christ is coming soon, and we thank the Lord for that. That is our blessed hope and the way of encouragement for us as Christians, but as he It comes, and as we wait for him, we must prepare. And just as John the Baptist made way for the Lord by bringing together the home, even so must we do We know in society today the devil would love nothing more than for the home to be split. The devil understands the importance of the home. And of its bearing in light of Scripture. He understands that God has created the home for his purpose, and so he wants to destroy it He wants to tear families apart, he wants to uh separate parents, and he wants to bring in ungodly influences and wickedness that will drive the children from their parents and the parents from their children. But as God's people, we must act in the opposite. We must do what God has commanded. We must love Him with all that we have and all that we are. And we must teach of Christ. We must teach the world of the things of Christ. And that begins in the home. And I'd like to finish with a story of a missionary named John G. Patton. He was a missionary in the 19th century from Scotland. And he got it in his heart from the Lord that he would go to the New Hebrides Islands. The New Hebrides was a group of islands off the coast of the United Kingdom And if you've ever heard about it, in those days it was really a tribe of cannibals. It was a tribe of savage people, and they were known as being very hostile to visitors. But this man John Patton got in his heart that these people needed the gospel, that as they were living beings, that they needed to know about God and his salvation And so he decided to go. And shortly after he decided, in the year 1858, he gathered up his young family, his wife and his newborn son, and they sailed away to the New Hebrides Islands. Shortly after arriving, his wife and his newborn, they weren't uh acclimated to the new temperature and the new climate that they were in, and so they contracted malaria and they soon died. But he was not discouraged. John Patton continued on. He continued in the work that God had given to him, and he be continued to translate the scriptures into their language. He continued to work with the people, these savage savage and violent people. And do you know that by the end of his ministry, over twelve thousand of these people were converted? Over twelve thousand people were reached through this one man and his ministry, John Patton. But why did he go? How did it begin? How did he get it in his heart to go to the New Hebrides? I'd like to read you a quote from his autobiography, and he says, How much my father's prayers at this time impressed. Me, I can I can never explain, talking about his upbringing. And he says, when on his knees and all of us kneeling around him in family worship, he poured out his whole soul with tears for the conversion of the heathen to the service of Jesus. I used to look at the light on my father's face and wish I were like him in spirit, hoping that in answer to his prayers, I might be privileged and purposed to carry the blessed gospel To some portion of the heathen world. Do you know what went through John Patton's mind as he was a boy As he heard his father pre uh pray in their family worship, as he was passionately praying for the conversion of the heathen, John Patton saw that his father had been reached by the gospel. He himself saw that his father, James Patton, it was real in his life, that he had been changed by the knowledge of God. He had been changed by the gospel. And as his father desired and prayed fervently and passionately for the heathen to be reached, soon John himself became the answer to that prayer. And something else is he later found out that his family and his his parents would often pray for him. They would often get down in secret on their hands and their knees and that they would pray that John would be sent. They, as they prayed in family worship that the people of the New Hebrides and the heathen people would be reached, he found out also that they prayed that he would be sent. And he was also hoping that he would be the answer to their prayer. This passage tells us the importance of the home. And may God impress this on our hearts. Again, we may not lead our own home. We may not each be a father, a leader over the home, but each of us has a place in the home. And we have a certainly a place in this church home. And so let us each be faithful in uh obeying the voice of the Lord and in sharing the knowledge of him. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, again we are so thankful for your word that you've given to us. Father, that you've preserved were to be used as a guiding light for our lives. And Father, even as Moses desired to teach the people of Israel the importance of loving the Lord their God with all their heart with all their might, Lord, with all that they had, with their entire lives. Father, we know that even this evening as we gather together for a missions conference like this, Father, you desire to do the same work in each of our hearts. Father, I pray that each of us would have the foundation of the gospel, and that is the love of God. Father, help us to strive to love you in greater ways. Lord, help us to be constrained by your love. to teach others. And Father, please partner with us, partner with this church, and use it in a great way, even in this community.