Plus, I'm gonna let you out fifteen minutes early this morning, so we have fifteen extra minutes for tonight. So we'll we'll make we'll make make up for it. I don't know. You can turn your Bibles to Romans chapter number one, Romans chapter number one. I uh told you last week, by way of introduction, with regards to our theme that you see on the uh plaque in front of me here, close to the ceiling, pressing on. Last Sunday we preached a message on our theme for the year. And that is pressing on. That's what the choir sang about this morning, pressing on. This is what we as a church want to do. We want to press on for the honor and glory of God. However, I don't want to be guilty of coming in and stirring you up and motivating you to press on without also giving you some direction as to what we should be pressing for. That's kind of what vision night is tonight as a goal as a church. We will be laying out kind of what our goal as a church is, where areas that we as a church are going to press on. In Sunday school this morning I dealt with setting life goals, ambition for yourself, desire to accomplish something, uh to improve where you're at in life and ultimately improve spiritually. Many things can be practical, many things actually can be a help with regards to maybe your health, maybe uh your weight, maybe your finances, those types of things, but I want to encourage you spiritually this year to press on for God. to accomplish something, to make some changes in your life, to grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That's what I want to motivate the church family to do. So this morning we are taking what is our theme verse for the month of January here, and we're going to be looking at that in Romans chapter 1. In verse number seven. Look with me if you would at that. This is the conclusion. Verses one through seven is the conclusion, or they encapsulate Paul's salutation. To the people at the Church of Rome. And in verse number 7 is the conclusion of that, he says in verse number 7: To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Our theme verse for the year is Philippians 3:14. I press towards the mark for the prize. Of the high calling. There is something that as Christians we are called to So our verse of the month, each month, has to do with something that as believers we're called to. And this morning we're going to look at the first of those, and that is the calling to sainthood. The high calling. Of sainthood for each and every one of us. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to your heart as we look into His Word this morning? Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you, dear God, that you would do what is only in your power to do. Would you reach down into the heart of each and every individual present? And minister to their soul. There are some here this morning, I'm sure, that need to be encouraged. There are some that need to be motivated out of their complacency to do something for you. There are some, God, who need strength. There may be some here this morning that have never come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and they have yet not accepted you as their Lord and Savior, we pray God they would do that this morning before it's eternally too late. We come to you humbly and ask your great presence and power in this time around your word in Jesus' name Amen. I want you to see first of all the position of sainthood. The position of sainthood. He says here in our text, he says, to all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints. If you look in your Bible there, there is these two little words, to be. Now, probably your Bible, if you have a King James Bible in your lap, those two words are in italics. Is that the case? Does somebody know what that means? Why are those words in italics in your Bible? I think there's people saying it not loud enough for everybody else to hear, but okay, what that means is that those words were put in put in there to help our understanding, but they were not present. in the original languages. So those were added to for it to help make sense. And they put those words in italic so when you're reading it, you are aware of that. So you understand. Those words were not in the original language. Sometimes the original uh Greek, which this was written in here has to do the the different tenses and there's so many particular words in the Greek that we don't have available to us in the English language. So to make it understandable, they add some words So this could read to all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called saints. Here's what I want you to understand this morning. There's two factors with regards to the position of sainthood. First of all, that it is granted, not earned. The position of sainthood is granted, not earned. To all them that be in Rome, called saints. Now, you and I, as believers in Jesus Christ, today we are typically called what? Christians. They were called Christians first at Antioch. But you understand that back in the Bible times, uh they weren't called Christians That was actually a derogatory and negative name. That was people almost making fun of those that wanted to be like Christ. These Christians. It became a title for a group of people that lived and acted like Christ. And of course Those that were proud of it. I remember growing up, we grew up in uh Sheboygan, Wisconsin, until I was nine years old, and just down the the the street there was a little gang uh of much older, stronger boys. It probably wasn't much of a gang by today's standards. Uh nobody was doing drive bys, but they were mischievous and they got into things and so on. But this gang used to give us a hard time, us kids, because we were Christians. And they used to ride their bikes past our house and several times they attacked us and did mean things to us. But I survived and I'm okay. But I I have that to blame for anything that you think is wrong with me, I'll blame it on that. But they used to drive ride their bicycles past the house and they would yell, Jesus freaks Jesus freaks! And I remember one time my brother he stood up on the on the front porch and he said, Thank you! He's saying I'm I I'm glad to be a Jesus freak. I'm proud to be a Christian. Today there are many people that claim the name of Christian. They they look at uh their their life, maybe even it's Expedient for their political race or what have you, and so they say, Well, I'm a I'm a Christian, but during the Bible that wasn't so. They were called Christians first at Antioch in a derogatory name, but really If you look through all of the New Testaments, the word saint appears in our Bible 101 times. And that's what Christians were called. They were called saints. You understand that sainthood is granted to you at the moment of salvation. At the moment that you trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you are granted the position of sainthood. This is contrary to those that would teach that it is earned over time. The Roman Catholic Church has always defined sainthood Or kept sainthood for those that are deceased, those Christians that displayed an extraordinary level of piety throughout their life. It's supposed to be after five years, after their death, a Vatican Council of Cardinals is pulled together to evaluate the worthiness of this individual to be called a saint. They have to have two provable and performed miracles. Then the church or the pope canonizes them. Then they're raised to the position of sainthood, granted position of sainthood. After all of that, they're made saints. And then they are what they say is venerated by the church. You know, venerated is to be worshipped. Literally to pray to. They get a lot of things wrong. They do. They pray to these saints with the idea that the saint, due to his piety of life, he is much closer to God and therefore would have much greater access to God and would be more successful. in carrying your petitions to God than you could yourself, because of course you haven't reached sainthood yet. There are many patron saints. I know that you all are aware of that. Patron saints are saints with particular areas of ability in their particular lives, like i. e. the Saint Christopher, the patron saint of travelers Now from what I understand, Saint Christopher was crossing a river one day when a child asked to be carried across. When Christopher put this child upon his shoulders, he found the child to be unbelievably heavy. It was later found out that the child was Christ. And that Christ was carrying the weight of the world. So St. Christopher Aided Christ across the river and carried the weight of the world, which Christ was carrying. According to the Roman Catholic Church website, there are over ten thousand named saints. What I want you to understand this morning Is that's not in the Bible. It's not in the Word of God. If you want to look at somebody that's been a great Christian and done a great job and you want to say you you want to point to them and say, hey, they were a phenomenal Christian, they had a great testimony. You know what? It's even biblical if you want to call them a saint. There's a whole lot more than 10,000 saints. It's even biblical, but where we really start to err is when we lift them up to a place of holiness. A place between us and God, a place where they are worshipped or where they are prayed to, because that the Bible tells us very clearly there's only one mediator between God and man, and that's the man, Christ Jesus. He is our mediator. What I want you to understand is your sainthood. Think about it like this. Sainthood is granted to the exact opposite people than what the Roman Catholic Church is putting forth. Because Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus came to save sinners. And when Jesus saves a sinner, forgives you of your sin, you're washed in the blood of the Lamb, all your sins are covered by his sacrifice on the cross. And at that moment You are given the position of sainthood. I mean, the most unlikely candidates are saints Think about the saints at Corinth. The Apostle Paul, writing to them, said this in Corinthians 1, verse 1 and 2. He says, Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ, through the will of God. He says, unto the church of God, which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. Now, all of you know, I mean, I believe, if you've been in church for any length of time, and if not, let me tell you right now, the people of Corinth were carnal. The people of Corinth were really struggling with this thing called the Christian life and being what God wanted them to be. And yet Paul greets them as saints. You understand your position of sainthood is not because of how you've lived through your life But it's because of the forgiveness of Jesus Christ. God's righteousness was imputed unto us, given to us. Because Jesus Christ washed away our sin. And when God the Father looks down at his saints, it's not how pious I've lived in my life. It's what Jesus Christ has done for me. If you have never put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, I'm talking For a minute to you this morning, you need to do that. You want to be a saint? You don't have to live piously your whole life to achieve sainthood. I mean you want to talk about an uncan unlikely candidate for sainthood? Look at the person right here in front of you. Look at the person down the pew from you. Or maybe look at yourself. An unlikely candidate for sainthood. But because of the precious blood of Jesus Christ, we can all be saints. It's granted. It's given to us at the moment of salvation freely because of Jesus Christ, not because of what I've done. Let me just say, secondly, with regards to the position of Jesus Christ, it's granted, not earned, but also it's permanent, not temporary. It's permanent, not temporary. The Bible tells us very clearly that when you trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you are born into the family of God. You become a child of God. And Ephesians 4. 30 says, grieve not the Holy Spirit, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. You are in the family of God, and I want you to understand this morning. I've got some of my children in here. My children may do things that I don't like. At times I may be extremely frustrated with them, but they're still my children. They may get really mad at me one day and leave the house and never talk to me again, but they're still my children. They may determine to go to the courts and via legal process change their name and deny they ever knew me. But they're still my children. They can't change it. Now, beloved, when you've accepted Jesus Christ in your Lord and Savior, there's things in your life you do and you know your heavenly father is not happy about it. But I want to tell you this morning, you haven't lost your sonship. You're still a saint. It's permanent. It can't be taken away. It can't be voted out. It can't be impeached. You've got that position. No matter what. Praise God for that this morning. The position of sainthood. Let me talk to you for a couple minutes about the privilege of Sainthood. The privilege of sainthood. There's many things that we could talk about, but would you turn your Bibles to Psalms chapter 91? Psalms chapter 91. We could go so many places to look at these things, but this Chapter here just kind of has these things all in one. I'm not even going to give them all to you. I would encourage you thinking about the idea of being a saint and what it means for us, the privilege of sainthood. Read through Psalms 91 sometime of your own and look at the other areas of application. I'm just going to give you several of them. First of all, I want you to see one of the privileges of sainthood is that we are protected by God. Psalms 91, verses 2 through 4. Well, let's start in verse number 1. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. What a privilege. As a saint, to be in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in Him will I trust Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler. God will protect you. God is your fortress. As a saint, you have the privilege of dwelling in the shadow of the Almighty, and no matter what comes at you in this life, you're there with him as a protector. I want you to know, beloved, another privilege is peace of God. Look in verse number five. He says, thou shalt not be afraid. For the terror by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness, nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand, but it shall not come nigh thee. The peace of God. You've got peace in the midst of God Of a storm. One of the privileges of being a saint, of saint, is no matter how tumultuous the storms of life are, you can rest at peace in the arms of Jesus. He describes for us a peace that passeth all understanding. A peace that the world can't even comprehend And sometimes your friends won't know it, and no wonder how it is you can endure or go through such trial or tragedy or heartache and remain so calm or so in the Control, but understand it's because of the peace of God that shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. And Johnson Flint said it like this: Yea, new every morning, though we may awake, our hearts with old sorrow beginning to ache With old work unfinished, when night stands at hand, With duties waiting unknown and unplanned, with old cares still pressing to fret and to vex, with new problems rising, our minds so perplexed. In ways long familiar, in paths yet untrod, oh new every morning are the mercies of my God. His faithfulness fails not, it meets me new each day, New guidance for every new step along the way. New grace for new trials, new trust for old fears, new patience for beginning. And bearing the wrong through the years. New strength for new burdens, new courage for old, new faith for whatever the day may unfold. As fresh for each need as the dew on the sod, O new every morning, are the mercies of my God. Beloved, what a privilege to be a saint. To be a saint. You get the presence of God each and every day. Look at verse number 15 in Psalms 91. He says, And he shall call upon me, and I will answer him, and I will be with him. In trouble. I will deliver him and honor him. Hey, we get the presence of God in our lives. He'll never leave thee nor forsake thee. That's both physically and mentally. I want you to understand to leave is to physically leave. To forsake is to stop thinking about, to stop pondering. I want you to know that you are on the mind of God. As a saint of God, you're on the mind of God. You understand that you don't necessarily have to leave the presence of someone to have forsaken them in your mind. You may be sitting with someone, but your mind is a long ways away. Your mind has long since gone off into something else. But I want you to know God says He'll never leave you, He'll never forsake you. Because you're a saint. And praise God, I think this ought to excite you. One of the privileges of being a saint is one day we're going to get to be at home. Home with God. One day we're going to be able to be in the very presence of God in heaven himself. In verse number sixteen, In Psalms 91, he says, With long life will I satisfy him and show him my salvation. At the end of your days, the salvation of putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and having him forgive you of your sins. He'll take you home to be with him. Let not your hearts be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. He says he's gone to prepare for us a mansion. If I go and prepare it for you, I will doubtless come again and bring you unto myself. And where I am, there you Maybe also. One day we get to be with the Father because we're saints. Amen? This has been encouraging, these first two points here. the position of sainthood granted to us by God without anything that we do, nothing we can do to lose it, nothing we can do to change it. I mean you're a saint. Hallelujah. Thank you, Lord. And we've got so many privileges because we're a saint. But could I challenge you with a closing thought this morning? What does this mean practically for us? What is the practice of sainthood? Here is where we tie in our overall theme of pressing on in this duty, in this call, the high calling of sainthood. You see, we have been given the position of sainthood. We've been granted it. It's been given to us freely. But with that position now comes a responsibility. To live and act like what we are. Does that make sense? I'm a saint given the position given to me by God, and I don't have to live and act a certain way, I don't have to do anything necessarily to be a saint. I've been given the position of sainthood because I trusted Jesus Christ in my Lord and Savior. And if it's not you see, saints aren't perfect, they're just pardoned. Forgiven by the blood of the Lamb. And I don't do anything to achieve my sainthood, but because I'm a saint I have now a responsibility to live up to what I am. Have any of you ever looked at your sis kick your children and said I'm not sure how I was going to say botrells don't act that way, but you probably never said that to your children. You probably never said that. You know what I mean? Your kids, you looked at them and said, hey, we don't talk like that. We no, no, no. You are a See, you're not gonna live that way. You're not gonna talk like that. I think sometimes our Heavenly Father looks down at us and says, Hey, you're a saint. Could you act like it? As believers, I think we could say it like this as saints, we should be saintly We should be saintly. It's not a a pious, oh, look at me and and Look at what what I am and what I can do. We should just strive to walk worthy unto the vocation where we've been called. We're called to be saints. And so, therefore, I want to try my best, the best of my ability and the strength that I have with the power of Jesus Christ to live up to what Jesus has freely granted me. Saint Hood. Now we could take quite a long time this morning to talk about sainthood and what that means and living up to that calling to be saintly. You know, Ephesians 5, verses 1-3 says, Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling sweet Saver. But fornication and all uncleanliness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saint He's saying there's some things that don't that aren't becoming of a saint As saints, there's some things that we really just shouldn't do. There's some things that we should be doing. Could I tell you in the Word of God The same Hebrew word that in the Old Testament is translated saints, and the same Greek word that in the New Testament is translated saints. It is also translated holy holy I think we could sum up what it means to live like a saint with that word. Holy. I could talk about our lives, things that we're involved in or what we're not involved in. I could try and draw some lines in the sand and say If you're on this side, you're not living like a saint, and if you're on that side, you are. But I think that the Holy Spirit can do a far greater job than I am. ever could. Beloved, could I just plead with you this morning? God has granted us the position of sainthood. He's given it to us freely. He's granted us so many privileges because we are saints that that that are ours that we get to enjoy. And then God calls down to us and he says, Because I've made you Would you do me the honor of living like it? Of acting like it. So the challenge to you this morning morning is to press on in the high calling of living and acting like what we already are. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Dear God, as we gather for just a moment and give each and every one of your people the opportunity to deal with you. with regards to how you spoke to them. I pray God that you would speak to every heart, that you would move every soul and cause them to yield to you what they need to do this morning. Lord, we love you. We're so grateful, God, for the position that you've given us, for the privileges that are ours. I pray, Lord, you would help us to practice day by day, press on in this high quality. Calling of living like a saint. And we'll thank you for it. Lord be with this invitation in Jesus' name. Amen