Alrighty, you can grab your Bibles this evening and turn to uh Philippians. We're going to read through Philippians chapter one in just a moment. I've asked Pastor Augusta to come up and uh read it. And you'll follow along with him in just a moment. But by way of introduction, I want to just kind of review. We're just going to walk through what we've looked at so far. And uh so Uh you know, we're started with looking at the idea of Paul is the author of this book, and we know that he wrote this book uh by the inspiration of God and God it was God's plan, God's design. Now Paul was taught outside of his parents Who was the number one influence in Paul's life? Who was the instructor that most greatly influenced him? Before he was saved. Gamellio, yes. So Gamellio, the uh teacher, had a primary method of teaching. He actually I did not like uh uh I don't want to give it away. What was what was Camellio's primary method of teaching? It was verbal. He he liked to teach students just to sit and listen. He did not like books. He didn't like people reading as far as getting their knowledge that way. He liked to share it. That was his method of teaching. That's why in the scriptures it says he sat at the feet of Gameliel. That was his method of teaching. He would really like to just expound and talk and interact with the children. or the young people. Uh so God was preparing Paul to do what he had planned for him to do even before his conversion. And God is preparing us. for what he has for us. Every part and every stage of our life is preparation for what's next. And even before our conversion, things that God gave us, skills that God gave us, strengths that we have, God can use those to further the cause of Christ as we saw in the life of Paul. Paul was very committed to what God wanted him to do, largely because he was called and he knew he was called. You gain a level of strength and confidence when you know you're doing what God wants you to do. I know we've all been there and we've all called on God to bail us out of some mess we got ourselves into. It's kind of a hard thing when you come to God and say, Lord. I know I wasn't supposed to do this. I know I wasn't I'm not supposed to be here or whatever it might be and you say, but Lord, could you help me? But man is so much better when you can come to him and say, God To the best of my ability and with a clear conscience, I have and am doing what you want me to do. And now here's the problem. Lord, I need you to help me. And you come to him with a different level of confidence. Now God in his mercy and he grace in his grace he helps us out of a lot of heartache too that we bring upon ourselves. But Having that confidence and knowing that you're doing what God wants and that you are where God is, and we saw that in Paul's life. He went to the city of Philippi. The city of Philippi we see in the text is a was a chief city Of what region? What region was it a chief city of? There was a he had a vision and got sent to that region? Macedonia. So it's a chief city of Macedonia. Now in the scriptures that that word chief city means that it was like unto, or we would compare it today to what? A capital. It would be like a capital city of Macedonia. So the Macedonia is a region, and the capital of that region was this Roman colony. We see in the text it was a colony, that Roman colony, uh largely occupied by Roman soldiers. Uh it was a nice retirement community for soldiers that uh had ceased to fight and so they kinda grew. Uh Philip the Second, who was Alexander the Great's dad, gave the city its name So Philip II is the one that named it after himself. And Paul went to Philippi on his second missionary journey. The cause, the reason for him writing this is Paul showing kindness to the church at Philippi. I'm sorry, Paul responding to the kindness that the Church of Philippi showed to him while he was in prison. What is the key word of the book? Joy. The key word is joy. And uh this has been called uh Paul's letter of joy. Paul's letter of joy. That's the key word of the book is joy. The theme of the book is the sufficiency of Christ. The sufficiency of Christ, and the key verse is chapter 1, verse 21. This church that Paul started was the first move of the gospel to what would become Europe and uh ultimately what uh Allowed us to be able to receive and get the gospel as God commissioned Paul to carry the gospel to the Gentile world. The church was started around 50 A. D. Uh and that's uh it was ten years later when Paul came back or when Paul writes the letter of Philippi, uh letter of Philippians. to the Church of Philippi. So it was about 10 years later when he was in prison in Rome and wrote the letter back. But he went and started the church around 50 uh A. D. Last week we saw the greeting of the saints. We saw the servants that are in verse number one, Paul and Timotheus, these servants. And the idea that Paul recognized himself to be a servant of God. And if you and I are ever going to be greatly used of God, we've got to be willing to serve men. And uh we look at the greatness of Paul and what we understand is in all of that he was just a servant of God, willing to serve men He yielded himself and we learned that we are going to yield ourselves either to serve God or to serve the devil or ourselves, so you could just we get to choose who we're going to serve. He not only acknowledged the uh we saw the the the saints that were there, the servants were Timotheus and Paul, but we saw the saints and he he recognized all the saints that were there, all those that had trusted Jesus Christ and It's exciting that positionally, when you trust the Lord, you become a saint. You are a saint at that time. Now hopefully we're acting saintly. That was the challenge last week, that we're acting saintly and observing and doing what God wants us to do. And he acknowledged the great possession that we have because we're saints, and that is the grace and the peace of God that's been given to us. Now, as Pastor August comes to read through Chapter 1, I'm going to verse verse I'm going to give you the breakdown, the outline that I have here for this book. Chapter 1 is the greeting of the Saints, verse 1 and 2. The giving of thanks, which is what we'll be dealing with tonight in verses three through six, the growth of love in seven through eleven, the gospel of Christ in twelve to seventeen, the gain of Christian living in eighteen through twenty-six, and the gallantry of service twenty-eight-thirty. So tonight we're going to be looking at the giving of thanks, uh, but follow along as uh Pastor Gus reads for us chapter number one. Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons. Grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my bonds And in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace. For God is my record. How greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ And this I pray that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment, that ye may approve that that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God. But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, and some also of good will. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely supposing to add affliction to my bonds but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. What then, notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached And I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice. For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose I wot not. For I am in a straight betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith. that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. That whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel And in nothing, terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake having the same conflict which ye saw in me and now here to be in me. I hope that as we walk through this verse by verse, when you begin to read this uh over the coming weeks, these verses will start to come alive to you. they will start to have new meaning and be uh directly impactful of your life. So tonight we are again, as I said, we're looking at the idea of the giving of thanks that we We see in verses three through six. So look back at verse number three. He says, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. First I want you to see this sincere gratitude that is presented here. Beloved the importance of a heart of gratitude cannot be overstated. It is vitally important that we as Christians have a heart of gratitude. It is truly a sad state of affairs in this country, the richest country in all of the world. Where men are blessed beyond measure, where they have been given and given and given, there are so many Who are unsatisfied and unfulfilled. You see, beloved, in the absence of a heart of gratitude, in the absence of a heart of thanksgiving Bitterness grows and discontentment grows and unsatisfaction grows, and that is what we see prevalent In the world today, this entitlement philosophy and the entitlement idea comes. And that grows in the heart of somebody that is not grateful And it doesn't matter what you do or how much you do or how much they get, it's never enough. Because they are not grateful, no matter what happens. They're not grateful. We as God's people, it is vitally important that we understand that God is good. And He has blessed us. And we are richly blessed of God. And it's sad when God can have been so good to us and we would miss the opportunity to be grateful and thankful unto Him. This is an important principle for us Christians. Instead of a spirit of gratitude, this spirit of entitlement is prevalent today. Today we need to ask God to give us a heart of gratitude. A heart of gratitude. No matter what burden you're carrying, no matter what struggle you're enduring, no matter what trial you're going through, there are things that you can be thankful for. There are things that you can be happy about, that you can praise God for. Yes, there's burdens, and everybody knows that, and yes, there's trials. And you have some of those that you're enduring, but no matter what you're going through, there is still cause for thanksgiving. Paul was in jail, but he was joyful. He was persecuted, but he was still praising. He was tested, but Paul was still thankful no matter what. In all his trials, Paul never lost the spirit of thanksgiving. You see that over and over and over again in his books, where he is thanking God. Thanking God and we as God's people need to realize and notice in ourselves when we're losing that heart of gratitude or when that's not as prevalent or on the forefront as it should be, we need to stop in our prayer time and ask God to help us to have a heart of gratitude. Help us to see his blessings. Help us to stop focusing on the burdens and start to recognize what he has done for us. Let me encourage you, don't let your kids be complainers. Don't let the kids just complain about this or that. You have got to guide them and point them and lead them to recognize and see those things with which they can be thankful. One of the greatest ways to do that is when they they learn by example. When they follow what we do. They see our how we handle situations. And how much we're complaining about this or that. But kids, I mean it's a it's a natural thing to be complaining. I mean, isn't it much better, Mom, if a child comes to you and says, Mom, thank you so much for letting me have these chicken nuggets and thank you for letting me have some French fries? Isn't that much better than a child coming and saying, I don't know why I gotta always eat chicken nuggets. I don't even like chicken nuggets. He gets a quarter pounder. Well the first thing you need to do is take the chicken nuggets and give them to somebody else. If they're not thankful There's a problem. They need to be thankful for whatever they got, regardless. And and by the way, if you do take that away, whatever it is, and say, well, if you're not thankful for it, then you can go hungry. Uh that'll fix that. They'll be thankful for the chicken nuggets. And and by the way, don't just threaten. Threaten doesn't do anything. You need to just do it. Just take 'em and give 'em to one of his siblings. Say, I'll bet he would like some chicken nuggets. Give it and they would say, Oh yeah, I'll eat 'em and they'll they'll eat 'em in front of their brother. Oh oh young mmm. That's so mean. But it'll teach them to be thankful for what they get. And beloved, God has been so good to us and poured blessing upon blessing upon our lives and many times. We're guilty of not look not seeing it, not recognizing it. Over and over again, we see this heart of gratitude that Paul has. He thanked God for what God allowed him to do. He said, I thank God upon every remembrance of you. Here's something you need to think about. Gratitude is born in remembrance Gratitude is born in remembrance. When we take a minute to remember how good God has been. You see, beloved, the very thing that's supposed to motivate us to serve Christ many times gets left aside You see, our motivation for serving the Lord is not because God's up in heaven on the brink of heaven with a bat ready to beat us over the head if we do something wrong. Oh, I know people like to draw that image, but what is it that constrains us to serve him? What does the Bible say? What is it? The love of Christ constraineth me. It is the love of Christ that constrains me, that motivates me when we look And how good God has been and the blessings that He's bestowed upon us and the richness which we live our days. And we look at that and we think, how could I not serve God after He's been so good to me, after He's blessed me so much? But when we fail to recognize and see the cause for Thanksgiving, then we begin to be just like those who we would say have a problem and they're entitled. They don't think they think they deserve it all. We go through our life and think God's been unfair to us. Man, my life is so difficult, and God forgot about me. Brother, this is vitally important that we have a sincere heart of gratitude. And it's born in the heart of remembrance. He said, I thank God on every remembrance of you. Then I want you to see, beloved, this supplication with joy. Paul couldn't help but be joyful with joy When he thought about the saints in verse number four, he says, Always in every prayer of mine, for you all make a request with joy. We see the the practice of Paul's prayer here. It was it was a prayer that was Continual. We see the words here. He says, every and always, always in every prayer, praying for you. It was a continual endeavor that Paul was praying for the saints. He prayed for the saints. You know, there's an old saying, the family that prays together stays together. And although it's not scripture. It it is a true saying. It's a true saying there is something beloved about pouring your heart out to God being sincere with your Heavenly Father and talking to him and your mates or your children, hearing you pray. Hearing you talk to your Lord. Not just about the general welfare of the world and and all of those th people that would be good and punish all of the evil and and and bless us, O Lord. But I'm saying being sincere and real before God and saying, Lord, would you help me to be the kind of husband God wants me to be? Lord, would you please give me the strength to be kind and compassionate and to love my wife, Lord, like you love the church? Help me to give of myself and to stop being so selfish. Lord, would you help me to do that? I'll tell you what, if your wife hears you pray like that She may think you're a rotten bum, but at least she knows you're trying. She knows you're trying. She'll say, man, at least he's trying. At least he's working. He's asking God to help him. That does something when your kids hear you pray. Lord, help me to be a godly father. Help me to love my kids. Help me to have wisdom to know when to discipline. when to train and when Lord to reprove and when to rebuke. Lord, help me to know when to do those things. Then your kids won't think, oh Dad's just being angry. He's just getting mad. But that dad's trying to be what God wants him to be. This is very important, beloved. This always in every prayer, Paul prayed for them. Paul was close to these believers. I believe he was close to them mostly because he prayed for them. It's something that connects you with them. You know, with our missionaries that are around the world, we have on our prayer list a list of what's going on in their lives. Because we can pray for them and it it connects us with them. It connects us with their burdens. Paul prayed for them by name. You read Ephesians and Colossians and Romans, and you read and talk. Think about how many times Paul mentioned by name the saints that were in those churches. He had a lot of saints to remember. Paul was around, he traveled a lot. Paul had a lot of people to remember. And he prayed for them by name. Not only that, he prayed for them by need Beloved, I think in our prayer time we need to be a little less general and a little more specific. Let me ask you, would you want somebody praying for you, Lord? I mean any prayer is a good prayer. Amen. Anybody that'll pray for me, I'll take it. You want somebody just, Lord, you know what's going on. Will you take care of it? Or would you want somebody praying for you, Lord, please be with Pastor Caleb? Lord, you know that he's dealing with this uh thing right now and he he needs your strength, Lord, he's got uh his son. possibly is going to have to have knee surgery and Lord we pray that that uh would work itself out Lord that he wouldn't have to have that knee surgery getting specific about what's going on in the lives of the believers Not just for ourselves, but for those that we love and care for. It connects us with them. Paul prayed for them. He prayed for them by name and he prayed for them by need. Paul's ministry was successful, we saw last week, because he was a servant, but I believe Paul's ministry was successful because he was a prayer warrior Beloved, when we do what we can do, we get what we can do. That was profound, wasn't it? That's all we get. We get what we can do in our strength. But when we attempt to accomplish the work of God and we do it through prayer, we get what God can do We get what God can do, and that's what we, that's what I would like to see, is what God can do. We don't need more programs. We don't need more promotion. What we need, beloved, is more prayer. in the church. More prayer. Which is why as a theme for this year we've put this down as on bended knee. motivating and stirring and continuing to remind the church that we need to be praying so that we could see God do great things. We see his practice, but we also see the praise. He prayed with joy. Man, it brought joy to his heart when he thought about those saints that were serving God there at the church. You know it brings heartache and pain when those that you love are far from God. When they're there and they're serving and they're being faithful to see them, what a joy it is to see and hear Of your faithful friends that are continuing for the Lord and still growing and still going. It brought joy to his heart to think about that They had together a common purpose in the sharing of the gospel in verse number five. In the sharing of the gospel, verse number five says, For your fellowship in the gospel From the first day until now. They had a fellowship. They had a participation. This is a common participation that they had with each other. Just like we have with our missionaries who may be halfway around the world. We don't get to be there to share in every burden or in every blessing. But we are unified with them in a common goal, an overarching program that, whatever we're doing, all of the programs of the church are centered around the theme or the idea of winning the loss through Jesus Christ. So that those that don't know the Lord is their Savior can hear about his love and come to him and repent and be forgiven of their sin. It's the overarching goal. It's that friendship and that bond that's found only in Jesus Christ They had a fellowship beloved that was much deeper than the common things that draw people together. There's all kinds of communities, and I don't know how many of you are on Facebook, but on Facebook there's a bunch of different communities. You can be a community in a community of woodworkers. And you can be in a community of of you know those people that like straight head screwdrivers. You know, I I don't know what kind of communities there's community for everything. Whatever you want. And there's things that draw people together. You know, you meet somebody at the store and you find out that you're both from Crossett, Arkansas. What are the chances of that? I mean Crossett only has six thousand people in it. and two people here and you know what an amazing thing and and there's kind of a little bit of a bond there because you're both from Crossett and you both ate at Sonic, the only place in town to eat. And you know Uh whatever little things. There's just small stuff that draw people together. Maybe you both like the ravens, heaven forbid, but whatever it is, there's things that people like, right, that draw people together, and you've got that common bond Beloved, our bond is much greater and deeper and far more important than these common frivolous things of life. He says they have a fellowship of what? In the text there, what does it say? A fellowship of the gospel. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the gospel of Jesus Christ that saved our soul. Through the gospel, we were brought to Christ And that fellowship, that bond we have in Christ gives us a common start. It gives us a common purpose, a common power, and a common future. One day we're going to be in heaven together. I'm glad, beloved, that in this dog-eat dog world, that we're part of a church that has a common bond. A bond around Jesus Christ that causes us to love one another in all of our different situations and different personalities and different places. It doesn't matter. There's a common bond here. This fellowship that they had was a fellowship that lasted in good times and bad. They walked with Paul even when he was in prison. As you walk through this book, you'll see several things that they fellowshiped with him, that they continued in, they offered him financial support when he needed it. They offered him prayer support when he needed it. They had that common bond that carried them. Are you praying, beloved, for those that you fellowship with? In a few minutes we'll have the opportunity to bow our heads and pray for one another. We have that prayer list. Are you throughout the week praying for your brothers and sisters in Christ? Are you holding up, carrying the burdens that they have? I hope you are. This was a perpetual fellowship, a fellowship that continued. He says there that for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Have you ever met somebody that you just felt like from the very first time you met them, it's just like you've been lifelong friends. Like there's just something there that you you know you're just from the first day till now, we're just buddies. We're just just friends. That bond we have in Jesus Christ does that. And Paul says from the first day we met. Now it's been almost ten years. Since Paul was there at the church at Philippi. He hasn't seen him in ten years. But he says, from that day till now, I praise God for the fellowship that we have in the gospel of Jesus Christ. He was excited, beloved, to hear that they were still there, that they were still serving, that they were still a part of the church. You know, sometimes we have a missionary come through and the missionary is here and he preaches and one of you might take him out to dinner. And then they go to the field and they're on the field for five, six, seven, eight years or something, and they'll call and say, hey, we're back in town and gonna come to the church or whatever, and a lot of times they'll ask me They'll remember even five years, ten years later, they'll say, hey, who's that guy that took me out to dinner last time? He was an electrician It's really ugly. Who was oh we must be talking about Joe Roberts? Yeah, he's he's still in the church. And they're like, oh, praise God, you know. It makes it exciting. They're so glad he's still here. He's still serving. He's still part of the church after all this time. From the first day until now, man. Praise God. That's awesome. And it brings joy to their heart to hear that those saints that were here when they came through the first time are still here, still serving, still doing what God wants them to do. Now, beloved, don't think for a minute that in the church of Philippi there wasn't some conflicts over personality. They're people, just like we're people. And there had to be some conflicts over personality. There had to be some issues over different situations that arose. But the joy that Paul had that he was writing to them about was that they were still there, still serving, still working, still seeing God do things in their midst. I hope, beloved, tonight that you're thankful. For the fellowship that we have in Christ with our brothers and sisters. As you see, lastly this evening in verse number six, the security that we have in Christ. The security we have in Christ. He says, being confident of this very thing, that he which begun a good work in you will perform it. until the day of Jesus Christ. Now this verse by itself could be an entire message for its importance, for what it's teaching, the security of the believer. The amazing confidence that we have in Christ Jesus. He says here, confidence. Being confident of this spirit, that word confident means to be fully persuaded. I hope, beloved, that you're fully persuaded tonight about your salvation in Jesus Christ. That there's not any question, there's no concern, that you have that settled. You are confident of that very thing. Which he, that being Jesus Christ, he that began this work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. There's a progression here in this verse. First of all, the production of salvation. That is, it's in and through Jesus Christ. It began when Jesus Christ drew you to himself. When you trusted, when you saw your need of a savior, you say, Boy, I know I'm lost. There's no way I can earn or work my way to heaven, but Jesus Christ died for me. And by confessing your sin to Him, putting your faith and trust in Him, He cleansed you of your sin. And saved your soul. It was in and through Jesus Christ and in him alone. He began this work in you. Salvation started with Jesus Christ. Beloved, the new birth, the new birth, it's not a process. It's an event. There's no such thing as I'm being saved. Doesn't happen over time You don't say, well, somebody is being born. There's a birth date. There is a birth time physically Now there are some, like my wife, who have very long extended labors and sad for them because it's quite arduous, uh very painful and Very hard on me to stand there and wait all that time. I mean very hard on her to go through that. It's rough. But it's still a moment of birth. When the child is born, they'll write down on the birth certificate the moment of birth. And that's what happens spiritually as well. It's an event. It takes place at a moment in a time. Which is like you're born physically, you are born spiritually into the family of God at the moment in time when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. In him alone. That's what happened here. He began a work in you, salvation. It began with salvation. Then we see the per the progress, the progression of the Christian life. This is the progress that we think about as sanctification. There is an aspect of progression in the Christian life, just like when a child is born, they don't stay a baby forever. They've got to grow. They've got to learn things. They've got to develop. And those beginning stages are really hard. You know that? Man, it's hard on the kid. The same thing when you have a new birth in Jesus Christ, a new Christian, those beginning stages are really hard. Those steps of coming and learning how what God wants us to do and and sometimes especially if they get saved later in life. Sometimes there's a lot of things they gotta get out of their life. And things they got to replace. And it's a process and it takes time. But that's the process of sanctification where God is working on us. He's changing us into his image a little bit at a time, and we're hopefully growing closer to him and more like him day by day. 1 Thessalonians 5. 23 says, And this very God of peace sanctify you, holy. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless until the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. This process of sanctification happens through life. As we yield to him, hey, God's still working on you. Don't get discouraged personally because God's still working. And don't get disgruntled with other people Because God's still working on them too. They're not perfect. Everybody has their own areas that are a struggle and a burden. So be patient with them. Don't get discouraged with yourself either. Remember, God's still working. And we see ultimately the performance that God will perform it. It's his, he's going to do it. He's going to present us blameless to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says in our text here, he says, he will perform it until the day. of Jesus Christ. That is what we recognize theologically as glorification. When this old body, this mortal body, puts on immortality. When we are finally done with the flesh and we are glorified in heaven. When you have perfect knowledge and no more sin. Amen. And all that's gone and done away with. One day we are going to be separated from the presence of sin. We're going to be in heaven. And boy, I look forward to that day. It's all up to God. Each step, he says, He will perform it. There's many people that are in that process in the middle of that sanctification process, and I think that they feel like it's something they have to do. Boy, I have to clean this up. I have to change this. I have to do this. I have to do this, and I gotta do this In that verse there, it doesn't change in the middle there. From salvation to sanctification to glorification, they're all a process of God. They're all a work that God does in our lives. It'd be like this. If I bought that nice suburban that's out in the parking lot. And I I got it and I said, man, that's a nice suburban, man. I've been blessed to have that. Boy isn't that thing nice. And I went out in the parking lot and turned the key to unlock the steering wheel and kind of turned it towards the uh the road a little bit and then I got behind it and began pushing it. Like, Pastor, what are you doing? I'm taking this beautiful suburban, this blessing that God gave me. I'm taking it out so everybody can see what God is doing. Why don't you get in and drive it? You see, they've got a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof. It's Jesus Christ that does the work in us. As we just yield to Him and let the Holy Spirit work in us, that process of sanctification that so many people get so bogged down with. They're out there pushing their Christian life trying to do that in their own strength. When if they would just yield to God, they could get in and turn the key and let the power of God bring that about in their life It's all him. God does it. Salvation, sanctification, as we yield to him, and ultimately glorification one day.