This morning's message was really an introduction, a foundation, kind of laying the groundwork and preparing our hearts and minds for this as we considered the cross. That in and of itself would would be sufficient to introduce uh the Lord's Supper and and just remind us of what he went through Mark on his way out said he greatly appreciated being given a picture of what the one who paid the price uh the price that he paid. He he said, you know, it's one thing sometimes we often look at it and consider it from our standpoint of what we get out of it But we don't offer cons often consider what it cost the one who paid for it. And he says what you did this morning is you gave us a picture of that and he was very grateful of it. And as we look into the Word of God tonight I want that this morning's message to be the foundation as we get into this, but turn your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter number 11. We won't be very long with the message this evening because we want to have time for examination. And we want to have time to observe the Lord's table together. So I have about half as many notes as I as I normally would for a message. But we see in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, begin reading in verse 23. We're going to read down through verse 31. This is the entirety of the context that we will be looking at, and of course, dealing with this matter of the Lord's Supper. He says, For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had taken when he had given thanks, he break it, and he said, Take eat, this is my body which is broken for you this due in remembrance of me After the same manner also ye took the cup when he had supped, saying, This is a cup of New Testament in my blood. This do ye as oft as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily Shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself. And so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. I would speak this evening for a few minutes on the exam. The exam. As an individual approaches exam time, He comes into the classroom on that day with fear and trembling. At least that's how I usually entered the classroom with fear and trembling. It's exam time. It's time to test his knowledge of the subject. Some they enter the classroom with a measure of confidence. They feel prepared for the exam. The difference is found in how diligently they have given their heart to study. How serious they've applied themselves to learning. And where one comes into the exam time with great apprehension, the other can approach it with confidence because they've prepared. Beloved, so it is with the Christian when we've applied our heart to wisdom and we've sought diligently after the Lord, when we have strove to keep short accounts with God. Not perfect, but honest and close and sincere relationship with the Lord. When it comes to exam time We don't approach it with such apprehension. There is not that maybe fear and trembling. The purpose of any examination is to discover the true state of a thing. For example, you may take a math exam to discover the true reality of whether you grasp the su the subject matter or not. If those concepts sank down into your heart and mind and you're able to do that on your own You might have a physical exam that you go to to find out how you're doing physically. Nobody wants to go take those. The doctor always finds something, right? He's like, you know, if you weren't looking so hard, you might not find that, you know. It's like what? There's always something wrong Poor Tristan, man, every they said every time the doctor drew blood, they came back with some other catastrophe that's going wrong with the system. Every time they came back and said, this is the problem and we got to do this and do this And then the next time they drew blood, that problem that they had last time, they're like, oh no, that wasn't the problem. Now this is the problem. And they said it was a month of just nonstop, just this and this and this and And just because they're trying to make sure that he's taken care of and they address everything, but the exam is to determine and see what's wrong. I'm fast approaching that age where they recommend that you get an annual physical just to make sure everything's working. Uh you know when this old body starts to deteriorate and things don't function like they used to, they recommend you get an exam at least once a year. They just want to check on you, make sure you're doing all right. You know, that's what the Lord's Supper is for us. It is that recommended exam time where we check and see if we're doing alright. Where we truly get honest before God and find out how we're doing spiritually. We might not like the physical exams and we might not care for any exam at school. You're weird if you do. I'm just kidding. There's some that that enjoy that. Yeah. You may not even like the spiritual exam, but beloved, they're all needed. They're all needed. So I want to give you a few simple thoughts here as we look at this text. First of all, I want you to see the charge for examination. He says, but let a man examine himself. We see that this charge is a personal charge. It's kind of exciting to me that he says, let a man examine himself. I like that. Aren't you glad, Brother Hunt, that it's not up to Lee to determine how you're doing spiritually tonight? I mean, it's it's you know Amen. I like it that God says, hey, this is something that's between you and me. This is something that you can do yourself. But it's something that you need to do. He says, let a man examine himself. Take some time to examine yourself tonight. I'm so glad he doesn't call on somebody else to determine how we're doing, or we don't have to go through some uh you know, sitting in some back room or some cubicle and confess all of our sins to some man to determine how we're holding up. We can go to the Father. And beloved, there's no one that knows us better than the Father. He knows us better than we know ourselves. Psalms 103, 14 says, For he knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are but dust. Want you to understand, beloved, that God knows who you are. He remembers that you're just dust, that you're just a creation of his hand, that you have a sinful nature. And he calls you lovingly to come and to examine yourself and to confess and forsake that sin, knowing who you are. Knowing your frame. God created you. God made you. He knows who you are. He knows that you're just us. But he calls you to a life of holiness. And he says you need to examine yourself. There may be a time where we need to say as the psalmist did, search me, O God, and know my heart, and try me, and know my thoughts. And see if there be any wicked way in me, and leave me in the way of everlasting. Beloved, there's times that even our own heart will deceive us. We may in our heart say, well, I'm doing really good. I'm spiritually sound. I'm I'm functioning alright. I'm on the top right now. But we might need to just say, God, would you search me? Would you see if there be any wicked way in me? Would you see if there's anything, Lord, that I need to confess and get right, that I need to change, that I need to submit to you tonight? It's a personal charge. It's a charge that we should admit our transgressions. We were studying in 1 John on Thursday nights and just covered this verse number 8, where it says, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Beloved, we all have Transgression. Sin. We've transgressed the law. Can I just remind you tonight there's four different types of sin that are Mentioned in the Word of God, there are sins of commission. These are things that we do that are wrong. We commit sin. They're sins of omission. These are things that are right that we know we should be doing, but we're not doing. We've omitted those things that we really should be doing, and so that's a sin of omission. The Bible describes sins of presumption, the presumptuous sin, those are sins that we do on purpose, even though we know they're wrong. Even though we know that there's a penalty for it, even though we know that God's not pleased with it, we just continue to pursue after that sin presumptuously uh uh infringing upon or or taking advantage of the grace and the mercy of God. It's a presumptuous sin. The psalmist said in Psalms 19, verse number 13, he says, keep me back, keep back thy servant from also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright and shall be innocent from this great transgression. There's presumptuous sins, sins that we do and we know they're wrong and we just continue to do it. Sins of omission Things we know are right and we're not doing, and things of commission, that things that we do that are wrong. There's also sins of the spirit. These are thoughts, these are wrong motives, these are harmful attitudes or an improper spirit We need to have a right spirit and right motives. You know it's possible to do the right thing for the wrong motive. Beloved, are you motivated in your spiritual pursuits by the love of God? By his honor and glory or by the praise of men. To be recognized and seen of men. Are you motivated by the right thing? Sometimes people are motivated just by jealousy. Or even out of spite. They would do something right and something good out of spite. Out of bitterness. Maybe just out of plain old mean-spiritedness But do you have the right motives? When you sing the song, Is Thy Heart Right with God? There's a lot of aspects to that. There's a lot of things to consider if we truly want to live in the place where there's nothing between our soul and the Savior. You know, there's also sins of ignorance that are mentioned in the Bible. These are things that We do that we don't know we do. Things that are wrong that we don't even know they're wrong or didn't know that we should not be doing those or should be doing them. Just this week I talked to a young man who's been in church his whole life. And he was listening to a seminar on biblical finance and handling your finances correctly and preparing for life and such. And he heard, at least for the first time that it registered in his brain, he heard that you should be tithing off of your gross, not your net. And he was like, What? I never heard that before. He said, well the government gets theirs off the top. You suppose God's less less important than the government? You think uh you know uh you know you just He believed it to be true, he wasn't questioning it. His question to me was Should I somehow try and do makeup? Should I somehow be like trying, you know, for years I've just been tied in on the net and I don't even know how to factor in that. And I said, well if you do it at Hunt Valley then yes. No, no, I d I didn't. I didn't tell him that. I said listen I uh I you need to do what God gives you peace in your heart to do. I'm not gonna tell you not to, but I want to give you a couple biblical principles. First of all, sin is sin regardless of whether you knew it was sin or not. Is that correct? That's I mean do you understand that? And he says yes. And I said, but in that same passage that talks about to whom much is given, much is required, the beginning of that talks about how him that committed sin, and I'm not going to quote this correctly, but he says he's going to receive a few stripes. Right? He says he's going to receive few stripes. So that I believe God's putting that there for us to realize that it's still wrong. It was still sin. But when we know that it's wrong and we continue to do it, then he's going to receive many strokes, because to whom much is given, much is required. And I said, I personally believe that God is not looking for you. It's it's a heart matter, it's a spiritual matter that God's not looking for you to make up that now that you've known the truth, the difference would be from here on out, what are you going to do? And making that, you know, changing your behavior from here on out. I said I d you again, I'm saying you if God leads you to do something in regards to that, he doesn't even come to this church, so it's as doesn't impact us one way or the other. But I I said, if God leads you to do that, then you do what God wants you to do. I said, but personally I look at it and I don't know that God's holding you accountable for that. It's something you did not know. You did not have a knowledge of that back then. And uh that's my personal opinion on it, but you again do what God gives you peace in your heart, making sure you have a clear conscience before God and man. That's so vitally important. That you're honest with God and having that clear conscience for God and man. So we Have this charge to examine, that is to prove, to evaluate, to test. And when something is discovered through examination, it needs to be dealt with. Proverbs 28, 13 says, He that covereth his sins shall not prosper, but whosoever confesseth and forsaketh him shall have mercy. God's such a merciful God. And He's so clear. It's amazing because He already knows it. He already knows what's going on in our heart and lives. But he says, hey, if you'll just confess and forsake that, you're going to have mercy. But he who covers or tries to hide or keep from taking or dealing with sin, he says, you're not going to prosper. You're not going to prosper. I want you to see the benefit of examination here. First of all, you get to avoid chastisement. In verse 30 through thirty-two, he says, For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself. Not discerning the Lord's body, for this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged, but when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord. that we should not be condemned with the world. You see, God gives us two options here. You can either judge yourself Or you can be chastened by God. And we judge ourselves, he says he's plentious in mercy, that he is quick to forgive. But if you don't judge yourself, he's going to chasten you. He describes some chastening here for the church at Corinth, and he says there's many that are weak. There's many that are sick. This is definitely speaking regarding a physical aspect, but maybe even a mental aspect of of of sickness and illness that you're dealing with, the weakness that you're facing. And he says here, even ultimately death. There's death. that men were taken to that point because they continued to go against God and they partook of the Lord's supper unworthily Not only are we able to avoid chastisement, but we're able to make some adjustments. You know, when you go to the chiropractor, he does an examination. And he says, yep, you know, number four, whatever, is out. And uh, you know, your left rib is kind of kinked a little bit or whatever. He's he he tells you what's wrong. And then he says, okay, see you later. No, he says, now lay down on the table here. We're going to fix this problem, right? He says, there needs to be some adjustment. We want to realign these bones. We want to get this back in shape so you can feel better. And that's the privilege and the joy of self-examination. We can get with God and we can get adjusted. We can get back in line with Him. It gives us the opportunity to go before him and allow him to fix us, to confess and forsake that sin. You know, Moses knew he was on holy ground. And when he recognized that, he took his shoes off. We needed to make an adjustment in the presence of God. The Old Testament priests, they had to wash their hands and their feet. The layer before they approach that sacrificial altar, they need to purify and cleanse themselves. The New Testament priests, the believer. That's each and every one of us. We need to examine our hearts, our thoughts, our motives, our desires, our actions, our attitudes before we approach the Lord's table. It gives us an opportunity before we do it to make an adjustment. If there's something that needs to be done, the privilege that God gives us is that we can take care of it. And it's not that hard to do. And then, beloved, self-examination allows us to partake. He says in verse number 28, there at the end, he says, so let him eat and drink. He says, let him eat. He says, examine yourself. Make the adjustment And come on, brother. Come on, sister, partake of the Lord's Supper. This do in remembrance of me. This is the encouraging thing. This is time of examination is not to stop us from partaking. It's to get us to make an adjustment. God says just examine yourself and you can partake. I think about a a mom who calls the kids in. They go in and they want to sit down right at the table. And she's like, wait a minute, go wash those hands first. You aren't eating with them hands. And of course the kids would be like, they're clean, you know, they look good. And and mom's like, no, them ain't clean hands You gotta wash them hands before you sit down to eat. That's what God is saying. He says just get clean first. Just wash up. Just let Him take care of it. So I ask you, is there anything in your heart tonight that you need to get right with God? I want to ask the pianists to come and we're going to have a moment of invitation. We're going to have a time of examination where you can talk to the Lord. I didn't point out or list or describe any number of sins this evening. I just know that in all each and every one of our lives that as we interact in this whole world You're gonna get dirty. That's just the way it is. We live in a wicked world. Just like the kids playing out in the yard, they're gonna get dirty And so God says, hey, before you come and partake, get clean. Wash up. Spend some time and examine your heart and confess those things. To your God. Is there someone in your life that you need to get right with? Is there a brother or sister in Christ that you have aught against, or you have a bitterness or anger there that you need to confess and forsake? Need to be willing to do it. This is an exam that we must pass if we're going to partake of the Lord's Supper.