And you can turn your Bibles to Luke chapter fifteen if you want to make your way that direction in the scriptures. Could somebody tell me something that you learned last week in this class? uh about this particular parable. Um anything that you learned last week. I could ask some specific things, but Just curious if there was something about the particular parable that you might have learned or or uh were let's say reminded of. Um but Alrighty, well let's uh get more more specific here. Um this parable, does anybody remember what the problem was that prompted the teaching of this parable? What was the problem that prompted the teaching or the uh situation that prompted the teaching of this parable? Remember every uh just about every parable has Something that arose that brought about uh the teaching of it. Does anybody remember what it was? Death one I I got something. Who was it? Dead one was it. So there we have the uh hand of uh public kills were were considered as they Right. You're you're on the right track, Harry. There's uh the uh accusations made by the scribes and the Pharisees was that, hey, this man receives sinners. And they said that about Jesus, that he receives sinners. And um, you know, that it was the publicans and the sinners that were allowed to you know spend time with Jesus and they were accusing him of that and saying like this almost an accusation like this shouldn't be. And so Jesus said, Well, let me tell you how I feel about sinners and he began teaching So there's three parables here that are all together that have essentially the same message, and that is the lost sheep, the lost coin, and the lost son, and uh which we have titled the prodigal son. But there's not uh the prodigal son, the word prodigal is not found in in this passage of scripture. We've named it that because of the fact that prodigal means wasteful and this young man went out and wasted his living or his his inheritance on a riotous living. So uh just uh those of you that weren't here if you want to fill in there's a blank there. This uh this parable has been called the Pearl and the crown of all parables Um and that was uh by Trench said that, the pearl and the crown of all parables and then the lost sheep, the lost coin and the prodigal son are those three parables that all teach the same type of message. Does anybody uh there's The main theme of these is the yearning love for the Father. The Father's yearning love for the lost. So all three have the same central theme, and that's the Father's yearning love for the lost. And then under number four, the uh publicans were considered extortioners and traitors by the scribes and Pharisees. If you're filling in your blanks. Now we covered these things last week. Um but does anybody remember the difference between the first two parables and the third one. What was the defining almost like a line there? There was a very strong difference between the first two and the third one that's very interesting and of course very applicable to us. The first two show the father bringing back or finding the loss, and the third is the loss coming back uh I guess by the dollars or something. Right. It's shows a very strong contrast. The first two, there the the sinner has no part in it, or the item that was lost. the person lost. And by example or illustration here, he was all three are applying to sinners that are lost. But the first two just deals strongly with the love of the Father or the desire to bring them back. And the lost item or lost person has nothing to do with it. But in the third one we see our part in this and that we need to come back to the Father. And the accusation there under number five, the accusation was this man received his sinners. Then we dealt with the truth of the parable. We talked about that, the translation of the parable, letter A there is reckless, if you're catching up your notes, and letter C is repentance And we talked about these things last week, went through all that. Then we we left off and didn't touch or get into the teachings of the parable. And uh with this being the most talked about, the most taught, the most looked at parable of all parables. There's a lot of teaching on this, and there's a lot of ways these things can be applied. And there's nothing wrong with application of the truth. Many times how something applies to me today, because I have a very young family, applied it very differently to me when I was a college student and I was single. And it will apply different to me when I'm really, really old, like no, I'm not gonna say that. So So where you are in your life, you know, you can take a passage of scripture and God can apply that to you where you are and what you need at that time. And there's nothing wrong with application We just ought to be sure we understand the interpretation and we don't change the interpretation because we don't want to change that. But applying it can be applied in a lot of ways First of all, under the teaching of the parable, I wanted to give you a couple of the false things that arise. The more people teach on things, sometimes they try and dig deeper than is really there. And they try and apply things beyond what the scope of the scripture is. But first, the false teaching here is the idea of justice and judgment are utterly foreign to God. Justice and judgment are utterly foreign to God. You have here this parable of a young man who comes back to the Father. And he's welcomed back with open arms, and you know the father, he kills the fatted calf, and he puts a robe on him, and it's all it's all love. And in this parable, you don't see justice and judgment You don't see the hammer come down on him. And so some would take this parable alone and try and teach That God is not going to judge, that God loves and God embraces, and and you know, if you come back to Him, all is going to be fine, and there's no justice or judgment from the Father But you have to completely disregard the rest of the scriptures to do that, which uh Pastor Derrick adequately taught in Thursday night about the fact in principles of interpretation. is you can't just take one section of script scripture and interpret scripture. And if you in your mind could draw that application out of here You have to look at the rest of the scope of scripture and say that application doesn't fit with who God is as a whole. So I'm not understanding or not applying correctly what this passage is teaching. because it doesn't line up with the rest of the scriptures. And so some people would teach that justice and judgment does not apply. I'll give you some references for the sake of time. We're not going to look it up. But uh Deuteronomy 32, verse 4, uh very strong teaching on justice and judgment, Jeremiah 32 and 19, just to dealing with uh the fact that God judges. And those are Old Testaments, so let me give you a couple of New Testament. 1 Peter 1, 17. And just because it's so close, let's look over there, John chapter 5, verse number 30. In John chapter 5. Verse number thirty, he says, I can of my own self do nothing as I hear. I judge And my judgment is just, because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which has sent me. So who's who's talking here? Jesus. If you have a red letter Bible it should be read. Uh mine's not read because mine's not a red letter Bible. I do miss that. I do miss not being able to see quickly. But some people they don't like the red letter Bibles because they say it's all God's word. God said it all, right? Well, I still like to know that it's actually Jesus is talking, so sometimes I have to look that up. But you should have uh that that's Jesus saying. He says, I will judge. And I'm going to judge justly, because why? Because I'm not looking out for me or for what I want, but I want the will of the Father And uh so very clearly teaching that God will judge. Um they take the absence of this judgment to teach that God will not judge sin. That j but Jesus clearly teaches this in this passage in the rest of the scriptures. Um Secondly, uh a misinterpretation is that this teaches there's no need for repentance. Um they say the man came back and and And you know, I'm not sure how this is, but it's a very strong teaching with this parable that's out there that people would say there's no need for repentance. Repentance is all through the scripture uh and certainly is there's a need for repentance. And I even see it in this P in this passage the Bible says, you know, he says he came to himself and he came back and said, I'm not even worthy to be your your son, I'll just be a servant. I think that shows a repentant heart, a uh you know, a penitent spirit. Um, but some teach that if you're studying this you'll see you'll come across that. And then they actually teach that there's a removal of the mediator between God and man. You see the picture here is that this lost son came directly to the Father. And came directly to him, and there was nobody uh paying atonement for his sin There was no atonement paid. There was no mediator. There was nobody in between reconciling these two back. And so we don't need a mediator. But the scripture says there's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. Jesus Christ intercedes for us He is our mediator. We are not holy and just on our own. We have been clothed, and when we get to some other applications, we'll talk about the robe of righteousness that we get to put on. It's not our robe, it's the robe of Jesus Christ. When God looks at us, he doesn't see our sin and our filth. He sees the righteousness of his son, because his blood has covered our sin. We need the mediator. But some would teach that there's no need for the mediator because here this man was able to go straight to the Father. There was no uh atonement paid. There was no uh uh ransom paid or made for this ma young man. So that's just some of the false teaching that's out there with regards to this passage, uh just to make you aware of it. But ways that we can apply this is what first of all here If we are to be like Christ, then we have here this powerful example of how we should feel and respond to the lost. or to the prodigal, uh some that have fallen away. What a strong teaching here that anybody that is lost or has fallen away uh as they come back to Christ Or as a sinner repents of his sin, we should not stand in judgment here and say, well, we'll see if he's really saved. We'll find out. See if he shows up to church next Sunday. You know. No, there's joy in heaven over one sinner that re that repented. And I think it's neat to see that there's joy in the presence of the angels. Now I'm not sure about that, but it didn't say the angels rejoice. I don't know Maybe they do. But it said there's joy in the presence of the angels. So who's in the presence of the angels? The Lord, God the Father, God the Son. That means they are rejoicing and the angels are seeing it. In the presence of the angels, God the Father is rejoicing about one sinner that repents. And uh that's exciting to me, and we should respond the same way. Also, it's important to note that while Jesus received these sinners, his closest companions, his friends. We're the disciples. It's just something as Christians we need to understand and be able to adequately navigate through. Because your closest friends should not be the sinners, the heathen. A heathen is somebody that doesn't believe in God. That should not be the person that you're closest to. You say, well, Jesus received sinners. Yes, he did. In an effort to win them, in an effort to draw them unto himself, that they might trust in him and believe in him. So if you want to receive sinners, to have a Bible study, to preach to them, to give them the gospel, amen. But as a Christian, your closest friends should be people that believe like you believe. You are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. And if you are closest to people that don't come to church, it'll be very easy for you to say, you know what, I'm not going to go to church this week. I mean, uh I was gonna say Joe, but Joe's upstairs, so we gotta pick a different name. Sam or whatever. He he's not going to church this week. He's going out on the lake and and he will think it's okay. I'll be able to feel okay when I'm with Sam because he doesn't think it's wrong not to be in church. It's fine, I can miss that. Whoever your closest friends are is who you will start to be like. And uh as you get saved and start changing your life, that will happen automatically. You either will stop growing and going towards God. Or the worldly lost friends that you had will stop hanging around you. One of the two is going to take place. Because as you go towards God, you are going away from those friends. And you're gonna stop going towards God in order to maintain this friendship with the lost sin sinners. Or as you go towards God, this friendship is not that you don't Still care for them as a person. Not that you wouldn't say hello to them, not that you wouldn't ever eat a meal with them. But they're just not who you're closest to anymore. Because they're going a different direction. And that's just something that as Christians we need to understand and be able to negotiate. We can learn much from the state of the sinner. Selfishness is a foundational sin. Selfishness is a foundational sin. He said, give me. He wanted his part. You know what does the Bible say? The love of money is the what? Root, a foundational sin. Selfishness would motivate a man to steal. Selfishness would motivate a man to lie to protect himself. And so selfishness is a foundational sin and leads to a lot of other things, and we've got to be very careful and guard against that in our lives, even in our relationships, as we see selfishness cropping up. Even with our our mates, you know, uh preferring them or looking out for ourselves. Um what what are how are we putting our husband, our wife first, or are we just seeking our own gratification, satisfaction, fulfillment, whatever? Um Sin means sorrow. Not sometimes, but always. Sin never fails to find a man out, not always in the dramatic way described here in this parable, but often in secret heart misery. And personal degradation and defilement. It's sometimes it's not all public and and everybody knows and oh I'm so ashamed for what I did. I remember one time as a kid, I'm not gonna tell you what I did because I'm not gonna talk about sin, but I got caught doing something wrong, and I was so embarrassed. I mean I was just I mean I was literally like the guy, I could never show my face in public again. I mean I was just broken because of what I did and people knew about it. Like, oh my goodness, I can't believe I did that, you know. It's some sometimes it's not public like that. But down in your heart The misery that you carry because of that sin that you know is not right. It'll always find its way there. Uh And sin when it is finished bringeth forth what? Death. U ultimately, yes. So This Jew was reduced to feeding pigs, the bottom of the barrel, the end of his rope, and the end of all sin. is the bottom. And there's no way around that. You're gonna end up in your life serving something. He was serving pigs. By picture, he was serving the world, the flesh and the devil. You're gonna end up serving something. You might as well serve the Lord and have fulfillment and satisfaction instead of defilement and discouragement. He sought independence from the Father. He saw independence from the Father as a great im image or picture or illustration, you know, many people want to be independent of the Father Now we don't have the kids here. I could take uh quite a bit of time here and teach on young people wanting to get out of the, you know, wanting to be independent from their parents and their father. But we as adults, we want independence from the authority of God and want to be able to get out from under the Father's rule and we feel we can do okay and that happens in the smallest of ways. You know you have a budget, and you know that to buy this thing is gonna blow the budget. And you know the Holy Spirit saying, Don't do it, don't do it. But you in your mind think, No, I could do this, I'll put it on the card, next month I'll pay half of it off, and then the following month I'll pay half of it off, and then we'll be okay, and then I'll be able to get it And we disregard the father's prodding and we go ahead and buy it and then next month the we get a flat tire and So now we've got to pay the flat tire too and now we're carrying a balance on the credit card and now the interest is growing and you know how it all goes 'cause Most everybody's been there at some point in their life if they uh uh hopefully have been able to work their way out of that and not falling into it again. But that's just one area. Independence of the Father. Um He wanted his own will. He wanted his own way. Um What happens is he went out I don't think that this prodigal son was planning to be wasteful He wanted what he wanted, and I think in his mind was I'll take my inheritance and I'm gonna go to a far country and I'm gonna invest it and I'm gonna multiply it and I'm gonna be rich and I'm gonna he might have had all these dreams But his tendency was to be wasteful. And let me just throw this out. If your kids have a tendency right now in your home. That is only going to be amplified and exasperated by being out from under the influence of the Father. He had this tendency to be wasteful. When he was out from under the control of the father, that was just amplified. And now all of a sudden, before he knew it, his money was all gone. So let me just encourage you as parents Watch for those tendencies and realize that is going to get worse when they're out from under my influence. We need to start working on that. We need to start molding them to correct that, or it's going to get worse. Not just in wastefulness, it might be carelessness, it might be laziness, it might be no, I don't know what, but if there's a tendency or a character trait that even as we have When we get out from under the influence of the Father, and that means being in church, where the Holy Spirit can speak to us where the Holy Spirit can preach for us. We start missing church. We start getting a little further away from the influence of the Father and that prodding of the Holy Spirit. The tendencies that we have as adults are going to be amplified. And exasperated because we're further away from the influence of the Father. And that's what he that's what he wanted. It was not his plan, but ultimately what happened. Then he went to a far country. That's what happens when we get away from God. He went to a far country. This is a direct opposition to where God wants you and I. He said, draw nigh unto me, and I will draw nigh unto you. I imagine I I think that I've had this conversation with Bradley. That I I think I've told Bradley I can tell that your spirit's right because you want to be around me. Have I told you that? A young person who has a right heart wants to be around authority. They want to be there. They look for that. They desire it. And So that's one thing that's easy to recognize with your kids or with others. If they have a tendency to want to get away from adults and be by themselves, their heart's not right. Somebody that has a right heart wants to be around authority. They want to be influenced by them. So you can pay attention to that. This young man wanted to be in a far country. He said, I want to go, I want to be away from dad, I want to go do what I want to do. He went to be away from the father. He was motivated by his comrades. Uh, you know, maybe by uh cowardice, maybe by a lack of conviction, but something caused him to want to be in a far country away from the influence of the father We can learn a lot by the state of the surrendered. Repentance is necessary. We talked about that. He changed in this parable, you'll see he changed from give me to make me. He said, give me my portion, Father, in the beginning. And then he changed that. In the end, he says, make me as one of your servants. I'm not worthy to be your son. But he's saying, he's saying, you make me whatever you want. You do what you want with me. And that is a repentant heart. That is changing, saying, Lord, I'm letting go of the reins. You make me whatever you want me to be. Mold me where however you can. He said, I'm not worthy to be one of your sons. That is self-judgment. I have sinned. He confessioned, confession of sin here. He says, I have sinned against thee. Uh and against the Father. He said, I've sinned against heaven, which lets us know that he understood that his sin was against God the Father. Uh I sinned against heaven. And then he says, before thee he saw that it damaged his father. That it hurt his father. I've sinned against I know my all sin is ultimately against God, right? But you know who many times ends up paying the highest price for our sin? Those closest to us. Those who we love the most. Those who are the closest to us as individuals. are the ones that most of the time will pay the highest price when we sin. And that's what happened here. His father paid the highest price. as he left and went his own way. He arose and he came back. He did his part. He didn't just talk about it. He didn't just say, boy, it would be nice. He arose and he came back to the Father. We see a picture here of God's free grace. God's free grace. He says it was free, there was full forgiveness provided. The example here obviously is that We have a part of repenting, of turning back to God, but there was no effort required on him as far as earning this forgiveness. He said, make me one of your servants. And immediately he he put a ring on his finger restoring the relationship, saying, You are one of my sons. A ring, only wealthy people could wear rings. A ring was a was a statue uh a a picture of status. It was somebody that was part of a wealthy family. And he restored that to him as soon as he came back. He didn't have to earn that back. And God's forgiveness for us is total and complete and it's free. We don't have to earn that. And that is what ought to motivate us. To try and do what we do for Christ. We serve him because he loved us, not in order to get him to love us. He put the best robe on him as a robe of righteousness from God. And the Bible talks about that in Isaiah 61. 10 and Romans 3, 21, and 22. A robe of righteousness upon all them that believed. Everyone that believes gets a robe of righteousness. As soon as you come to the Father, believe on him, you get a robe of righteousness. And it's not our righteousness. What does the Bible say? Our righteousness is as? Filthy rags. Filthy rags. But his righteousness is placed upon us. And we're we we are get to wear the righteousness of God's Son uh because of what he did for us. He put a ring on his finger, showing him relationship, that his relationship was restored, shoes on his feet. showing service, uh that he had he had a job to do at the Father's house now that he could he could serve, he could be a part of that. And we're brought into the household of faith. He brought him into the house. And uh of course we know they killed the fatted calf. Then an outline that you can use, um I believe that I mixed this up on your outline. Number two should be number one. Selfishness is a foundational sin. He started out and he said, give me. He he had he had this sin, selfishness. He said, give me, and then he went out and he lived riotously. S the sinfulness abounds. We you know, uh sin leads to sin and uh it's a progression and uh you know, whether you call it backsliding or whatever, uh it's going to progress. It's going to get worse. Uh you know, it's like one potato chip. You can't just eat one, right? You gotta Before you know it, half the bag's gone. You think, man, get these away from me before I finish the whole thing. And uh that's where we are with uh with sin in our lives. If we don't keep short accounts with God, sin will lead to sin, and it's just going to progress and get worse. And that sinfulness, that riotous living, took over in his life the suffering uh became came because he said, I want or he was in want. He came to the place where he's he he s found himself in want. There's a world full of people today that they don't even know what it is, but they want. They're in want. They have this want and desire and are trying to meet it and fulfill it in a lot of different ways. They've got more than any generation has ever had. They live fuller lives, they have more time off, they get better pay, they have more toys, and yet they're still in want. Those things are not going to satisfy the want. Only repenting and coming to the Father satisfies the want. And then he felt the shame where he w where he was feeding the swine. And then he sentenced himself. He said, I perish. Ultimately, that's what's going to happen. We're going to perish uh without returning to the Father and coming to Him And in conclusion, the lost son, along with his two previous parables, was told by Jesus to teach the Pharisees and the scribes. However, can you imagine how these parables comforted the hearts of those? the publicans and the sinners who had drawn near to Jesus. Can you imagine them standing there? The Pharisees came up all high and mighty and saying, Hey, he receives sinners And they kind of probably felt a little ashamed, like, oh yeah, we're not supposed to be here And then Jesus begins to teach this and then the Pharisees start Oh, he's talking about us and the the sinners start standing up, saying, Yeah, he's received us, he's forgiven us. We've come back to him. He's killed the fatted calf for us. He's put a robe of righteousness on us That God was seeking for them and would lovingly receive them if they would repent. If you have found yourself at the bottom with nowhere to turn, will you today turn to the Father who lovingly awaits your return to Him?