What a joy and what an honor it is to serve Jesus Christ and to serve the King of Kings. What a privilege. I mean, when you're involved with seeing people saved and then seeing people's lives change and spiritual growth takes place. I'll tell you what, give me that. More than money, more than anything. Because when we report to Jesus in the end, it will be worth it all. That's what's going to last. That's where it's at. There's a glory in the earthly days that the eternal days will never know. And that is the glory of serving Jesus Christ in hard times. Because folks, if you're saved and you're born again, This is the hardest times you'll ever feel, ever face here in your life, if you're born again and saved. We're going to report to Jesus. We're going to see him someday. We're going to look at his thorn-crowned brow. He's going to pull out his hands, his nail-scarred hands. And I just wonder what in the world are we going to say about ourselves in his presence? But if you're not saved, This is your heaven. I don't mean it bad. This is it. You know what Joel Olstein says? This is your best life now. Wow. Woo-hoo. You better you better enjoy it now. Because a if you're not saved after this life, it's a lake of fire, friend. But if you are saved and you are born again, can I tell you the best is yet to come? Amen. Take your Bibles, if you would, to Genesis chapter number 12. Genesis chapter 12. In your pew Bible, it's page number 14. If you need your pew Bible there, page number 14. But Genesis chapter number 12. The Bible says Now the Lord God, now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great. And thou shalt be a blessing, and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curseth thee. And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. Well just take this passage of scripture and take a look at it, then make some applications and then uh send you home. Amen. Won't keep you long. But uh just a a short look at Abraham and two points for tonight's message. Number one, I want you to see the summon. And number two, the surrender, the call and the commission. Let's pray and ask God to bless them. Father, we thank you, Lord For being at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, I thank you, God, for this lighthouse. I thank you for the passion, the drive, the desire for Pastor Betrell to lead this church, God, into territories that they don't even know, God. what the potential is and and the drive that's there for excellence, Lord. We see it all around us, God, here in this place. What a wonderful church building. A testimony to your goodness, a testimony to your greatness in this area, Lord. I pray you bless them, Lord, prosper them. I pray against, Lord, their enemies, Lord, that they would win them to Christ, Lord. I pray that you would do great and marvelous things through this ministry, that more missionaries would be sent out, perhaps even from within. What a joy that would be. Lord, to be privileged to send somebody from within and to give the devil a black eye. I pray, Father, that you'd protect Pastor Batrell and his family. I pray the leadership of the church, the men of the church, God, that you would protect every head of home, that you would give them wisdom on how to lead the home towards godliness, Lord. Thank you for every mom. That puts their hand to the plow and desire to stand by their husband and be an example to the children, God, of how to serve Jesus. I thank you for the young people I see, God. Thank you that they they're here. Pray they use their energy and their strength, Lord, for godliness towards Jesus Christ, Lord. I pray, God, that you would have your will and way in this service, Lord, in a short time in the Word. That you would encourage hearts, I pray, Lord. I know that some come to church weary, worn out, God, perhaps Heavy-hearted. I pray, Father, you'd encourage them, Lord. I know some would come, Lord, with hesitancy. I pray, God, you'd warm their heart. And the Spirit of God would speak to them in a way that I can't, Lord. And we'll turn around and give you praise, honor, and glory for the great things that you will do through your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen and amen. First, I want you to see the summon, the call of God. Verse number one. Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. Missions is about going. You can't teach all nations If you don't go to all nations. So there is a going when God calls a man to the ministry. He's calling him away from what's familiar to him to a place of unfamiliarity. Missions is exactly this. Getting out of your country. Getting out from your kindred. Getting out from your father's house. And notice how the Word of God puts it. He calls a man out of the country. When you think of the USA. No doubt this is the greatest country on the face of the planet, on the face of Earth, right now. If you're an American, it's like winning the lottery. I say like, okay I'm not for the lottery. I'm not saying unless you win, then you make sure you tithe and you give to the missionary in the Philippines. As long as it's cash, I won't ask where and I won't ask you know, just nice thick envelope. But consider the fact of being born in America. The Philippines is in turmoil because of socialism. They're inherently an idolatrous country And the LGBTQ crowd is gaining strength and popularity in that country. When we came to Tagig City, Philippines, and started Sunday school, there were a few children. I'm talking six, seven, eight-year-old kids that were already confused concerning their gender. Didn't know if they were male or female. We don't tell them don't come to Sunday school. We minister to them. We welcome them. Not endorsing their life or their lifestyle, but with the hopes that they would see the love of Christ. And we do call them to repent. in those class times. Look them square in the eye. Tell them to repent. I've had an eleven-year-old boy, his name is Ian. Tried to lead into the Lord, been coming for a number of weeks, coming faithfully, smart kid, smart, very intelligent young man. And I went through the Romans road with him and he said at the very point where it's time to receive Christ as your Savior, he said, I can't do that. He said, Ian, why? He said, because uh I I'm not ready for that. that. Come to find out he he's part of the LGBTQ crowd. And not long after that he stopped coming to church. It's rampant in the Philippines. It's an idolatrous country. They believe in environmentalism. Uh they ban all the plastic straws. Because, you know, plastics evil. But they mandated the face shield. I'm talking mandate the face shield. All to save Mother Earth. They believe that government is a solution to all their problems. And whoever hands them the most handout wins the elections. And as a Bible-believing preacher or missionary, I get to teach them, no, daddy, the government is not your the daddy. You, father of the home, is to be the provider of the home. You don't trust the government to do your job. That's you. And uh thank God there are people that listen to the word of God. But more more often than not, as a nation, they don't understand the the the value of being independent like Americans do. The fact that you're born in this country and understand liberty. That's something that third world country will. I don't know I'll see it in my lifetime. For them to even celebrate Thanksgiving Day. We don't even have a day in the calendar in the Philippines where we as a nation look to God and say, Thank you, Lord. We don't even have that. And y'all have it. During the pandemic, y'all were inconvenienced. But the churches in the Philippines were shut out and locked down and told not to assemble. Told not to assemble That's why I don't understand somebody who doesn't stand for the flag. I'll never understand that Oh sure, you have your freedom of speech. I won't deny that. That's core of being American. But out of appreciation for the men and women who gave us the freedom. That's why we stand. That's why we salute the flag. Get out of your country. Can I tell you something? We had to leave the USA to get to the Philippines. It's not easy. Then we had to leave kindred. It's a lot easier to leave the USA. It's a lot harder, get this, to leave Mount Zion Baptist Church. I can't say this about every church. I wouldn't say this about every church. I can say this about Mount Zion Baptist Church. It's not a perfect church. But it's the church I want my family to be raised in if I wasn't called to the mission field. If we were in Hunt Valley, area, Cockingsville, around here, this would be our church. It's not easy to leave a church loaded with workers who have an excellent spirit, who serve Jesus with honor and distinction, and mediocre is not good enough. Rare, rare to find a church like yours. Rare. So I know just like Mount Zion, there are always naysayers, and I want to tell you this. To the naysayers. You don't have any room to complain. Knock it off. Amen. I don't know what you're complaining about, the Cadewampa spirit you got, but you need to take a trip to the Philippines. And see what it's like for a minute. It's not easy to leave a congregation that speaks English and could sing beautiful songs. To a country that speaks half English, broken English, and my family can't even sing straight up English And be appreciated or to learn or taught uh to have to learn Tagalog. One of the first Sundays we had as a church family, my my sons were like, Dad, where's Sunday school? Come on. I had to tell my son, well, the two girls are coming, and you and your brother, that's four of you, that's our Sunday school. We had to walk in a room fifty-five square meter. Room. Dad, where's the church? This is the church building. We have plastic chairs. Knock it off. You know why they don't stand for the flag? It's the same reason why they criticize church. Unthankful Zero appreciation. Usually the ones who complain don't even lift a finger. So I don't know what you're talking about. But can I take it a step further? Look at what the word says. It says, and from thy father's house. Oh, it's one thing to leave the country. That's not easy. Oh, it's one thing to leave Mount Zion, my kindred, our kindred, our But man, it's another thing when you have to leave family. Marcia grew up in a loving home. I mean, they love each other I grew up I didn't grow up in a Christian home. I grew up in an American Filipino home. Dad drank alcohol. He was an alcoholic. uh abused my mom physically, seen things. I've never seen love, family love, until I've seen the stars, Marsha's home. It was foreign to me that they affirm love to one another. Daddy would say, I love you. to his children, on point and on purpose. Children were taught how to love and how how to do right and how to do work. Iron, wash, chores. I grew up totally opposite. And of course we I didn't grow up in a Christian home But when you grew up in a Christian home and your husband says, We're going to the Philippines, and you have to leave your father's house. Now we she left the father's house when we got married, nor you know, obviously. But she it's not easy for her to leave a loving home. And then to be brought to a country where they don't understand her. I mean everywhere she goes they look at her. So who's this white lady? And they say that, who's this white lady? It's like, well who are you? She's white lady, you brown lady. So what? You know There were times when she would call home and they would pray over the phone and say, I love ya. There it wasn't too long Grandpa Star had to come just to see Joe and T because he just had to be Grandpa Star We enjoyed it. We had a wonderful time. But it's not easy leaving the father's house, leaving family for the mission field. But is it worth it? Is it worth it to go? Is it worth it to leave? Is it worth it to obey God and to follow His will? Well, look at verse number two. I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. Thou shalt be a blessing. Why would God do that? Why would he call somebody out and put him in an other environment? It's because he's trying to accomplish something. Notice he says, I will, I will, I will bless, I will do this, I'll make this, I will. It's God's work. Remember what Jesus said, I will build my church. When you guys won that property, you know what Jesus was saying? I'm building my church. When you send a missionary, you know what God, you know what you're saying? You know what Jesus is saying? I'm building my church. I know there's a war right now in Ukraine and Russia. I know there are persecuted Christians in China. I know the lockdown's been light in Manila, but man, was it a mess. But even through the pandemic and the war and these things going on, you know what Jesus is saying? I will build my church It doesn't look like it, but he is. He's still in the building process. We need to jump in on it. We need to get in on it while we can. While we can. Verse number three, I will bless them that bless thee and curse them that curse thee. That's something about it. There's something about it. When you bless the church, God will bless you. When you curse the church, God will curse you. Same principle. It's not this text applies to Abraham, of course, and Israel. We've seen that, haven't we? Why did does God bless America? Because America blesses Israel. It's our only friend in the Middle East. But for that Abrahamic covenant here. But the principle applies to whatever God's doing. So if you stand against the church, God will curse you. But if you bless the church, God will bless you And look at what it says here. In thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. Now Abraham, uh people that stood against him were cursed, like Abimelech, like Egypt. The Egyptian Pharaoh was cursed because he stood against Abraham. And people like Laban was blessed because of Jacob. And people like Pharaoh was blessed because of Joseph. Anybody who blesses the work of God is blessed, and everybody who stands against it is cursed. But the ultimate reason why God sends missionaries and why these things have to take place. is because he wants all families of the earth to be blessed I didn't grow up in a Christian home, but that doesn't mean I can't have a Christian home. I my family is blessed. And boy, we want to share that blessing to Filipinos. We want to crack open the Word of God. Teach them the Bible so that dads could be Christian dads and moms could be Christian moms. And homes could have Christian home and then find a church and become a church. That's why Jesus Christ came, left heaven, was sent of the Father. This is missions. He left so that all families of the earth can be blessed. And if you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, if you know him, you are blessed. You are blessed. What a privilege to be a child of the King. And then when you are able to tell others how they can be saved, that doubles your blessing. That doubles your blessing. So I got one question for you here. How much faith did it take Abraham to obey God? Now I want to make it more personal. How much faith is it going to take for you, to do what God wants you to do? Are you willing to leave and go and serve Are you willing to leave the familiar territory and enter into places you're not familiar with? That's called faith. Why did not God show Abraham the things that happened to him right before he called him to Canaan? Why? Because if God had revealed to Abraham everything You know what Abraham would be missing? Faith. Do you have the faith? To do whatsoever God wants you to do. I don't know what God has for you. I know what God has for me. My family and I were committed to finishing tasks in the Philippines, establishing an independent, biblical, self-supporting, self-propagating Baptist Church. And Lord willing, we'll go to another area and do the same thing again. I don't know what God has for you, but I just want to ask you: do you have the faith? To do whatsoever God is asking of you. Would you obey Him