It feels like it's been forever because of course last Thursday night we weren't here uh looking at this. We weren't in Galatians, we were here, but uh we had the celebrations last week and uh guest speakers and such And so we're now getting back into the book and to our study on the book of Galatians. We're in Galatians chapter number four. And uh beginning in verse number 8 through verse number 11, the title of the message this evening, this section of notes uh or verses that we're looking at here, I have entitled them A Powerful Appeal. A powerful appeal. Follow along with me as we relead Galatians chapter 4, verses 8 through 11. He says, How be it then When ye knew not God, ye did serve, ye did service unto them which by nature are no gods But now, after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements, whereunto ye desire again to be in bondage. Ye observe days and months and times and years. I'm afraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labor in vain Beloved Paul has just uh spoken to or reminded the Galatian people here. these believers of the unique position that they have in the family of God. If you can recall to 14 days ago where we were talking about this, the uh precious adoption that we have in the family of God. Not only are we adopted into the family of God, but that word has a a much stronger meaning and it means literally being put into a position of joint heirs with the Son. It's a position that we've been given in the family of God. This is made possible, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. No man can earn his position in the family of God. Amen. You see, beloved, you and I could never do enough. To make God, to put God in a position of being indebted to us That is what works of righteousness is. That's what work salvation is. It's literally viewing it from the aspect of getting in the place where you've done enough that God The creator of the world is indebted to you and owes you something. You see that Is as much heresy as there ever was. You can't you could never get in a place where you where God owes you and I. No, it's not something that we could do. It's what God had done through his son Jesus Christ I could never be perfect enough to go to heaven on my own. It's never going to happen. So how then am I justified? By faith. Amen? That's who we are. We're justified by faith. God loved you and I to provide enough in order to provide a way for us to get to heaven through His Son, to know His forgiveness. You see, he takes the one who would believe on his own son, and he takes that faith, and it's accounted unto him for righteousness. When a man humbles himself, Comes to the cross and cast all his sin and all his shame there at the foot of the cross, God the Father picks it up and places it on his son And then God takes the righteousness of his son and places it on you and I. Something we could never do, but God does for us. It is this fact that Paul has reminded them of. And he says, if you understand this, if you realize this to be true. Then would you please hear my plea? Would you please listen to my powerful appeal tonight? Would you Respond accordingly. First of all, he tells them in verse number eight, he says, remember your persistent addiction. He says there was a time when you were beholden, when you were dependent upon, when you were in bondage to other gods. You had this addiction, you had this uh dependency upon other things All of my secondary points this evening are alliterated as well. Are you ready for this? Sure. All right. We have first of all the time. Look at this. This is great. I hope you guys are excited tonight. You don't seem like you're excited. You seem like you're tired. But I'm going to try and be excited for all of us. Because this has been just an awesome study for me today, and I'm excited about what God's Word here says. First of all, notice the time. He says, when, how be it then, when ye knew not God? He's saying, do you remember the time? Do you remember the time when you were in a place that you didn't know God? When you didn't have that relationship? I was talking to somebody this past week, a pastor, and he was asking me some advice about a family he was counseling for their child and He says, What do I need to do? And after we talked for a little bit, I said, Listen, it sounds to me like that young man has a problem with appreciation He he does not see or understand uh all that he's been given. He doesn't realize how good he has it. He he stopped looking at those blessings and maybe Dad ought to take him on a mission trip to a foreign country and let him see how some other kids live. Let him see how richly he's been blessed. And beloved, it's pretty easy for you and I to forget about all that God has done for us. We get burdened down with a little bit of hardship here and there, and we get to you know getting our own little pity parties and we get to feeling sorry for ourselves and we forget about how much God has done. He says, you remember a time when you didn't know God? Remember a time when you didn't know God's power? When you didn't have His presence in your life When you didn't know his provision for your needs, when you didn't have his peace in your heart, do you remember that turmoil when you didn't know and understand the purity of God? Oh, just ponder and think about the time when you were lost and undone without Jesus Christ. In 12 Peter 1 and verse number 4, he says, whereby We are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises. You remember when you didn't know any of the promises of God? He's given us those many precious promises, and by these ye might be a partaker of the divine nature when you didn't know and understand the divine nature of God and the purity that was his that could be ours. Beloved, there's been those days in my life when things were so bad I wanted to crawl into a hole and die. There's been times where there was nowhere else to go. There was no hope in this world. There was no light at the end of the tunnel. I crawled up into a ball on the floor of my bedroom. And as I laid there crying, I found that in actuality what I had done is I had crawled into the arms of Jesus. my Lord and Savior, and after a time of lying there in His presence, a light began to shine and hope began to enter my heart And I began to see who God was and the difference he had made in my life. And no matter the burden I was carrying, no matter the heartache I was facing, no matter the challenge that was in front of me, I knew that God was with me. I had his strength. I had his help, I had his hope, and I could stand up in his strength and move forward for God. Why? Because I know God. That's what he's saying. You remember a time when you didn't know God? Some of you acting like I don't know what you're so excited about, Pastor. I don't know. It's only been a few words in one verse. Ephesians chapter two, verse number twelve says, that at that time you were without Christ. Being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God. And without God. He says, do you remember that time? When you didn't have him, beloved the unbeliever, crawls into a ball on the floor and he has no hope. He has nobody there. He doesn't understand the care and the compassion of an Almighty God. He does not know that. We're all doing okay when the sun's shining. We're all doing alright when things are going good. But beloved, when the storm comes and we find that there's only one set of footprints in the sand. And then we realize it's not ours, but Jesus who's carrying us. He says, do you remember that time? Not only did he say, look at the time when you knew not God, he says, but consider the trick. He said, you did service unto them People are tricked this whole world over into serving meaningless and empty gods. You see, beloved, nobody is born an atheist or an agnostic. Nobody. Everybody is born with a with a God shaped hole in their heart. And they have to have a lifetime of rejecting the calling of God to reach a point where they become agnostic or atheist. Because it is in the heart of man to desire to know God. I don't care if we're on the backwoods of some jungle in Papua New Guinea, you'll find men and women that are doing what they can to try and know God. They're building their own edifices. They're manufacturing their own gods. They're doing something because they understand that there's something greater and bigger than them, and they want to find it and know it Those that know the truth look at others sometimes and ponder and think about how how funny it is or how foolish it is that they would do this. But the fact of the matter is, is every man has a has in their heart the desire to know. God. The Galatians were religious people, worshiping Jupiter and Mercury, desirous to know God, even though they did not know God. In Luke, we're told, for I passed by and beheld your devotion, and I found an altar with this inscription to the unknown God. The world over, there's people worshiping The unknown God. They're worshiping, but they don't know who they're worshiping or what they're worshiping for. And they're in service to them. Turn to Psalms 135 in your Bibles tonight. I want you to see this in the Word of God. There are so many that are serving gods that are manufactured of their own hands He says in Psalms 135, verse number 15 through 18, he said, the idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the works of men's hands. They have mouths, but they cannot, but they speak not. Eyes have they, but they see not. They have ears, but they hear not. Neither is there any breath in their mouths They that make them are like unto them, so is every one that trusteth in them. Beloved, how can a mortal being fabricate something with his own two hands and then bow down to it? It's because of the hunger to know God. I read of a man in China that many years ago came to the realization, he said And I quote, what a foolish man I am to bow before something that I have made. That we would take something and fashion it and call it God and bow down to it and pray to it. Paul is appealing unto them. And I appeal to you tonight. How many of us are serving things that are not God at all? Oh, I know we don't have idols that we've fashioned with our hands. We don't have idols that we have set up in our homes or in our front yards because we we We know enough not to do that, but you and I know that in our heart we have set idols up. We have put things before God. We have things that we said, anybody asked, we wouldn't say this, but in our activity, in our action, we are serving those things. What are you serving tonight? What is it that you have set up as a God in your life that you're putting before or in front of the God of the universe, the Savior of your soul? Could I ask you this evening, how bad do you want to know him? How bad do you want to know God, who he is? I'm not talking about, beloved, about the God that we have fashioned him to be in our mind. The God that we have made up of who he is and what he's supposed to be like. Everybody does this in their heart and mind. You hear comments and people things that people say that don't line up with Scripture and they they make it out to be like it's God's will or God's attributes just today I was talking to somebody on the phone and they said, Well, I I blew up and lost my temper at my wife, but I think God had me do that so she would understand how bad that is. No, that's not true That's not true. God did not have you sin. Now he might use your sin to try and teach somebody else something, but God did not cause you to sin That was not, you see, his mind has has taken what he feels about God and set it up how he wants God to be. But how bad do we want to know the God of the universe, the savior of our soul, who he really is Do we want his holiness? Do we want who he is? Do we want to understand him? Well then let me tell you, you need to study the life of Christ. Because Jesus Christ is God personified. That is, he said, if you have seen me, you have seen the Father. So we want to get an understanding and know about God. We should study Jesus Christ. But what I'm saying is we need to sometimes lose our preconceived ideas about who God is and just study his book and ask God, show yourself to me. That I might see and know you. Not only tonight are we, he said, remember your persistent addiction about where you were and the desire you had to be worshiping these false gods. He said, but you need to refuse your powerless activity. Verses 9 and 10. Refuse your powerless activity. He says, but now after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God. So first of all here we see a transition. A transition. He says, but now. But now. What a powerful contrast it's drawn for the reader tonight. For us to be able to look at between the time when you knew not God and when you did. He said, Do you remember the time when you didn't know God at all, when you didn't have any hope, when you didn't know his promises? Do you remember when you were in bondage to serving a false idol? But now, but now you've come across the line, and the glorious light of the gospel is shining down into your soul, and you've trusted Jesus as your Lord and Savior, and you have not just ritual, but you have relationship with Jesus. He says, but now. Turn your Bibles to 2 Corinthians chapter number 6. Notice what happens when we turn to God in faith, the change of the relationship, the transition. 2 Corinthians 6, verses 17 and 18. He says, wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing. And I will receive you. And I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. Not only, beloved, do you and I begin to learn and know God But he tells us here that we, I guess we should say he reminds us that we are known of God. He says, but now after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God. See, he's reminding them that it was not you that found God, but that God found you. And can I remind you tonight? That illustration or lesson of the little child in Sunday school whom the teacher asked the little boys and said, Well, could you tell me what a friend is? And the one little boy lifted up his hand, he said, A friend is somebody that knows all about you, and he's still your friend And can I remind you tonight that the God of heaven loves you? And he He loves you tonight not because you've deceived him, not because somehow You've tricked him into thinking you're something that you're not. I can tell you tonight that God knows every wicked thought you've had. God knows every uh uh bitterness that you're carrying in your heart, God knows every angry spirit you've had, every evil intention you've had against somebody else. God knows everything about you, everything that you've ever done, and God still loves you and I. It doesn't matter what we've done, God still loves you. Now He wants us to change Into the image of his son. He wants to confess and forsake that sin. But in the midst of it all, he understands and he knows you and me. He knows exactly what we are There is no deceiving him, and yet he still loves us with a perfect love. What an astounding truth. God knows how wretched Caleb Batrell is. And yet he loves Caleb Batrell. That's unbelievable. I'm not worthy of such love. He says, Oh beloved, but now after this ye have known God, or rather, that ye are known of God. Wow. He gives us the transition and then he drives home the truth. He says, How turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements whereunto ye desire again to be in bondage? He says, how turn ye again to the to the He says, how can you go back to the law that was weak? It was weak because it was helpless. It was weak because the law can define sin. It can display sin, but the law cannot deliver anyone from sin. The law is weak. It can only address the symptom, but could never provide a solution. But we beloved live in the age of grace when grace is the solution. He says the law is weak, the law is beggarly, that is, it didn't have enough, it wasn't enough. In any situation, it wasn't quite enough. Have you ever been at the cash register and you found out you left your wallet at home and you didn't have quite enough cash? You were close but weren't quite there And and and there's people in line behind you and you're like, okay, well uh I'm gonna have to go out to the car and see if I can find a dollar or something, you know. And and and and the worst is when some kind lady behind you says, Oh, I'll pay for it, Sonny, you know, and you're like, oh man You know, you feel so bad you didn't have enough. Well beloved, the law was never enough. But God said, my grace is Sufficient. Sufficient. In every situation, every time, and every need, the grace of God is sufficient Have you ever been involved in a project and you didn't have the right tool? Maybe you had a flathead screwdriver and you found out you needed a Phillips Or you have an eleven millimeter socket and you find out you needed a 10 and the 10 is missing. Those that work on cars will understand that joke. A ten is always there's there's a ten millimeter thief out there. What I'm saying is you get to that place and you find out you didn't have what you needed, well every time they would come up against the law, they would find out they didn't have what they needed because they didn't have grace yet But grace was enough. And so then he gives him a test Paul says, why do you want to go back to those things? Why do you want to go back to that bondage? He says in verse number 10, ye observed days. The days are the Sabbath days. Let me just say, beloved, that we worship God on the first day of the week. You see, seven is the number of perfection. The number of completion, bringing things to a conclusion. Eight is the number of new beginnings Seven completes the week. Eight is the beginning of a new week. We, as New Testament believers that celebrate the resurrection, the new beginning, the new life we have in Jesus Christ, we worship God on Sunday, the first day of the week. Brandon, you helped me out because I don't know a whole lot about music, but in my study and the musicians I was reading said there's seven notes in an octave. And then the eighth one begins a new note. Is that right? A new octave. Yes or no? Okay. You know I don't put a whole lot of I don't I don't get too far down uh the the numerology and different things and you know people talk about Well, if you take the 14th verse of this chapter on the seventh day of that and uh you know and all these things and try and but you know there was eight people in the ark. And God use them to start a new beginning. We have a new life in Jesus Christ. And he says, why do you want to go back to those observance of those days? Why do you go want to go back to the months, to the seasons? As a Jewish people, they had seasons of feasts that they would observe, the feast of Passover and the feast of uh the tabernacles and the the feast of Pentecost, they would observe those or the years, the years were the year of sabbatical years. They came every seventh year of the year of sabbatical and We can teach on those things another time, but he says, hey, why would you go back to that? Look at Galatians chapter 1 and verse number 6. I think what Paul here is reiterating what he said in chapter 1 and verse number 6. He said, boy, I marvel. I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you into grace of Christ unto another gospel. Paul says, why do you want to do that? Because, beloved, you and I do not now or never will know God through ritual. That's not how we know God. As individuals, as human, it seems to be our nature to desire ritual because it feeds that passion that we have to do for God. Thomas Jefferson was talking about civil liberty when he said eternal vigilance is the price of liberty, but it could also be applied to spiritual liberty. For men seem to be given to the desire of returning to the bondage of fulfilling these rituals. But Jesus Christ came and he said, Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. And ye shall be free indeed. Men through all time have been under the burden of servitude. For thousands of years. Men have been in bondage, in slavery. Who was it that built the pyramids? Slaves. We could go through old generations. Men have been in bondage and enslaved by many different things. Men are enslaved to their own self and to their own sin and their own ambition. Our desire for food and fun. The man who today says, I have freedom to drink this alcohol. Finds that very soon he has lost his freedom because now he's in bondage to it and he no longer has the freedom to quit. He's in bondage to it and he's enslaved to it, and that's how sin takes over in our lives because it grabs a hold of us and you say, Well, I have freedom to do this, but then you no longer are free We watch missionary presentations from around the world and wonder how a man in China can bow down to an idol like Buddha. We see the people of India burning incense before their Hindu deities or making their way to the Ganges River to wash in that filthy water to try and somehow cleanse themselves of sin. We see people in Mexico crawling on their knees for miles and miles to the Basilica of Guadalupe And they might approach the feed of the Virgin of Guadalupe seeking somehow To meet the need of the desire for God, the religious bondage that men are in. I'm saying as we have known the slavery of our individual bodies, we have been enslaved to sin, one of the greatest in injustices is that men this whole world over are enslaved to the the bondage of rituals that does not free them, it does not provide forgiveness, it does not offer heaven It's empty and meaningless rituals, each of them in their own way, trying to gain favor with God. You and I are not justified through rituals. One man gave the example. He said, you know, when I was a child, I used to light candles too. He said, but we only lit candles when the power was out. So it is with religion and rituals. They have the necessity to light candles because the power's out. But you see, beloved, for you and I, self-righteousness is easier than true righteousness. To hold a form of godliness, but to deny the power thereof. Is easier. You see, because we have the tendency to, if I can perform my ritual, I have done my duty, and therefore I can do my desire. You see this type of thing in religions like Catholicism. I spent my teen years in El Paso, Texas. Very strong I mean we live in Maryland. This is not called Maryland for for no reason, right? But you know what? I don't see the dedication to Catholicism like I saw in Texas. the the the practicing and the observance of the rituals. But I also saw the debauchery and the sin that went following Mass. That the families did. All of my friends, by and large, were Catholic practicing or moms and dads, etc. And I I got around that and I just saw it how empty and meaningless it was. Even in Judaism, where they have 613 laws that they're supposed to follow, but there is this feeling That if somehow we can it's human nature to separate the secular and the sacred and we feel like okay here is the duty, here is the sacred, this is if I observe this duty, if I've completed that Then I get to do my own desire. When we talk about Catholicism or we talk about Judaism and we say amen, but beloved, what about the Christian? What about the Christian who feels if I go to church three times a week, I'm righteous? Or if I dress a certain way, or if I'm a soul winner and I've given out the gospel to somebody, then it's okay if I'm adulterer If if I carry my Bible and I know how to look like a Christian, then it's okay if I have bitterness or anger in my heart. We walk into church with our own pious hearts and filled up with our own righteousness, and God says, You're far from me. He says, You don't even know what it is to commune and fellowship with me. You filled up your life with your own righteousness, with the deeds and the duties that you've described as saying, this is what holy looks like Therefore I have met the needs of holy, and yet we have been, how long has it been since we've been with God? How long has it been since we've wept over sin? Since we've been pulled undeniably, unquestionably, without reserve, into the presence of God and felt unholy and unworthy to be served. Beloved Jesus did not come to give men religion, but he said, I've come to give men life, that they might have life more abundant. What does he say in Galatians chapter three and verse number three? Look at that verse. He says, are you still foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now made perfect by the flesh? You see, beloved, when we are relying on our own ho our own righteousness, when we're fulfilling our duties, when we're carrying our Bible and Looking like a like the Christian, you know, that we have come to define in our mind this is what a Christian is. But we're not having a relationship with God. He's saying you began in the spirit. Are you so foolish to think that you're now made holy by these works of the flesh? And you guys know I preach standards and I preach separation and I believe that God has a way He wants us to live. But we've got to be real careful that we don't think that that's what gives us holiness. That that's what gives us righteousness, I should say. There is holy living, but it's not righteousness comes from God, from having a relationship with God. I would have you see Lashley tonight. He says, recognize your precious allocation. He says, I am afraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labor in vain. He's saying, beloved, somebody has taken some effort. And they've allocated some time and some energy, maybe some finance, maybe some prayers, maybe some some some some some Bible studies. I don't know what it is, but they he's saying there's been some labor invested in your life that you could be and do all that God wants you to do. He says, recognize it, realize how precious it is. We see first of all his terror, Paul's terror. He says, Boy, I'm afraid. He says, I'm afraid for you. He says, because uh of the time and energy that I've invested in your life and Surely I haven't done this in vain. I can tell you, have you worked with somebody and then shortly thereafter for just a short time later they were gone, they were out of church and you wonder, w was it all in vain? Was all the meals for nothing? Was all the time for nothing? Was all the prayer for nothing? W was all of the time invested in their life for nothing? Was that all in vain? Was none of it real? That's what Paul is saying. Listen, I'm afraid. I'm afraid for you that all the time that it never may it never collects you. for you. It never made sense to you. You were just performing these outward duties, but it didn't ever come dressed in your heart for real. You see, vain means for nothing. It means for naught. If these believers turned again to the law for their righteousness instead of to Christ, he was saying his labor was in vain. And he's not saying that they could lose their salvation. He's saying he's questioning or wondering whether they were ever saved in the first place. He's saying, did you ever really understand the relationship we have in Jesus Christ, or were you just all the time were you just doing ritual? So we see his teaching in conclusion here. Here we see the concern, beloved, that Paul had for those that he had reached with the gospel. You see, it wasn't just a matter of winn'em, weddem, and work'em That's a phrase that's used a lot. Rather just win them, wed them, and work them, amen. There's a wrong mindset. There's an area where we, and I say we, I'm saying churches like ours have have failed miserably in long you guys are looking around and talking to each other like you've never heard that before. Uh win them, whet them, wed them is get them into baptistry, and work them is get them busy serving God. I mean that's the basic idea, right? But here's the thing, we have been failing as a church And churches like ours, with a third part of the Great Commission, we aren't discipling like we should We aren't spending the time and energy and effort to bring people from the place of the decision of salvation by grace and faith in Christ alone. Yes, that's important. Yes, we need to save them from hell. Hallelujah. But that's just the first step. That's just the beginning. I believe we strive and work hard to do so here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, but it needs to be a priority of ours. We need to have more of a burden, not just to see them saved, but to see them sanctified. And beloved, the process of sanctification takes a lifetime. God's still working on me. And I've been church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, and every midweek service, every week of my life. And God's still working on me. The process of sanctification takes a lifetime. You know, ladies are the worst at this. You go to the hospital, and they bring out this screaming blob that they've called a child And ladies look at this blob and they say, man, he is the spitting image of his dad. And dad's stand there looking like I don't see it. I don't know. Um They're like, oh he has your eyes and and oh look at that nose. I mean he doesn't even have that hardly have a nose yet and it's been all smashed because he's been in the womb for nine months and ladies are like oh man he's his dad as sure as day I mean I've been there and I'm just telling you I was like, I don't see it, I don't know. But then you wait and the child gets to be five, six, seven years old and He starts to take on a little bit of the characteristics of his dad. You wait until that child's fifteen and now he's walking like dad. Now he has some of the mannerisms of his dad. It's fun to see Brother John Norman and Brother Mark Norman. They have a lot of sa they they do some very similar characteristics and they they communicate in the same way in a lot of things that th you know, you get somebody that uh a young man who's twenty five and thirty and all of a sudden he he he is like the spitting image of his dad. But the fact of the matter is it wasn't all of a sudden. It took a whole lifetime. And here's the thing, beloved, when a new s new Christian comes out of the baptismal waters, a babe in Jesus Christ, they might not look a whole lot like their Heavenly Father. But the process of sanctification that the church is supposed to be invested in, that we're supposed to have a heart for, that we're supposed to have a burden for, is that we work with them and we bring them along step by step. So that in five, ten, fifteen, or twenty years, people will look and say, Man, do you see Jesus in them? That process of sanctification, but it takes a burden by God's people to help bring them along to that place. That's what we see Paul had here. He said, man, I'm afraid. I'm afraid for the labor investment, the time that I allocated to you. Was it in vain? Yes, we want to see them saved from hell, but we want to see them changed into the image of God Truly that is how our influence will live on long after we're gone. If we can see somebody saved. That they would go and see somebody saved. And then they would go and see somebody saved. We could win this world. So we have a powerful appeal given to us by Paul tonight. Some lessons for us. Let me ask you where you are right now. Are you putting something else in front of God? Oh, I know you haven't crafted an image. You're not bowing down to something, but have you lifted up something and put it in front of God? Maybe it's yourself. Maybe it's your family or your kids. Maybe it's the job. Maybe it's entertainment. You can't wait to get out of church because you want to go to take in some more of this world's entertainment. Have you put something up in front of God? Are you guilty of relying on ritual for your righteousness? Are you just going through the motions, just having a form of godliness? People would look at you and say, Boy, look at he, isn't he godly, but you know in your heart whether you are or not