I I have that responsibility. The the name has been passed down from my father. I I feel some some weight. There's been times in my life when I when I wanted to go my own way, when I desired to do my own thing, but I thought, you know what, I I can't do that because It would hurt the name of my father. And I'm not going to chase this rabbit, but I want you all to just think about the fact that we've got a we've got a heavenly father. And there's some things we shouldn't be doing because it's going to hurt the name of our Heavenly Father. But not only do I have that, I have a tremendous weight and a responsibility as a Father. To be the kind of man that my children could emulate and be good men and women. I've got a responsibility that is presently upon me to lead my family well, as we sang about Joshua, who said, as for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord. That weight is ever before me as a father to be that kind of a man, to be a good man. A good father. Every child deserves a good man for a father. Every wife deserves a good man for a husband In Psalms 112, there is given to us what has been called the portrait of a good man. Just look down with me at verse number five. We'll just see that phrase there. He says, here, a good man showeth favor. And Lindeth, he will guide his affairs with discretion. I want to walk through this text and For the sake of time, I'm not going to read it all in its entirety right now because we're going to read it, Pastor Derek. You know, a good message has three points in a poem, right? Pastor Derek had nine in Sunday school. Not to be outdone, I have ten for the for the morning service here. So we've got one point for every verse, and the point is not what is critical, it's the principle that we learn from each of these verses, these ten verses. And we're gonna walk through these verses, this this Chapter of Psalms 112 has been given as a portrait of a good man and what a good man would be, what a godly man really is. Much like Proverbs 31 is that portrait of a godly woman. And we we read that and we get a very good description and characteristics of that which defines or would be a picture of a godly woman. So we have here in this chapter the picture of a godly man. I don't have time this morning to compare and contrast Psalms 111 with Psalms 112, but if you on your own this evening, this afternoon, whatever, at some point would like to do that, just look at the similarities between Psalms 111. in Psalms a hundred and uh uh hundred and twelve. Psalms one hundred and eleven is a description of God. And the description of a godly man looks a whole lot like God. Just read the two chapters, maybe verse by verse. You could read the same verse in each chapter, and just look at the comparisons between the two on your own time. But A good man, a godly man, is going to look a lot like God. Because we're going to be living and acting as he would have us act. All of us should inspire or aspire to be godly men, to be the best we can be, and not for the army. To be the best we can be, to be the right kind of husband, the right kind of father, the right kind of example, and bring honor and glory to our Heavenly Father. For those who love us. You know This lesson is, of course, to the men, but it's applicable to the ladies. You can look at these attributes and maybe praise God for some of those that you see present. In your father or your husband, the father of your children. You can thank God for those. Or maybe there's an area where you say, Boy, this is an area where I can pray. For my father, or I can pray for my husband to be stronger, for this to be part of his life, that we might raise up godly children Some of you young ladies who are looking might want to just get out of pen. And on the margin of your Bible, write down these points next to these verses. And then when a guy comes And he shows little interest, you say just a minute, I gotta see how many of these you you you would check on here. Uh let's see. You you'll have a good list of what kind of a man to get. Okay? So I think this is applicable or at least useful in some way to all of us, but let's get right into it this morning because we've got a lot of ground to cover. Uh I've got uh ten points like I said. I'm going to try and go through them pretty quickly. But we want you to see here, this passage begins with the condition and it ends with the contrast, and in between we see the description. of the men of the man of God. The condition here is given to us. He says, Praise ye the Lord. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, that delighteth greatly in his commandments. What he's saying here is blessed. We of course know that that is happy. Happy is the man. You know, God made men for happiness. God wants his creation to be happy. Every man has a desire to be happy. That's part of our makeup. We, of course, want and long for happiness. Human beings do everything in their effort to avoid misery and look for happiness. Well, that word blessed there means happy Happy. We're looking for happiness. And beloved, he gives us a twofold condition here to have happiness. He's given it to us. He says there, happy, blessed is the man that feareth the Lord and delighteth greatly in his commandments You know, if happiness is a grand object of our pursuit, it's sad that sin has caused us To go our own way, and to bring about so much turmoil and heartache in our lives. But God has given us a description here of what brings happiness. He says, Fear the Lord. This fear of the Lord is a reverential fear, a fear of not disappointing him, a fear of God and We, of course, as a society, and by and large, have lost our fear of God, but if we're going to be happy, we've got to have fear of the Lord. And a reflection of your fear, you say, well, I fear God. Well, a good picture, a reflection of how much you fear God, is how well do you follow Him The real good picture is how well do you follow him. You've heard stories about uh a young man who was going to go out uh and do something wrong, and he says, well I was gonna do that except if my mama found out she she would kill me And I'm not talking about, I mean, literally I would be dead. You know, I mean here's a young man that just says, you know what, I would have gone and done that, but I've got uh reverential fear of my mother And I know that that would disappoint her, and I just can't do it. So he follows the will, the admonition of his mother, because that fear is present Don't say you fear God if you don't, he says here, delight in his commandments You want to be happy, this twofold thing here, you've got to fear God, you've got to delight in his commandments. Do you delight to hear the commandments of God? Do you delight to hear the preaching of the Word of God and the Bible and the man of God standing up here and saying, Thus saith the Lord, this is what God says you're supposed to do? Or do you buck against that and say, No, that's not what I want to hear, or that's that's just what the pastor thinks, or that's just what his priorities are, but that's not what I want. But do you delight in learning what the book says? He says, if you're going to be happy, fear God and delight in his commandments. Delight learning them. Delight having them as part of your life. Boy, the wisdom contained within these pages is inexhaustible. The wisdom that's here will help you so much. Do you delight to learn it? They have transforming power. The truth is in this book. I've seen it over and over again, transform a life You delight not just to learn them, but can I ask you this morning, do you delight to live them? You see, the Bible says that we should not just be hearers of the word, but what? Doers. Amen. So we shouldn't just be sitting in church and saying, Amen, preacher. That's good, man, that is rich. You tell them young people, otherwise they're going to make a mess of their life. You let them kids have it Well, praise God, they certainly need good preaching. And I've had a lot of people, of course, we have the bus ministry goes out and brings in the young people for church, and we're excited that you guys come But for the adults in here, this is for you too. It's not just for the kids. Do you delight to live the principles of the Word of God? The Bible says that his yoke is easy and his burden is light. Bob Jones Sr. used to say, the problem is, is uh too many of you have got enough of God that you can't enjoy in the world, and you got enough of the world you can't enjoy God. You're just hanging on to both. So you're miserable. If that's you this morning, I'd encourage you. Delight in living this book. And he says, you'll be happy. You'll be happy. I want you to see verse number two, we see his children. His seed shall be mighty upon the earth. The generation of the upright shall be blessed. You and I, by living a life of righteousness, can pass on the greatest inheritance imaginable As I read and pondered this, I thought, wow, this is amazing. My children can be blessed in their life, they can experience happiness, they can experience the direct hand of the blessing of God on their life because of how I live. If that's true, the opposite is true as well. That they will experience hurt and turmoil and challenge and hardship because of how I live. Boy, what a weight on me as a father. Maybe I really don't care and and God's gonna judge me and I it's okay with me because the pleasure of sin is is is you know, enjoyable for a season and and I'm gonna go do that and I'll reap the consequences. God's just gonna judge me and I'll live with it. But you know what? My kids are gonna reap too. So it would behoove me, and I implore you to remember and ponder and think about that fact that you have the power to bless your children by how you live. You can honor God and thereby bring blessing on your family. Man, we understand here that your life is not all about you. This is counter-culture because culture today says it is about you. Your life is all about you. It's just for you. But we're not supposed to live unto ourselves. Especially someone who's a parent. Listen, the minute you had a child You lost your life. I don't understand these these parents that have children and they say, oh, but I'm still living my life and doing what I want to do. You've got a child to raise. Y your life is to be consumed and taken up with the preparation and the training of that child up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and preparing them to be godly Christians and good citizens for society. And dropping them off at daycare every day so you can have your career is not raising your children. I know sometimes in our society today It it's so expensive to do anything, you have to sometimes do what you have to do. But if your pursuit is just the pursuit of a career and you just oh these kids are a bother, you've got the wrong spirit. His seed shall be mighty. Well, I want my children to go farther than me, to accomplish more than me, to be godlier than me, to be stronger than me. But it starts with me living right. If you're living a righteous life. You're protecting your children from sin. You're protecting your children from things that would come into their life. You're shielding them from temptation. You're training them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. You're training them, as the Bible says, in the way that they should go, pointing them into spiritual things instead of temporal. And if we could just pass on our love for Christ, if we could pass on the desire for spiritual things. The implication here is very clear that how I live as a father has direct repercussions on the life of my kids. I don't know if in this life I'll get to accomplish any really great things. I don't suspect I'll maybe invent something that'll change society. Not going to come up with a cure for something. I I don't know that as far as the world aspect looking at things that I that I'll make that big of a splash. But you know, I can impact those kids' lives. As a father, I have not only that privilege, but that responsibility. And you can claim the promises of God here. That if you live a righteous life, you're blessing your children. Say, man, I don't have a whole lot of money to give them, and I'm so disheartened because I don't have money to give my kids. They're not going to get any inheritance. By the way, kids You're not getting any inheritance. I don't have any inheritance to give them. Oh man, uh uh it's so bad. Hey, you can give them a godly heritage You can pass on the blessing of a God that's pleased with your family. That's worth more than a million dollars that you could give them. Pass on God's rich pleasure in their life. What a privilege it is. Man. Thirdly, we see here you're gonna like this one, or maybe not. We see as cash. See number three, uh his wealth and riches shall be in his house, and his righteousness endureth forever. Now you guys know I'm not a prosperity preacher. I certainly don't believe in that. I believe that you know The Bible's pretty clear that, you know, they that follow me shall shall suffer persecution and and that's the the Bible doesn't say if you wholeheartedly follow God you're gonna be flowing with with great bountiful blessing and you're gonna have riches untold. Okay, that's a prosperity gospel that's not biblical. But I want you to know that if you follow God, you will be blessed. You will be blessed. Are you going to be driving the car you want to drive? Are you going to have some big house? I'm not saying these things are things that God wants for you, and if you speak them into your life, they'll happen. By the way, if you're listening to some radio or TV preacher that's saying those things, you need to turn them off. That's not biblical. Just speak it into your life. They like to use those words. I was listening to We're gonna go on. You will be blessed. I remember Preacher that greatly influenced my life, he would always say this, and I remember to this day, I've repeated it, and you've probably heard me say it, that when you honor God, God will bless you so much you're embarrassed about it. And I have found that to be true. I feel like I almost have to apologize for how good God's been to me. Like I should not Be this blessed. I should not have what God's given me. I should not be in this place. But when you honor and please God, God blesses you. And it'll bless you to the place where you're embarrassed about it. The condition again is very clearly stated. There's righteousness. You see, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and what? All these things shall be added unto you. It's a complete submitting of oneself to God's will You know, to be truly blessed of God, to have and enjoy the prosperity that God wants to give you, you know, it's far more than just cash in your pocket. You know, I think we all understand that the greatest blessings of life are blessings that can't be bought with cash. Or things that can't be purchased with a dollar. No amount of money given to the church will ever buy your way to heaven. The greatest blessing anybody could ever receive is a free gift of salvation given to us by God. And that's just accepted. You can't buy it. You can't earn it. God's blessings go far beyond money in your pocket. Your righteousness, he says here, will be remembered. The great blessings of God blessed on you. Those that come after you will remember it. We see his compassion in verse number four. He says, Unto the upright there arises light in the darkness. He is gracious and full of compassion. And righteousness. Note first, beloved, that even the upright experience darkness. He says, Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness. Do you remember the word of God says about Job? That he was an upright man that eschewed evil. Over and over again, God gives us that as a description of Job, and yet did he not endure a tremendous amount of darkness? So Christian, you will experience some darkness in this life even though you are a consistent follower of Christ Yet in the darkness, I want you to know that God, in his infinite wisdom, he fashions for you the exact light that you need. Exactly when you need it I'm gonna put somebody on the spot here. You shared with me yesterday a story concerning your phone. Yes. Just brought to my mind right now. Can I share that with Church? You're my guest. You know Brother Nazarenko lost his dear wife. He was going through some darkness. He was struggling God was using different things in his life. Yesterday in Grief Share, he talked to us about, he didn't say that God brought light. But he said God works in mysterious ways. You see his phone, complications with the service, AT<unk>T, who knows what it was, but his phone quit working. So he couldn't use his phone anymore. So he thought, oh well, I've got Judah's phone here somewhere. So he went and picked up Judah's phone. to use it as a phone, but when he picked it up, he began to look and here was all her messages. Here was her notes, her words, that he could read. And then he looked and there's pictures on there. Pictures of things that she thought were beautiful. Pictures of things that she took time to take a picture and say, this is something that I value. This is something that means something to me. You see, he was going through darkness and God said, you know what, he needs some light. He needs some light in this darkness. I'm gonna crash his old phone and he's gonna have to go over there and get Judah's phone and pick it up right now because this is when he needs light. You're going to go through some darkness, but I want you to understand that God custom fashions light for you in your hour of darkness. It's an amazing thing. You know, I've been out there working at night in the dark. And one of the kids grabs a flashlight or something, they come out and they shine it right there where I need it, right? That's what God does for us. Man, what a privilege to have a God like that. He fashions the light for us in our darkness. But we see here that we as godly men should have compassion. Compassion, full of compassion and righteous. Yeah. What a privilege. I know that our as men we're not real compassionate, but I want you to know that compassion is not a weakness. It's a strength. Do you have a compassionate heart, sir? You're like, well, bless God, they don't need compassion, they need clobbered, amen. That's how men like to respond, you know Does anything move you? Do you have a compassionate heart? We see here think about this. Look at this verse, he says. I put my glasses on, sorry. He says, and one that feareth God, I'm looking at the wrong verse here. Full of compassion and righteousness. He lists those two things together as a description of the godly man, of the Christ-like man. He says, you're going to have compassion and godliness. I would say confession is pretty high on the list of things that a man's supposed to have. I know it's not necessarily natural for us. I recall hearing the story of a of a husband who was standing there looking through the window there in the maternity ward He had been gone for some time and his wife came out of the room not long after giving delivery, and she saw him just staring there into the into the room with the baby, and her heart was touched by how he was so moved over the child and He's just looking at this window, looking through, and he and she comes up and she wraps her arms around his waist and she says, honey, what are you thinking? And he says, I'm just trying to figure out how they built that crib for eighty-nine bucks. Yeah, you know it's not just like us. We're just not we're not built the same. We might have to work at it a little bit, but we're supposed to have compassion. Amen I want you to see his concern. We see in verse number five. He says, A man showeth favor and lendeth, he will guide his affairs with discretion. He's willing to give, give of himself, give of his substance. What a struggle to give of yourself and to give of your wealth to others. And of course, it's not without discretion we see here there is some wisdom exercised. But beloved, if providence Has made you able to lend, then grace should make you willing to lend. If God has blessed you to the point in which you have the means or capacity to help others, Then concern should motivate us, and the grace and the gift of God should motivate us to do so. We should have concern for others. We know that a man's fortune can change in a heartbeat. A person's situation in one day through failure, misfortune Through bad health, through any number of things, can bring a man who was otherwise in good condition to a place where he's in a place of need. I recall one day here, Mary and I, some years ago, we were preparing to go for vacation. We were supposed to leave on Monday morning for vacation, and on Sunday afternoon we're on our way back to church, and we turned on Timonium Road, and somebody. Broad side of the van. Crushed the whole side of the van. The top of the door was bent out about that far, like we had that much of a gap in the top of the door. Now praise the Lord nobody was hurt. But we were loaded and ready to go on vacation in the morning. I thought, well, a little duct tape, we'll tape it up and We'll hit down the road, you know, is what is what it is. It's still drivable, still rolls, amen. We're good. And uh One of the men of the church came Sunday night at church and saw that. He said, aren't you guys going on vacation tomorrow? I said, yeah. And he says, why don't you take my Lexus? And I said I could never do that. Take your Lexus? No way. I I mean but and he's like, Yeah. Why don't you take the Lexus? Man, that was such a blessing. Just vacation in style. So I'm saying is God blesses you in ways that you just like, man, what in the world? It's amazing. Note here that it m uh you do have to have discretion. Use wisdom and judgment. Listen, if your child has Just totaled the last three cars you bought them, it's probably not a good idea to buy them another one. If somebody has taken the money that they have and wasted it and they've continued to waste money and they continue to make bad decisions They have put themselves in a condition where it would be unwise for you to continue to feed that. You've got to use some discretion. He says that here. He says, hey, you've got concern and you're willing to help. But a guy that's just wasting it, if he's taking it and spending it on drugs, you don't want to feed that. So use use discretion. A godly man will use discretion. We see his consistency. Man, this is so important. Verse number six. He says, surely he shall not be moved forever. The righteousness shall be an everlasting remembrance. Man, what an importance. We could spend an entire message just dealing with this one topic alone, the idea of living a consistent life. Being a consistent person. Listen, the father in the home is supposed to be a stabilizing bar. The father in the home is supposed to be. that that leveling field, that that that consistent person who does what he's supposed to do and is just faithful to accomplish those tasks and just consistently doing What he's supposed to do consistently, consistently, consistently, consistently, but we have lost consistency today. Men don't know how to be consistent. Young married men that five years into their marriage and they've had seven jobs, no consistency. What about consistency to church? This shouldn't be something that's up for debate. It shouldn't be something that we think about or consider or decide on Sunday morning if we feel up to it. It ought to be something that's a pattern, it's a habit, it's something we do. We just gonna be in church. I mean listen I'm I'm you know sick and I don't I listen we don't want you sharing it with everybody. So you stay home if you're sick. We understand that But otherwise, it ought to be just something that, hey, it's Sunday morning, we're going to church. Consistent. Every week. Every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, and every Thursday night Going to church. Here's where we're going. We're going to church. It should be something that's consistent in your life. Consistent to pay your bills. I believe this is one of the greatest missing elements in the heart of men today. How consistent are you today? How consistent are you in your spirit? In your industry? Are you industrious today and then lazy tomorrow? Take three or four days bumming around, then get real excited about something. Oh, I'm gonna go and get this all done. We're gonna work like a dog today, and then spend four days sleeping. Are you consistent? Let me ask you this, how consistent are you at what time you get up in the morning? You know, how consistent you are with things in your life really kind of shows where you're at. I'm privileged this morning that I have a father that stands as a shining example of this. He is probably the most consistent man in his spirit that I've ever met in my life. And I lived with him. Dad was the same person all the time. Somebody could take his new Cadillac and drive it off a cliff And dad would be the same person as if you walked up to him and said, hey, Pastor Vetrell, I got a check here for $5,000 for you. He was consistent. It's important that we be consistent, consistent in our spirit. Do your kids wonder? We gotta check the wind to find out what kind of mood dad's in before we uh uh before we approach this or before we decide if we're gonna do this or that. I mean we've got to just check. You need to be consistent. Consistent in your spirit. No, but he that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much. Are you consistent in your walk with God? Your work for God? The raising and disciplining of your children. Listen, I I've got to hurry, but this is so important. The discipline of your children. The number one problem with raising children is inconsistency. You know what? If you it would be better for you not to have a rule than to have a rule and not keep it. I mean if it's okay if your kids bust holes in the walls, that's fine. But if you've ever said don't poke holes in the walls, then they should not be able to poke holes in the wall. Ever. And by the way, obedience is not when they do it after the fourth time. You know what? If you put Where's Matt and Lauren? If you put Kate under this piano right here, and she stands up, what's gonna happen? She's gonna hit her head. Oh man, that hurt. And she's probably gonna cry. You know, she might because kids are kind of absent-minded, she might do it twice. But you know what's gonna happen? The next time she comes this direction, she'll get around right here and she'll be going like this. Why? Because she learned that this is unmovable. It's not here today and gone tomorrow and and oh I could stand up there yesterday. And if parents would just be consistent, say this is acceptable, this is not, if you cross this line, it hurts. They learn real quick what hurts. And you say, well man, I can't get my kid to obey. It's because you're inconsistent. Don't even have a rule. Doesn't matter. But you're hurting your child if you're putting a rule there today and then moving it tomorrow. Like there's no jumping on the furniture because pastor is here. If they can jump on the furniture the rest of the time, they should be able to jump on it when I'm standing there If it's a rule, it's a rule. If it's not a rule, it's not a rule. Now I know there's a lot of you that aren't parents Or your parents, your kids are already grown and gone, and that's not but there's a few here that need that. You need to be consistent. We see his courage in uh verse number seven, and I'm gonna hurry. We'll walk through these last few quickly here. He says there's courage. He says he shall not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord. Notice here his lack of fear. Beloved, there's a plenty of things to be afraid of today. I just think about 2020 and and COVID and and that spirit of fear that permeated society as a whole. I mean it just it just cover the society. And I know initially in the initial shock nobody knew what was going to happen and listen the news reports came out and said everybody's going to be dead in six months, so we need to shut everything down and and but listen once we learned Where things were, many people allowed society to continue to give them the spirit of fear. But a godly man here says that he shall not be afraid of evil tidings. Not be afraid of those evil tidings. You know what news is? News is evil tidings. Non-stop evil tidings. That's what the news is, because that's what sells. Every once in a while you'll have that good feeling story, right? That good news. I saw one yesterday. A four-year-old boy climbed over the fence in the in the apartment complex into their swimming pool and ran and got into the pool and was drowning. And a little girl saw him and ran and got her dad, her dad ran out of the apartment and jumped into the pool and saved the boy's life. Those are good stories. That's not what most of news is, right? I mean even you know we could talk about what's going on in society forever, the evil tidings and the stress that it brings in your heart, are you are you Weighted down with that. Man, I can't hear about what's going on. And and I'm listening to this and I'm listening to that. And the evil tidings are just they're just wearing me down and I'm so torn up. A godly man's not Why? What does he say here? He says, because your heart is fixed. Your heart is fixed. Listen, we could do a lot of preaching here. If you we're not talking about a heart that's that's broken that gets fixed. We're talking about something attached to. Although if you have a broken heart, if you trust God, he'll fix it. But he's saying something that's attached to. You know everybody's heart is affixed to something. It's affixed to something You remember Lot who lifted up his eyes on those well-watered plains and his heart got fixed. You remember that uh Judas left me having loved this present world His heart got fixed on the wrong thing. Everybody's heart is fixed on something. What is your heart fixed on? If you fix it on tr on God and on trusting the Lord, you don't have to be afraid. We have courage because we have faith in God. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. Hey if God if God said he would do it, can I ask you, is he gonna do it? He's gonna do it. What time I'm afraid, I will trust in thee. Because God can do it. And He will do it every time We see number eight his confidence. He says in eight there he says, his heart is established. He shall not be afraid until he see his desire upon his enemies. His heart is established. He has certainty about what he's doing. He has a confidence, a confidence in God because of what God has done for him in past. Although this is somewhat of an echo of verse number seven. The idea here is more based on the idea of strength that is not our own. It's a strength that sustains us and we're upheld through the strength that's given to us by God. I think about it like this If Brother Bob Gamble wanted to start a uh dog pound, he loves dogs He really likes dogs and he wanted to start a dog pound, a business to to raise and train dogs. And uh him and Kara were going to take this venture together. And uh they came to me and said, Pastor Caleb, what do you think about this? I think it's a great idea. God's giving you a real gift and a love for these animals. I think you'd be good at it. And he says, okay, I need $100,000. Now, for the sake of illustration, let's just pretend that I have a lot of money. And I tell him, Bob, you know what? I believe in you You don't worry about it. Here's $100,000. You have any expenses at all. Don't worry about anything. You need something, you go get it Yeah, it's going to be covered. Any bill comes in, you just just send it to me, I'll I'll take care of it. You can take care of this and any expense getting this thing off the ground is all gonna be covered by me. Don't worry about it at all. You go do it Do you think he has confidence to start that business now? Why, confidence because he's got a backer. That has the ability and has said, I'll take care of it, whatever it is. So he goes out on that venture established. As a business, because he's got a backer. But you and I, as godly men and women, can be established in our Christian life because we have a backer. We've got a Heavenly Father, and we have that confidence in Him, a confidence that He He has never failed and He'll never fail us. We see number nine here his commendation. He says, And he hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor, his righteousness endureth forever, his horn shall be exalted with honor. There's a list here, a description of things that God said about this man, giving him a commendation, describing his giving spirit, describing his uh righteousness that's going to endure forever, and his horn shall be exalted with honor. God describes the acts of this good man. He says what he did and how he gave and how he sacrificed and how he lived a righteous life. I mean you think about the books that were mentioned, and God's keeping a record. Amen. Here's what I wonder. I wonder in my latter days, which are a long time from now, but in my latter days I wonder what my kids will say about me. What will my commendation be? You see, my dad, I don't know how much longer he's gonna be on this earth. But you know what, as long as I'm here, he's gonna have somebody that says he was the most consistent Christian I've ever met. He's got a commendation. Because he lived that way. Day in and day out. Every day. And I look at that and say, I wonder what commendation my children are going to have. What are they going to say about me? What am I going to be remembered for? You know, beloved. If you're not dead, you still have a chance to change it. You say, I don't know what my accommodation is going to be, or my accommodation is not going to be that good, you still have a chance to change it. We see last year the contrast, and this is encouraging. But we see the contrast here given to us. He says in verse number 10, the wicked shall see it and be grieved. And he shall gnash with his teeth and melt away the desire of the wicked shall perish. We see a contrast here between everything else that has gone before, where he described this godly man. And the great and bountiful blessings that are available to him if he lives this way. And then he shows us a wicked man. He says, this is what the wicked man's going to have to look forward to. Could I encourage you, beloved, don't fret over the prosperity of the wicked. I know sometimes you look at, they prosper, and all you do is prospire, right? You you say, man, all I'm doing is working and I'm not getting ahead. I'm striving and working so hard and nothing's going right. Don't fret over the prosperity of the wicked, because you see in this verse, what they have to look forward to In the end, God is going to win. He's driven to the place where he gnashes with his teeth and still has and knows no joy. The very desire of all whose ambition is going to fail, and it is only disappointment that he'll know. Well Christian, in contrast to that, can I remind you that we've read the end of the book? We're on the winning side. We are on the winning side, and in the end, the Christian is going to experience a no victory. I don't wish God's judgment. On this ungodly world. I don't wish it on them at all, but I do know that in the end, God is going to judge all flesh. And his judgment will come down on all the filth of this world and all the rebellion against God and all the mockery and and And laughing that they do about God and the jokes that they make of Him and how they mock and laugh at your Christianity and your stand for Christ. And they can make fun of that today, but one day they'll stand before an Almighty God And I don't wish that judgment on them, but I do know that judgment day is coming. And I know in the end the righteous are blessed. The righteous are happy.