Uh with regards to this morning's lessons, I believe it's starting on page number si seventy-four in your notes. And uh I I don't know any other way to title this section besides the Gospels. We just covered the Gospel. And that was the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And that was the concluding chapters of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. However, we kind of went through Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John looking at a synopsis of those uh dealing primarily with the life of Christ and the introduction of that all the way through the last lesson that we had which was the gospel, which was the death, burial, and resurrection kind of from those four gospels. But as I was moving into the book of Acts You know that the New Testament is divided up into five major categories. You have the Gospels, and then you have the book of history, which is the book of Acts. You have the Pauline epistles. the general epistles and then prophecy and those five categories. So I started moving and studying to prepare to move into the book of Acts and uh thought, you know, I really ought to give I did the same thing. We went through the Old Testament. We gave you just a synopsis of each book as we went through it. And I hadn't done that yet. And maybe this should have been right at the front. Again, this being the first time I've given a kind of a New Testament survey and look through the New Testament like this. uh my notes are still in development every week and so sometimes I find like oh I should have put this first or that last if you're here in another twenty years and I teach it again then uh then y you'll get the revised version the the edited and kind of tweaked some of these situations, but uh So we're just going to look back at what I've entitled the Gospels and kind of just giving you a synopsis of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John So that you'll have it, you'll be able to just kind of have some general information about these books and have that kind of in your mind as we move over into the book of history So I just want to just quickly go through this. I I could easily spend a week on each one of these topics, each one of these books, but I thought if I do that, that's twenty-seven weeks just dealing with the synopsis or snapshot of each uh of each book. And uh so I my plan is to move pretty quickly through this. This is going to be a lot of information, but again you do have it in front of you. Does anybody need a copy of the Sunday school lesson? Okay, there's one here. Could somebody back there grab a copy, bring this up here? You could get a copy for the Ives as well. So one of the ushers are grabbing that. And they're going to bring that up. So most everybody's got one. We're going to jump right in because we've got a lot of ground to cover. The book of Matthew here, Matthew establishes and equips the church. for the fulfillment of the Great Commission. The Great Commission given to us in chapter number twenty-eight, at the conclusion of that, uh as Christ is ascends up into heaven and he leaves, he leaves the church with a job to do That's our job, the Great Commission that we're supposed to fulfill. And so Matthew kind of sets the stage for that. It is the bridge, Matthew, the bridge between the Old Testament and the New Testament. and uh kind of revealing to the world that true Messiah, the the introduction of Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the fulfillment of all the Old Testament prophecy. Okay, so this is some keys to the book. Each of the individual snapshots, we're going to give you these same things for every book that we go through in the New Testament here. So just kind of walking through these things quickly. The keys to the book You had the author, of course, was Matthew. There is no debate about that. We know who the author was. He was one of the twelve disciples. We know he was a tax collector, and that he became a follower of Christ. Now the date set what I have written down is AD fifty eight to sixty generally held beliefs here, covering about thirty-four year thirty-four years uh from Christ birth till just after his uh uh ascension. Um the location of the writing was Antioch of Syria. Now the the date and the location uh for some of these books is up for debate. And people, some Bible scholars might date it a few years this way or a few years that way because we don't have definitive things. to say 100%. What they do is look at the context and when the historical things that are talked about in the book, if they talk about specifically the fall of Jerusalem or they talk about things that historically they could definitely date, then they they know well it had to have happened unless it was prophecy given many years before, they know that it had to be ha happened after that. And so There's those things that kind of give a general idea and then they dig down a little bit further and try to try and establish a date. But you know what? Ultimately Uh I don't stress over things that we don't know a hundred percent. Like it's really not that big a deal to me because I know that it is the Word of God and the book was written for our edification. and uh for our learning and so I have enough I have a hard enough time just doing what I know the Bible reveals that I don't have to stress about things that I'm not a hundred percent sure on. And so I tell you that because you might read another book and they tell you uh you know like, oh this was written at this time and it might be different than the dates I've given you. Uh I mean you could find different scholars that would move it a few years one way or the other. Not anything to stress about. We know of course the general time frame because we know uh when Christ was here. Excuse me. So the we audience, it was written primarily to the Jews. It was primarily a Jewish audience, but obviously all of the books were written to the believer. For us. It is for our edification. So the the early church, uh obviously this was a primary book for the early church, but knowing that it was going to be a Jewish audience, he was Reminding them or showing them, hey, this is the Messiah, the fulfillment of all the prophecy that you guys know, the books that you study, the prophets, all of what they said, hey, don't you see this is the fulfillment of that So that's who he was talking to is primarily a Jewish audience. And again, the purpose is to bridge that Old Testament and New Testament with the introduction of the Messiah. Now some key verses, uh chapter four, verses seventeen through nineteen, and chapter sixteen, verse number twenty-one. We see that he said, I'm going to just read these verses for you. He says, From that time Jesus began to preach and to say, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And Jesus walked by the Sea of Galilee and saw two brethren Simon, called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting his nets into the sea, for they were fishermen. And he saith unto me, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men So we have here tran a transitional verse from, you know, when Christ was young in his early years, and we don't know a whole lot about that to kind of the introduction to his ministry. And that's when the ministry starts. And then we the second key verse here, from that time forth, okay, so you see in chapter four, verse seventeen, he says, From that time Jesus began to preach. So kind of an introduction to the ministry. And then we see in verse number chapter 16, From that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how he must go unto Jerusalem and suffer many things. And so we have another kind of a transitional verse here where, yes, his ministry is coming to a conclusion and he's moving into a time period where he's going to go and he's going to suffer. and ultimately be sacrificed, crucified for the sins of mankind. So those two verses are key in the book of Matthew, transitional uh from his introduction to his launching his ministry. and then from his ministry to moving into suffering. So that's one of those two key verses there. Some key words. There are other key words. I've just given you a few of them here, like behold 58 times. Behold, just something that very important that God wants us to make sure. And they were speaking to people, introducing people, and behold, my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Over and over again that word is used. The kingdom of heaven used 32 times, fulfilled, used sixteen times. Now there are 32 titles for Christ in the book of Matthew. There's a Bible study for you. If you would like to, just get the book of Matthew, start reading through it, and see if you can find the 32 titles for Christ. that are found in the book of Matthew. Thirty-two different ways in which he was referred to or names that he was given just in the book of Matthew. Maybe that could be our next Sunday morning series. We did the names of God, right? But we won't we probably won't do that, thirty-two of them. But we have Prominent truths presented. Christ is presented as a king. Listen, the Jews were looking for a king. Christ was presented as a king. We need to understand the audience to understand the message many times. They are very closely tied. Matthew communicates the heart of Christ's teaching, making them available to the early church, and of course to us today. He continually gives us the words of God, the words of Jesus Christ. We have here I I put it in here twice, but he presents the parables of the kingdom. Uh but in he presents five discourses. So the parables of the kingdoms is one of the discourses, but five major discourses that he Communicates to us again, giving us Christ's words, what Christ said. And uh so he has the Sermon on the Mount. Does anybody remember where the Sermon on the Mount takes place? What three chapters of Matthew? Five to seven, yeah. Matthew five to seven. Did he put it on the screen or oh I didn't know if it was up on the screen already. Uh but Matthew chapter five through seven uh is the Sermon on the Mount. And then we have the commissioning of the disciples in Matthew chapter 10 given to us, the parables of the kingdom. Very important parables for understanding. What Christ was doing and the church and prophecy, these things tie into all of those very strongly. And so the parables of the kingdom in Matthew chapter 13. The spiritual need of humility and forgiveness in Matthew 18. Matthew 18, of course, that key passage on how to deal with a brother that has been offended. giving you the guidance and examples and what you need to do when you uh are offended or or when you have offended somebody. How how do you handle that? How do you reconcile uh with them? So Matthew 18 describes that for us And then the Olivet Discourse given to us in Matthew chapter 24 and 25. So five major discourses given there. Then the term church. is the only is only found in the book of Matthew. We're going to move into the church age, we're going to go to Acts, but in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, that term church is only found in the book of Matthew and only found in in two places and I've given you the references there. Then there's an outline. I'm not going to read for you the outline. The outline is just taken directly from Exploring the New Testament by Danette there, so I've given you the reference and where it came from. So we want to move right on to Mark. Alright, are we going too fast Keep keeping everybody awake hopefully. I know this gets to be kind of just some information and we're gonna get back into some meat here in a minute, but uh I want to at least I want you guys to have this. So mark the keys again same thing we're gonna be covering with each one the author The author was John Mark. Okay, John Mark. And uh as we get to John, you're going to see there's four Johns in the New Testament. So uh Not the same John. John is his Hebrew name, Mark is his Roman name. In Acts chapter twelve, verse number twelve he says, And when he had considered the things, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose surname was Mark So this is John Mark. And uh he's the the author here and uh Mark was not one of the disciples, but he was closely uh A close friend with Paul and Barnabas, and Peter was seen often with them and spent time with them. He actually accompanied Paul and Barnabas on their first missionary journey. And so he was present there until you guys, if you've been around a while, you know the story, and uh Paul and uh John Mark had a uh parting of the ways and they went different directions And uh just a little side note here, uh God still used Mark in a great way, didn't he? God used Mark to write one of the books of the Bible, and Mark got used in a great way. I'm sure that there was people when you know Mark ended up not going with Paul on the next missionary journey or whatever, they were probably thinking, man, Mark has lost his mind. Mark is all off doing whatever he wants to do. Look at the direction Mark's going. Oh my goodness. You know, he's gone for good and they probably, you know, basically writing Mark off because he's not doing what they thought he should be doing. And the same is true of people that were friends with Mark and they look at Paul and say, look at what Paul did. Oh my goodness, Paul's messed up. Now he's hurt Mark or he's separated with Mark and now Paul's gone off the deep end or whatever. There's probably people on both sides of that thing, but what you see in the Word of God is that God used Paul, didn't he? Greatly. God used John Mark. Neither neither one of these men uh were gone off the deep end or fell into sin because they had a parting of the ways. Sometimes that happens, and God used both men still greatly, and that's okay. We've got to be careful about that. You know, people think, well, so-and-so moved away from the church or they moved to another state and they they left Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Listen, this is not the only church in the world This is a great church. I think the best church in this area. And uh, you know, if you're here in this area and you can be here, I think you've come to a great church. But I also know There are other good churches. There's other people serving God, fulfilling God's will, and following God's plan for their lives, uh all around the country, all around. And you can go to these other places and still honor and please God, and God can still use you. Amen? Amen. So we see that just a small lesson there that we learn from that situation. But we see the date, A. D. 65 to 68. The location was Rome. That is the location that he was writing from. As I give you the location, this is writing f where they were writing from. And then the audience is primarily Romans. Okay? The purpose was to evangelize the lost and to edify the saved through the presenting of Christ to a people with no Old Testament knowledge. You see, the purpose changed Because when you're dealing with a Jewish audience and you're presenting this to them, they knew the Old Testament. They heard all of the prophecies. What they were saying in Matthew, they're saying, hey, do you remember what the prophet said? This is Jesus. This is the Messiah. Do you remember how this was said? But in Mark, he's saying, let me introduce you to. Jesus. Somebody they wouldn't have any knowledge of, somebody they wouldn't have a background and and be able to try and connect those dots. And so primarily a Roman audience, people that didn't know the Old Testament, he is introducing them to Jesus. Some key verses here. Mark chapter ten, verse forty five, for even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. One of my favorite verses in the Bible, I I love the idea of of being a servant. I love the idea of serving uh God and others and it just encourages my heart when I think about the fact that Christ himself came and if I'm gonna strive to be like Christ, I'm gonna be a servant. He didn't come to be ministered to, but to minister to others. And that just challenges me all the time, over and over again. So a key verse here, uh as Mark was introducing them. to Jesus, this is what Jesus was like in Mark fifteen, thirty-nine. And when the centurion which stood over against him saw that he still cried out and gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man is the Son of God. A Roman soldier who was there, who was in that situation, in that presence, watched Jesus die. And when he saw that there's something about it that he said, listen, this truly is the Son of God. This is the message of Mark to the Romans and he saw it and he said, this this is, this is what Mark said, this is the Son of God. And the message set home into his heart. So some key words, straightway, straightway, nineteen times it's found. You know, the idea of immediately, right now, straightway. You know, when God gives us direction in our lives, we ought to do it right now We ought to do it straightway. And uh we don't have any of the kids in here or we could chase a good rabbit trail here with uh the the straightway and like kids now when mom and dad say something now's the time, right? You get up and do it It's not in a few minutes or when I get around to it, but we ought to be that way with God. When God gives us direction and tells us to do something in our life, we ought to do it straightway. We ought to do it now and not get in the habit of putting God off You'll be blessed and you'll be blessed, which means happy, if you uh build a habit of that in your life and obey God when He gives you the command. Immediately is 17 times authority. The authority of God is eight times. Gospel is given to us eight times. So some prominent truths presented. Christ is presented as a servant. So in Matthew, we saw Christ was presented as a what? As a king. Here we see Christ is presented as a servant. In the key verse that I read to you, he came not to be ministered to, but to minister. Christ is presented as a servant. Um and then we see as a servant, Mark gives us more miracles that Christ did for others. Over and over again we see what Christ was doing for others. These miracles, the things that he performed. Uh he's showing us the service, servant heartedness of Christ and giving these, doing these things for other people. Mark concentrates on the work. more than the word. So where Matthew gives us the five discourses and Matthew continually is communicating to us the words of Jesus. In Mark, he's concentrating on the work of Jesus. He's really concentrating on what Jesus did and the idea of a servant and what is he doing. And he also deals with Jesus' actions. and people's reactions. So giving to us the reactions of people when they see Jesus, like for instance the centurion that saw Christ crucified and said, This truly is the Son of God, giving us his reaction. Um in one twenty-seven he says, and they were all amazed. In 2. 7, he says they were critical. In 441, he says they were afraid. In 6. 14, he says they were confused. In 737, he says they were astonished. In 14. 1, he says they were hostile. He gives us Christ's actions, but also the people's reactions. describing for us those things. So that's unique to Mark. Stories that are only found in Mark, there's a few I've given here the seed growing secretly. uh the healing of the blind man at Bethesda, and the flight of the young man. Uh if you read that passage of scripture, it's the last few verses of that, but Uh I don't know if you remember there was a man that came to Jesus' presence. The Bible says that he was wrapped in a in a cloak or a a towel uh but didn't have any clothes on underneath and something transpired and he dropped his cloak and ran and ran from Christ and and unclothes. This a unique story not found in any other gospels, uh just a quick couple of verses there about that. And uh that would be interesting to study to find out uh like why was that included in the gospel? W how does that tie in? Wha what is that there for? Obviously I believe everything's in the Word of God for a purpose or reason. So there would be a good study for you if you want to get into it, dig into that a little, find out why that was there, or what lessons we learned from that maybe. And then share them with us or I can have you share them with the Sunday school in a few weeks if you study it out. Alright. So outline again, not going to take time to go through those. Uh but we see the service of Christ, the sacrifice of Christ, and that outline just taken from Jensen's survey of the New Testament. Then we see the book of Luke. Alright. Are we going to get through all four of these? We're into Luke. We've got yeah, we're doing okay. Is that 52? Uh 9. 50. We got time if it's 9. 52. Um So the book of Luke. I I hope we're not overloading you. Going too fast, or are you getting anything Guys are at least Carol is, so the rest of you guys can go to sleep, so that's okay. But all right, we're in the book of Luke now. Uh again, the keys to the book. Well, the author is Luke Obviously, now we believe that Luke came to Christ uh around ten to fifteen years after Pentecost and probably under the ministry of Paul. uh and uh probably in the location of Antioch. So Luke comes to Christ there through the ministry of Paul and God uses him greatly. He became a friend, an associate of Paul, traveled with him on his second missionary journey And uh we will get to it in in a little bit, but of course we know that he uh also wrote the book of Acts. There's two volumes. Uh they they kind of go together, Luke and Acts, with regards to Luke. Um, you know, so um We know that he was friends with him, 2 Timothy 4. 11, if you want to note that down there, but uh only Luke is with me, take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is profitable. uh to me to the ministry. So on the second missionary journey, uh we see Paul uh has Luke, which says only Luke's with me. So Luke is there, but also we see him comment about Mark and how Mark was profitable. Even though they had a parting of the ways, he says, Hey, uh Mark was profitable. If he is available, boy, I would love to have him him back uh with us here. So we see that uh as well. Then the date, 80 sixty to sixty-two. Uh there's two things that are notable about the date that make it uh pretty uh sure that these are the dates Uh first of all, we know that it was written prior to the book of Acts, so that it predates that. Acts 1 tells us that. And then we know that it was after the death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord. And so you have those two major events that you know Luke has to fit into there. And so gets it dated pretty closely. Um location, Caesarea or Rome, not 100% sure. I've had the privilege of being in both of those places Uh and it's just exciting. If you ever get a chance to go to Israel, uh we encourage you to do it. Uh we may take a trip as a church here in a few years. I've talked to a uh uh guy about that, uh a guide and looking at that and And what an awesome thing it is to be able to go and see the places that we read about, that we know so much about. But of course it's been tumultuous over there currently. Uh so we're not sure uh that we want to do it right now, but we're we're looking at the options and maybe brother uh Sasser uh would go with us. and kind of function as a guide with us. So we're looking at that for future years. I gave you a little bit of insight to future vision, but uh I don't know when that's going to happen. But we would love to be able to do it. But if you get to go, I know it'll be a blessing to you. Then we have the audience, okay, Theophilos. He tells us clearly that he was writing to Theophilus, but he was also primarily writing to the Greeks. So again, a a completely new audience. The Greeks had a very different way of thinking. They were very analytical. They enjoyed deeper thought. They enjoyed uh studying things out and and thought of themselves as very intellectual and uh you know the great uh thinkers of you know, all of history uh that you consider or think about come from Greek history. So uh Theopolis means lover of God. And was probably one of Luke's converts, but he certainly was one that supported Luke and helped him in his ministry. They believed that Theophilus carried the message of Luke. Around to the early church and help share that with the church in support of Luke and Luke's ministry. So the purpose was to establish Theophilus himself, to establish him in the faith. By giving him historical evidence, uh foundational truths, uh, and thereby providing assurance and confidence to him and to other Greek believers. Now I'm going to read for you Luke chapter 1 where that kind of describes this for us. Luke chapter 1 verses 1 through 4. He says for as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us. So he's describing here. Listen, I'm going to set in hand, I'm going to set forth, I'm going to put in order the things that are believed among us, even as they delivered them unto us, for which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the world. It seems good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order Most excellent Theophilus. So we see here he's writing to Theophilus, but obviously the messages to the church, the broader church at large, but a Greek audience. that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. So I'm writing this down so that you can know in the certainty of the things that you've been instructed. And beloved, we ought to know what we believe and there ought to be some certainty about it. There ought to be some conviction. There ought to be not just Oh, I heard this once and maybe this is true or not. That's why we point to the Word of God. That's why we point to the Scriptures because this is the authority. Out on the internet today you're going to hear a lot of people talk about, oh well I believe this or I think that or here's what I've always thought happened or whatever. Number one thing is that do they point back to the scripture? Are they giving you verses for it? Are they pointing to the message, the words of Christ or the message of the Old Testament, the the Word of God and not just beliefs. We need to be believers, Bible believers, amen? And believe the Word of God. And this is what uh Luke is saying. He's saying, Theophilus, I'm writing this down so you can know for certain. the things that you've been instructed. It's not just, oh I heard this, but now I've got it in writing. This is, you know Brother I should I tell him what you want in writing? So yesterday they were uh oh I feel so bad throwing them under the bus like this. Uh but the Ives were practicing and uh they're running through their songs and Mrs. Ives is here playing And brother Ives is at the piano and you know they're both playing so well and I didn't hear anything at all but uh Mrs. Ives says, Oh I messed up and she said, uh I played that wrong and Brother Ives says, Can I have that in writing? And uh he didn't know I was sitting in here, and so I started laughing and he looked around the piano and he's like, oh I didn't know you were in here So but just some fun banter between them. Uh but that's what Luke said. He says, hey, uh I want to give this to you in writing so you can know what you believe. Amen. Do you know what you believe? I I hope so, and that you have the the Word of God on it. So we see here some key verses, nineteen ten and twenty-four nineteen. Luke 19, 10 says, For the Son of Man came to seek and to save that which was lost. That was his mission. A key verse there. Some key words. It came to pass. 40 times found here in this book, and it came to pass. And uh as the old preacher said, you know, when you're in the middle of it, you can just think of the words of Christ that it came to pass. Sometimes things in life you just gotta wait till they pass. You've got to get to let them get past and and you you'll move on. And the older you get you realize how things have a way of doing that. Sometimes you're in the middle of it and it feels like it is just the end. Like it's the worst thing in the world. Uh but you'll find you'll get through it and and life is going to go on and it will be okay. And uh those are hard lessons maybe sometimes to teach young people. And uh as parents we've got to help them help them through those times and and And I could give lots of illustrations right there, but we need to move on. So it came to pass. The son of man is 29 times the son of man. Blessed is 26 times, and angels is 24 times. Luke gives us some great insight into the unseen world, the angelic world. gives us more insight than any other of the gospels, just pictures and vision into the unseen world. And there is, we know, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, against principalities and powers. and rulers of darkness that there is an unseen world. There is spiritual battle that takes place in the unseen world, and uh we know that there are angels. Uh and we've taught on these things. We have guardian angels and there are angels that God sends to minister on our behalf, and then uh there are demons and angels of of or I guess there really shouldn't be an demons that are of uh Satan's realm and that they are working against us. And so that Luke gives us some insight into those things. Save is 12 times and faith is 12 times. Some prominent truths presented here. Well, Luke presents Christ as the perfect man uh giving to us uh you know who Luke is as a man. We know that Jesus who sorry who Jesus is as a man. We know that Jesus was all man and he was all God and Trying to wrap your brain around that, you you can go in circles forever. Uh but the different gospels present him in different ways, uh giving us insight into those things, knowing that Luke was a man. And he was a perfect man, lived a sinless life. Luke emphasizes the role of women in his gospel. And I've just given you a list of the things that are covered here that he points to, presenting Jesus' birth from Mary's point of view uh where Matthew presents Judas's birth from Joseph's point of view. And uh so different things like that. We're just seeing how he focuses uh on the lady, uh healing of uh Peter's Uh going to Peter's mother-in-law, uh the raising of the widow's son, the forgiveness of a sinful woman who has washed at hi his feet. uh with her tears, uh the name of the woman who is supported financially with the apostles of Jesus, just over and over again. He kind of emphasizes the role, the importance and the giftedness of of women all through the gospel. Um just even right down to the cross where he is uh sure to point out the women that were there at the cross the resurrection, the women that came to view the risen Savior. So those things are given to us in Luke. Luke emphasizes a role of prayer in Jesus' life. The role of prayer in Jesus' life. We know that Jesus often got a way to pray. There's 15 times recorded for us in the Gospels where Jesus got a way to pray. But eleven of those are found in the book of Luke. So really an emphasis on prayer in the book of Luke and what prayer was to Jesus. And so Luke emphasizes the role of the Holy Spirit. in the life of Christ. We see several things. In chapter 1, verse number 35, he was conceived of the Holy Spirit. We see in 322 that he was baptized by the Spirit. In 4. 1, he was tested by the Spirit. In 4. 14, he was empowered by the Spirit. In 1021, he was cheered by the Spirit. So the role of the Spirit of God, listen, the Holy Spirit of God has a ministry and a work in our lives. We need to be care very careful how we respond to the Holy Spirit. We've taught on the Holy Spirit in other times, and so I'm not going to chase down that trail here, but uh We want you to know that that the whole work of the Holy Spirit is emphasized in Luke. An outline there, not going to go over the outline, but we will see this. So What time is it? It's we need we need to stop. It's ten twelve. Um I was hoping to get through all four of these. Uh but uh We'll do John and Acts next week and then get into the history that's given to us in Acts. We'll kind of go through that lesson next week. So John and Acts. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for this time in Sunday school and Lord for your word. I pray that this snapshot and these views of the overall themes and would give us an understanding so that when we're reading the book things would make more sense that we would get a better picture of what's taking place having this broad overview and seeing what you were doing. Lord, we thank you for your word and how it's not just an ancient manuscript, but that it is a living book that encourages and exhorts us. is applicable to our life today. And I pray, Lord, that your word would shape our decisions and shape our life day to day. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you so much. You're dismissed