Of Daman having been cured of his leprosy. I mean that phenomenal story, the miraculous events that took place leading up to that, so many things, but there also is a story of a servant. The servant Gehazi, who was Elisha's servant. I consider and think about Gehazi and I kind of Look at him as almost fulfilling the role that Elisha once served for Elijah. How Elisha followed Elijah. and how he desired to he saw God do these miraculous things and and and he just kind of hanging on Elijah's coattails as as it were and He was just in his presence and he felt the power of God and he saw the miraculous moving of God and the miracles take place and how God over and over again answered the prayers of Elijah and how God met the need and healed people and and brought down fire from heaven. And in the end Elijah said, This is what I want more than anything else. And I I'm not going to be deterred. I'm going to go after it. I'm going to pursue it. This is what I desire. And then he said, Oh uh But I don't want to just be like you. I desire that if it would be God's will and God's grace and God's goodness, that I could have a double portion of what God has given you. I have where God's glory would like to go beyond what you did. He had that in his heart. He desired to do that for to be something and to see God work miraculously. And then God puts his hand a blessing and we see that transferring of the mantle and showing God's power still on Elisha and transferring that to Elisha and it's God that does the work but now he's going to use Elisha to do it and Elisha gets a servant by the name of Gehazi. Now Elijah probably had some other men with him. Elijah probably had some other servants with him. But there was one that stood up above the crowd. There was one that kind of excelled. There was one that was named in Scripture, and that is Elisha. Well, Elisha probably had some servants with him too. He probably had some other sons of the prophets there that were in the school of the prophets that probably followed him around and aided in the ministry that they did and were studying at his feet. There was probably some others around, but there was one that was mentioned, is the servant Gehazi. And here's what I want you to see is that he had all the potential to be the next Elisha. Or to go further than Elisha did, asking of God, maybe a double portion of what God gave Elisha And yet, as he sat there underneath the feet of Elisha, as it were, and was educated by him and trained by him, and he saw God do miraculous thing after miraculous thing In his life, his eyes got turned away from the power and the miracle of God to monetary things. I'd like to speak to you for a few minutes tonight on the servant who got what he wanted but lost what he had. I use that phrase in this morning's message. It's one of the hardest things sometimes because before I go to bed on Sunday night, I have Sunday school, Sunday morning, and Sunday night in my mind. And so one of the hardest things sometimes is trying to keep them separate. And when I said that I'm like, Oh, that's tonight's message. Where am I going? Uh but the fact of the matter is, is here's a man Who got what he wanted, but he lost what he had. He had all the potential in the world to be the next Elisha. But instead his life is a sad commentary on the results of sin. Would you follow along and read with me 2 Kings 5, beginning in verse number 20? Reading down to verse number 27, where we will take our message this evening. But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God, said Behold, my master hath spared Naaman and his Cyrene in not receiving at his hand that which he brought. But as the Lord liveth, I will run after him, and take somewhat of him So Gehazi followed after Naaman, and when Naaman saw him running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him, and he said, Is it all well? And he said, All is well. My master hath sent me, saying Behold, even now there come by to me from Mount Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets. Give them, I pray thee, a talent of silver and two changes of garments. And Naaman said, Be content, take two talents. And he urged him and bound two talents of silver and two bags and two changes of garments and laid them upon two of his servants, and they bare them before him. And when he came to the tower, he took from them from their hand and bestowed them in the house, and he let the men go, and they departed. But he went in and he stood before his master, and Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went not whither. And he said unto him, Went not my heart with thee? When the man turned again from his chariot to meet thee. Is it a time to receive money, to receive garments, and oliveyards and vineyards and sheep and oxen and manservants and maidservants? The leprosy, therefore, of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed forever. And he went out of his presence, a leper, as white as snow I would like you to see first of all tonight here the servant. We have this servant that was privileged. We have the commendation of Gehazi. He was the privileged servant of Elisha. Being able to walk with Elisha and be part of ministering to the Shunamite woman and the raising of her son and over and over again seeing his prayers answered and The possibility of being so much for God was there present with him. He could have been so much. But he was distracted by the things of this world. His heart began to go after other things. I think there's a picture of that given to us by Elisha as he says unto him, Now he went and he got some talents of silver and a couple of garments. But when Elisha was talking to him, I think God had given some insight to what Gehazi was going after. He says, boy, is this a time for sheep and oxen for manservants and maidservants? You see, Gehaziah decided he wanted to get set up And and to have an established uh land and properties and to get sheep and oxen and to have servants and this is the direction that his heart was going. Instead of being a servant of God, he wanted people to serve him. Beloved, it was the complacency of Gehaziah that put him in this place, over and over again, having the privilege to see God do miraculous things and yet not beholding it. Not recognizing it, not seeing it for what it was, not desirous of having that as part of his life. We must be careful and guard against complacency, Christians. We see God do the miraculous, we see somebody come and get saved and bow their head and trust Jesus Christ. see uh re answers to prayer on our Thursday night prayer group as we as a church pray for healing and we pray for victory and we pray for God to meet different needs and over and over again there is on the answered prayer list things that we're praising God for that He answered. We've got to be careful that we're not just complacent and oh hum and What's the big deal? Because when you don't behold the work of God, then you don't desire the work of God. You begin to get complacent. You begin to disregard those things and get enamored with the world and what the world has to offer. He literally just watched God heal a man who had a death sentence. A man who was, I mean, to put it in today's terms, it would be like somebody with stage four cancer Coming to church and saying, I have stage four cancer. There's nothing else that can be done. What can we do? And as a church, we pray for them, and on Monday they go to the doctor, and the doctor says there's no cancer. This is the miracle that Gehazi got to watch. But he got complacent. Can I tell you, beloved, that just because you're in the proximity of spirituality, it does not make you spiritual? Gehazi was with the man of God, his servant all the time in his presence. Part of the inner circle, as it were, part of this great work of God over and over again. But can I tell you that just being in that presence, you will be blessed By being around those who are holy. It's a fact. Just like you will be cursed by being around those who are unholy. Because that is it that affects you. You will, Hunt Valley Baptist Church is blessed because some of the godly people here who love God and pray and walk with God and pursue a right kind of life. And as a church, we all benefit from that blessing when we're in that presence. But can I tell you that doesn't make you holy? That doesn't make you spiritual. That's something you have to decide for yourself and you have to determine and purpose to become that Gehazi didn't become that. He became complacent. We look at this and we wonder how can somebody that is so close to the work of God and to the blessings of God end up doing something like this? Well, that's because of the power of sin. We see the sin in verse number 27, but Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God, said, Behold, my master hath spared Naaman. Cyrene and has not received at his hand that which he brought, but as the Lord liveth, I will run after him and take somewhat of him. There's several things here that we need to look at. First of all, I want you to know there was a consideration. of the sin. Gehazi said within himself, Gehazi began to think about and ponder the wealth that was riding away. He looked at those garments and thought about the talents of silver and he began to ponder. He began to talk to himself, to consider the sin. He probably thought, well, after all, there's a famine in the land. I mean, the school of the prophets, boy, we sure need some Clothes, we sure need some money. We sure need some I mean that's one of the lies that he told that there was some young Ministers, men of the faith, the school of the prophets that were come and they needed it, and so would you give me a couple changes of raiment? He he began to think in his mind to consider sin. Can I tell you, beloved, that the fall comes before the fall? Long before you and I ever see somebody in sin They have already fallen. When the sin becomes known, when the sin becomes out and everybody sees it and it it became becomes revealed, I want you to know that we look at and we say, oh man That pastor, he fell into sin. Oh, that man, he he fell into sin and he he he he left his wife. Can I tell you the fall happened a long time ago when he began to ponder and think in his mind about somebody that he didn't Have any business thinking about? The fall happened when Gehazi began to ponder and think about the possibility of gaining that wealth, even though he know he shouldn't. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. You take the most wicked acts, and if you give yourself to considering them for any length of time and you and I, any one of us, are capable of them There are things that I know in your heart and mind right now. You look at and you think about if you see things on the news and you think in your mind, how can somebody be so Calloused, how could somebody be so cruel? How could they hurt children like that? Or how could they kill carelessly like that with no purpose or reason? It's not why why would they go do these things because of the wickedness of sin? They gave themselves to it. They began thinking about it over and over again. You'll hear about these active shooters and they begin to talk to them and he'll say, Well, I began to think about what it would be like to shoot somebody for real And he thought about it and he pictured in his mind and he wondered what it was like to actually go and kill somebody and they pondered those things. Can I tell you, beloved, you've got to control your mind Don't let Satan win the victory in your mind. You'll never be over here in exposed sin in a destroyed life. If you're all the way back here, you stop it in your mind and say, No, I can't think about those things. The poet said, I dallied with a doubtful thought What harm can be, said I, in merely thinking of a thing and letting it pass by. But ere I was aware That thought had entered my heart, and firmly there entrenched itself, and now refused to depart. And it to a monster grew. It bound me foot and hand. And in the kingdom of my mind it established its own command. My will, a helpless captive lay, powerless to be freed, but for God's delivering grace Had hopeless been indeed. My Lord and my master, guard, I pray, the portals of my mind, grant, that no soul defiling shaft may easily entrance find But let the lovely things and true, the things of good report, whom's virtue is and any praise mould my most inward thoughts. Beloved, the Bible says, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. We've got to guard our minds. Gehazi would have never gone into that sin had he not first pondered. He said within himself, he began to think about it. We see, secondly, that he was critical of Elisha. He was critical of the man of God. He said there, but Hazai, the servant of Elisha, the man of God. He said, Behold, my master has spared Naaman and not receiving of his hands. He said, My master shouldn't have done that. That was not the right thing. I mean, here's this wicked man, has all this money that we need, and he let him go. He shouldn't have done that. You've got to be very careful when you begin to question and criticize the authorities in your life. I know it's very popular today, but I want you to understand you're getting in very dangerous ground. There's story and story and illustration and illustration after illustration in the pages of scripture about people in this situation. Gehazi became critical of the man of God. He criticized the decisions that he made. Gehazi thought that he knew better. You always have those who know better. They might not have all the facts. They might not understand the dynamics of the situation. But they know better. Can I ask you sometimes, would you just trust your pastor? There's there's sometimes the decisions made and you you think from your perspective, like I don't know why we're doing that. And I I'm certainly not infallible. I wouldn't claim to to do that. You guys know me. I don't have a problem getting up here and tell you I screwed up. I mean I I I don't have a problem saying I messed up and we need to fix this. Uh but listen, sometimes you don't know all the facts. You don't understand. And I don't want to destroy somebody else. By getting up here and telling the whole church the whole situation and why we're doing this because this person did this and this person did that and these things happened and here's the dynamics of this situation. And I've got to explain all that and expose people and lay it all out for you. That's not going to help anybody. But I just want to ask you to trust. There's usually a pretty good reason why we decide to do one thing or another. You see, beloved, Naaman came from a country where their gods Were gods that demanded gifts. Their gods demanded payment. They had to appease their gods And so these heathen gods, they would come to them and lay offerings before them and give things to them to appease them in hopes that they might make them happy. But Elisha did not want Naaman to think that he had purchased his cleansing. He didn't want him to think that he had taken and given, and so he deserved what he got. Elisha understood the dynamics of the situation, and he wanted him to know that everything he got was by the grace of God and the goodness of God, and not something that he purchased or received because of what he gave. We see the convincing of himself. Gehazi convinces himself here as he ponders and thinks about in his mind this situation. He even gets spiritual. You know, he says there uh as the Lord liveth You know, we have a tendency to do that. We have a tendency to spiritualize things that we want to do. We love to use the phrase, this is God's will. We love to use the phrase that God provided this. I can imagine that at some point Gehazi had prayed and asked God, Lord, would you please meet my needs? And now Gehazi is in the house and he is seeing his needs right away in a chariot. And he in his heart and mind is probably saying, God provided this. Look, God brought it right here to my door. All we had to do is accept it. I think as the Lord liveth, kind of as the Lord desires, and obviously the Lord did this because God's still on the throne, he's still alive. God did this. God brought it here, so I'm going to go and I'm going to get it. We we tend to spiritualize and desire to put the name of God on things that many times we are pursuing on our own and that we want ourselves. He begins to convince himself. This is exactly what he's been needing, and look how God provided it. Once he convinced himself, you see that he ran after it. He says, I will run after him and take somewhat of him. You know, and Proverbs, he tells the Proverbs tells us, for the feet, for their feet run to evil and make haste to shed blood. Proverbs 116. Their feet run to evil. You know, we've got to be careful. About convincing ourselves of things that we want. We can talk ourselves into anything. But notice the continuing of sin. You see, sin begets sin. He convinced himself of this. But in verse number 22, and he said, as uh he said, All is well. My master has sent me, saying, Behold, even now there become to me from Mount Ephraim two young men, the sons of the prophets. Give them, I pray thee, a talent of silver and two changes of raiments. And then in verse number 25, when he is confronted, Hezai said, Oh, thy servant went nowhere. Nope, never left the house. You see, beloved, sin begets sin. We know that six things does the Lord hate, yea, seven are abomination unto him, a proud look and a lying tongue, and Gehazi tells four lies here. To cover up his sin. He lied about being sent by Elisha. He lied about this story. He's manufactured this story about two men that showed up out of the blue and are in need of these things. He lied to Elisha about not having left the house. But not only that, he lied to himself that a little sin was okay. You see, Naaman had ten talents of silver, and he had ten garments But Gehazi thought, well, I'm not going to take it all. I mean, he could have gone there and he could have said to him, hey, my master changed his mind and he wants all that back. But you see, we're not going to do that. Because we're not jumping off of a cliff. We're not going off the deep end. He's just going to get a little bit. And he says, hey, could I just get a couple changes of raiment and one talent of silver? You see, he he thought just a little bit of sin was okay. If he just got a little bit, it would be all right. I mean he wasn't getting it all back. He was just going to do a little bit, and he's just going to participate a little bit and Satan sells us on that lie that a little bit of sin. Can I tell you that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? That it is the small foxes that destroy the vineyard? And beloved Satan has told us a lie that just a little bit of sin is okay. You can You can, uh, as Dr. Vogelland used to say, he said, you can play footsie with Satan, but he's gonna get you. You can play around with it just a little bit, but the fact of the matter is Is that Satan is going to get you? And he he lied to himself. He thought, well, it's going to be okay. I'm not taking it all. I'm not losing my mind. I'm not going off the deep end. I'm just going to partake of this just a little bit You grab a little bit. Sin will always take you farther than you think you're going to go. In Romans chapter 6, verse number 19, he says, I speak after the manner of men because the infirmity of your flesh. For ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanliness. And iniquity unto iniquity. You see, you yield your members to that first step, and it just becomes more and more and more. You think, oh, I'm just gonna look at that indecently dressed woman. It's not pornography, it's just she's just not dressed right. I'm just gonna think about that for a little bit. But that leads to soft porn. And soft porn leads to hard pouring. Hard pouring leads to perversions of all kinds. It's sin that begets sin. It's iniquity that begets iniquity. When you take that step, that direction. You think, oh, I'm I'm not gonna go destroy my life and become a drunk. I'm just gonna drink socially. Sin begot sin. We have got to guard ourselves and keep ourselves from it. Proverbs 14, 4 Proverbs 4. 14 says, Enter not into the path of the wicked and go not in the way of evil men. Avoid it. Pass not by it. Turn from it and pass away. Beloved, we need to guard ourselves and keep ourselves from taking that first step, from telling that first lie, from indulging that first temptation Sin is like the crack in the dam. It is the smallest crack that releases the torrent of water that just brings the destroying flood. The poet said, we are not worst at once. The course of evil begins so slowly and from such slight source An infant's hand might stem the breach with clay, but let the stream grow wider And philosophy, age, religion, too, may strive in vain to stem the headstrong current In the beginning, nothing more than the strength of an infant's hand could plug the hole. But in the end, all the wisdom, all the strength of man, none of it's going to stop it. We've got to stop it at the beginning. We see that there's a covering of sin in verse number 24. And when he came to the tower, he took them from their hands and bestowed them in the house, and he let them in go, and they departed. You see, there's two men here, two servants of Naaman's that these must have been some pretty heavy garments. The talent of silver. Somebody did the math. I read it. I did not check it or look into it at all. But the 10 talents of silver is roughly in today's dollars about $55,000, I think. That's I did not pers pursue trying to figure that out. I just read that statistic Well, I don't know how heavy it was, but two two servants had to carry it to the house And I think the idea, the implication here is that Gehazi took him around the back, took him up to the tower, and he said, Okay, thanks guys, yeah, thanks. And he put it into the tower and he said, see ya, yeah, yeah, go back, your master's waiting on you And and basically trying to get it there where uh Elisha wouldn't know anything about it. That's what happens when we participate in sin. We desire to cover sin. Proverbs 28, 13 says, He that covers the sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh it shall have mercy. So we see thoroughly tonight here the survey. Elisha calls him in and asks him a question. Much like a parent would. Hey, what have you been doing? How are things going? Did you say this? Somebody told me that uh you were over at so-and-so's house. You're like, ah, you weren't supposed to know that. Oh no. There's a survey taken in verse number twenty-five, but he went in and stood before his master, and Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? We see Elisha's concern. Can I tell you if you ought to praise God for somebody in your life that loves you enough to ask you where you've been? Amen. Gotta praise God that there's somebody in your life that loves you enough to say what are you doing? Why are you going there Why are you doing that? Why are you acting that way? You know this is not pleasing to God. It's not going to benefit your life. It's not going to be a blessing to you. This is going to do nothing but hurt you It is a concern that Elisha has because Gehazi, his servants, went out after these wicked things. You might not like it, but beloved, it is in fact the mercy of God when we are confronted with our sin. It breaks the heart of anyone who loves you when you head down the path of destruction. When you head down the wrong road. Elisha says, went not my heart with thee. Elisha's heart sank. You know when you love somebody and you see them In great distress, or you see them involved in wicked things, your heart breaks for them I mean you could see somebody down at the store doing something that does that that's wrong that you don't ever know and probably never going to see again. And it doesn't affect your heart. But when there's somebody that you care about, somebody that you love, it moves your heart and you begin to hurt for them, and I can see the concern of Elisha as he says, boy, my heart went with you when you went after that wicked thing When you desire to go that route, I believe the idea of just that his heart sank. As Gehizide went after this. And we see Elisha's concern, but we see God's compassion. You see, beloved, God could have struck Gehazi with leprosy the moment he he thought the thought. God could have given Gehazi leprosy the moment he stepped on his horse or began to run after that gold himself. But he went through all of that and he brought it back and he hid it and he lied and then the man of God addresses him and says, Hey, whence comest thou? And he lied again. Beloved, the compassion of God had given him multiple opportunities to repent. And to get it right. Elisha said to him, Whence go goest thou, whence comest thou? And he he could have said, Oh, Elisha. I'm sorry, but I I went after I just saw it driving away, and you know how I've been wanting a nice change of clothes, and you know how I haven't had any money to Get that that new chariot I've been wanting. And and Elisha, what am I going to do? And I I'm so sorry. I shouldn't have done it, but I went and I got some some silver from him. I think that God would have forgiven him right there Beloved God holds out compassion for you and He's asking you to repent and to turn back before it's too late. Just like when Noah went into the ark, for seven days God left the door open. For seven days, God allowed anybody else who would be willing to repent, they could have got in the ark with Noah. For a year God stayed the judgment on David until the man of God had to confront him. And even then the man of God tells him this great elaborate story. And it doesn't register in David's mind that it's he who he's talking about until the man of God points his finger at him and says, Thou art the man Beloved, what I'm saying is even tonight, God is holding out the invitation for you, the compassion for you to turn back and repent before it's too late. We see the compassion that God has for Gehazi as he gives him chance after chance after chance. But we know, beloved, Hebrews 12, 6 says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And he scourges every son whom he receives. Beloved, the time is going to come where God will chasten you and I. 1 Corinthians 11 31 says, For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. God's saying if you would just repent and turn from that, you wouldn't have to endure the coming punishment. But ask you tonight, what's in your heart? What's there in your heart and mind that nobody else knows about yet? That you've participated in or done or pursued when you knew you shouldn't have? Are you going to confess it? We see lastly tonight the sentence Verse number 27, the leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed forever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow. Beloved, the consequences of sin are far greater than we can imagine. Sometimes we think about ourselves and we think, you know what, it's my life. If this is what I want to do, I'm going to do it. And Naaman, I mean, uh Gehazi may here have thought, you know what, whatever happens, God can judge me, that's fine. He probably wasn't thinking about the possibility of leprosy. He probably just think, well, maybe God's not going to be pleased with me, but you know what, I'll I'll have some changes of clothes and I'll have some talents of silver and I'll live with the punishment. But we see here, beloved, that his entire family forever was cursed with leprosy. None of us live unto ourselves. You can either be a great, tremendous blessing to your family for generations. There's several places in the Bible where it talks about that passing down of blessings or cursings into the fourth generation And you can be that blessing for generations or you can be a curse for generations. We we the sentence lasts a whole lot more than we think it does. We see the consequences of his sin here, as Naaman has given leprosy, and his family has to bear it for generations. The servant who got what he wanted, but he lost what he had. As we think about it, we look at it in hindsight and think, boy He gave up everything for something so little. Can I tell you that anybody that has ever pursued sin Given the opportunity to look back, thinks the exact same thing. They gave up everything that they had. to get this, which is meaningless, which is empty, which doesn't satisfy, which doesn't fulfill Are we going to be like Gehazi, get what we want, but lose all of what God desires to do with us? All the potential that's present in our life with the hand of God on us. I mean, just think about the stories that we could be reading about in the pages of scripture about Gehazi who asked for a double portion of Elisha's power. And what might have been done. But instead, his life is a commentary on the consequences of sin. What is our life going to be a commentary on? Would you stand with your heads fouled and your eyes closed?