Uh looking out and seeing people lift their voices up and how God touched you through it. I just praise God for This uh church, but not just this body of believers, this church, but the church that God gave us. My goal in in preaching or teaching on the the church is hopefully to motivate us as God's people to renew our love for the church, to stir again our passion and our desire to be a part of the church and to to truly value and appreciate what it is that God has given us in a body of believers. Further, I stated that I want us to have a great church. Not just a great church in in uh our eyes, but ultimately a great church in the eyes of God. There may be some people who don't think Hunt Valley Baptist Church is a very great church. There may be some people that think Hunt Valley Baptist Church is the greatest church since ice cream. Thank you, Galena. But you know uh I when I'm out visiting and knocking on doors and talking to people, I'll I'll tell people that we have the greatest church in Baltimore. And then of course I have to tell them I'm a little biased, I'm the pastor, so don't take my opinion. I mean uh but ultimately, you know, it's really not about whether this person or that person feels we have a great church. The person that we should be the most concerned about is the Lord Jesus Christ. And how does he evaluate and what does he think of Hunt Valley Baptist Church? On our first week, which was two weeks ago because the Fourth of July kinda snuck up on us and We had to spend a Sunday there and introduce our verse of the month and talk about the possibility of prayer and what God can do in a country and a nation. And in an event individual's life through the power of prayer. We dealt with that last week, but I wanted to get back into it. And just by way of reminder this morning, we Went to Matthew chapter 16 two weeks ago and we saw that Jesus Christ was the foundation of the church. He is that person that the church is built upon. He is the rock that the church is founded upon, that chief cornerstone. You know Christ is the head of the body. Christ is the chief cornerstone of the building And he is the groom of the bride. We're going to be saying more about these truths in the coming weeks and hopefully giving greater understanding. to you if those terms are are foreign to you or you don't really understand what it is I've just said, but Jesus Christ is the person the church was built upon. Then we talked about the fact that it was It's his church. He possesses a church. He says, I will build my church. It's God's church. It's not our church. And therefore we ought to practice and do everything we can to be pleasing to God. And then we looked briefly at the promise that he gave us that the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Hallelujah. We praise God for that. Well this morning we want to look at the formation of the church, the formation of the church, the putting together, the the establishing of the church. Look if you would in Acts chapter two, verses forty-one to forty-seven. Starting to ver follow along with me reading in verse number forty-one. He says, then they that gladly received the word were baptized, and the same day they were added unto them about 3,000 souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in the breaking of bread and in prayers. And fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. And all that believed were together and had all things common, and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men as every man had need. And they continued daily with one accord in the temple and breaking of bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God And having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our heart as we look at this, the formation of the church? Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you, Lord, to give me liberty to preach and clarity of thought. Lord, I pray that the We wouldn't get too far into the weeds and we wouldn't get too too uh far gone in in in different areas, but Lord that we would give an understanding of the truths of the formation of your church. And this Entity that we are privileged, Lord, to be a part of. It's not just a choice, it's not just an option. Lord, those that are saved are to be added to a church. To come together and worship as a body of believers, their Savior. And I pray, God, that You would help us see afresh and anew these truths, and that you would speak to our hearts and stir us to value, to love, and appreciate the church That you've given us. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. I want you to see, first of all, the building of the church. I want you to know that God has always placed a priority on God's people meeting together to worship Him. This has been God's pattern since the beginning of time. It was God's way. He has always put an emphasis on his people coming apart, coming together to worship him. Back in the wilderness, would you turn to Psalm 78 with me? I want you to see something in Psalm 78, verse number 52. In the wilderness, they had the tabernacle. Even at a time when they were packing up and moving down the road at a time when it wasn't convenient, at great effort to themselves They set up each location that they were at, the tabernacle, and they set it up there and came together. In exacting specifications according to God's plan for them. They did exactly how and what God wanted them to do. In Psalm 78 and verse number 52, he says But made his own people to go forth like sheep and guided them in the wilderness like a flock. You see, what you underline, if you have a pen, those words, they're his own people. There is a distinction in the Bible that's very clear. There is a dividing line, there is a separation between the people of this world And God's people. That is from the beginning of the book to the end of the book. There is a separation there, there is a distinction that God has a people. God has a people that are his, and we course know in the Old Testament it was the children of Israel, the chosen people of God, and they are still the chosen people of God. But God has a remnant today throughout the entire world. This remnant is the church that comes together and assembles in local assemblies, and they're called the church. The question I have for you this morning is, are you one of his people? Are you one of his people? Contrary to popular opinion, we are not all the children of God. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to Become the sons of God. Not everybody in the world is a child of God. There's a distinction between those that have put their faith and trust in Christ and those in the world who have chosen to reject Christ. So are you God's people? Are you one of his own? Oh you remember that Religious man, Nicodemus. Remember when he came to Christ by night and began to inquire of him, and Jesus said unto him, He must be born again. And of course Nicodemus says, What? Can I enter into my mother's womb a second time and and be born again? And Christ says, No, that which is born of water is water, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. There has to be a time when you are born again, when you are born into the family of God, when you become a child of God. Just like you were born physically. Now you might not know the exact date you were born. Now in America it's pretty rare to find somebody that doesn't know their birthday, because we make a big deal out of birthdays. But in other countries, there's some countries they just don't make that big a deal out of it And it's not uncommon to find people that don't not only do they not know their birthday, they don't even know how old they are. But you know what? You're not going to find one of them that question whether they were born or not. That's pretty much a settled thing. They know they there was a time when they were born physically. Amen? No question. You might not know the date, but you know you were born. Well Christ says, hey, just like you were born physically, there has to be a day, an hour, a time, sometime when you realize that you were a sinner. And you needed Jesus Christ. You had no means or way to pay for your sin yourself. You realize and believe that Jesus came and died on the cross for you to pay your sin debt. And you said, you know what? I'm going to accept his payment. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. That gift that He gives to all of us. You realize that You confess with your mouth and you believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. God the Father raised him, God the Son, from the dead. There has to be a day or hour where you realize that and you confessed it and you said, I realize I'm a sinner. And you confess the belief in your heart. That you are a sinner, that you can't pay for that sin and debt yourself, but that God, the Father, sent His Son for you. And that His Son willingly sacrificed Himself for you. You confess that belief. I believe Jesus did that for me. And at the moment that you confess that belief, you become a child of God. you become a child of God. It's not a magical set of words. You don't have to say a particular, you know prayer or particular uh form of of words to it's confessing your belief in Jesus Christ that He came for you. That He lived a sinless life, He died for you so that you could be forgiven of your sin. And when you trust him, you become one of his people. And as one of his people, from the beginning of time, it has been God's pattern that his people gather and worship him. Oh, in the wilderness there was a tabernacle. In the promised land, when they were established, you know, they had the temple. The temple where they would gather and worship God. In Deuteronomy, you don't have to turn there, but Deuteronomy 12, verses 5 through 7, he says, But unto the place which the Lord your God shall choose out of all your tribes to put his name there. Even unto his habitation shall ye seek. And thither thou shalt come. He said this place, this location where God has chosen to put his presence, you're going to seek it out. You're going to come. And thither ye shall bring your offerings and your sacrifices and your tithes and your offerings of your hands and your vows and your free will offerings and your firstlings and your herds and your flocks. And there ye shall eat before the Lord your God, and ye shall rejoice in all that ye put your hand unto, ye and your household, wherein the Lord thy God hath blessed thee. So in the promised land it was the temple. In the New Testament age It's the church. The place where God has chosen to bless and meet with his people It is in the church. In those familiar verses in the book of Hebrews, he says, in beginning in Hebrews chapter 10, verses 21, he says, and having a high priest Over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. Again, full assurance of faith, knowing that you're a child of God. Do you have full assurance of your faith in Christ today? He says, full assurance of your faith, having your hearts sprinkled with an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast to the profession of our faith. Are you holding fast to that profession? Do you he says there nothing wavering without wavering? Do you know that you know that you know you've been saved? There's no question, you've got that settled. Well, beloved, if you know that and you have no question that you are a child of God today because you came to him on his terms, and that is by accepting Christ as your Lord and Savior. When you did that, you became a child of God. Well, in that context, he says this, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works. Not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together as a manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching You see, it's God's plan, it's God's pattern. The establishment, the building of the church that Christ did. was because he wanted a place where God's people could come together and worship him God's plan was to develop and organize a place where all people could worship Him. Jew and Gentile alike. One of the most amazing things about the church is that we're all equal at the foot of the cross. We're all equal at the foot of the cross. Your background, where you've been, what you done. The church is a place where you can sit in the pew and the pauper can sit next to the Millionaire. He who feels he has no skills or abilities sit next to somebody who's been gifted with many skills. We're all equal at the foot of the cross. Just sinners saved by grace coming to worship a worthy Savior. That's what God wanted for his church. In Galatians chapter 3, verses 26 through 28, he says, For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ. You see, for ye are all the children of God. People like say, oh, we're all the children of God. But you can't stop there. There's no period there. He says, for ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ. For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ There is neither Jew nor Greek, neither is there bond nor free, neither is there male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ Jesus We're all level at the foot of the cross. We come to cross come to the cross, it's not there's no no no Jew, Greek, male, female. We're all one in Christ. It is God's plan for His people to gather, to come out. And worship him. God calls us out of this world and puts us into the family of God. I want you to understand this morning that it's normal It's actually quite literally unavoidable. When somebody comes to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, they seek out a place To worship God. It just happens. They're saved, they're on their way to heaven, and they want to gather with other like-minded believers. They want to worship God and they want to come together as a group. They want to worship. It happens because you have a new life in Jesus Christ. The Bible says that your spirit beareth witness. There's something inside of you when you gather in God's house with God's people that is real and powerful. Could we see the beginning of the church? The beginning of the church, I talked to you when we when I'm not going to go into details because I've done a lesson on this, but the church was the church age was a mystery. in the Old Testament. It's a mystery that they didn't know about. Not mysteries and it was mysterious, but mysteries and it was hidden. They didn't know about it in the Old Testament until Christ came. and he revealed unto them the mystery. In Ephesians 3, verse 3, he says, how that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery. In verse 5, he says, Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and the prophets by the Spirit. The Spirit of God came and revealed this church age, the age of the church that was going to be here where men would gather and worship him in a place that we call the church. Now, it's my belief that the church started with Jesus Christ. That it started with him and quite literally John the Baptist And they together formed, the formation of the church was begun. It is impossible, beloved, to separate the New Testament church from the person and the work of Christ. And our attitude and what we believe about the church is going to affect every area of our Christian life Now the church did not appear out of thin air, nor did it come by way of somebody having a dream. Somebody went to bed one night and woke up the next morning and had a dream, oh, I'm going to start a church. No, the church was started by Jesus Christ. Each day of Christ's life, he further established the framework of the church And in and through the ministry of John the Baptist and the disciples, it was facilitated and began to grow. You know, there's many facts that I could give you and this is where I could get lost in the weeds. Um I believe the church started with Christ and John the Baptist. There are those that believe it started on the day of Pentecost. And uh, you know what, if you believe that, I'll still be your friend. Okay. It's alright. Um but we could look at several things and I just want you to see the formation of the church in the scriptures. Beyond the fact that Jesus Christ declared himself to be the foundation of the church and the head of the church, uh, if you remove Christ from it and you say it didn't start until the apostles Then the you remove Jesus Christ out of that and now you make it man's work. That man did it. Man man started the church in Acts. But Jesus Christ started it. Um let me ask you this. Is the gospel message a message that's given to the church? The gospel message. It's for us to preach, right? It's for the church to preach and carry to the world. Okay, well the gospel message started. Why don't you just turn there? Mark chapter one. Let's look at it. Plus it'll give you an opportunity to wake up because you've got to turn turn the Bible turn some pages Mark chapter 1, in verse number 1, he says, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. As it is written, the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare the way of the Lord. And you know this is talking about John the Baptist. John the Baptist was sent to prepare the way of the Lord. And he was given the gospel message. So if the church hadn't started yet, what's John doing with this gospel message? Let me ask you this: if it John the Baptist was going about preaching the gospel and he was seeing people saved, And he was baptizing them. Right? I mean he baptized Jesus. He was baptizing people and why why were they getting baptized? Um let me show you in John Chapter one. John chapter one in verse thirty one. John 1. 31, he says, and I knew him not, but that he should be made manifest to Israel. Therefore am I come baptizing with water. So John the Baptist says, I've come and I am baptizing with water. What is the purpose that he said there? Why is he baptizing with water? He says it right there in the verse 31, and I didn't bring my glasses, but he says, and I and I knew him not. But that he should be made manifest to Israel. Therefore, I am baptizing with water. That he should be made manifest to Israel. It is God's plan that that you see baptism is not for us. We're going to have a baptismal service this morning. Somebody's going to follow the Lord and believers' baptism, take that first step of obedience. But you know that baptism doesn't save us. Baptism does not impart any special grace unto us. What baptism is, it is a public testimony of our belief in Jesus Christ and what Christ has already done for us. And the goal is that Christ would be manifest to Israel, that the world would see who Christ was and that Christ had changed our life That's what baptism is. It's a picture of what Christ has already done. And John the Baptist was baptizing those that had come to Christ. that the world, that Israel, might see who Jesus was and what he was doing. Let me ask you this. To whom was the Great Commission given? The Great Commission in Mark and in Matthew To the church. Right? It's the the Great Commission was given to the church. Are you guys just I'm trying to engage you a little bit. I know this is a little bit of teaching. This is a little bit of meat, maybe. I don't know. But the Great Commission was given to the church. We're talking about the formation of the church and why I believe the church was started with Christ and John the Baptist. So we have a message that we as a church hold to, and as we get to the focus of the church, our focus is to be the Great Commission. Right. I'm preaching a message that's several weeks away. But the focus of the church is the is the is the Great Commission. Well let me ask you this if the if if the church didn't start until X Then who who gave uh who was the Great Commission given to in the gos in the Gospels? The Great Commission was given to the church. Jesus Christ was preaching, he was admonishing, encouraging the church that was established there. To go and preach the gospel. Baptize and teach all things whatsoever I've commanded you. In Matthew 26, we see the church met for prayers, and we read that passage often looking at the Lord's Supper. In observance of the Lord's Supper. In Acts chapter 1, there's a church role given. There's a list of names given. And then they don't give them all, but they say there was a hundred and twenty there in the upper room praying. And then we have the passage that we read this morning. About how God added to the church daily as such should be saved, such as should should be saved. And the at Pentecost There was added to the church about three thousand souls. You can only add to something that's already there. Nowhere in the book of Acts do you see them say the beginning or the uh the start of or the foundation of Uh I see it added to. I see them say that they continued in. To continue in is to do something that they were already doing. So this is what I believe to be the beginning of the church. And then I want you, lastly this morning, to see the blessing of the church. In Acts chapter 1 and verse number 8, he says, But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. Christ gave some promises to the church, some blessings that we can hold to. He promised that he would be with us in Matthew 28:20. He said, And lo, I am with you always. Praise God that He's with us always. Christ promised that He would send the Holy Spirit. He said in Luke 24, 49, He said The promise of my father upon you, but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high. He said, wait till you're endued with power. And then In Acts 1. 8, we see the power of God given to the church. They were endued with power to do and fulfill the work of God here on earth Praise God that in God's house is where our lives are changed. Jackson this morning giving testimony that all the way in Mexico these people that came to our view which is reformers unanimous if you're not familiar with it, it's an addiction program. A programmed to help those who've been held bondage or captive by some addiction. And their lives are being transformed. I'm glad this morning that in God's house our lives are changed. I'm glad that in God's house our batteries are charged. I'm glad that in God's house our burdens are carried away. Do you love the church this morning? I've been privileged to grow up in a pastor's home and I know I'm a little bit different. All I've ever known is the church. It's never been in my life from the time I was brought home from the hospital until today, it's never been a situation of deciding whether I'm going to church or not. All we've ever known is the church. Really, you could say the church is our life. The church is not just part of our life, it is our life. And you say, well Pastor, you're called into the ministry and that's your your job and so that's your life and I understand that, but the church, do you value the church? Do you love and appreciate what God has given us in the church? You know, when I'm on vacation, I really look forward to going to another church, visiting a church somewhere. Um I enjoy visiting a church in another state almost as much or as much as I enjoy the sights we see. You say, oh you got to go to the Grand Canyon? Yeah, and I got to go to Canyon Baptist Church too. I got to see that flock of believers. I got to see what was happening there in that church and be exhorted and encouraged. I just enjoy it. I enjoy being in church But it's all I've ever known. Can I ask you, isn't it great to come to church and just see your brothers and sisters in Christ? Isn't it isn't it awesome to come in and just shake somebody's hand and and be encouraged and Exhorted to love and follow God. Aren't you encouraged by the song service? And isn't it great to hear the ministry of music, whether it's the choir or or the the ensemble that sang this morning? I mean that's just that's awesome to be to be blessed in your spirit and to be encouraged by the songs that are sung. But beloved, the greatest reason, the number we number one reason why we gather in church is because we want to meet with God. Yes, the other things are good, but you know what? I I could get a handshake at Walmart. I I I could I could stand outside and sing some songs, but we gather in God's house to meet with God. Oh, like the psalmist who said, As the deer panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. Do you long and desire to hear from heaven? He said, My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. Do you thirst for God? This is the reason we come to God's house. And beloved, if we're not meeting with God, then let's just close the doors and call it quits, because the rest of it is just a social club. And that's not what we gather for. We gather because we want to hear from heaven, because we want our Lord, our Savior, the one who died for us to come and speak to our soul, to minister to our need, to exhort us to better things for Him, to strengthen us in our weakness. That's what we need God to do. And that's why we gather together in this place that's called the church. The greatest blessing of the church is that we meet with him. I could read a book and learn some things. I could join a club and have some friends. But in church I see God. I know, beloved, that we can meet with God in the quiet of our own life. And I would exhort you to do so. I would exhort you to do so. No Christian life is sustained or sufficient with Sunday morning only. Dan Lifton describes this part of the Christian life as the two terminals on a battery. You do need your personal walk. You do need that quiet time. You do need that personal meeting with God on your own. But you also need what God gives us in this place called the church. In order to experience and know the power of God. There was a horse pull in Canada. One giant horse was able to pull nine thousand pounds. Nine thousand pounds. Another horse was hooked up and this horse wasn't quite able to match that one, but was able to pull 8,000 pounds. They put these two horses together into a team, and you would think that these two horses together, given their capacity, would be able to pull 17,000 pounds. However, when put together, these two mighty horses were able to pull thirty thousand pounds. Over three times what they could pull separately. And this is the miracle of the church. Because none of us can accomplish what God wants us to accomplish in our power alone. But when we come together as a body of believers, that power of God is unified. It is put together, and we are able as a church to accomplish three, four, five, ten times what we will on our own. That's the miracle of the church. He said where two or three are gathered together, there am I in the midst of them. Blovin. Are you experiencing that power of God in your life? Are you one of his? If you're not, get that settled today. If you are, do you value and appreciate this thing that God has given us called the church