And so what an amazing thing to consider. It's very important because we don't see just one name of God in the scriptures. We see several. And we also see even if we look at uh Christ, when we look at the person of Christ, he's given many names as well. uh well over I believe forty different names. And then if you look at the Holy Spirit, you see the same thing. There's there's many, many names that are given to the Holy Spirit And so it's not just one name that we focus in on of the Lord, but it certainly is all the names that are mentioned in the Bible and how we can learn from them. And so when we look at the names of God, we're going to continue and then we'll kind of change gears a little bit into a different little bit different of a thought and then we'll come right back to another name. We'll see if we have time for all that today. So I'm a little excited about about our our thought for today. So as we uh as we go through, let's go ahead and review. I'd like to review the ones that we have discussed. And so the first one, the the the we talked about four two weeks ago and then three last week. So the first one that we see uh that we that we emphasized or that we discussed was the name El Olam. Does anyone remember what that means? The everlasting God. That is correct. That is correct. So the next one that we looked at was Jehovah Jirah or Jireh, however you want to say that. And of course we see that a couple times in scriptures. And what does that mean? Anyone? The l the Lord will provide, uh another word, uh we see the Lord will see to it. It's another way of saying that the Lord will provide. Absolutely. So the next one we see, and we're going to hopefully discuss about it a little bit more today as well, is Jehovah Ra'ah. And does anyone have what that one was? The Lord is my shepherd. And so certainly a different character trait or a different thought about who God is. The next one we a couple weeks ago we ended on and it's Jehovah Sid Kenu. And does anyone remember what that one is? The Lord our righteousness and we focused in on Jeremiah. The book of Jeremiah, chapter 23, is where we see that. We'll also look at that a little bit today, Lord willing. see another reference that that we see in that. So the next one that we discussed was Jehovah Rapha. Jehovah Rapha and that is anyone? The Lord who heals. And so again, we talked about how the Lord heals physically, uh, but the Lord also hears spiritually, and we see those given when we when we see that word heal and how that appears in the scripture. Uh next we also talked about Jehovah Shalom. Uh this and this one is what? The Lord is peace. That is correct. And we saw that uh Gideon was the one that that uh was given peace uh at an altar that he built at a very difficult time in his life. And so the last one that we talked about is Jehovah Makitesh Kim, or Jehovah Makitesh, and that one means what? The Lord who sanctifies you. The Lord, the one who sets you apart. So praise the Lord for that. So the one we're going to talk about today, uh I think I mentioned last week. This one is my favorite one that shows up, and we're going to look at a little bit of cross-references in the scripture and kind of prove to you what we see uh these types of studies are are fun for me because when we look at it we can we can learn from the scriptures but also see I think I've mentioned many times, uh hopefully as you read the scripture, you see how it confirms itself. And it says certain things, perhaps in one book. that uh in of the Bible that was referenced in another book of the Bible. And that's one of the ways that you see how the Bible confirms itself And another way that proves that God truly is the author of the scriptures, because you these people, these men who penned these words down, They, you know, it's hard enough even today to get a group of people in the same room and have them write down identically a testimony that would be consistent. Uh and perhaps they were all there, perhaps they were all witnesses. But here, when you talk about all the scriptures and you talk about the about 40 authors. That penned the scriptures, and all these men have a consistent story. Now, but these men weren't contemporaries. They didn't live all together at the same time. They lived hundreds, some thousands of years uh from each other and there are in some cases where perhaps like Ezra, Ezra was a scribe, so he had access to the scriptures and to the the the scriptures of old but some of them didn't they didn't have ready access where they could access all of them and and reference them and so now we see again throughout hundreds of years, thousands of years, these different penmen wrote this consistent account that talks about uh the revelation of God and what God wanted us to know. And uh it's just really amazing to really stop and consider and think about that. And so part of that reference is, and we see uh references to different uh names in different books of the Bible. So it it is very interesting to think about and to consider But today's uh we'll begin uh by talking about Jehovah, Jehovah Sabaoth. And I think the slide corrected. uh didn't autocorrect on me because that's not uh that it says Sabbath on the screen in front of you but I'll spell it out for you. It's S-A-B-A-O-T-H. Many times it's also referred to as Jehovah Saba, which is T-S-A-B-A, and that is probably my favorite name that we talk about in the scriptures, my favorite name for God. We see this over, I believe, 285 times in the scriptures. And this name, does anyone know what uh it translates to or how you see it, how you read it in the scriptures? The Lord of Hosts. So when you see the Lord of hosts, this is the name that the penman or that God is referring to. So to get an understanding, probably the best or uh a brief overview, uh turn to Psalm 24, verse uh 8, and it goes throughout this chapter, but uh really we see we see the reference begin in uh in verse number eight of Psalm twenty-four, just a few pages over from where we were at And Psalm 24, verse 8, and we'll read through verse 10, it says this. It says, Who is this king of glory? So the ver uh chapter, excuse me, Psalm 24 uh begins to reference the King of Glory. And here in verse 8 it says, Who is this King of Glory? The Lord strong and mighty. The Lord mighty in battle Lift up your heads, O ye gates, even lift them up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of Glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts He is the King of Globe. Selah. So this description, real briefly, we learn that the King of, or the Lord of hosts is the King of Glory. He's the Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. What we see this name, and over and over, you'll see it in the scriptures. Mentioned several different times is the reference to the captain or the leader of the armies of the living God. And this is interesting a couple times because we see this first come up in 1 Samuel, this name. We see it in 1 Samuel, but it's not in the middle of a battle, of a military battle that we see. The first time that this name is mentioned, we see it as Hannah is crying out to the Lord of hosts for her plea. And so we see that God is the, this is the name of God. Some people refer to this as God's fighting name. And so we also see in 1 Samuel 17, 45, I'll read it for you. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. So here in 1 Samuel, in this interaction of the well-known story of David and Goliath, we see the Lord of hosts mentioned by David as the God of the armies of Israel. So when we talk about the Lord of hosts being the captain of the armies of the living God, what armies are we talking about? Well, here we mentioned the armies of Israel here in the book of 1 Samuel. But then we see later on in the scriptures that there's we'll turn let's turn to Matthew chapter 16. Matthew chapter 16, and then I'll make reference to other places in the gospel that make a similar reference. Matthew chapter sixteen Verse 27, the Bible says this: for the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels. and then he shall reward every man according to his works. So there's a reference in Matthew 1627 to The Son of Man, who, of course, this reference is to Jesus, coming with the power of his father, and coming with his angels. Now in Matthew 25. 31 it mentions all his holy angels. In Mark 8. 38 is another very similar reference to this, another uh another way that it's worded by Mark. Luke 9. 26 has a similar verse that's talking about the Son of Man, who is Jesus, coming with this army of angels. So these army of angels is referenced all throughout, also is referenced in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 7 through 9. So we see, again, here is the leader of God's armies commanding the troops, commanding the the some would say that he is the commander of all the armies of heaven. And that's another reference that can be made. But where do we see that? We see that in the book. Let's turn all the way to the back of the Bible, to the book of Revelation. And This is where it's important for us to interpret Scripture with Scripture. And look and confirm. This is the way that we confirm Scripture and prove, okay, this is who it is. Now we read these verses and we you know we take for granted, we say, oh well, this this has to be Jesus Uh uh and but why is that? Well we gotta we we have to prove it and we have to prove it scripturally and and just because we think or the idea that comes in our mind is is that it's Jesus, it's important for us to say, okay, well how does the scripture confirm that? And so we see this in Revelation chapter 19. I hope you're there, and you'll turn there to Revelation 19, and we'll look at verse, we'll start looking at verse 11. And the Bible says this. And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. Notice the capital letters. and in righteousness righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God. Here we go, and verse 14. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword that with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Now that reference still does not say that it's Christ, but the image that comes in our mind, certainly we're thinking this has to be Jesus This is the commander above all other commanders. It's mentioned here, the King of King, the Lord of Lords, that reference in verse 13. His name is called the Word of God, another name that is given to Jesus Christ. So now let's prove it and say absolutely no doubt this is who we're talking about, that it's Jesus the Son of God. Revelation Revelation 2, 18, turn back there if you will, Revelations 2. And if you're familiar with Revelations, the first few chapters or two on, 3, 4, and I believe 5 as well, are letters written to churches. And the letters written to churches are there's seven churches that are mentioned, and as you're you're the but in them, there's a reference in each one of them to Jesus Christ. And so as we look in Revelation 2, go down to verse 18, and unto the angel Of the church and Thyashirah write, These things saith the Son of God, that's Jesus, and here's the reference to Revelation 19, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire. That reference we just read in Revelation 19. So again, here's this confirmation, and his feet are like fine brass. So another reference here. To Jesus, no doubt, because it says, saith the Son of God. That's the reference here. And of course we're saying we've said that his eyes like unto a flame of fire. And that is completely I think verbatim, uh, where is that in what verse is that in so I can point that out? Verse 12 of Revelation 19. His eyes were as a flame of fire. So no doubt in your mind, hopefully at this point, that we're talking about Jesus Christ. And so Jesus Christ here, again, realizing that Jesus is part of the Trinity. And so the Lord of hosts is the commander of the armies of of the living God. And so here we have another place where we see It's act where Jesus is acting King of Kings, Lord of Lords, and He's commanding the armies of heaven to war against, as we see at the very at the end of times, he's the commander of the army above any other army. The highest ranking military warrior in existence, and we see him as the Lord of hosts, and we see him in Revelation as Jesus. Jesus Christ. So understand that Christ is the highest military commander, and it is he who will fight our battles. And when we see this reference, the Lord of hosts, we that God again mentioned over 200 times. As the Lord of hosts, he is the God who will fight our battles. He is the one that is in charge. And so, again, you know, if you want to, you know Turn over your problems to the greatest commander ever to ever to live. That would be the Lord of hosts. And so your your your battles are in good hands because you know he is going to win. So we see that God has chosen to share with us many names, and we study them for two purposes. Hopefully We see how how they are they're mentioned for our benefit, but also to understand God's character of who he is revealing himself to be. And again, to understand and confirm that Christ was deity, Christ was God in the flesh So well hopefully these names stick out to you a little bit more. And so now what we're going to do is we're going to turn to a familiar passage of scripture. We're going to turn back to the book of Psalms and we're going to talk. Turn to Psalms 23. And hopefully, what we'll see now is how these names will kind of jump out at us. Now of course one of them obviously begins, but we see begins in in the first verse. We see Psalm twenty-three. Let's just read it all together. And let's read it uh uh let's read it aloud all together, beginning in verse one. We'll go all the way down through verse six. It's a familiar psalm, so let's read it together. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me Thou preparest the table for me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil. My cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. So, right off the bat, we see in verse 1: the Lord is my shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. And that was one that we already mentioned, that we already went through. So the shepherd leads. But then we see as we continue in that verse, I shall not want. So there's this idea of this word that we're not going to be lacking. We're not going to have need of anything. And we see obviously very clearly that the reference there is Jehovah Jireh that the Lord will provide. He provides our needs. We shall not want. So then as you continue on, you see verse 2, he maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. Here the reference that we see in verse 2 is Jehovah Shalom. The Lord is peace. It's a place of peace. The words that we see here are he maketh me to lie down in green pastures. Pastor mentioned a few uh weeks ago, maybe a couple months ago, about a book entitled uh A Shepherd's Look at Psalm 23. And when we look at He maketh me to lie down, understand that For a sheep, a sheep has to be in a complete state of calm and peace in order to lie down. It will not lie down just like you can command a dog to lie down and it'll lie down. It's not that easy for a sheep. A sheep has to be not only in a place of low threat, but in a place of calmness in order to have in order to lie down. So this isn't just something where where as we gloss over the scriptures, it says He maketh me to lie down No, there's this idea of peace, a place of peace. But we also see this word, Shalom, and the God of peace, talks about rest. And rest we see in when he leadeth me beside the still waters. It's a place of refreshment. It's a place of rest. It's a place where you're rejuvenated and restrengthened in a place of peace. This place is very needful. Animals as well as sheep, as well as people, we need water. And the same thing is true as we as we look at our lives spiritually. He leads us and he leads us beside the still waters. How important is water for our lives, not only for our uh physical lives, but also for spiritually. And so when we see again, we see This idea in verse 2, we see very clearly Jehovah Shalom. So then we go on to verse 3. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. When we see he restoreth my soul The idea here is that we see Jehovah Rapha, the Lord that heals. Why is that? The idea of restoring the soul gives us the thought that the soul was cast down. Now, a shepherd has a completely different perspective on being cast down. There are sheep that can become cast or cast down, as they would reference it. And so what happens with the sheep is that the sheep will get in a place of comfort and perhaps lie down. And perhaps it's in a small little sloped area, but if the sheep is not careful, it can lose balance and it can get turned upside down. And that sheep is completely helpless. That sheep cannot turn over on its own. That sheep, as it's struggling, upside down, legs up in the air. After a few hours we'll die. And so the idea of, as we see, here's this Sheep that's cast down, the shepherd has to be looking for all the his sheep, and he wants to see who what sheep it is that's cast down because the sheep that's cast down can't help himself The sheep that's cast down can't heal itself. It needs the shepherd to come along and help it turn it over. Otherwise, that's going to be it. It's going to die. So we see the Lord that heals, the Lord that helps, helping a cast-down sheep. And that's the idea that we understand when we see He restoreth my soul. Continue on in verse 3, he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Very clearly, we've already mentioned it. The Lord our righteousness, we see Jehovah Sidkenu, revealed very clearly in verse 3. The paths that he leads us on are paths of righteousness. Verse 4, we come to, and it says, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. I think we get a similar idea of peace and comfort. We see Jehovah Shalom come up in our mind once again. Verse number five, thou preparest the table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Again, we see Jehovah Jireh come to the surface, again as we see God providing. Thou anointest my head with oil. Oil was for the purpose of cleaning and taking care of the sheep. And when we see this verse, we see the Lord who sanctifies you, Jehovah Makedish, kind of surf surface as we read this passage that The shepherd is being anointed, is being cleaned, is being sanctified, is being set apart. And then surely goodness and mercy. Shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. We see in verse 6 one name that we really haven't covered much because it's only once in the Bible. But if you a couple weeks ago read the the book of Ezekiel at the very end The last verse of the book of Ezekiel talks about a city. Does anyone remember the name of the city? The name of the city is the Lord is there. That's the name of the city at the very end of Ezekiel. And we see here what that that that that's that name is Jehovah Shammah And so we get that idea when we look here, it says, I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And so we see that surface, that city, that the Lord is there. So we see that city surface as we look at Psalm 23. Now, we'll probably get a chance to go for a few minutes, at least laying the groundwork, and we'll have we'll we'll probably wrap it up next week. And Maybe I'll go into another one. I have this idea and hopefully I can develop it, but um I can develop it my next week, but There's one more name that we see in the scriptures, and this week, if you're following along in the in the reading plan, uh over the last few weeks, but you've seen a name That's mentioned. And it is it's mentioned twice in the book of Zechariah, which is what we read this week. Does anyone want to take a guess as to what name I'm talking about? Perhaps you saw it was in big capital letters in Zechariah. You guys will probably be like, oh man. I knew it. And so we'll lay the introduction for it. But the name that we see mentioned is the branch. See John's like that's right. Branch. So I I don't know i if One thing that I would encourage you to do is when you study the scriptures, you know, ask yourself questions. It's a very helpful way to kind of help you to dig deeper and to understand uh what the scripture is teaching and and and brings up questions in your minds to say, hey, you know, what what about this or what about that? Well we see The reason I say we've read about it recently is because there's three prophets that make reference to the branch. The prophet Isaiah The prophet Jeremiah, which we've talked about, I think we covered it just a minute ago, Jeremiah 23, 5. It says, Behold the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David a righteous branch. So when we see this branch, it's mentioned by the prophets Isaiah. Isaiah lived in about the time frame, more or less about 700 BC. Then you have the prophet Jeremiah who mentions them in, as I mentioned, Jeremiah 23, 5. Jeremiah was about, lived or wrote about 600 BC. And then the last prophet, the prophet Zechariah, is about 520 BC. So there's a significant amount of time that cover these men. and their writings and their references to the Lord as the branch. But when we see the branch, let's look first off at the book of Isaiah. And chapter eleven And the very first verse of Isaiah chapter 11 says this, and there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse. And a branch, capital B, shall grow out of his roots. So the branch Is coming from Jesse, the family of Jesse, which was David's father. Later on in the scriptures, we see in Jeremiah That I just mentioned it, 23. 5. It says, I will raise unto David a righteous branch. So here the branch is referenced related to David. And then in Zechariah, we also see in Zechariah 3. 8 and Zechariah 6. 12, we see, especially in 6. 12, it says That the branch will grow, but it's a reference that we see to the branch of David. So there's these references of the branch being related of the line of the root in the family tree of David. of Jesse. And of course we know that Jesus was supposed to be in this uh in this line and of course this reference to the branch is of course a reference to Jesus But when we see the family tree, it branches out of, in Isaiah, it mentions the branch, it branches out of the of Jesse's root. In Jeremiah 33, 15, it talks about the the righteous branch. So I want to at least get the idea of Who the branch is. Obviously, we know that that's Jesus Christ. And then in the book of Zechariah, we'll conclude here. The book of Zechariah, it makes reference to The branch of David, it makes a few key observations. It says, Behold the man whose name is the branch. So it points out very clearly that this is a This will be a man, a person that's actually living. And then it says in the book of, or in Zechariah 3. 8, it makes reference to him, I will bring forth my servant, the branch. So the branch here is mentioned as a servant. So we have these references to the branch, and this these references are references to the Messiah. And of course the Messiah being Jesus Christ. But what we're going to talk about next week is how that comes from Jesse, how that comes uh why it's called the branch, and then we'll look at a couple verses and and and uh uh wrap that idea up but uh again it's an enjoyable one and uh one that's very interesting. Alright the That the word, and I'll leave this with you, this is where we'll conclude. The word in, there's two words that are used for branch. Uh in the book of I uh Jeremiah and in the book of Zechariah, they're different. Isaiah 11. 1, there's a very specific word that's used for branch. And that branch is, or that word is netzer. Netzer is the word that's used for branch. And we'll see why that is very important, and we'll kind of dig a little bit deeper into that next week. And uh again, it's kind of a fun little study, and it shows us how, again. Really just showing how God is the one that put these scriptures together. Because there's certain things that historically a reference that the Penmin did not really understand because they they had no point of reference to it in history But God, who is outside of time and who is the beginning and the end and knows what's going to happen, is able to point out certain things that just come to light and we see them highlighted in the scripture. And this is another one that I think is very interesting that uh that hopefully we'll have a little bit of fun with next week. We're out of time this morning, so let's go ahead and wrap it up. So uh let's go ahead and close in prayer, and then we'll be dismissed. Father, we love you. Lord, we thank you for the day, and Father, again, we thank you for your word and how it shows us and reveals to us and confirms to us, Lord, who you are. And Lord, how you have revealed yourself to mankind. And Lord, we can't say that we'll understand everything, but Father, I do thank you for the understanding that you do give us, though it be limited. Uh but Father, it's so rich and it's so uh amazing to know that that that you loved us enough and that you sent your son to to die for us and Lord all these things were were planned out from the foundation of the world. And Lord, we thank you for that. And Father, I just pray that you would help us to study and to learn and to draw closer to you as we look at your word. And Father, may you Use this time in Sunday school and use this time at church to continue to strengthen our faith in you and in your word, how important it is for us, Lord. I pray that you would bless the service to follow. I pray that you would be with Pastor as he brings forth the word. I pray, Lord, that our hearts and our ears would be attentive, but most importantly, Lord, that we would, again, as as Brother John mentioned earlier, that we would put away the distractions uh that may be around us, that may be in our lives, and that we would be able to focus in on what you have for us today. We know you have a message for us, and we'll thank you for it, Lord. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.