We've been looking at uh the different parables and studying what we can learn or what we can glean from the different parables. And I have thoroughly enjoyed the study myself and uh look forward to We won't do this all uh in a row here as far as just continue down through all the parables, but I know at some point I will have completed them all and get them all studied and teach. uh on them. So you'll want to keep your notes and then as we we might get away from it for a little while and then we'll come back to it and finish them up. But You know, we'll we'll get through all of them at some point this morning. Uh the parable of the unforgiving servant, or uh some people call the unmerciful servant in uh Matthew chapter 18 is something that uh applies to all of us. Uh this parable here is dealing with Christians and their relationship with other Christians There's an old poem that goes like this, to live above with the saints we love will certainly be glory. to live below with the saints we know. Now that's another story. So there's uh there's a difference there. Uh and we we sometimes look at oh well in heaven everything's gonna be perfect. And uh that person won't be like that when they get there. Well, we won't be like we are either, uh, 'cause we will be changed into uh the image of Christ and be in have the we will know like he knows and be But until then, we've got to exist and live and serve and glorify God together here on earth And so this parable here teaches us about that. The study of these parables uh we have learned that The parable all all the parables deal with one of three things with regards to the kingdom. Does anybody remember? Uh you've already read the introduction. Does anybody remember the three things that deals with the kingdom with regards to either the character of something, the character of the king, the character of the kingdom, or the character of the king's subjects All the parables are dealing with one of those things. And this parable very clearly is teaching us about the character of the king's subjects How are the king's subjects supposed to act? As Christians, as uh citizens of the kingdom, uh how are we supposed to act? What are we supposed to be doing? What is our character supposed to be like? And as we look at this parable, it is also commendable to at least reference the parable found of the two debtors in Luke chapter 7 verse 41 to 43. So I'm going to start by reading that and just to give us an idea here. But they are very closely tied in the truths that they teach. But in Luke chapter seven, verse forty one through forty-three he says, There was a certain creditor which had two debtors. The one owed five hundred pence and the other fifty. And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love the most? Simon answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he forgave the most, and he said unto him, Thou hast answered So the idea that uh hey, the one that was forgiven most obviously is going to appreciate it the most. He's obviously gonna want the one that's gonna realize, wow, uh I I was forgiven of so much. And so therefore is so grateful. Well, in contrast to that, in teaching much along the same lines, we see the parable in Luke chapter 18. First thing that we always try and do is we try and put them in context. So we're going to back up to the beginning of chapter 18 and look at the context of this chapter and see what it's teaching. This is not a hard parable to find what it's teaching. It's pretty clear and well defined, but it still, I think, gives us some insight to see the context of what's taking place. In chapter 18, first of all, you see childlike conviction Childlike conviction. In verses 1 through 10. The Bible says, And the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And Jesus called a little child unto him and set him in the midst of him and said, Verily, I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children Ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. What a contrast here. The apostles were asking God, hey, the disciples were saying Uh who's the greatest in the kingdom? Uh seems to be a topic of conversation among the disciples on occasion, maybe am amongst themselves and Peter, of course, he's the one that uh opens mouth and inserts foot often enough. And so he walks up to Jesus and he asks him. And Jesus pulls aside a little child and says, Hey, suffer the little children to come unto me. And uh he said, except you be as a child, you cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. Christ brings their focus from uh being the greatest to just being granted entrance. Realizing the most important thing is not who's the greatest in the kingdom. But that you get to enter the kingdom, that you get to be there, and that is the greatest thing that anybody could achieve or receive. is to be granted entrance. And he says you've got to become as a child to be granted entrance. It is childlike faith that brings forgiveness of sin. We know that we're he's not talking about uh going back and doing childish things. We know he's not talking about acting like a child But he says, uh you gotta be as a child, and we know that's talking about childlike faith. When he was talking to Peter another time, he said, you know, um He said, Except uh a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven, see the kingdom of God. And you have that idea of being born again. Well, how can I be born again? Can I enter a second time into my mother's womb? No. But The idea as a Christian, when you get saved, everybody is as a child. You are a newborn babe in Christ. You have just been saved. You've just trusted Christ. You've just been born into the family of God. And so in that sense, we all become like children and desire the sincere milk of the word, and we should grow thereby. It is a new birth that makes you a child of God. You know, every new Christian needs to grow just as much as every new baby in the maternity ward at GBMC. They need to grow. And Christians are born into the family of God. Anyone who brings children to Christ has a very special place in the heart of God. Sometimes we focus on adults or or look at uh winning adults to Christ and we think, oh, this is just kids, or or it's such a more important ministry to be upstairs teaching the adults and working with the adults and it's not as important to be downstairs working with the kids. Not in God's eyes. God has a very special place. for children in his heart and those that would work towards bringing children to him. And God continually taught the disciples that hey if somebody offends one uh offends one of these little ones what he's saying is makes uh is an obstacle to them or keeps them from coming to Christ uh you know heavy on their head He says they need, you know, the little ones need to come unto me. And those that give their time and effort and skills and talents to reaching children for Christ, God's going to bless that. in a great way. And we should never look at it in and diminish it and say, Oh well, they're just working with kids. No. D. Al Moody one time has been uh the story has been told of him coming back from a revival one evening And he was on Cloud Nine and they said, Well, how did it go? And he said, Praise God, we had uh two and a half people got saved today. And they were like, Two and a half people. And uh he they said, Yeah, and he's the And then it kinda registered with the person. They said, Oh, you had two adults and one kid and he says, No, I had two kids and one adult. The two kids have their entire life to live for God. The adult half of their life is over. Half of their life's gone. These kids can give all of their days to serving Jesus and honor and glorifying Him And God is a special place for those that work with young people, bringing them to Christ. It is a new birth that frees you from everlasting fire. We say see here in verse number seven says, Woe unto the world because of offences, for it must needs be that offences come, but woe to the man by whom the offence come. He tells us um Let's look down at verse number well verse verse number eight. Wherefore, if thy hand and thy foot offend thee, cut them off. and cast them from thee, it's better for thee to enter into life halt or maned, rather than to have two hands, two feet, and be cast into everlasting fire And then he says, Hey, if thine eye offend thee, pluck thee out. Better be d better to enter life main than to be cast into hell. And you know, he says here That it it is the new birth. It is the forgiveness of sin that frees you from that everlasting And and whatever the cost, it ought to be the ambition and the goal of everybody to be freed from everlasting fire, from everlasting torment in a place called hell. That should be the goal, not who's going to be the greatest. So he's dealing here with forgiveness. It is forgiveness of sin that brings about salvation. That salvation is the fruit of forgiveness. That we receive from Jesus Christ. Then we see the concern of Christ. The second thing there, verses 11 through 14, we see the concern of Christ. For the Son of Man has come to save that which was lost. How think ye, if a man have a hundred sheep and one of them go astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine and go into the mountains and seek that which is gone astray? And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you He rejoiceth more of that sheep than of the nineteen and nine, which were not astray. Even so it is not the will of the Father which is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. You see, he's still talking about the little ones there. He still references back to children there, the little ones. It's not willing God's not willing that any should perish, but he he adds to it and says he's not willing that the little ones should perish. And uh this uh teaching right here is very similar to that In Luke chapter 15, where we looked some time ago, you have uh the three parables in one that are teaching along the same same ideas. Anybody remember those three parables in one chapter from our previous teaching? You had they all deal with something lost. Right. Lost coin, lost sheep, and the lost son. Uh you could, if you want to alliterate it, you could say the the lost sheep, the lost silver, and the lost sun. Um those three are found in the same passage. But that parable dealing with the lost sheep uh was dealing with the father's goal of trying to go out and to find that lost sheep. The the finding the lost sheep, the effort and the goal put forth in doing that. The focus of this here lost sheep is uh of Luke Christian was seek was seeking for the lost sheep. In this one, the focus is on saving the lost sheep. On saving the lost sheep. God wants to save those. So we see the concern for Christ. Again, salvation is the fruit of forgiveness, dealing with forgiveness. Then we see the conduct in the church, verses fifteen through twenty. Verses fifteen through twenty is how how we should be acting in the church He said, Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go tell him his fault between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But, if he will not hear thee, then take two, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church. But if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. Okay, this here is dealing with conduct in the church. There's three steps to dealing with situations that arise. between brothers and sisters in Christ and the three steps there this is dealing with church discipline and we're not going to teach uh entire entirety we could take an entire lesson just talking about church discipline. But there's three steps here. When you're sinned against, you go to thy brother. Notice it's the person it was sinned against that goes to the brother. Sometimes they don't even know that they've sinned against you. In your mind you think they have many maliciously uh done something purposely just to step on your toes or just to yank your chain and they are completely oblivious to it. So you go to them and uh privately say, hey I y you might not be you might not realize it, but you know when you did this, it really hurt me. And they may be, oh my goodness, I I am so sorry. I did not even realize uh I certainly would not intentionally do that and hey it's fixed. You go with the intention of winning your brother back, not winning the argument When you're going with the right goal, then the right spirit will prevail. When you go to win an argument to prove somebody else wrong, you the wrong intentions will prevail. And so you gotta have the right heart in this thing. But you go to thy brother and uh you go privately. Then if if it can't be resolved or or for whatever reason uh it it's not going to be handled, then you can the Bible says take a couple of witnesses with you Take a couple with you. And he goes, take a couple, and then he says that, you know, where two or three every word might be esta uh established. So you got some people there that could might encourage him. And maybe you are looking at it wrong Maybe the witnesses are going to look look to you and say, hey, your idea of this is incorrect and and you're the one that needs to change. So you're getting some advice And taking a couple of witnesses saying, hey, is this right? Bring him into the fold. And if he still won't hear, then you take it before the church. Now church discipline is both biblical and at times necessary. However, in our soft-hearted society today People don't like to take a stand for righteousness or for truth, and uh they uh many times don't whether they are immature Christians and don't know what the Bible teaches on this, or whether they're weak Christians and don't want to accept what the Bible teaches. But whenever we uh don't the Bible says here to treat him as a heathen and a publican, that means don't uh warm up to him. Don't spend time with them. Don't bring them to your bring them over to your house. Whenever we don't take a Bible stand in the area of church discipline, we are enabling somebody to continue in their sin. Their goal is to win them back. But when when everything is fine And it's okay, well then, oh well just the church leadership and just those pious hypocritical Christians are the ones that that, you know, everybody else understands. Everybody else understands and they love and they have the love of Christ in their heart. The pastor doesn't love Christ, doesn't have the love of God, because uh he's taking a stand against me. And other Christians will warm up to that person who has been an ex church discipline's been exercised against, and you enable them to think everything's fine. Everything's okay. And we can just continue to go in on our in our sin and live the way we are and not get things right. So this is very important and we gotta understand what the Bible teaches about it uh and accept it when the time comes. Remember here the goal is restoration. The goal is to get back thy brother. That's what the the whole objective. It the steps didn't change from the very first step. It's not a matter of winning the argument, it's winning your brother. You want to win the brother back. into good fellowship with the church. And that goal doesn't change no matter what step of the process you're in. And so that is the the desire And again, what we're dealing with here is relationships between brothers and sisters in Christ and the idea of forgiveness. Of forgiveness. And so this is in context of the passage that we're teaching here, the conduct in the church. Then we see, number four, the compassion of the Christian. The compassion of the Christian. And that is our parable that it introduces here in verses 21 through 35. Down in verse number 21. Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times? Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. And we know that many times Some type of a problem arises or a question or something comes into play that causes Jesus to teach a parable. And so Peter asked this question. And I you know, Peter uh felt like he was going above and beyond by saying, hey Seven times? That's the perfect number. Uh should we forgive seven times? Because Peter, I'm sure, was aware of the fact that in the law or the prophets, they taught that uh three times was acceptable forgiveness for offenses. And I've given you a reference for that there in Amos 2. 6. The Bible says, Thus saith the Lord, for three transgressions of Israel and for four I will not turn away the punishment thereof. So it was something that the people, uh, you know, especially those that understood the law and read the the the law and the prophets would have known that that kind of thought process was under the law was three times. Um but gee you know, so he went above and beyond and thought, well Lord, seven times And was probably shocked by Jesus' reply of seventy times seven. And we know that's four hundred and ninety times. And uh I was gonna leave that one blank and and let you do the math, but I know many of you have that because cause if you've been in church for a long time, we know that number. And of course we know that what Jesus was teaching here is that forgiveness isn't a matter of arithmetic. It's an attitude. It is what is our attitude, and it should be continually the attitude that Jesus has, and that is to forgive. To forgive. To forgive. It should be an attitude that we have. And certainly, uh, it should just continue and there's not really a number You have a serious problem if you're counting down 490 times to uh find out when you can stop forgiving this person. Um You know, I don't know how many relationships uh would ever get to that point besides a husband and wife. Uh other than that, uh you know, I don't know how many offenses there would be. But hey, in a husband and wife there's things you forgive each other for all the time And that's just how you keep a right relationship. It's not that you don't ever offend each other, it's not that you don't ever, you know, get each other upset. No, those things happen. But you forgive and you continue to love. And that's the relationship that we should have with the brothers and sisters in Christ, just continuing to forgive, continuing to forgive. So then we see the characters in uh this uh parable. I'm gonna read the parable to you. There's a list of character characters there. You have the king and the servant and the debt. Let's read down there to at least that much. He says in verse number 23, Therefore is the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king. which we know is by application God, which would take account of his servants. And we he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents. Now 10,000 talents. I have here in uh your notes here a blank for 10,000 talents of silver. Now this is according to Lockier, there are other explanations as to what 10,000 talents were. Lockier was the most uh uh detailed as far as looking at it from several different perspectives because we don't know exactly what talents he he was talking about. But uh if you're talking about talents of s silver, then under the Roman calculation, what that would be one million pounds or three million dollars. Under the Jewish calculation, it would be 3 million pounds or 10 million dollars. And if it were talking about 10,000 tons of gold, opposed to silver, it would be fifty million pounds or a hundred and fifty million dollars. Now depending upon who you read after uh or look at for the explanation as to what ten thousand talents equaled, you're going to get some different explanations. Uh I love these things that nobody really agrees on. uh exactly what it is doesn't really matter. The truth of the principle is that it was a amount that there's no way this man could pay. I think somebody did the math on this and they found out that if he made like uh four times the average income, which a denary was an average income of a of a worker in that day, if he made four times that much, it would take him like a hundred and sixty thousand years. I mean it was just some some crazy astronomical number that there's just no way he could pay. The truth of the principle is, regardless of what the actual number is, it was something he had no way to pay on his own Which is quite amazing when you see his reply here in just a moment. So look with me in verse number twenty-five. But for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to to be sold, and his wife and his children and all that he had, and payment to be made. This was the typical practice. When somebody couldn't pay, everybody was put into service to help pay to work to pay the debt. The servant thereof fell down and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. You see, we have somebody that has no means of paying this, and he falls and cries out to the Lord, says, Be patient with me. And I will pay thee all. This is applicable and we'll see w how this ties in with the parable and what's being taught here in just a minute. So you see The debt and the debtor here, then in verse number twenty-seven, then the Lord of the servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debt. But the same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants. So now you have the fellow servant, character introduced here, which owed him a hundred pence. And he laid his hands on him, took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest Now here this hundred pence again there's difference as to what this debt equaled. Somewhere between twelve and seventeen dollars. uh is what the value of this hundred pence was. A pence was one seventh of a penny. Uh and so in when they extrapolate it out whatever their the value is certainly something that could be paid and could be met, and he demanded payment of it. Then the final result was given, verse number twenty-nine, and his fellow servant fell down at his feet and besought him saving, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Recognize that phrase? And I and he would not, but went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debt. So when his fellow servants saw that what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Then his Lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me. Shouldst not thou also have compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee, and his Lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespass. The teachings of this parable are pretty clear. Uh some parables are hard to grasp and understand like really what is the truth. I mean I've had some considerable challenge sometimes trying to narrow down uh what is the one main truth uh of this parable. But this one is not that hard. What is the truth of this parable? As God, the King of Kings, has forgiven the Christian of a debt so great it could have never been paid. Therefore, there's no justification for an unforgiving spirit The truth of this parable could be summed up in Ephesians 4. 32, and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. Because God has forgiven us of so much, how could we ever not forgive those that have trespassed against us, those whom we might have offended? When we understand that, when we understand and see how much we've been forgiven, that's when we can get a picture of that and appreciate it. See in in the other passage we read, the two debtors Peter said, well, the one that was forgiven the most. He had to realize how much he was forgiven for in order to feel and to experience that forgiveness. And if they don't, like if you could take a little child and let's say he doesn't know what he's doing and he gets in your vehicle And he puts it in reverse and just slams the thing down to the floor and crashes into the front of the building. Oh my goodness. He's destroyed the car, thousands of dollars worth of damage. He destroyed the front of the building, thousands of dollars worth of damage. And you forgive him. But the child has no concept. Of what he's been forgiven of. I mean, he knows he did it wrong and he says, thank you. But it will be many years before he understands and fully realizes how much he had been forgiven of. And many Christians are like this first debtor here, who had no concept of what he was being forgiven of, because he bowed down and said, Have patience, and I will pay thee all. He had no way of paying all of it. No way. It wasn't gonna happen. But in his mind he thought, hey, if I just had some time I could pay this He did not realize what he was being forgiven of. And a lot of Christians who haven't experienced forgiveness, well, I'm not talking about they've asked God to forgive them of their sin and they're forgiven. But it hasn't registered with them how much they've been forgiven of. And when that does not register, then we get on our high horse. And we feel like we are justified in not forgiving somebody who's offended us because we don't see ourselves as that bad. So we have to have that in perspective. The translation of the parable, you have the the king, of course that's God. The king is God and the servant is the a a lost man whose coming is owed so much debt. The debt we looked at already. Um The forgiven servant, he does not appreciate his forgiveness by the king because he does not realize the magnitude of what he's been forgiven. He does not acquire his he does not appreciate the forgiveness of the king, and he doesn't acquire his duty to follow the king's example. Because he doesn't appreciate his forgiveness The king has set hit a great example for him, and he gave us that. He says, Shouldest not thou also have compassion on thy fellow servant? He says, O thou wicked servant, verse number 32, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me. Shouldest not thou also have compassion? He's saying, I I did this for you. I set this example for you, this pattern for you, and shouldn't you do that for somebody else? Wouldn't that be acceptable? Wouldn't that be the normal process? In our mind we think, yeah, when we're talking about it here, but it's a whole nother matter when we're the one that's offended. Right? When we're the one that has to forgive. And we say, oh well, no, this is bigger than that. This is h more than that. This is something beyond what that's talking about because it's us personally and it's our feelings. And it's our sacrifice of forgiveness. The fellow servant was a Christian who owes another Christian, and the final result was he was given to the tormentors. His heartless action cost him the king's compassion. Oh wow, what a place to be. Where we lose the King's compassion on us because of our heartless actions. Not forgiving another. We know that if we don't forgive, God won't forgive us. We know if we don't forgive, God won't hear our prayers. I think h turning him over to the tormentors, uh, is turning him over to his own devices. What a sad place to be. Where we are given to our own devices outside of the pleasure of God, the protection of God. And the prayer that we have in accessing God turned over to his own devices until he could pay all. And we know that our sin debt we could never pay. We could be as good as we want to be all of our days and we could never pay our sin debt. We could never find our way out. And uh God would turn somebody over to their own devices and they'll torment themselves. It is so evident the older I get, the more I see people given to their own devices destroy their lives. The heartache, the pain, the turmoil, the continual it seems like it's one thing after another. One one burden after another, one family problem after another, one challenge after another, even to their own devices, uh it just gets worse and worse. And woe to be in that place where God puts us over that, he and gives us, turns us over to our own devices. It's 1013. I gotta stop. The teaching of the parable. I'm gonna give you these quickly and we're gonna move on so I don't have to have to cover this another week. The teaching of the parable, forgiveness does not equal forgetting. We know that uh to forgive um we're not making them pay. When we forgive, we are paying. It costs us to forgive. And that means we're not holding this against them. God forgave us of all of our sin, and he does not hold that against us. Um My motivation for forgiveness is that I have been forgiven. Not because they deserve it, not because they've earned it. But because I've been forgiven, I realize that. And I do not hold them accountable just as I haven't been held accountable. Unforgiveness is the highest form of hypocrisy. We're saying I would never do that or be guilty of that when we surely at times are and could be guilty of that ourselves. We fully embrace the doctrine of forgiveness when it extends to us, but we must not forget to extend it through us. Matthew 6, 14 and 15. For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. Because God has forgiven us, we are to forgive each other. If we claim to be His, we must act like His. How many of you ever had your parents look at you and say, Cranes don't act like that? Botrells aren't gonna be doing that. You know, whatever your whatever your name is, you know? I wonder if our Heavenly Father looks down at us and says, Christians don't act like that. You're a Christian. Christians don't act that way. And we are to be a people of forgiveness, and there's strong teaching from this parable here.