There's a scripture verse I just want to take a thought from, but I want to talk to you about a power, the power for such a time as this. The verse I want you to look at, you know it well, is in the book of Esther, chapter 4, verse 14. That's not where I'm preaching from, but I just want to use a little phrase out of that particular uh setting of scripture, if I may. Thank you so much for the love offering, the suit, uh, the pen, the little coaster that will not have Mountain Dew on it I drink water. I love your preacher and the church. This is such a fun place to come. Well, if I live in this area, I'd want to come to this church. This is awesome. You folks are so friendly and so nice and And the food was so good and the fellowship was even uh so wonderful and and uh your comments about my preaching this morning, I really appreciate that. I hope it was a help to everybody here, but there's a couple of uh three or four ladies that came up to me and said, preacher, that message was for me. It wasn't for anybody else, it was for me. Well I hope that's so and I I want God to stir the hearts and life You know, preaching is is really a a neat art. It's it's a tremendous tool uh to get you to know Jesus better. And that's all I want to do. I just want to get you to know the Lord better. I love the Lord. I love the work. You know, there's preachers that get sour after so many years. I don't know how that happens. I I don't know Honestly, I love preaching today more than I've loved it ever. And uh I pastored a church 44 years. When you pastor a Baptist church 44 years, you have ups and downs. And you have dark days and you have light days and you have bright days and you have sunny days and then you have really icky days and tough days and we've been through all that. But God is so good. And I want you to know one more time, there is a God in heaven. And I want you to know something else, that our God in heaven has the power for such a time as we are in today. Whatever you're looking for, whatever you are desiring, God has the power. I want you to think about that all the time while I'm preaching. In just a moment. Would you stand, please, for the reading of this particular passage? It's found in Esther chapter 4, verse 14. We know it well. It's not one of those that we don't know. But I want you just to follow along as I read Esther 4, 14. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace, At this time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed, and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom For such a time as this. How do you know that you might be coming to the kingdom for such a time as this? Now you're here at this church for a certain reason. And God's got the power. Here's the title. Power for such a time as this. Father, we love you. Speak to us. Help me, oh God. Give me the inspiration I need in the thought process. Anoint my mouth and my lips. My mind to preach what is necessary for this church. And let us see tonight the altars being used by godly people who just want to get closer to God. Now, Father, we desire for your help and for your anointing and your power. Now bless in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. May be seated I want you just for a moment with me and think in your mind's eye and get out of the box a bit. Consider God's power. God's power. With a wave of his hand, he can carve out a canyon. Shift the tides. Or he can fling a million stars into place. He can topple a mountain. He can slice an atom. He can rearrange the seasons Or even he can redesign a little snowflake. That's my God. And he can do all of those things. And yet, none of these things can match the most mysterious and wondrous display of his power. And that is simply change. Preach with me now. He can take a life that's chained in the deepest darkness and set it free to flourish in the liberty of his wonderful light. What a God. What a God. He can take a heart that was nearly dead with despair and revive it with a strong beat of hope. I read a story that just thrilled me. I had to preach about this. I read a story about a young lady who Later wrote to her pastor, a young woman who was teetering dangerously close to suicide's dark edge. And she experienced the power I'm talking about one Sunday at church that changed her life forever. She later wrote the pastor of that church that she had gone to and said, Dear preacher, I want you to know I came to your church this morning and I sat in your church. huddled in despair. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not know. I'm telling you, everybody can look fine. Dress fine, act fine, but you do not know who is in your church that's huddled in despair. She said, I came to your church, preacher, that Sunday morning. I huddled in despair She said, oh, I was so desirous of something that happened to me. But the desire was deep and devastating I agonize over every word and every aspect of my life story, trying to make credible to myself, trying to keep hope alive. She said, you see, preacher, I came to your church with a revolver in my purse. And a suicide note. Now I was going to take my life as soon as church was over. But she said from now on I'm going to come with the Bible in my hand. Because you see, preacher That day I trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. And then she said something that just spoke to me Because sometimes when we come to Jesus Christ, sometimes when we get saved, sometimes when we kneel on the altar and we say, Dear God, forgive me and save me. Sometimes we think somehow that all of a sudden all of our circumstances are going to be changed and everything's going to be different. But did you know that sometimes that doesn't happen? And she wrote, and here this is what spoke to me. She said, really, my circumstances have not vastly changed, nor have they horribly, wonderfully changed. But I am. My circumstances haven't changed. Hey, but preacher, I am changed. That's the difference about what salvation does. You see, I thought about that. All of our cleverness in our generation cannot transform a single drug addict. Cannot heal the heart of a rape victim, or draw a gated businessman to Christ, or even save a lady from suicide I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen, only God can. We have all of our fancy programs, all of our ideas of how we're going to conquer things But without Jesus Christ, we're never going to conquer. But you give your life to Christ, it'll change everything about you. Oh, the wonderful power of God. Her story could have come right from the book of Acts. Which is the story of one changed life after another. Remember Peter? We used him this morning. Peter was the deserter But he became Peter the evangelist. James, the traditional Jew, became James. The welcomer of Gentiles. Saul? Saul, the church destroyer? Come on, ladies and gentlemen, isn't it so? Saul, the church destroyer, became Paul, the church planter. How does that happen, everybody? It happens because Jesus Christ is in the business of changing lives. Change is the big word. Old things were passed away. And behold, all things have become new. I'm a changed person. God's power. Let me remind you one more time tonight that God's power changes things. Now, the power that we're talking about tonight does not consist of missiles or tanks any more than it consists of mussels. In paint tops. Look how big your biceps are. You're nothing beside God. So you see the power doesn't consist in missiles nor in tanks or muscles and tank tops, no matter how powerful the biceps No matter how pumped up the biceps or how powerful and big the bombs, true power is not found there. True power exists in a paradox. The most significant of which occurred over 2,000 years ago, when God, listen, when God in the flesh died. When omnipotence, all power, all strength, surrendered to impotence. No power. And no strength. Ladies and gentlemen, don't get me all riled up. Jesus could have called. Could he not? Hey, listen, Jesus, my Jesus could have called 10,000 angels, and he could have been set free. But he did not. There's a verse of scripture I want you to find. It's found in 1 Peter chapter number 2. And verse number 23. 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 23, who, when he was reviled, Reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. As if rejection from man was not painful enough, Jesus faced the silence of his father. During those dark hours before death? What does Mark 15:34 say that Jesus did? Did not Mark 15:34 say that Jesus cried out and said, My God, my God! Why hast thou forsaken me? He cried out. Isaiah wrote in Isaiah 53, verse 10, Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. A loving father turns his back on his only son. Any wonder why the cross is a stumbling block to so many people? Did it not say in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 18, for the preacher of the cross to them that perish is foolishness? The world thinks we're foolish. The world doesn't get it. You can't even expect them to. Because the preaching, what I'm doing right now, the preaching of the cross is foolishness to them. But ladies and gentlemen, it ought not be that way with the church, with the church, but unto us, unto us which are saved. The Bible said, it is, it is, it is the power of God. The preaching is the power of God. Wow. Everybody ought to be saying amen. Well, the long way, preacher, you're right. Preacher. Our church Churches are dying. The excitement about the word is dying. Programs are taking over. But bless God, it's still the preaching of the word. It says it right there. Look at First Corinthians one more time. For the preacher of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us. Which are saved. It's the power of God. Amen. Wow, what a God. The power of God for such a time as this. Roman numeral number one of my notes, I have it this way, power that comes from God The power to minister, to have a church. The power to be the kind of pastor, the youth pastor, music director. Financial person. The power to minister effectively and impact others for God comes from God. But he does not display that power as humans would display it. You know how we display the power, right? With God, there are no parades. We always have parades. Come on. We always brag about our military might. God has no military might. There's no headlines with God, no press, no flesh muscles Well, don't you like that? God has none of that. No. No fish, fish No threats? Well let's stop and think about it. How does God, how does God display his power? Well, if God doesn't do all that, there's no parade, preacher. You mean there's no big chindig? No. Well, how does God, ladies and gentlemen, display his power I want you to turn with me to set the scripture found in 2 Corinthians now. 2 Corinthians, if you will, please Chapter number four. Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter number 4, verse number 7, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels. Wow. Earthen vessels? I question mark that. Clay pots? Fragile? Are clay pots fragile? Can they be flawed? Well do you does everyone understand what the earth and vessel is? That earth and vessel is you and me. We are fragile. We get upset so easily. She didn't even shake my hand. I went to that church, that preacher preached way too loud for me. He's too energetic. My goodness, I couldn't even sleep Good. Well I mean, three pots. Fragile. Flawed, you and me, what a paradox. Why would God Why would God, ladies and gentlemen, come on, work with me here, why would God place this priceless treasure in me and in you, these earthen vessels? Why? Well, verse seven has the rest of the story Look at it. That the excellency of the power, whoo, there it is, may be of God and not of us It's not me. It's not the preacher. It's not Brother Gus. It's none of us. It's all about God. That's why he chose us. We're fragile. We're flawed. We're easily hurt. We're easily offended. But the excellency comes from God, like Mary's expensive ointment. Remember that expensive ointment in John chapter 3, chapter 12, verse 3? Then took Mary a pound of ointment. A spikered very costly and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. Wow. The aroma of Christ inside of our hearts cannot be experienced by others. Listen closely until it's poured out. Often God's way of pouring out that fragrance, who is to break us. The earthen vessel that holds it. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 4, now verse 8 and 9. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed We are perplexed but not in despair. Persecuted but not forsaken. Cast down but not destroyed. We are pressed at every point. But you know what? If the old devil presses us at every point, we're not hemmed in. Do you realize, do you understand that I can be persecuted by a man? I can be persecuted by a government, I can be persecuted by the devil himself, but I'm never, I'm never abandoned by God. Wow. That's powerful, preacher. I could be at have you ever said to yourself, I am simply at my wit's end. I am so sick and perplexed, I don't know what else to do. Listen, you could be at your wit's end, but you're never at your hope's end. Still hope. I preached a whole sermon one time on heavyweight Olympic boxing. My daddy was a golden glove, so I was out of box when we were kids. I want you to know something. You may get knocked down, but you'll never get knocked out. Not if you're with God. Hey, church, we could get knocked down, but we'll never get knocked out. They're not going to take our spirit, preacher. They're not going to take our enthusiasm for God. They're not going to take our salvations from us. No, sir. Oh, the old devil may knock us down now and again, and he may put a bump on us now and again But listen, we'll rise up again and we'll do something for God because we're never going to be knocked out. That's what those verses are talking about. That's not what we want, is it Actually, we don't want real battles. We don't want real bullets. We want life to be like a Disney World experience. I remember taking my little grandson, he was two years old when I took him to Disney World down in Florida. And my wife said, Now what are we going to do, honey? He's only two years old. I said, Oh, he'll love the pirates of the Caribbean. Let's go on the Pirates of the Caribbean. So it took A. J. , by the way, my grandson A. J. is an assistant pastor in Salina, Kansas, preaching the gospel. He has a fine youth group, he's a fine young man, fine preacher, about the same height I am. Not very tall, is he? Well we got on that Pirates of the Caribbean and it was uh such a neat little ride and I was holding him in I said, AJ, watch now, the cannons are gonna shoot. Well I knew the cannons wouldn't hit the boat And that's kind of like what Christians want. Let's go through life and, ooh, it did a thrill. Woo-hoo! The water splashed up. Ooh, we almost got us. Oh, look at this AJ. Oh, boom! Oh, ooh boy, we should. Wow. That's kind of what we want. We don't want real battles. We don't want real bullets. We want to ride along like on the Pirates of the Caribbean, going on that little water boat and things shooting at us, but nobody ever hitting us. But ladies and gentlemen, that's not real life. That's not real life at all. You see, we want to be glazed and polished. And displayed on a safe shelf. But God wants us to be a fragrant aroma for Christ. Look, if you will, one more time at 2 Corinthians. Now go to chapter 2. Look at chapter 2, verse 14, 15, and 16. Now thanks be unto God which always causes up to triumph in Christ. and maketh manifest the savor of his knowledge by us in every place. For we are unto God a sweet savor of Christ. In them that are saved and in them that perish. To the one we are the power of death and the life, and who is sufficient for these things For we are not as many which corrupt the Word of God, but as sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, speak we as in Christ. Wow. You see, it's so important for us to understand that we have to be taken off the shelf Poured out, and sometimes, my brother, even broken. Life is a war zone May I tell you, in my years of preaching and administrating, I have found out that life is real battles And real bullets and real blood. And a lot of my people in my church got sicknesses. Life sicknesses, terrible diseases, heartache, disappointment, car accidents, crippling accidents, crushing experiences. Tears and death. I remember one black time. It was so sad A young man who came to my church and got saved between his junior and senior year. And he was getting ready to go back to his senior year at the public high school. And he said to me, Pastor, could I talk to you? I said, certainly. He came into my office and he said, listen, I don't want to go back to the public school. I don't know if I can make living for God there. I I just have so much difficulty Could I come to your Christian school? I said, well certainly you could, but you want to finish your senior year at my school? Well, I'd love to, he said. And so we talked to his parents, and his parents said, okay. And he came. And he played flag football, and he played basketball, and he went soul-winning, and we really got saved And he really served the Lord. Then he graduated. It was a wonderful day. His whole family, because he came and got saved, his whole family got saved. Every I'm talking about his brothers, his sisters, his mom, his dad, all of his relations in that side of the family. He's a fine young man. A couple years after graduation, he met this young lady and she seemed to the church and she got saved. And they fell in love. And they soon married. And then they had their first child. They were so excited. She was getting ready to give birth. And we that Sunday night had prayed for them that everything would go well, not knowing anything was wrong. And then the black night came. And the baby was born, and I got a call. And CJ said, Pastor, could you come to the hospital? I said, sure. So what what how's the baby? Well, not so good. And the baby was born with all of its insides on the outside. And that I'm sorry. That young couple, I love 'em. They stood at that window. Preacher look at that little baby in tears. That's her first child. They're doing everything right. And that baby's not going to make it. I said, Preacher, you suppose God could heal our baby? I said, Oh, God can do anything I just don't know, CJ, if that's what God wants right now. We may have to walk through this valley. But I promise I'll be with you. I love you. I love your dear wife. Well, they operated and tried to put everything back in, and of course it didn't work. And that baby soon died, and we had a little coffin. That was one hard funeral for me. But you're telling these kids all their life, God's the answer, God's the answer. They surrender, giving things to God. Are you with me? And then their little baby dies such a terrible horrific death. CJ walked up to me. I can hardly tell these stories without this. I'm sorry. But it means so much to me. I'm a pastor. I love my people. He came up, put his arm around me. He's six foot three Put his arm around his head, preacher. Once you know that we love you. Thank you for helping us. I love you, son. I said, God's going to bless you. You just watch what I'm telling you. And God has blessed them amazingly since They have a number of other children. And they're faithful to God. Thank God. Life is no joy ride sometimes. You need to make sure people understand just because they come to God doesn't mean that everything's going to work out. What works out is your eternal salvation. Woo! Amen. That's what works out. But life is still tough. Now God does not put us through. I've had people ask me this before, preacher, why does God put us through all this stuff? Does God do that just to watch us squirm? Make us miserable? Does God do that to prove he's in charge? No All of it points back to Calvary and Jesus on the cross. All points back to salvation By second Roman numeral and I'll be finished after this. Well, a few minutes. The life that is in Jesus. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 2. Number 10. Second Corinthians 4. 10. As always buried about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body. Oh Experience of the life of Jesus Christ requires an acceptance of death. No abundant life without an abasing death. 2 Corinthians 4, verse 11. For we which live are always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh. Continually. What does Paul mean by death here? It includes the four experiences that we found in verse 8 and 9. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Just look at those again. I'll not mention them again. But when we accept these struggles, these are struggles in verse 8 and 9. As part of the process of releasing our fragrance, we are not destroyed. We understand what life's about. We're not destroyed then. Rather, his power is perfected in us. That's our weakness. For when we die, he what? When we die, he lives. When we lose, he wins. When we are weak, he is strong. Now you got it. When we are dependent, he is powerful. That's the beauty of the paradox. Delivered to death doesn't sound good, does it? But here is wisdom. We are constantly being delivered to the point of death so that God's message will come out. The people who watch us will realize there isn't anything significant about the vessel. It's what's inside that counts. They must have something else. Well that little preacher, he ain't much. How can he do so much? Can't be him. They're right. It's all him. No matter how big or how small you are, it's not about you. It's about him. And through the cracks Of your earthen vessel, you let your aroma out. People can say, wow, there's nothing about them that's any good, but wow, something's inside. That's what it's talking about. Wow. So when others see God's power perfected in us and performed in us, in our weakness, it dawns on them, maybe God could use them too. Let me ask you a question. Do you want to make an impact where you work? Where you go to church? Where you go to school At the office? At the factory? Do you want to touch your neighborhood? Then live out the dying message of the Lord Jesus Let it out. Don't hide the cracks in the clay. Let your humility show. It is it the cracks in the clay that allow people to see through and focus on the Lord. You'll be amazed. I'm amazed at how often God honors a weak, broken piece of clay. And seldom uses the fine china of our church membership. I've got some Christians in my church that are fine china But God never uses them. Then there's others who are just broken up pieces of pottery. God uses them all the time. Listen, listen, don't be satisfied saying, yeah, I I'm one of the deacons here. Yep, yep, sure am. Yep. I'm one of the big shots, you know. Did you go soul winning last week? Big shots went soul winning. Big shots were on the bus routes. Uh they went down to the homeless shelters. They went to the jails last week. Very seldom that God views of China. He uses the broken pieces of pottery. Three paradoxes that come from the story. When God displays his power, it flows through weakness When we model the death of Christ, others see his life. And when the cross is lifted high, even the arrogant are brought low. Not tonight, maybe some of you in this room are at a junction. Will you take the road to Calvary? Or you will take the off-ramp to Disney World Yeah, I want to be saved. I'll hop in the boat. I'll weigh battles, I'll weigh bullets. If I get the first battle, I'm I'm out of here. I'm I'm done. You're never gonna make it. There's battles to be fought. There's lives to win. There's teenagers to be saved. There's boys and girls who need God. Bus routes need to be run. Churches need to preach. We need to sing. We need to magnify God. We need to have to hold the bloodstained banner of Christ. Somebody's got to help us do it. Are you that one? We're at a junction. Strength and weakness, much for little. Remember that song? Little is much! When God is in it. Help me sing it. Here we go. Little is much when God is in it. Labor not for wealth or fame. There's a crowd, and you can win it if you go in Jesus' name Little is much. Preacher, I have got much to give to God. That's all right. He'll take whatever you give. And he'll make much out of it. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed The Holy Spirit's power, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be harnessed. His power cannot be used to accomplish anything other than the Father's will. I want you to know something. He is not a candy dispenser. He is not a vending machine. He's not a genie waiting for someone to rub his lamp just the right way. Ladies and gentlemen, my God, your God, is the Almighty Holy God. Are you ready to come to him this evening and say, God, through my cracks in my vessel, I want your greatness to be seen. I am flawed. I am human. I am fragile. I understand all that. God, I need you to touch my life tonight. I want you to stand with me, please, as I read the verse of Scripture. The verse of Scripture is found in the book of Acts. I love this verse. Listen to it entirely, please. Is Jesus talking he has the power for such a time as this? I've already said that over and over again. But look what he wants us to do in verse 16 and 18 of Acts 26. But rise and stand upon thy feet. For I have appeared unto thee for this purpose to make thee a minister, and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee. To open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the path of Satan unto God That they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. God That's what I want to do. I want to open their eyes, God. I want to turn them from darkness to light. From the power of Satan Unto God. Church, I know that's what you want. I know it. But how many of you would voluntarily come tonight to be at this altar And say, God, even though I've been at the altar many, many times, God, I'm coming to this altar tonight to ask you one more time to touch my life and make me an anointed witness. For God. Father, speak to us. Draw us, please, to this altar. Help us to come, yielding ourselves to be a mighty vessel used for God God, you've given a power to us for such a time as this