John chapter 14. There we go. John chapter 14 this morning to uh begin, kind of introduce our topic, and then we'll go into a study in the Word of God this morning. Uh if you do not have uh notes, there are some that are available on the back table and I'll believe they I believe they'll be helpful this morning as we cover The material we're looking at. We're a little hot on the mic here. Alright, well we're going to be looking today at a little bit of a study on the Holy Spirit. Today Today, as I was planning for this lesson and was looking at it a couple weeks ago, picking out topics for the for the weeks that are coming. Uh this one I had uh we had looked at a little bit in our discipleship class. I thought this would you know this would be a really good topic to study together uh with the church family in Sunday school, rightly dividing this idea of the Holy Spirit and was going to be very A very simple lesson to look at, but then I got got to working on it. But why don't we read our verse, our text verse this morning, John chapter 14? John chapter fourteen verses sixteen through seventeen, kinda in introduction, and we'll talk about our lesson for this morning. So John fourteen, verse sixteen, there the Bible says And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever, even the Spirit of Truth. whom the Lord cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and it shall be in you. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord, we love you Lord, I pray you'd help me as I uh convey these thoughts this morning, that it would come through clearly with the understanding of your word, that we'd be edified this morning as we study the Bible together, Lord. We ask that you bless this day as we enjoy time in your house together. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So the context here of what's going on in the book of John, Jesus is preparing the disciples for his death and his departure. He has been with them for several years now. He's been teaching them, uh living with them, uh they've been saying together, they've been eating together, they've been fellowshipping, they've been studying together, ministering together, but Jesus is going to go to the cross And then he's going to go back to the Father and leave the disciples, and he's getting them ready for that event. He's preparing them for um his departure. They don't even realize what he's doing as he's working to get them ready. But here in his chapters in John, he's really going to start laying some groundwork and telling them, look, I'm going to leave. And he tells them that in the first couple verses of John chapter 14. I'm going to go and I'm going to prepare a place for you. And if I go, I'll come again. And he says here in these verses, but when I go, I'm not going to leave you alone. You're not going to be by yourself. You're going to have a comforter that is going to come alongside of you and he's going to stay with you. He's going to be with you. He's going to be in you. And uh and you're going to have his presence and he's going to be taking my place instead of the physical presence of Jesus on earth with them, they were going to have the presence of the Holy Spirit with them. And so Jesus is giving this promise of the Holy Spirit in connection to his departure. So as I was planning for this lesson, I was going to do a division, rightly dividing, between the indwelling and the filling of the Holy Spirit, a important principle that we need to understand. As believers, we were going to look at his person, some misconceptions misconceptions regarding the Holy Spirit, and then we're going to look at a division between the indwelling and the feet the filling of the Holy Spirit Now I've studied and preached and taught these topics enough that I could just give an impromptu message on the Holy Spirit 45 minutes and and share with you those principles from the Word of God, but as a pastor that's not my job to just take some information and impromptu and throw it out there. So as I began to study, to sow m show myself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth, I was reading on this topic and studying on this topic and And this misconception kept popping up about the Holy Spirit, or this topic kept popping up about the Holy Spirit that good men disagreed on. And then as I looked more into it, I saw that this is a a topic that some cults had hijacked and and run away with and were were making claims about. So I got into this a little bit more, studying a little bit more, and realized that this is a lot bigger than I was planning on it on it being, so we're shifting from kind of looking at just the idea of the work of the Holy Spirit life of a believer, we're going to talk about rightly dividing between the baptism of the Holy Spirit, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, and the filling of the Holy Spirit. So halfway through my study the whole shift whole whole idea of science will change. So we're going to jump right to page number four. In the notes, say goodbye to pages one through three. Maybe they'll be seen again, maybe not, but we're going to start with the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Anybody ever heard this term used before? Baptism of the Holy Spirit. Alright? It's a term that is there. It's a term that That is almost biblical. And there's a lot of ideas about what this means and a lot of confusion surrounding the idea of being baptized by the Spirit. Some people treat this idea of baptism of the Holy Spirit as it's an experience that you're supposed to seek after as a Christian. You're supposed to try to be baptized. You're supposed to wait to be baptized. You're supposed to be pursuing being baptized of the Holy Spirit. Those who promote this experience often connect it with the sign gifts as evidence of the experience. Pentecostal charismatic is where this is going to show up a lot. You're pursuing this idea of trying to get the this experience of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. And when you get that experience, it'll be evident in your life because you'll be able to do miracles, speak in tongues. and have these other outward expressions. So that's one extreme of what is being taught in regard to being baptized by the Spirit. There's also some that teach a little bit more conservative interpretation, is they teach that it is tied to our salvation. by which we are baptized by the Holy Ghost into the universal Church of God, which also, if you understand Bible principles, is is also wrong. Neither one of those are proper understanding of this idea. They're both wrong interpretations of Scripture. So we have these two extremes and and those are are primarily the options. If you go look at the baptism of the Holy Spirit, either it's this experience where you speak in tongues and do miracles, or it is this idea of you are baptized by the Holy Spirit in a spiritual into the universal invisible church of God. And that's kind of the information that's out there. Neither one are biblical, so we've got to go to the Bible and see what the Bible says about this topic to be able to understand it biblically The idea of the baptism of the Holy Spirit is actually only mentioned six times in the Bible. And as we look at these six times, you'll see a pattern or a consistency to this expression or this term of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. There are some references, and we'll look at those that people claim refer to this baptism, but these references do not. Four times it is said by John the Baptist that he baptized with water, but Jesus shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. So in Matthew, talking about John the Baptist, he said, I baptize you with water, but he that cometh after me will baptize you with the Holy Ghost. And then in Mark, John the Baptist said, I baptize you with water, he that cometh after me, whose shoe I am not worthy to lose. He will baptize you with the Holy Ghost. And in Luke, John the Baptist, you see the pattern here? This is one person said one thing, and it is quoted four times. So those are four of the six references. Then the next reference we have to the baptism with the Holy Spirit is in the book of Acts, Acts chapter 1, verse number 5. Jesus says, For John, truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence. So John the Baptist said it four times. Jesus referenced John the Baptist saying it, and then we go to the book of Acts, chapter 11, and verse number 16. This is Peter quoting Jesus, referencing John the Baptist. And Peter it says there then remembered I, Peter talking, the word of the Lord, how that he said, John indeed baptized with water, and ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost. So all six references to baptism of the Holy Ghost are all really one idea that John talked about how his baptism was with water, but Jesus Was going to baptize with the Holy Ghost. And when we look at these passages in their context, there's some principles that we can learn to help us understand what this is. What is the baptism of the Holy Spirit? First principle we learn is that the Holy Spirit was not going to baptize anyone. In every reference, it says, I baptize with water, but Jesus will baptize you with the Holy Ghost. The Holy Spirit was the medium of the baptism, not the person of the baptism. Yet those who claim these two doctrines, or these two false doctrines we mentioned at the beginning, both claim the Holy Spirit is the one doing the baptizing. That's not what the Bible says The Bible says that Jesus would baptize them with the Holy Ghost. So the first thing we learn is the Holy Spirit is not baptizing anyone according to these verses. And so that blows those two false doctrines out of the water right away. So we have also this that so we have first of all the idea of the Holy Spirit not going to baptize anyone. Then these also these verses are pointing to an event. When Jesus, oh John says, I'm doing this right now, when Jesus comes, he's going to baptize with the Holy Ghost. When Jesus referenced that idea in Acts chapter 1. Verse number five, he said there, John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. In a few days, not too far away, this is going to happen. So it's pointing to an event. Now when we go to later in Acts chapter 11, Peter says, I remembered what happened to us at the beginning and what Jesus said about that event that I bat John baptized me in water, but I'll baptize you with the Holy Ghost. Four are prophetic by John. One is referenced by Jesus saying, hey, in a couple days this is going to happen. And then one is referenced by Peter. I remember when this happened. So this is a timeline all pointing back to a historic event. So these point to an event. It is not the Holy Spirit doing the baptizing. And we see that also the promise of the baptism of the Holy Ghost is connected, or the prophecy of the baptism with the Holy Ghost is connected to the promise of the Father. When you go to Acts 1, verses 5, where Jesus references, it's important to back up and see what he says in the verse previous, verse number 4. Verse 4 says, and being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father. Which he s which which referring to the promise of the Father saith he, Ye've heard of me. You've heard this promise of the Father from me, for John truly baptized with water. But Ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence. There's a promise of the Father. You've heard the promise of the Father from me Here's the promise of the Father, just like John baptized water, you will be baptized with the Holy Ghost not too many days from now. So it's a connection to the promise of the Father. So what is the promise of the Father? That's back in John chapter 14. The promise of the Father is that he will send another comforter. John 14, 26 says. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. Alright, so we're going through this these verses. What are some things we learn about that's not the Holy Spirit baptizing? It is pointing to an event. It is a con in connection to the promise of the Father, which is the sending of the Holy Spirit And we see also that the baptism of the Holy Spirit was a visible event fulfilling God's promise of the Spirit to indwell believers. And we see that this prophecy was primarily fulfilled on the day of Pentecost. Here on the day of Pentecost, Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit visibly indwelt existing believers that were waiting for his presence. This is the event that is the prophesied baptism of the Holy Spirit. An event where the Holy Spirit would be put on the the people, Christians who were already saved, that were waiting for the promise of the Father, not many days after Jesus um Jesus made the prophecy in Acts chapter 1 verse number 5 which Peter referenced in chapter 11 we said I remember how it was on the uh with us on the beginning when the Holy Ghost came and how Jesus said and quoted this idea of the baptism with the Holy Spirit. So this is a in connection to a visible indwelling of the Holy Spirit that took place on a historic event on the day of Pentecost. Is that all making sense so far? I know we jumped right into real deep. Not a lot of intro, not a lot of buildup to what we're talking about. Alright? So this is this is what we're understanding from these verses biblically rightly dividing and we see clearly that the main ideas that are out there don't fit the biblical narrative of of what's going on. And we'll talk about those a little bit more When we look at the book of Acts, though, we see this visible indwelling take place a few more times in the book of Acts, not just with the group at Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost. There are three other times this happens, that the Holy Spirit visibly indwelt a group of believers, and in each of those three times it's called the receiving of the Holy Spirit, the receiving of the Holy Ghost. In Acts chapter 8, verse number 15, let's go ahead and go there together. Acts chapter 8, verse number 15. This is foundational too as we're going to talk about the indwelling of the Holy Spirit because this is something that's taught that people would say, well, well you have to you get saved and then you get the Holy Spirit. You look at this instance in in the book of Acts This people got saved and then they had to receive the Holy Ghost. So we want to understand what's going on here. Acts chapter 8, verse number 15. who, when they were come down, prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Ghost. So there is a a prayer that takes place and this group of people that were saved received the Holy Ghost. Now, I'd like to point out, let me look at it real quick here. Verse number fourteen. When the apostles, which were at Jerusalem, heard that Samaria had received the Word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John I'll explain this a little bit more in a minute, but notice the apostles were there, and it was a group from Samaria that were saved, and then they had a visible reception of the Holy Ghost. So that's some things we learn about with this group. Alright, let's look at the next group. Acts chapter ten, verse number forty seven. Acts chapter ten, verse number forty-seven. This is when Peter is preaching to Cornelius. Verse number forty seven Can any man forbid water that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we So Peter is there, an apostle, who is preaching to a Gentile group that gets saved. So a group of Gentiles are saved. The apostle is present, and there is a visible receiving of the Holy Spirit. Alright? The last w last time that this happens in the Bible is in Acts chapter seven chapter 19. Acts chapter 19 Acts chapter 11 is Peter referencing the event that happened in chapter ten. Acts chapter 19, verse number two Paul an apostle is here with a group of Jewish people who were believing in the baptism of John. For their salvation, he said unto them, Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? And they said to them, We have not so much as heard if there be any Holy Ghost. He said unto them, What then unto what then were ye baptized? They said unto John's baptism. Then John said, John then Paul then said Paul, John barely baptized with the baptism of repentance saying unto the people that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is Jesus Christ. He said, You need to believe on Jesus Christ. And we see these people respond to that, and then they're baptized, then they receive the Holy Ghost. But we have an apostle present. We have a Professing Jewish believers who are then saved and visibly receive the Holy Ghost. We understand that that Um in a couple of these instances, two of these instances, there were a sign gift that accompanied the receiving of the Holy Spirit that would be speaking in tongues. That took place in two of these instances. Now, signs in the Bible are for which people? For what people who who require a sign? The Jews. The Jews require a sign. There is a sign sent from God to the Jews and particularly to the apostles. We see Peter talking to the apostles about this, saying, Look, I saw Gentiles saved. I saw them receive the Holy Ghost. They can get saved the same way we get saved. God was opening the gospel to the apostles saying, Look, I'm not just saving you, I'm also saving those in Samaria. And I'm not just saving those in Samaria, I'm saving those in the uttermost parts of the earth. And we come back to Jews who profess to believe that don't know the truth about Jesus Christ, they can get saved. And when they get saved for real, they get the Holy Spirit These visible indwelling of the Holy Spirit was a sign to these apostles that these people had truly gotten saved in these other groups outside of Jerusalem. Kind of reminds me of a verse in Acts chapter 1 where it says, You shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and Judea and in Samaria. and in the uttermost parts of the earth that just got just was opening the gospel to the apostles saying, Look, people at Jerusalem got saved, you saw them filled with the Holy Ghost. People in Samaria They got the gospel, you saw them filled with the Holy Ghost. People that were Gentiles got saved, you saw them filled with the Holy Ghost. God was using this sign to show the apostles that he had opened the gospel to the people besides just the Jews. And so this badge of the Holy Spirit took place on the day of Pentecost, and then there were three instances where specific groups were saved and they received the public the Holy Ghost in a public manner to show the apostles as a sign that God had opened the gospel to to the rest of the world. And that is what we see as these things take place, the ri visible reception of the of the Holy Ghost. Outside of these four instances of a visible receiving of the Holy Spirit, the rest of the Bible points to out the fact that the Holy Spirit is received at the moment of salvation. There are thousands of people who are saved in the book of Acts. Four times there was a visible reception of the Holy Ghost. And so to take that and extrapolate that to every believer, these were signs given to the Jewish uh to the Jewish apostles that God had opened the gospel to the rest of the world, the baptism of the Holy Spirit. From the context of the Bible points to that event on uh on the day of Pentecost. And then there were visible receivings of the Holy Spirit with certain people after that. Everybody still with me? Yes. All right, very good. Let's go to a First Corinthians chapter twelve. First Corinthians chapter twelve. This is the proof text. Proof text, you've got to be careful when you hear that that phrase, proof text. Uh for those who teach that the baptism of the Holy Spirit is the Holy Ghost. baptizing you into the universal church of God. They use this verse to teach that. So we're going to look at this verse and see what it actually is talking about. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse number 13. For by one spirit are we all baptized into one body. Whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have all been made to drink into one Spirit. See right there. Bible teaches that we are baptized by the Holy Spirit into the universal church. This is where it's important for us to be able to rightly divide the Word of God. So look, understanding the Bible in context, does the baptism of the Holy Spirit refer to the Holy Spirit baptizing anyone? Is the Holy Spirit baptizing when we see that? No. He was people who were baptized with the Holy Spirit. Okay? Was being baptized with the Holy Ghost an ongoing event throughout the Bible and throughout history. No, it was an event that took place on the day of Pentecost, a prop prophesied event, and there were the three other instances of public reception of the Holy Ghost These three are in the midst of thousands that were saved in the book of Acts. Is the body of Christ a universal, invisible church? No, it's not. He explains this in chapter 12 of 1 Corinthians. Look at verse number 27. Now ye, who's he talking to? The church at Corinth. People at Corinth. Ye are what? Ye are part of the universal body of Christ invisible and you don't know it doesn't say that. Ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. You at Corinth, you as a group, you as a local church, you're the body of Christ You do have members in particular. Hunt Valley Baptist Church, you are the body of Christ. And we have members in particular. We have younger members, we have older members, we have members that are newly saved, we have members that have been saved a long time, we have members that can have a lot of musical ability, we have members that have have uh speaking ability, we have members that can work with children, we have members that can work on vehicles. We got members in particular, but ye are the body of Christ. So he points out in this chapter, there is one body of Christ as this local church. You're the body of Christ, and you have members in particular. He's talking about a local church here, not a universal church. So what does this verse teach then? We understand those principles. What does this verse teach us? In 1 Corinthians, the book, the topic that Paul tries to get across, and one of the topics he's trying to get across, is unity Especially in doctrine. This is a church that had divisions, they had schisms, they had members fighting against one another, they had members that were suing each other at law, they had members that said, I'm of Apollos, and I'm of Christ, the nine of Paul. A lot of division, and he's stressing unity. In the beginning of chapter 12, he is teaching that there is one spirit that has div given different gifts Teaching unity in doctrine here, as these people were claiming these different spiritual gifts, and we know from our study on gifts that there was a lot of confusion in the church at Corinth about spiritual gifts. But if you notice in chapter in chapter twelve, verse number four, he says there, these are diversities of gift, but the same spirit. There's one spirit. Look at verse number eight, he says For by giving the Spirit the word of wisdom by the to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit. Verse number nine The end of the verse, healing by the same spirit. Verse number 11. These things work at that one and self-same spirit. There is one spirit of God. He's stressing this fact, stressing this fact, stressing this fact And we get to verse number 13, for by one spirit. So he's talking about one spirit, and he's teaching this principle to them, this doctrine to them. In the next part of chapter 12, he's teaching that the church, they as a church are one body. We see it referenced again and again and again. You are one body, you are the body. There is the whole body, you are one body, you are one church, you're one Unity. He's stressing this. There's one spirit, you're part of one body, the church there at Corinth. So these are the emphasis that he's making. And in verse number 13, as he shifts from talking about the spirit, to talk about the body, he's saying it's by that one spirit you've been made a part of this one body. What was the spirit's involvement? Chapter 12, verse number 4. Verse number three. The end of verse number three. That no man can say that Jesus the end of the verse, no man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by the Holy Ghost. It's by the Holy Ghost that you recognize Jesus as yours. By the Holy Ghost, salvation takes place. By one Spirit, you've been saved It's the work of the Holy Spirit in life of a person that brings them to the point of salvation, and he's involved in the process of salvation regeneration. He said by one church, one spirit. The spirit got got you saved. Then there's the one body. What's the one body? That local church So how does someone become a member of a local church? They're saved, they're baptized, and they're added to the church. Saved through the work of the Holy Spirit, baptized as an ordinance of a local church, and then they join themselves to a local body of believers. He's talking about church membership in verse number 13. One spirit, you were saved, then you were baptized, and then you were brought into this one body. You became a member. Saved, baptized, added to the church in verse number 13. And here's kind of the clincher of this sort of wrap up this idea of being of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Ephesians chapter four. Ephesians chapter four Okay, we could have started here and just skipped all the rest of it. This one's pretty easy to understand. One Lord, one faith, two baptisms. No, no, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. Well, what baptism was given to the church? Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I've commanded you. Based on the clear teaching of Scripture, you have one baptism Is that to be a physical baptism with water as an ordinance of a local church? Or is it a spiritual baptism by the Holy Spirit into the universal invisible church accompanied by speaking in tongues? One baptism that's been given to the church, and that's the the the ordinance of water baptism, which is the only kind of baptism. The baptism with the Holy Spirit is pointing to the historic event that took place on the day of Pentecost. So a lot of understanding of the Bible principles to get us to this point to understand. But as I was studying, there's a lot of confusion. uh on this topic. And and some of it sounds good when somebody reads that verse in 1 Corinthians 12 and said, look, the Holy Spirit baptized you into the whole body of Christ and Some of it sounds good on the surface, but we look at the Bible and see what the Bible says, and the Bible has the answer for us. Praise the Lord for that. So we understand here in the Bible what the baptism with the Holy Spirit is It was an event that took place on the day of Pentecost that ushered in the next point that we're going to look at, and that's the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. The indwelling of the Holy Spirit. See, prior to the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit didn't dwell within believers. But after God gave the Holy Spirit, and according to his promise, at the baptism of the Holy, uh with the Holy Ghost, on the day of Pentecost, Then from that point on, when somebody gets saved, the Holy Spirit takes up residence in their life. The Holy Spirit dwells within all believers. This is stated clearly in Scripture. Romans chapter eight, verse number nine says, If so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Verse eleven of chapter eight, if the Spirit of God of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you. First Corinthians six Verse number 19, your body is the temple, the Holy Ghost, which is in you. 2 Timothy 1, verse number 14, the Holy Ghost dwelleth There's lots of other verses we could reference, but the Bible clearly states, talking to believers, the Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit dwells in you as a believer. We see also that the indwelling of the Holy Spirit is a gift from God. A gift is something without merit. It's not something that you earn. It's not something that you struggle for until one day God gives it to you because you've been good enough or you've prayed long enough or you've stressed hard enough. No, it's a gift from God. We see that described for us in Acts chapter 11. It's also tied with the other gift that we've been given in salvation. If you have the gift of salvation, you have the gift of the indwelling Spirit of God Romans 5, verse number 5 says, The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us It's a gift. God gave us the Holy Ghost. Now, Romans chapter 5 here that we're with this verse is in the middle of, what's the context? Verse number 1 says that you are justified by faith. We are justified by faith in verse number one. Verse number eight, God commendeth his love toward us while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. In the context of salvation, where the love of God is expressed. That love of God is spread in our hearts by the gift of the Holy Ghost, so it's tied there. This gift of the Holy Ghost is tied there to our salvation. Here's another important principle about this understanding that the Holy Spirit is in you as a believer If you do not have the Holy Ghost, if you do not have the Holy Spirit, you are not saved. Romans chapter 8, verse number 9. We looked at part of this verse already, but it says, but ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now, if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. If you don't have the Holy Spirit, you don't belong to Christ. Very simple, very clear. So if you do have the Holy Spirit, you are a Christian. If you are a Christian, you have the Holy Spirit. This gets us to basic algebra. A equals B B equals C. We get all that understanding that if you are saved, you have the Holy Spirit. He dwells within you. And the Holy Spirit continues to dwell within believers even when they sin. He doesn't leave you. 1 Corinthians 6. 19, your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you. Very clear Your body is the temple, Holy Ghost, that He's in you. There's a kind of a neat study that you could do on on things that God filled with His presence And there were four of them are called temples that he filled with his presence, and we're one of those. And side side study you can look at look at on your own. But the Holy Spirit is in you, you're the temple of God, and this is in which book? 1 Corinthians. First Corinthians, outstanding Christians, like top-tier mature spiritual people, right? No, carnal, carnal, sinful, all kind of wickedness going on in that church, but what does he say? The Holy Spirit's in you You're by the temple of the Holy Ghost. The context of chapter six is talking about fornication. And he says, You're the Holy Spirit's in you. Don't do this kind of stuff because God lives within you. God the Spirit of God lives in you. So even when you're even when you sin, you don't lose the Holy Spirit because he indwells in dwells believers and he's not going to uh leave you. This has some context that we could look at when I got time to this morning, but uh on why the rapture is true, because there's a talking about when the Holy Spirit leaves the earth. And if he's not Come out of me. If he's going, I'm going with him. We're going to see that that too. So the Holy Spirit dwells within all believers. When did this happen? When did the Holy Ghost begin to indwell believers? Well, we see in the Bible that he did not indwell those in the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, the Spirit of God would come upon men and women for certain tasks. He would empower them to do something for him. His presence would come and go. We see in the book of Judges, Samson, that the Spirit of God came on him in um chapter thirteen. Chapter sixteen it says he wished not that the Lord had departed from him. So that the Spirit of God came and left. We see the Spirit of God in the life of Saul, and how God was anointed with the Holy Ghost and he prophesied with the prophets. And we see Spirit was taken taken away. We see that in David's life. In Psalm 51, he prayed, Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. So this the idea in the Old Testament that the Holy Spirit would come on men and women to give them power to do a task, and then his presence would come and go. He did not indwell the apostles during Jesus' earthly ministry. We started with this verse in John chapter 14. Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you. And shall be in you. They knew the Holy Spirit, they knew his power, they'd seen his work, but he said, You know him, he's dwelling with you. But he's going to be in you. He shall be with you, pointing to a future event that was going to take place when the Holy Spirit would come and indwell believers. So the apostles, while Jesus was on earth with them, they did not have the Spirit of God dwelling within them. The indwelling of believers was initiated at the day of Pentecost. So the Holy Spirit indwells believers from the moment that they are saved. Ephesians chapter 1, verse number 13. You should probably still be in Ephesians. I didn't turn away from there, so I don't know if you did. But Ephesians chapter 1, verse number 13. In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. So what's being laid out here? Salvation is being described. You heard the word of truth, you trusted, and you believed the gospel of your salvation, you were sealed with the Holy Ghost. You heard the Word of God, you heard the gospel, you received the gospel, you believed it, and you were sealed with the Holy Ghost. That we see the pattern in the Bible is hearing the gospel receiving the gospel, being saved, and then you're sealed with the Holy Ghost. That you get the Holy Spirit in dwell as a believer from the moment of your salvation. And once the Holy Spirit indwells you as a believer, he begins to do his work in the life of every believer once they are saved. We don't have time. This is pages 1 through 3, all the Holy Spirit does for the believer. But he is interested in being involved in every aspect in every part of your life. And that's where we get to our next point, is the filling of the Holy Spirit. We saw what the baptism of the Holy Spirit is. We see the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. If you're saved today, the Holy Spirit dwells within you. And he wants to fill you. So what does this mean? There's a difference between the indwelling and the filling of the Holy Spirit. The indwelling of the Holy Spirit takes place at salvation. The filling of the Holy Spirit is a step of obedience that will take place many times in the life of a believer. Peter is said to be filled with the Holy Ghost three separate times in Acts chapter 2 and Acts chapter 4. Once in chapter two, twice in chapter four, Peter is said to have been filled with the Holy Ghost. And so he he was filled, and then he needed to be filled, and then he needed to be filled. These were steps of obedience taking place in his life and we'll we'll describe that here as we study this this this idea. So first of all when it comes to the filling of the Holy Spirit, we understand that there is a command. There's a command from God to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Something God wants you to do, something God has told you to do. We see that in Ephesians chapter 5. You're right there, Ephesians chapter 5, verse number 18. And be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. There's been a command there to be filled with the Spirit of God. We've talked about this before, but being filled with the Spirit is not a matter of getting more of the Holy Spirit. It's a matter of yielding more of yourself to his authority. and to his influence. Holy Spirit's uh a person. He's not an energy. He's not a force. Again, pages one through three, um, but we've heard this before, been taught this before. He's a person. You get all the Holy Spirit, but the question is how much does the Holy Spirit give of you? I like to illustrate it this way. If you go to the home of a lady that's been in her home for for many decades, she's raised children in that home, you go in the house, you know, doesn't matter where you go in the house, you see her influence. You see her touch. You see what she's done. You've seen how she's impacted that room. The guest room, the spare room, the attic, the basement, the closets, the no matter where you go, you see that that mother's touch Her presence has filled that house. Because why? Because it's her house. She can go anywhere she wants. She can do anything she wants. She can buy anything she wants, and she can put it up anywhere she wants. Her presence has filled that house. Now you take that same mother as she gets older and she can't be on her own anymore, she's put into a nursing home. When you walk into that home, you don't get to see her influence Everything's polished, everything's white. People are walking around that aren't familiar. There's no pictures on the wall, there's no grandkids' photos anywhere when you walk in that room. Until you get to her room where she's been given a little bit of authority And then you can see her effect. You can see her presence. You can see where she's filled that room. Holy Spirit's that way in our lives. Sometimes we take him and we say, okay, you get this room. And when we come to this room of our life, we can say, Oh yeah, I see what God's what Spirit's done here. But I don't see anywhere he's touched over here. Until you say, okay, the whole house is yours You haven't been filled with the Spirit. Because his impact needs to be seen in every aspect, in every closet, in every cupboard of your life. That's when you've been filled with the Holy Spirit. And this is a process of growth because I don't think Peter went into sin in chapter two and had to be filled with the Holy Spirit again, then went into sin. I think He said, God, you have every part of my life. And God stretched him. And he had to do things he wasn't comfortable with. And then he had to do it again. And so, okay, are you still yielded to me? All right, God. You can have this area too. And so he filled a little bit more of Peter's life. And Peter said, okay, God's got everything. And then God went around Peter's life and said, Hey, we haven't been in this closet yet. Can I go in here? Go ahead. And then the presence of God filled it's a steps of obedience. You continue to let God have more and more control of your life, and you're filled with the Holy Ghost, and He starts to make those touches and changes and impacts The problem comes we're not filled with the Holy Spirit when we say, okay, you can't have this part of my life. You can't have my entertainment. You can't have my music. You can't have my um my what I what I choose to spend my free time with. You can't have my mouth. You can't have my thoughts. You can't have you get Sunday, but I get Monday. When you start shutting doors in your life, the Holy Spirit's starting to be confined to his room. That's not being filled with the Holy Spirit. He's still there. But you said you only get Sunday mornings. You only get Sunday and Thursday. The rest is mine. You're not filled with the Holy Spirit. His presence isn't going to be touching every area of your life. So this is the command to be filled. Let the Holy Spirit have complete access and complete authority in your life. Why should we want to be filled? What's the reason? Well, it is through the filling of the Holy Spirit that we can have victory over sin. In Galatians chapter 5, a great topic in chapters 5 and 6 on being filled with the Spirit, we see, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You know why you have trouble in your life? Let's go back to the illustration of a home. And you've locked the Holy Spirit in his room. And then the devil comes beaten on the front door, and he wants to bring temptation into your life, and you're there at the front door trying to hold him back, and and he gets a victory in your life, and you say, Holy Spirit, where were you? Where you left me? Where you locked me in? Where you said you said I couldn't be involved in your mouth. That's why you keep having problems with your mouth. You said I couldn't be involved in your work situation. That's why you keep having problems at work. Because you shut me out of that part of your life And so the um we want to be filled with the Holy Spirit because he'll give us victory over sin. We should also desire to be filled with the Holy Spirit because it is through the Holy Spirit we produce fruit as a Christian. Same thing in chapter 5 of Galatians, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. You want this to be part of your life? Well the Holy Spirit has to have control, has to have access to every part of your life. It's through the filling of the Holy Spirit we have victory over sin. It's through his filling that we produce fruit. And it's through the filling of the Holy Spirit we have power for service. And you continue with this idea in Galatians. In chapter 6, he says, but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting Let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them that who are of the household of faith. So the Holy Spirit empowers you for the work he wants you to do Acts chapter 4, verse 31, when they had prayed, the place was shaken, where they were assembled together. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. They were able to go and serve God, do what God wanted to do through the power of the Holy Spirit. When the Holy Spirit fills your life, you're going to have the boldness to be a witness. You're going to have the ability to serve God, not in your own strength. Because we know when we work in our own strength, nothing happens. It's God that gives the increase. It's God that changes people. And we try to do it ourselves, uh, it's not going to get done. So the Holy Spirit has to fill us. We have to have give him authority over every part of our life for us to be profitable, for us to have power for service. What keeps Christians from being filled by the Holy Ghost? Well they don't want to be. I don't want God to mess with this part of my life. I enjoy this thing in my life. God doesn't get to come into this room. And so we we treat God as a guest instead of as a member of the household. And He's limited in certain parts of our life. They've limited what He's allowed to influence. They've quenched the Spirit. We see this in 1 Thessalonians 5. When you refuse to obey his direction, you limit his work in your life. Because he'll come in your life and he'll say, hey, let's go into this room. We can clean it up. You say no. Slam the door. Well he's not going to come knock on that door in a little while for a little while. You've clenched him. You've said no. You've shut him off And and you've limited his influence that way. So quenching the Holy Spirit, grieving the Holy Spirit in Ephesians chapter 4, the Holy Spirit is grieved by unconfessed sin in the life of the believer. You can't lose his indwelling, but you can lose his influence. So how do we be filled with the Holy Spirit? We have to be clean. We have to stay right with God. Deal with sin in our life. We have to be consecrated. Say, God, you get all of me. And we have to be compliant. When He says do this, we say yes, sir. We be obedient to the Lord and the Holy Spirit will stay will stay filled. And as we go forward in our life, just like Peter, we can have another Well, I was filled. And then God said, Hey, what about this? And I get to be filled a little bit more as I grow and his influence grows in my life The filling of the Holy Spirit, something we should be should be seeking to have, not as an experience, but as a step of obedience