Book of Luke, uh chapter number thirteen. Luke chapter thirteen This parable is found both in Matthew and in Luke. As I studied this, I referenced and looked at, of course, both both passages of Scripture and kind of go back and forth. They're obviously very, very similar in their presentation. It's interesting to me that they're both found in chapter number thirteen. Uh Luke chapter thirteen and in Matthew chapter thirteen. But in Luke chapter 13, verse number 20 and 21, a short, very short parable here, but uh he says, it is like leaven. I'm sorry back. And again he said, Where unto shall I liken the kingdom of God? So Christ's teaching and he says It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. This three measures of meal. So here is the parable of the leaven, the cooks, the cook's leaven and the kingdom of heaven, somebody called it. Not m uh title that I gave it, but uh one that I came across that was uh interesting, the Cook's Leaven and the Kingdom of Heaven. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless us. We teach through this. Lord, we thank you for today and the opportunity to uh look into your word. We ask you, God, that you would speak to our hearts, that you would open this parable to us, give us understanding, and uh help us to glean from it what we need for today, for our lives personally. As a church and as individuals, Lord, and we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. So this parable that's found both in Matthew and Luke. One is uh It gives us a glimpse into the kingdom of God. Only twenty words in the book of Luke, twenty-four words in the book of Matthew, yet the discussions that have been stirred are vast and as grand as the largest encyclopedia. This is a very widely debated uh Uh parable. Of all the parables, I mean many of them are debated as to what things stand for, but when we don't have Christ's exact interpretation When Christ sometimes gives us the definition and the meaning of the parable, then it's open to interpretation. And so this for some reason this parable is very widely debated. And we'll look at that as we go on. But Christ was trying to reveal the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven to his disciples. In an effort to explain this mystery, many have only succeeded in confusing it When any parable is interpreted wrong, false doctrine, false teaching ends up being the result. A number of false beliefs are propagated concerning this parable of 11. Our goal today is to biblically interpret and to practically apply this powerful parable, the Cooksleaven and the Kingdom of Heaven. So here in the the telling of the parable, as far as context-wise, uh the parable in we read in Luke, but in Matthew is found in the middle of the parables on the kingdom, the the mystery parables, chapter number thirteen, where all of those things are listed. The mystery parables are given to us and God explaining in teaching the pe his people, the disciples and those that were there listening about the kingdom of heaven and what it is like and uh what it's going to be like and what his plans are. You see the kingdom of heaven was not revealed in the Old Testament. The Old Testament saints, that's why they wanted God to come up and to set up his kingdom right then and to be there. And they they expected that. They didn't see the church age. And uh so he was teaching them about the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God, uh in as it states in the book of Matthew. The kingdom of God is a phrase that is unique to the book of Matthew. No other book describes it as the kingdom of God. You'll see here in Luke it was said as the kingdom of heaven. is like unto. And uh in the book of Matthew it is the kingdom of God is the words that are used there. And then you have the characters, uh you have the leaven, the woman, the three measures of meal. And the the the meal there, the three measures, there's a lot of debate as to why that was included, why is three measures meal and not just meal or or a larger number of measures of Mioba Y is three, a number that was given to us there, and we'll want to look at that. So the truth of this parable This is a picture of what happens uh to the Word of God between Christ's rejection and Christ's return, uh. From the time that they crucified Christ and we're in the kick the church age uh here What happens to the Word of God during that time? And it is Satan as will use an instrument of some kind to subtly introduce leaven into the truth. And uh that's going to happen. And this apostasy will grow until the whole is leavened, according to this parable. Um he says in verse number 21, it is like leavened which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. Till the whole thing was leavened, which you know happens Uh y you can take a small portion of dough that has leaven in it and add it to uh a big pile of dough and the all of it. ends up being leavened. Uh it's just it spreads through that and in that's what happens. You don't have like, oh just this part was leavened so you can pull that back out. Once it's introduced it it spreads and works. in the bread uh that way. So something that the people would have been very familiar with. So the translation of the parable, we want to look at this and this is where a lot of people have debate uh and look at and believe different things. A couple of uh well the most prevalent misinterpretation with regards to this is that the meal represents the world. Now Martin Luther, um he did a lot of things uh good, uh and we're not going to get into uh all of what he might not have accomplished, um, but he of course uh took a stand uh against the Roman Catholic Church and uh pounded his ninety five thesis on the wall on the door of the church there and and stood for the You know, the the man is justified by faith, uh and not by the church, not by works, and but Martin Luther on this particular parable was wrong. He said this. This is a quote from Martin Luther on this particular parable. He says, Our Lord wishes to comfort us with this similitude. And gives us to understand that when the gospel as a piece of New Leaven has once mixed itself with the human race, which is the doe, it will never cease until the end of the world, but will make its way through the whole mass of all those that are to be dis are to be saved, despite all of the gates of hell. So he described here that the leaven or that the uh gospel is the leaven and a mixed with the human race, which is the doe, Once the leaven was introduced, talking about the gospel of Jesus Christ, at the time when Christ was here with his disciples, and he introduced this gospel, which he described as leaven, into the world. That it was going to spread and it was going to work. And as this interpretation is used, they they like to look at it and and they talk about the power of God. And amen. God has power, and so we look at that and we talk about God working in the background and the power of God working when we can't see it. And these things are true. And we can't see it. And uh we talk about how there's no way to stop it. Uh and we know the gates of hell aren't going to prevail against the church, so there's no way to stop it. And so some of the correlation looks like it might fit And the the fact is is many people interpret this parable this way, and actually if you begin to do a study on this or you begin reading, most commentaries that you read are going to interpret the parable this way. Now some of that do not are like Jay Vernon McGee does not interpret it this way. Matthew Henry does not interpret it this way. Uh Herbert Lockier does not interpret it this way. Uh but most do. I'll bet you there's thirty, for those three that don't, there's probably thirty that do interpret it in line up with Martin Luther here. I'm just cautioning you in that because as you begin to read, you'll hear even some some good arguments as to why it might be this way, but I'm hoping biblically to show you uh why I believe that this is a misinterpretation of this parable. Secondly, they described the leaven as representing the gospel, which we saw Martin Luther here in his his statement. representing the gospel of the leaven is a powerful source. The this gospel introduced into the world. Some takes the phrase here that the kingdom of heaven in verse number 21 Uh you see they say this the kingdom of God is like uh is like leaven, which one which women took and hid three measures of meal. They like to take this just the The kingdom of God, and then the first part of the next verse, is like leaven. So the kingdom of God is like leaven. If they take just that phrase, they say, well, the kingdom of God is like leaven. That can't be something bad. Because it's the kingdom of God. So the kingdom of God must be something good. Leaven can't be something bad if it's the kingdom of God, because the kingdom of God is like leaven. And so they're taking that phrase, those two things putting them together there, and just that alone is saying, so therefore it must be something good. And they they like to do that, showing and representing as the gospel to define that. They also talk about, as I said, that the power of God to permeate the world, even the hardest of hearts, and so this leaven of the gospel of Christ was spreading through the world. Some even go as far as to say that as as Christians Ye are salt, right? We're supposed to be the salt of the world. Ye are salt. And year light. You're supposed to be light in this world. And ye are leaven. You are supposed to go and spread and uh that leaven, you know, you're supposed to introduce that into your community and let it spread. And once it's spread, it will grow. And they they add that to that. But I'm hoping this morning to be able to give you the biblical interpretation and to biblically reinforce it and you can decide which commentator you want to line up with, but I believe the Bible's pretty clear. The leaven. Leaven is always a corrupting influence. In Scripture, Levin is always a corrupting influence. As you deal with scriptural interpretation, symbolic usage must be consistent. One cannot use a term to mean something here and then change it to mean something else over here. There must be harmony in the scriptures. Uh you can imagine how confusing it would be if On any given day somebody said, Oh well, no, I meant that that way over there, but now I mean it like this. I mean those that read it should be able to interpret it based off the established definition. You can't just say, oh, this word means this, but no no, that's not what it means now. That now that word means this. No, you can't change the definition of the word. You can't change the explanation. It has to remain the same, it has to remain the same. And in biblical interpretation, you have the same principle. that you can't just change a a meaning uh or a explanation that Christ gives us in this passage and change it for that passage. Otherwise how do you know? What it is, and when it when it is. And so it with there must be consist consistency, and if that's the case Through the scriptures, leaven has always been a corrupting influence. I've given you some references here. In Genesis 19, verse number three, the very first time leaven is talked about in the scriptures. Leaven is is talked about and uh Lot gave unleavened bread to the angels. Now why would Lot make extra effort, take extra effort to prepare and give the angels that came to his house there unleavened bread? Leavened bread could be given to his friends. Leavened bread could be given to those people there in Sodom, that wicked and base society. But he knew That the angels could not partake of something that had leaven in it. That he they needed they they they would only eat unleavened bread. He knew that, and he prepared and gave them unleavened bread. In Exodus chapter 12, verses 15 through 20, you can read these on on your own sometime, but the children of Israel were to purify themselves in preparations for the Passover by not eating leaven. In fact, they were not supposed to eat anything with leaven in it for seven days before the Passover. For seven days before the Passover, they were not to eat anything with leaven. I don't know if that means it takes maybe Dr. Keller or one of the others could tell us that does it take seven days to clear everything out of your system from what from what you ate previously Uh and y I think the implication there is God didn't want them to have any leaven in them when they observed the Passover. And they were actually, if they had partaken of leaven and observed the Passover, they would be cut off from the children of Israel That's how serious it was for them. Leaven there they were not allowed to have. In Exodus 34, 25, they could not offer any leaven unto the Lord in any sacrifice that was there as i it would because it would destroy the picture that God wanted them to have of the sinless Lamb of God that would come and take away the sins of the world. You see God had built and designed this picture. That these sacrifices were pictures of Christ that would one day come. And it wasn't a good picture if it had leaven in it, because leaven was a type of sin, a picture of sin. And if that leaven was present, it would destroy the picture because Christ didn't have any sin in him. He was perfect and he was clean and uh spotless. Now, throughout the Old Testament, as you read all of these other passages that I've given you, you'll see that Levin always was represented as a corrupting influence. A presence of sin. Anytime that Christ was pictured, no leaven was present. Anytime that man was pictured, leaven was present Because you and I, although we have a new nature, although we've been saved, washed by the blood of the Lamb, amen. We still have some leaven in us, right? We still have that old nature. We didn't get rid of that. And that's too bad that we didn't gr get rid of that. That would have been nice to have got rid of that. But that leaven is still present. So even in the picture of man in the Old Testament, you'll see leaven was present because we're sinners. And then you move to the New Testament, Luke chapter 12, verse number one, Christ warns of the leaven of the Pharisees. Hey, beware of this, the leaven of the Pharisees. Why would he talk? He wasn't saying this is what you want. He wasn't saying this is a good thing. He says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. Again, everybody knew what he was talking about when he said that. The picture of Levin was something that corrupts, was something that destroys. It was something that would uh tear take apart. And in Mark chapter 8, verse 14 through 15, uh he speaks of the leaven of Herod. Herod was a picture of the world and worldliness, had accomplished many great things and had many possessions, and the idea of Herod was a picture of worldliness. And uh he says the leaven of worldliness. Don't allow that into your life. In 1 Corinthians 5, verses 6 through 8, Paul, that familiar passage, a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. Uh and we're we're familiar with that and we realize that. And uh it only takes one rotten apple and the whole the whole bin will turn rotten. And uh you know, you get a whole group of kids and you get one kid pulling in the wrong direction and and before long they're all throwing rocks through the window. Well it was his idea. Yeah, but you know, the the old thing. Well if he jumps off a cliff are you gonna do it? You know, I mean that same well no, you know just but what happens? This this influence that you have, that people have on one another. Seventy-one times in the Old Testament, seventeen times in the New Testament, and every instant every instance denotes that which is evil. So the question is, after 2,000 years since the introduction of the gospel, if it was interpreted the way which Martin Luther and many others ascribe to That the gospel was introduced at the time of Christ into the world, and he was going to be spread by the power of God as unstoppable force until every part of the world was touched with this leaven. Has the gospel spread such in these last two thousand years in in that kind of way? Or maybe the opposite is true I think by looking at what has happened, the even in the church, uh, it's waxed worse and worse. It has not uh as the gospel permeated the entire the entire world until every single person has been touched I mean that's our goal and that's what we want to do, get the gospel out to everybody, but it's not this underlying uh hidden force that's at work in the background uh that Uh uh that's a that's another thing. The whole idea here is she hid she hid the leaven in the meal. Um the gospel nowhere in the scriptures do you ever get the inclination that the gospel is to be hid We are supposed to stand and proclaim it from the mountaintops. We are supposed to be the light of the world. We are supposed to be out where people can see us. We are supposed to be an active witness. All everything we know is the opposite of that. Uh yet here this person hid the gospel and it's working in the background. And uh not something that we're a part of. And so again, uh I don't think biblically that that is the correct interpretation for that. Um But we believe that the leaven is a corrupting influence, that the leaven is uh pictured by some type of sin. It is a corrupting corrupting influence sin, that which is evil, uh introduced into the leaven, or into the meal there. Then the woman, secondly the woman Some commentators believe that this woman is actually the Roman Catholic Church. They teach that this woman is the Roman Catholic Church introducing false doctrine. into the uh into the gospel, into reaching reaching the world. The Roman Catholic Church has long since called herself the Mother Church. Um and here you have a woman pictured as and I think you know the idea of calling that might be a little bit of stretch. Uh you know the Roman Catholic Church wasn't present when Christ was uh giving this parable. Um but I think it could be the tool. See what we have here is Satan Using a tool, something, in the parable here pictured as a woman, to introduce this corrupting influence. So this woman is introducing that. Now the what is the woman? It is the tool used by Satan to introduce a corrupting influence. And uh so whatever whatever that uh might be pictured, whatever Satan whatever tool Satan uses, and I think he uses a lot of different things. Uh there's a lot of false doctrine out there, there's a lot of false teachers. They're certainly more prevalent today than than our true teachers. Definitely. Um so it has always represented some type of introduction of uncleanness, false religion, unfaithfulness uh these things, this tool used by it by Satan, if not Satan himself, to subtly introduce this corruption into the church. Then the three measures of meal Some believe it's an attack on the three things that will abide, uh, from Corinthians, the three things that will abide. Does anybody remember what those three things are? And these three will abide? Yeah, a bunch of you got it. Faith, hope, and charity. These three the these three will abide, faith, hope, and charity. So they think the three major meal is an attack on Satan on the three things that will abide. Um that you know Interesting way to w interesting way to look at it. Some believe that it might be an attack on the body, soul, and spirit. All of man, every portion, or every part of man. Just picturing that, the body, soul, and spirit. Or some believe it might be an attack on the descendants of Noah, with Shem, Ham, and Japheth, which represent the entirety of the world, uh because the all of the world came from them. So uh the entirety of the world it's gonna influence and be introduced into every uh segment of mankind. Um but biblically uh there's a couple of things biblically that it might represent it could represent the smallest offering that could be brought. If you were going to bring an offering, a a meal offering was the smallest offering that could be brought, and a meal offering had to at least be a certain portion or certain certain size A meal offering was brought to picture fellowship with the Lord. And my how uh leaven introduced destroys fellowship with the Lord. What communion hath Christ with Valah? What fellowship hath light with darkness? When we introduce sin, we destroy our fellowship with God. And so if it represents this meal offering, it could picture how sin introduced, leaven introduced, destroys one's fellowship with God. this this meal offering and they would have been familiar with the meal offering and him talking about and describing, hey, if you have uh this portion of bread, they would have right a kno right away known It's like us if we would have said, Well, if you take ten percent of your income, where do you think I'm going? You right away you you think, okay, he's talking about tide Uh because he's talking about ten percent, which means tithe, which means tenth. We're familiar with that. We know that. And Christ talking to these uh people would have been familiar and would have known the sacrificial system and the offering system and would have known right away, oh, he's talking about the offering. Uh and the entirety of it, uh, there being corrupted by this. So this is found several places in the scriptures there, giving you a number of references that it talks about this offering, but we know that no offering was to be made. that had leaven in it. And here we have this leaven secretly introduced into the offering. So I believe that it represents the gospel. The here we're talking about the three woman I missed. Uh this measures of meal The meal represents the gospel, and the leaven introduced into it is corrupting that. This false doctrine, corrupting the gospel of Jesus Christ. Um in Matthew This is put in the middle of the parable of the wheat uh and the terrors It's right in the middle of the parable of the wheat and tarrose terrors. You have the parable of the wheat and terror terrors given, and then you have the parable of the mustard seed. And then you have the parable of eleven, and then you have the explanation of the parable of wheat and terrors. And right in the middle of that you have so you have And before the parable of the wheat and terrors, you have the parable of the sower. And the kingdom of heaven is like unto a sower that goes out into the field and he sows his seed. So you have the seed represented several times, the gospel represented a seed. And the meal here I think ties in very well with that same idea, the the meal. as being a a seed, a grain, uh, and that this gospel of Jesus Christ was going to be corrupted with the leaven, uh, just like the parable of the wheat and tares, how the wheat was sown And what does the Bible say about that parable? We've looked at it already, that uh in at night an enemy comes and sows tarrors into the field. The very same principle here that this you had this bread, this three measures of meal And somebody secretly, like at night, came in and sewed leaven into it. So a very same, very similar type of picture that Christ is giving us here So I believe that the meal is represented representative of the gospel. Okay? That's there. Then some teachings of this parable. What can we what can we learn from this? What can we take away for for us to to go away with? First is we must be aware of Satan's method. He's subtle. We can't be ignorant of his devices. Satan's chief method of opposing God through this time is going to be imitation. He preaches an imitation gospel. He has a corrupting influence. He establishes imitation churches. He plants imitation Christians. He uh does all he can to corrupt and water down And destroy the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we can't be ignorant of that. We must realize it. And we must hold fast to the things which we have learned because of that. Our biblical position as a true believer amidst all this apostasy is to continue in the things which thou hast learned. Continue in the things which thou hast learned. We can't let ourselves be swayed by modern movements, by uh you know, things that might be accepted by the masses now But stray from the teachings of the Bible. And we understand this is Satan's method. And just because a building has the the name church on the front of it doesn't mean that what they're doing is honoring to God. And so we need to hold fast to the things that we have learned and stay close as we can to the scriptures. And we need to err on the side of caution, not carelessness. And uh I would uh rather uh be a little bit too uh concerned and and and try a little bit harder to try and be where God wants us to be as a church than to say, oh well it it it you know doesn't matter, let's just let this go, let that go, let's just embrace this. Um you know, I think we ought to stay true to the to the book and the things that we have learned. Um and then we need to remember the principle that uh we're just forgiven sinners, that we still have that leaven in us. I'm just a sinner saved by grace, and that's something that we're going to have to deal with until we have a glorified body, and all that sin is removed. And Satan's at work, and that's something we have to fight against in our own flesh, in our own body, to until Jesus comes again. Amen. And then we know that God is working in us and through us, and uh that He'll give us the power to stand as As uh we need it to remain faithful to him even in the face of a wicked and perverse world