That is something that the Lord has never shown me before. And the Holy Spirit speaks to you and says, Hey, this is something that you should do. And you say, Hey I'm already doing enough. No, no. He says the expectation is that you both do, that is, you're doing what you've learned already. and that you will do the things that you continue to learn as the Holy Spirit continues to teach us, as the Word of God is opened up to us. And we see truths that are taught and we say, hey, I want to please the Lord, and if this is what pleases the Lord, then I want to do that. I want to honor Christ. And if this dishonors Christ, I don't want to do that. And we We allow the Word of God to have free course. Amen. I hope we will let the Lord of God have free course in our lives and in our hearts to change us and make us Verse number five tells us, beloved, why we would follow the commandments. Why would we do it? There's two reasons that are given to us there in verse number five why we would bother following these commandments. He says, And the Lord directs your hearts into the love of God. And into that patient waiting for Christ. The two reasons I see there is that we are looking for Him and that we love Him The reasons that we follow the commandments of God is because we love Him and we want to please Him. One of the greatest things to me, one of the greatest fulfillments I get in life personally is just the fact that when my kids do something for no other reason than the fact that they want to please dad. When I see that, that just speaks to my heart. That gives me so much joy. That gives me so much happiness that They're they're doing whatever it is uh only because they love me and want to please me. And I I say, wow And beloved, our Heavenly Father is up in heaven, and when He sees us fulfilling His commands because we love Him, it brings joy to His heart. Amen. And he says there that and and you're looking for him, waiting patiently for him. We don't want to get caught doing the wrong thing. We don't want to get caught involved in in in the the wrong types of activities. When we're looking for the Lord to come back in any moment, we say, boy, I bet I I want to get caught doing right. I want to get caught doing the good things. And this is why I'm going to follow this command. Dad said to vacuum the floor. And I know he's coming back. So I'm gonna get the floor vacuumed. That's why a kid gets it done, right? I mean if dad wasn't coming back, I think most kids would be like, forget the floor, he ain't coming back. But dad's coming back, so there's a reason. There's a reason to get the floor done because dad's coming back and beloved our father's coming home. He's coming back one day. We're actually going to go with him But he's coming and we're going to be caught up together in the clouds, and so this is the reason we want to follow these commands. Now, we begin in verse number six, where we see the first command. The two commands that I see here, beloved, is first of all, we withdraw from the disorderly And secondly, we work to keep from being disorderly. Now, this first one here, we withdraw from disorderly. Verse number six, he says, Now we command you, brethren, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. that you withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly. Okay, do you see that in the scriptures? That point? Pretty clearly stated there. He says, now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly. Not after the traditions. Which he received, which he received of us. Now, this tradition here that he's talking about. That is not the traditions of men. That is not the traditions that he established as a church and said, oh, I want to I I I just think it would be good if we did this. And he established a habit in the church and so everybody this he's not talking about those types of traditions. What he's talking about is the word of God. That truth. If you turn back, let me see here to verse number uh chapter number two and verse number 15. Therefore, brethren, stand fast and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word or our epistle Okay, the epistle, the word of God, correct? So what I'm saying is that to the traditions that he's talking about there is not just uh oh we have a tradition where on anniversary Sunday we have anniversary out on the ground And that's what we need to do because that's what we've always done. He's not talking about that. He's talking about the Word of God, the commandments of God. And he says, you're supposed to withdraw yourselves from those that walk disorderly. That is ill regularly is what that word literally means. He was talking about those that would take the truths of the Word of God, those things that were being preached, and say, uh, oh, that's just what Paul thinks. I don't need to do that. I'm not I I don't have to do that, or that's not for me. That's just how Paul views it, but but that's not necessary for me. And they would go a different direction. They would walk contrary to the truths that were being taught. They would treat Christianity as a smorgasbord. They would look at it as and it's getting quiet in here. It shouldn't get quiet. Uh this is this is is Bible as it gets. And we're just looking right at the text here. He says, withdraw from those that are disorderly, those that aren't doing what the Word of God teaches. And he says Hey, uh it's not a smorgasbord where we get to go in and and take the the banana pudding and the cheesecake and leave the collard greens. Now, for sure I would do that at a at a smorgasbord. But but you know, at church is we don't get to evaluate what's being taught and preached in in light of our current culture. and analyze and and establish the validity of the truths of the Word of God based on what's going on in the world today. Beloved, God knew what was going to be going on in the world in 2021 when he wrote this book. And if God didn't know, then we might as well just close up shop and go home. Right. I I serve an omnipotent, all-knowing God. I believe if he knew what was going on, then he knew he he understood the ramifications, he understood the challenges that we would be facing in 2021 when he wrote the book. I know the world has changed, and I thought I know things have waxed worse and worse, and that's the condition of the world today, but the truths of the Word of God are still the same. And the Bible tells us that we are to withdraw from those that walk disorderly. He gives us command to us. He says they are from every brother. The brother that walks disorderly. Now, we are not going to turn there, but you could turn over to Romans and uh you could see where Paul says a very similar thing. He says, those that walk contrary to the doctrine that that you're taught to withdraw from them or to separate from them. He gives us that. And in in that passage of scripture in Romans, he tells us that uh Those that are walking disorder, they they come to you with fair speech and enticing words or stumping words Fair speech and enticing words, and he says that the simple are drawn away. Beloved, we've got to withdraw from them because their mission is to draw you away. Right. Their mission is to pull you away because nobody wants to go down by themselves. And I praise the Lord That I can preach this tonight with a clear conscience. I praise the Lord that I can preach this to Hunt Valley Baptist Church, that there is there is nobody here that uh is that that we're preaching about or towards that we've got no uh division in the church tonight. There's nothing that that is this this is just preventative. Amen. This is so when when those things come up down the road, and they will because Satan's still active in the world and he's still able to to weasel his way in on occasion That we know what we're supposed to do. We know how we're supposed to act. You're to withdraw yourself when someone's living contrary to the Word of God, the Bible says to mark them and to withdraw them from them Now, let me caution you that We are to withdraw from them, but we are not to treat them as an enemy. Right? Look at verse number 15. He says, you count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. And this is what we've got to be careful about. Especially in a church like ours, where we do have standards and we have lines and and and I think those things are all good. And like we were telling the young people today, peer pressure ought to be to do right. And if you've got a young person in the youth group who's doing wrong, according to the passage of scripture here tonight What you do is you withdraw yourself from them. Now that doesn't mean that you treat them as an enemy and you kick them out of the youth group and everybody throws stones at him. And he's the person that everybody talks about every day at youth group because he's the kid that's not lining up. That's not what you do You admonish him as a brother. Yes, you love him. But you're not besties anymore. To use a uh modern term that the kids understand, right? You're you're not besties anymore. That's you're not spending all your time with that person where you used to spend a lot of time with that teenager But you find out he's going down the wrong road, he's getting involved in the wrong things, and he's talking about worldly stuff and he's listening to the wrong kind of music and he's he's looking at the wrong things online and he's wanting to show you that stuff, the Bible tells you that you withdraw from him. And you admonish him as a brother, you say, Hey, I love you man, you're my friend. But the stuff that you're talking to me about, it's pulling me down. And until you can get over that, I want to pray for you, I want to help you, but I can't spend a lot of time with you because I can't be involved in those things. You admonish him as a brother. You let him know that you're there for him. You you love him. You're not throwing him and kicking him to the curb. You're you're br you want to bring them back up. You want to bring them back and and then by the way you don't talk about them to other people. Yeah. You pray for him. That's what the Bible says. There's the command given to us here. This word is given to the church Now, let me apply this a little bit further. We we say here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church that God is not as concerned with where you're at as He is with what? Where you're going. Where you're going. Right. You see, here's here's the difference. A brother that's walking disorderly is somebody that has already come to hear knows all these truths and has determined to go this way. What the Bible is saying is don't follow him over here. Now what this is not talking about is a lost person that comes to church that's just coming through the doors, but they're heading this way. Yeah. Now they're not all the way over there yet. They haven't even learned all that stuff yet. They're right here. You see, he's not talking about that person. The difference, beloved, is you s you spend time with somebody. You live life on purpose. You spend time with this person. You invest in them in the effort and the goal to help them grow and become and work towards this. They're being matured, they're being discipled, they're learning the truths of the Word of God. They decide to do and will do the things that they learn. They're headed in the right direction. And so you want to help them in that direction. You want to encourage them in that direction. But let me caution you, church family. When somebody comes through the doors of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, the second day they come through the doors is not the time to go to them and tell them, you're carrying the wrong Bible. You're supposed to have a King James Bible. Don't you know anything? No, I'm a King James Bible man and I I believe that the King James Bible is what we should be using. But people that are just coming through the doors of the church, they need time to grow and to learn and to be taught those things lovingly over time. Not just one day. They've been here twice and we're gonna we're gonna say get a King James Bible or get out. No We don't want that kind of a spirit. And we got to be careful, and Pastor Derek's talking in Sunday school about knowledge that puffeth up And we've got to be careful about the knowledge that maybe you learned and you've got some some principles and God's taught you some things, and so you want to take some new Christian that comes through the door and say, hey You shouldn't be acting that way. We shouldn't do that. Do you know how much work it gets to take somebody to come through that door? Right. Yeah. Right. And inadvertently, I'm not saying that you're going to do it on purpose, but I'm saying inadvertently By dumping a trunkload of stuff on them, you're gonna drive them away. And they haven't had opportunity let's have some grace with them. Mike, you look sharp tonight. Man, that's su you you just y you look like the CIA or something. You know what, he he's he's wearing a suit tonight. He looks sharp. You know what, Mike, you're just as welcome in jeans and a t shirt. I think Mike knows that that suit is not what makes him spiritual. He he looks good and I and and I I think, you know, man, almost didn't recognize you. But uh you understand, beloved, that it's not the suit. And we gotta be careful about trying to judge somebody that comes through that door. Let them mature under the grace and the nurture of the Lord Jesus Christ at their own pace. Let the Spirit of God bring them along. And if you're praying for somebody and you're praying with them and you're working with them and God gives you liberty to try and encourage and help somebody to take a step in their life, that's one thing. But to take somebody their second day in church and say, Well, you shouldn't be here in jeans and a t-shirt, don't you love Jesus? Right. That's not going to help. They need to have grace extended to them just like we did. Right, yeah. And I know That if we took a little bit of time we could look at each and every one of our lives and find something that somebody might could go around tonight and point things out and say, um, yeah. You're wearing a suit, but what about this? Huh? So sometimes we like to nitpick on some of these visible things. And I just want to caution the church that although I'm talking tonight about this command of separating from those that are that are walking disorderly That's not talking about the new Christian, the young babes in Christ, those that are just coming here and you say, oh, th they don't have all their T's crossed and their I's dotted, and they're not exactly what we think they should be. Who are you? Who am I? It's God. And let God work on their heart. Just let God bring them along. And in between then and now Let's just love them. Love them where they're at. Let God grow them. We have no idea what God will do in their heart if we let him do it. But if we try and do it, I can tell you what's going to happen. Open mouth insert foot. I uh anybody that talks as much as a preacher and a woman, you know less I mean you see? Open mouth insert foot, right? That's what happens. We gotta be so careful, and if we're gonna try and encourage somebody to take steps like that, please, brethren, please let me encourage you to do it under the direction of the Holy Spirit. Let God use God can use you, and and many times God will use you, the church family, to encourage a brother or sister in a way that the pastor from the pulpit never could. But I want to caution you, you've got to be careful. Let people mature and grow. If somebody comes to you and says, Hey, I notice the pastor reads when he reads the Bible. that that scripture doesn't doesn't match this. Why is that? Again, you can't say, well, because you're carrying a a a a perversion. Obviously, you oughta have you oughta have a Bible. Get a Bible, man. Okay, no. You say, well, Pastor reads from the King James. There's a lot of things that, you know, we could we could learn about that if you would like a King James. There's some in the in the bookstore that these are available to you. And then if they ask further, well why? Okay, they're opening that door. They're saying they want to learn, they want to know, and you can say, oh Well there's a great series on that, or we've got some books in the bookstore, or tell them the information you know. And and about each step of the Christian life. And we can apply this to many different areas, but I just want to encourage you, beloved, as we're talking about separating from those that are walking disorderly. The difference, do you understand the difference I explained? You got somebody that's headed this way and they're way over here. And then you got somebody that's here, like let's say Pastor Derrick was way over here. And then he Pastor Derek's going this way He's saying stop spending so much time with Pastor Derek. Because he needs to turn around. Don't continue to be his best friend. Admonish him as a brother. Don't kick him to the curb. Love him, but the goal is to bring him back. Amen. That's what he tells us there. Then I want you to see, secondly, here, that uh we work to keep from being disorderly. In verse number 12, he says, now them. Did I skip something here? I did skip a bunch of verses, but we're going to back up and look at them in a second. So uh we skipped seven through ten, but um that's because Paul uses himself as an example. We'll look at that in a second. So verse number twelve is where we see the command. He says, Now them that are such We commend and exhort you by our Lord Jesus Christ that with quietness they work and eat their own bread. So let's back up to seven and see the context here as Paul gives himself as an example of somebody that was working. And he says, For yourselves know how you ought to follow us, for we behave not ourselves disorderly among you. Neither did we eat any man's bread for naught, but wrought with labor and travail night and day, that we might not be charged to any of you. Not because we have not power, but to make ourselves an example, or he says here, ensample, unto you. So, well let me read verse number 10. He says, For even when we were with you, we commanded you that if any would not work, neither should he eat. So Paul is setting himself as an example. He's saying, We came to you and we worked night and day. He says, We ministered to you all day, and then we made tents at night. You know Paul was a tent maker, right? This is what Paul did. So Paul was making tents at night. He's laboring in the evenings to get enough money to live. And he's saying, we didn't take even bread from you Although the church could have met the pastor's needs and the church could have fed Paul, he says, I didn't want to be charged to you. I wanted to live as an example before you. And he says, not as though we had no power. He's saying as though we couldn't have the church should take care of the pastor. And that's a conversation for another time, but he teaches that clearly in the other passages Scripture that the laborer is worthy of his hire and that we should be taking care of the man of God. But Paul says on purpose, he didn't do that with them because he wanted to be an example of somebody that's working. And he says, if you don't work, You shouldn't eat. If you don't work, you shouldn't eat. I want you to see the rest of this in context because I I feel like I skipped over something here. Yeah, we'll just start ver we'll start at verse number six. Um verse number six he says uh every man that walketh disorderly, we read that already, and not after the traditions which he received of us Verse 7 For yourselves know how you ought to follow us, for we behave not ourselves disorderly among you, neither did we eat any man's bread for naught, for we have wrought with labor and travail night and day, that we might not be charged to any of you. Not because we have not power, but to make ourselves an example to you to follow us. For even when we were with you This we commanded you, that if ye would not work, neither should you eat. Okay, verse number 11. That's somehow he says, for we hear That there are some which walk among you disorderly. And what does he describe as their disorder walk? Not Working not at all. Working not at all. But our busybodies. And then in verse number twelve Now them that are such, we command and exhort by the Lord Jesus Christ that with quietness they work and eat their own bread. That's the verse that I had left out there That they needed to work to keep from being disorderly. Work to keep from being disorderly. Paul wanted to be an example to them and show them what it was like. And he said, if you don't work, you shouldn't eat. Now this is the true principle, obviously, and we know it. And we ought to be teaching our young people, our kids, how to work. We ought to be teaching the next generation how to work. You know, you know how you teach them that? You make them work. You make them work and you make them finish the job, whatever it is, clean their room. Don't go in and pick up after they get done. They're not done unless the room's done. You've got to make them finish the job. And I know it takes a whole lot more work for you. to have them work than it is for you just to do it. But you've got to teach them to work. Teach them how to work. I was at the college last week and talking to the staff there. They were describing to me, they have college kids that come in to work scholarship, and they literally have never cleaned a toilet in their life. They don't know how. They literally have to show them and tell them exactly how to clean a toilet. This is what you do And they they're talking about these college kids that they can't give instructions to like, I want you to go clean this classroom. Because that is too general. They don't even know what that means. They can't say go in there and straighten the chairs and vacuum the floor. Because if the chalkboard's all dirty and that wasn't on their list, they won't bother cleaning the chalkboard. You see, you ought to be able to tell a young person, go in and clean that room, and they'll go in and they'll vacuum the floor, they'll straighten all the chairs, they'll wipe down the chalkboard, they'll clean the the the light switch, they'll make sure everything in that room is clean and ready to go. You shouldn't have to give a detailed item list, but that takes training. You have to show them how to work. You know one of the one of the reasons that we split wood and sell it is so my kids have to work. Amen. You know, yeah, they make a little bit of money. But you know what? Every one of them would gladly do without the money. They would gladly not get the money if they could not split wood. They split 36 cords of wood last year. That's a lot of hot hard work. But we do it and I take that time. Because they need to know how to work. My dad always said he feels sorry for any kid who didn't get to grow up on a farm. Because on a farm you learn to work. It's just the lifestyle of farming that you've got to get up. You can't be sleeping in till ten o'clock. You gotta get up, you gotta milk the cows, you gotta get out and take care of the animals before you go to school. Then you go to school and then you come home and you do it again. I hear I see a lot of heads shaking, yes. A lot of people in agreement. Kids, you want to move to a farm? No. Oh. Any of you parents want to loan your kids out? Miss Miss Kim's back here. She's got animals. She'll let them feed the animals. You know, it's sad that kids don't know how to do even the most basic things today. But you know, our flesh today says, I want more money for less work. And we have to fight against that. You say, boy, I I would love to have a job where I made a bunch of money and didn't have to do anything. You know what? You'd be miserable. Because God designed us to work. To have accomplishment, to fulfill something. Some of you are saying I would like the opportunity to try. See if I would be miserable. I I might not. Maybe. I I don't know. But God made us to accomplish something with our hands, to actually do work. I mean that would drive me you know what one of the hardest jobs for me would be is sitting in a toll booth. Oh my goodness. That would be the longest day ever. A no good, very bad, terrible day, you know. Sitting in a toll booth. Uh uh just not doing anything. But today people want To get paid for doing nothing. Right now people are making more money sitting at home than they would at a job, and that's why they're not going to work. It's uh our society today as a as a whole, they're giving out these checks and people you know I read an article a little over a week ago that McDonald's was giving fifty dollars for people if they would just show up for an interview. Fifty dollars cash if you just show up for an interview. They can't get anybody to work. I'll take two or three interviews. Just go and make the McDonald's McDonald's, you know. Say you you're not worthy to hire. That's but you know the my there's nobody wanting to work today because they're getting all this free money. And they're just sitting at home. If you don't work you shouldn't eat. The result of not working is you become a busybody. You see y you know what happens when you're not working? Oh. Yeah, I wonder what's happening. Hey, did you hear about so and so? Yeah, I know. Yeah, we need to pray for them. Gotta make it spiritual, you know. Yeah, uh huh. Oh, oh you gotta go 'cause you're working? Okay, well, okay. Hello. Hello. Yeah. You got time on your hands to be a busybody. That's what the scripture says, doesn't it? You you work to keep from being disorderly. As long as you're as long as you're busy and working and serving, you're not going to get disorderly because you're involved. Now, all the things that I've just told you are true, but I want you to see it in the context of this passage of scripture. Who is Paul writing to? The church at Thessalonica, the church. He's talking to God's people. He's just got talking to done talking to them about And I've never seen this before. I've taught on this passage of scripture of working many times because I like it. It's a good subject, amen kids. And and but I've never seen this before. In the context of the passage of scripture, Paul is talking to the church. He just got through telling them you need to separate from those that are disorderly, you need to remove yourself from them And then he says, hey, also, if you're not working, you're going to be disorderly. Right. So we can apply this to a lot of things, but in the context here I see it talking about the church. He's talking about the family of God and being involved in God's work. And man, what a what a thrill today when the choir started practicing. The choir loft was full. I mean there was two people sitting down here because it didn't fit up there. Praise God And you know what? We have a working church. I mean there's so many people here involved in work, but I just want to encourage you and implore you to continue to be involved Don't get weary and well doing. Let's keep on working because what happens when we stop working, and I've seen it over 20 years in the ministry People, they they get out of this ministry and they stop doing that ministry and they no longer have time to do this or they don't have the energy to do that, and then all of a sudden the church is full of problems All these things are going wrong in God's house. Now they used to be excited about what was going on at God's house, but now there's all these problems in God's house. What happened? They're not involved anymore. They're not actively serving and participating and seeing people reached and being part of what's going on in the church. And they become a busybody. Do you see it in the scripture? That's what the Bible tells us. And if we want to avoid being disorderly, then we gotta keep working. We just gotta keep on. And there's lots of different opportunities to serve and to work in the church and the ministries here and and uh you know there'll be more coming down the road and and and just encourage you. Hey, let's keep serving God. He says, Don't be weary and well doing. Just keep serving the Lord. Because it it when we stop serving God, the natural tendency of men is to be disorderly. It's to begin to be a busybody. And so to fight against that, he gives us the solution. He gives us the solution. To keep from being disorderly, we just keep on working for God. So beloved, we want to Withdraw from those that are disorderly, those that are heading the wrong direction. It's not those that are heading the right direction but haven't haven't quite reached where we think they should be yet. Not those people It's from one that was already over here and decided I'm going that way. And then to fight against our own selves, being disorderly, we need to be involved. We need to be serving God, reaching people. And there's many, many aspects of service at the church. It starts with the most basic part of being joining in with the with prayer, as we as a church have been committing to prayer. Being involved in praying that God would do a work. Being involved in that, being involved in reaching the lost. Every aspect, there's so much of it. And we could go down the line and list things tonight. But I think you've got the message