If we are silent, we'll lose the freedoms we have to share the Word of God and to preach the truth of the Word of God and we need to have a voice and we need to share that truth and use it while we can And uh that would be a very typical message for this morning, but we are uh studying and looking at the names of God, and I felt like we would continue on with that. We're on number 10, and uh I really don't know for sure how many uh I was w that we'll do. There there are numerous names of God found in the scripture, especially when you start including all of the compound names and and if you think about the the other names like just that he was called wonderful He was called counselor, he was called a mighty God. Uh you know, you think about these types of things, other things that he was called or refer to, but these specific proper names that are given There's a few more we'll look at. I imagine we'll stop Shia 15, but we're on number 10 today. We're going to look this morning at Jehovah Rapha. Jehovah Rapha. This is the name of God that means or stands for that he is the God who heals. the God who heals. You know, Israelites they continue to learn about God with each passing day, with with as they go through their life, they travel to a new location. They in the impact or come across another challenge and they learn something new about God. And as we learned last week the idea of Jehovah Jireh and that God will provide and that example uh where God provided a sacrifice a substitute for Isaac, so the ram was caught in the thicket, and God provided that substitute for him, and ultimately God provided for us a lamb that we would take away the sin of the world and God provided that, but he provides so much more than that for us. Well, here, Jehovah Rapha, we learn that God is a God that heals. And you know, just like the Israelites continued through their journeys, learned more about God and who God was and how God would meet their need, you and I, as we go through our lives, if you will continue to follow God, you too will learn of the unsearchable depths of God and His character and who He is. If you will continue, as your life progresses, you're going to face new challenges. You're going to come to new mountaintops. You're going to experience some hard valleys. But as you go through those, you will find, if you will be faithful to God, that God will show himself strong. in your life. And God will bring you through those valleys and you will learn a fresh, anew and experience with God Himself as He brings you or your family through a situation. This is what Israel faced here as we see they learn of God who heals. Would you turn your Bibles to Exodus chapter number 15? That is where our text is this morning in Exodus chapter number 15. As you learn of God and then go through your life, as you face the bitter trials that come your way. You'll either going to collapse under the pressure, experience some type of breakdown, and many do. Or if you can learn to fall and trust in the arms of God, He will bring you through. You'll experience him in a direct way for you in your life. We see in Exodus chapter 15. We're just going to begin reading in chapter 22 down through, I'm sorry, verse 22 down through verse number 27 of Exodus chapter 15. So Moses brought Israel from the Red Sea. And they went out into the wilderness of Shur, and they went three days in the wilderness and found no water. And when they came to Mara, they could not drink of the waters of Mara, for they were bitter. Therefore the name of it was called Marah. And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink? And he cried unto the Lord, and the Lord showed him a tree, which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made sweet. There he made for them a statue, an ordinance, and there he proved them. And he said, If thou wilt diligently hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God, and will do that which is right in his sight, and will give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes. I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have brought upon the Egyptians, for I am the Lord. That is Jehovah. Jehovah, I am Jehovah that healeth thee. That word healeth there is Rapha. Verse number 27, and they came to Elam, where win twelve wells of water and three score and ten palm trees, and they encamped there by the waters. I want you to see first of all this morning the plea. In verse number 25, and he cried unto the Lord. And the Lord showed him a tree. You see, the children of Israel had just come through a great victory. They had just experienced the mighty hand of God at the bank of the Red Sea. They crossed over that Red Sea on dry ground and the waters closed in upon and drowned the Egyptian army behind them. They were singing the praises of God and the victory that He wrought. What a victory. What a magnificent thing to experience. I saw uh a comic this week from an old Sunday comic many, many years ago. What I don't even know if they still do Sunday comics or even if they have Sunday papers. I I don't even know. We spent so long, but I used to enjoy reading the Sunday comics And you know, they have those little just little captions and there was the picture of Moses crossing the through the banks of the Red Sea and the river on both sides. And there was a guy with his fishing pools right in the in the side of the the bank and it said there's one in every group, you know. And uh I just thought, boy, that's funny. Can you imagine walking through the Red Sea on dry ground and looking at that wall of water on one side and the other side receding away from you and you're on dry ground passing through. What a victory they wrought, actually chapter fifteen opens with a song of victory. Look at chapter fifteen, verses one and two. He says, Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the Lord, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously. And horses and his riders hath he thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength. And song and he has become my salvation. He is my God and I will prepare him in habitation, my father's God, and I will exalt him What a mountaintop, what a victory they came through and they came out the other side of that and they're all you can see them all talking and excited and man did you see that? We thought we were dead We thought the Egyptians had us and then God opened the Red Sea and we walked across on dry ground. Man, yeah, did you see that big fish? Oh, I saw the big one, yeah. And oh, this was amazing. And then the Egyptian army got Let the river go and the whole Egyptian army drowned. Oh man, isn't God so magnificent? Isn't He so wonderful? Look at what God did and they're traveling and they're telling stories and They're exchanging and back and forth, but then they're traveling just a little ways, and you know what, beloved, life is full of mountaintops and valleys. You can't live your entire life on the mountaintop. If you were there, you would not even realize it was the mountaintop. Because you don't know how good it is until you know how bad it is You on Friday, you were really excited and thankful for that 80-degree day with low humility. Low humidity, not humility. Low humil no humility is good, but low humidity. Because after Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday in that heat, you're like, oh man, you came out Friday and was like, wow, thank you Lord. Boy, this is a blessing This is nice. Why? Because you experienced something worse. Life has many valleys and life has many mountaintops. We need to remember that. Don't let Satan take you out because you're going through a valley. Because you're enduring something hard. That's part of life. Storms come. Valleys are there, but beloved God, who is God on the mountaintop, is still God in the valley. When things go wrong, he makes them right. God of the good times is God of the bad times. God in the day is still God in the night. Don't let Satan sidetrack you or destroy your faith because you're going through a valley. That's part of life. Know that they're there. The children of Israel, as the Bible says here in verse number 22, that they were just three days away from the Red Sea. And Moses brought Israel from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur, and they went three days, but they found no water. They were just three days from this miraculous victory where they literally thought they were going to die at the hands of the Egyptians, and God delivered them. And now three days later, they're going through a hardship. And we could Say, oh man, they don't have water. But I want you to understand three days without water is pretty you get uncomfortable. They they didn't have tea and lemonade and just wish they had water. You know, they didn't have a Mountain Dew and thought, well, I don't want any more sugar right now, so I wish I just had water. No, they didn't have anything else. No water means nothing to drink. In a desert climate. And three days without that. And you know, the first day probably wasn't bad. They were kind of saying, boy, it's getting a little thirsty. You know, it'd be nice to have some water And then the second day they they started getting a little more frustrated and the kids are starting to whine and the babies are starting to cry and and mom and dad are getting a little more frustrated. Day three they got disgruntled They were complaining, the Bible says, because of the drought. And three days without water, it is a hard thing. They finally reach some water and find out it's disgusting. Verse number 23, when they came to Marah, they could not drink for the waters of morrow, for they were bitter. Can you imagine them three days without water? And then off in the distance somebody sees there a pool or a pond or Obviously an area that's greener because there's some water around and like there's water. Oh there's water and through the whole camp. There's water. Hey, there's water up there. Oh, we're gonna have water when we camp tonight. There's water up there and through the whole camp. Everybody's excited about it. And then they get there and people are thinking, well, how come we're not getting any water? And the questions are going all the way back through up to the front of the line. And then you find out, the water's bitter. I thought we were delivered. I thought we had this, and they are very disgruntled and they're complaining. Let me just tell you, beloved, God hates a complaining spirit. The people forgot the deliverer. They forgot that God is the one that delivered them out of Egypt. God is the one that delivered them. at the Red Sea. And not only that, beloved, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. They forgot that God is the one that directed them to this place. They were looking at Moses and they were yelling at Moses and they were complaining at Moses and you brought us out here in the wilderness to die and we got no water and look at this fine mess you got us into now Laurel. Yeah, this mess. You look at this mess you got us into. But beloved, they forgot. Wasn't Moses They were following the cloud. They were following the pillar of fire. God was the one that directed them. Sometimes, beloved, God is going to direct you to a place that has some bitter water. You need to remember that God is the one that directed your steps and allow him to take you there and to show himself strong and perform the miracle that needs to take place in your life. Don't get disgruntled and start complaining before God has a chance to do the miracle. Be content in whatsoever state You find yourself. We see that Moses here, he cries out, he pleased, he has a plea, he cried unto the Lord I would encourage you that that's what you need to do first. Before you're disgruntled, before you complain, before you get a bad spirit. Be careful in those times of drought that you don't forget who has delivered you and who is directing you. Then I would have you see the physician in verse number 26 and said, if thou wilt diligently Hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, and will do that which is right in his sight, and will give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes. I will put none of these diseases upon thee which I have brought upon the Egyptians, for I am the Lord that healeth thee. He is the great physician He is the God that heals. This is where the name Jehovah Rapha comes into play. This is where we are introduced to him because There was something here that needs to be healed. I would have you see first of all that he is a personal God. He says, I am I am. When you have a problem, beloved, God is there for you. When you go to the doctor, how many of you want to talk to the receptionist? When you go to the doctor, how many of you are interested in spending the afternoon with a nurse? No, you want to see the doctor. Like I want to see the what does the doctor have to say about this? Oh well the doctor will be in in a few minutes, and I appreciate the nursing staff. Boy, they certainly do a lot of labor and they work very hard to keep you comfortable and take care of you while the doctor pops in occasionally. But you know what? You want to talk to the big dog You want to talk to the one in charge. You want the one that has the ability to make the call. Do you need some more medicine? I remember when I was in the hospital and I fell off the the roof and my back was killing me and I needed some medicine. I I needed some Medicine. I need some pain medicine. And I was like, I need something. I'm dying here. And the nurses are like, Well, we can't give you anything else. I said, Well Find somebody that can. Let's do something about this. I'm not laying on the side of the street. I'm in a hospital bed, in a hospital room. Surely something can be done about this. Now I was not that mean. I was very nice It's my wife that was no just kidding. No, certainly we could do something about this, but finally the doctor comes in. It was four hours they kept me strapped to a board doing all kinds of tests because they didn't want to give me any drugs until they knew exactly how much internal injuries I had. And uh finally the doctor says, we can give you some medicine now and we'll make you comfortable. He's the one that had the power to make the call. Beloved, when you call out, God says, I am He answers the call. I'm glad when you call heaven that you get a hold of God. Amen. We get God. He says a personal God. Also, he is a powerful God. Lord, I am the Lord. That we know by the capital letters that are written in our Bible, all capitalized that that is representation of Jehovah. The self-existent one. Nobody created God. God was, always was, and always will be. He is the self-existent one. He is a powerful one. And praise the Lord that he is practical. He healeth thee. He addresses the problem. He deals with the need. He's not going to give you some big theological answer that is a pie in the sky and just a hope so. No, he has an answer. Whatever the problem is, God has the answer. He is practical in that way. The word Rafah is found 67 times in our Bible. In all of its forms, it carries the idea of healing. of restoring, of putting back together. How many of you would say there's times in your life that you need some healing? As you need something restored, something put back together. This is a Addressing more than just to the physical healing, although that is found all through the pages of Scripture as well, we know that He is the great physician, He is the healer of all our diseases, He is the healer of uh physical illness. Hezekiah was sick unto death and he prayed and asked God and God gave him fifteen more years You see through the pages of Scripture over and over God healing the physical ailments and physical diseases that people have. And I'm glad that in our hour of need, that although God has given us doctors, that we still have the great physician. And we can go to him and our trust is in him, our reliance is upon him, the great physician. Let's just look at a couple of these other places, not all 67 of them, but a few places where this word Rapha is found in some other forms. In Jeremiah chapter 33, you guys know 33, 3, call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee. Great and mighty things thou knowest not. Bum thum bum bum bum bum call unto me and I will land, serve thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not For those of you that don't know, that's Jeremiah 33, 3. Call unto me. God calls it. But you get down to verse number 6, and God is dealing with Israel here, and he says, Behold, I will bring it health and cure, I will cure them. That word cure, translated cure, is Rafa. To heal, to put back together, to restore. He says, I will cure them. And what he's dealing with here is Israel as a nation. In verse number seven, he says, I will cause the captivity of Judah. and the captivity of Israel to return. He can return the bound. Those that were bound up Those that are locked into things. He says, I can return those that are bound. Those that were in captivity, I'm going to return them. I'm going to provide the cure that they need. There's sometimes there's some sin that have people bound up. They've got them locked in. They've got a sin that they cannot get victory over. Can I tell you, beloved, that God, Jehovah Rapha, wants to deliver them? He wants to provide for them the cure, the way to get over that. I heard this last week that uh and I'm thankful for the organizations that are out there to try and help people that are addicted to different types of stimulants, whether that's drugs or alcohol or anything, but uh I heard the rate of attrition for those that are that go to tr to AA Was in the high 90s. They they don't make it. They go to AA and they go right back to drug or right back to alcohol Why? Because we these things can't be one just with the power of positive thinking. Sometimes there's there's struggles in the body that can't be overcome just by saying, well, I'm going to do better tomorrow. We do need determination and you do need a drive to do so, but beloved, we also need the healer, Jehovah Rapha, who can come and give us victory over that bondage, over that thing that has us bound and tied up, and he can deliver us from that. He will provide the cure. We see in 1 Kings chapter 18, verse number 30, that he repairs the broken. This passage in chapter 18, we know Elijah said unto the people, Come near unto me. And all the people came near unto him, and he repaired the altar of the Lord that was broken down. You know the story of Elijah and the prophets of Baal, that great victory that was won for God there on that mountain that day. But before he assembled everything, he said, wait, there's an altar here that is broken down. There's an altar that needs repaired. There's something here that needs fixed, and that is the word Rafa, which is translated here. Broken down, he said repaired. He will repair the altar. Rapha, repair. You know, God can repair the broken Beloved, Satan and sin is the most destructive thing in this world. It destroys your life, it destroys you physically, it destroys your family relationship, it destroys your ability to be productive in society. Sin on every front given to its ultimate end will ultimately take your own life. But this destructive thing of sin, beloved, God, can repair it. You know, many people have gone and they know in their heart the life of sin that they've lived and they know how things have been broken down. They know how relationships they once had are no longer the way they were. Can I encourage you today that God can repair things that have been broken? God can put back together the relationships. God can put back together the the the spirit that has been broken. God Some people look at their life and they say, man, God can never use me. I've gone too far. I know he's forgiven me. I know I'm saved and I'm on my way to heaven. But My life has been ruined. My testimony is done. Nobody's going to listen to a guy. Nobody, I can't do anything for God. Let me tell you, beloved, that God can and wants to use you. He specializes in repairing that which is broken. Don't let Satan tell you the lie that you're no good, that your life is destroyed, and nothing's left of any use. Because God knows that there is. And he will repair that which is broken, give you back victory in your life and success in your life in spiritual matters, the things that really matter. I don't know how much you're gonna like this next one. He can restore the beaten. In Job chapter 5, verse number 17, he says, Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth. Therefore, despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty, for he maketh sore And bindeth up. He woundeth in his hands make whole. That word there, whole, is translated from Rapha. He maketh whole. But beloved, if you're listening and paying attention, he's describing the chastening hand of God here. And he says, He maketh sore. And bindeth up. He woundeth, and his hands make whole. Now in the verses that we've looked at thus far, we look at the idea of God and how he restores and repairs and is the physician that fixes problems that have come into our life maybe by our own actions or situations and God puts those things back together and praise the Lord. But here what he's talking about is the fact that uh sometimes He woundeth and then has to make whole. There is no better picture of this than Psalms 23 and the Great Shepherd. Because, beloved, it is quite often when a shepherd has his sheep That will not stay in the fold, that wants to wander. And after the shepherd has gone and brought him back to the fold several times, for the shepherd, for the sheep's own safety, the shepherd will Break the leg of the sheep. You're like, oh, what? He breaks the leg of the sheep, and then He binds that leg back and wraps it up and cares for that sheep. According to the uh book which I read, which the title of it, uh A Look at the Shepherd, but I can't remember the author, but he he said he was a shepherd for many years. He said what happens with that sheep after a situation like that and that shepherd takes care of that sheep, that sheep Will not leave the shepherd's side. For the remainder of that sheep's life, that sheep will stay so close to the shepherd. That care and tender and loving hand, there's a relationship that he has with that sheep that goes beyond what the others experience. Beloved, sometimes the loving hand of God's got to bring something into our life. Because we've been wandering. Because we've been running. Because we've been resisting. And God's got to bring a wound into our life, something bitter into our life, so that we would stop and pause. But beloved, if we'll stop and look, God says, He woundeth, but he bindeth up again. He maketh whole. Despise not the chastening hand of God. Understand that, beloved The children that have the most magnificent homes in the world are children that grow up in a home where mom and dad love them enough to tell them no. Parents need to learn how to say no. Sometimes you need to say no just because. For no other reason than because the kids need to hear no. Many times with my children, and they'll they're getting older now, so these illustrations are getting older and older. But listen, I would look at my kids and just say, nope, you can't do that. And I only wanted to see their response. If their response was okay, and they turned around with a good spirit, I would pause and say, hey, come here. Thank you for having a right attitude and and respecting my wishes. Listen, because you responded, I want to let you do that. You had a right spirit. You go ahead. See what they would say. And if they're like, whoa, it's not fair. Life is so difficult. Yep, and the next three times you want to do something is be no as well. Yeah, kid kids need to learn how to respond respectfully. They need to learn sometimes the answer is no. Sometimes the answer from God is no. And we need to have a right heart. And if you don't teach the kids to have a right heart, when they hear no from any other authority, they're not going to have a right heart. They're not going to respond correctly. Listen, sometimes God has to take us through some bitter circumstances. to break the stubborn heart of man. But that puts us into such a special relationship with him when he binds that back up. Listen, it's a very special time. You never discipline your kids in anger. If you're angry, don't discipline. More than once I told my children I you need a good whipping. But right now I'm so mad at you I'm not going to spank you. And then my kids are praying that I'll forget before I get happy. Don't spank them in anger. You the the reason for discipline is not so you feel better. The reason for discipline is to mold and shape them. But there's something very special that happens when you correctly, with the right spirit, discipline your child, and then after the discipline has been administered, you show them complete forgiveness And understand they know that that's been dealt with, it's been forgiven, it's been forgotten, and that relationship is restored. And you'll see a child come up and throw his arms around his mother or father with tears in their eyes and say, Dad, I'm so sorry. I didn't mean to do that. I didn't want to do that. I'll not do it again, and you say, son, I forgive you. I love you, and you understand that Daddy has to discipline you when you do wrong so that you'll respond correctly and your spirits are united. Beloved, we can run into the arms of a loving God who sometimes takes us through bitter situations and we say, God, I'm sorry I responded that way. God, I didn't respond I know I was going wrong and I need you to forgive me. And God puts his arms out and holds us up and lifts us up again and says, Oh, you're forgiven. It's forgotten. And I'm here. Draw nigh unto me, and I will draw nigh unto thee. That special relationship you can have when you respond correctly to the chastening hand of God. It's a special thing. Psalms 103 tells us that the Lord, bless the Lord, O my soul. And forget not all his benefits, who forgiveth all thy iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases That word healeth there in Psalms 103. 3 is Rapha. He healeth all thy diseases. Beloved, the greatest disease that we need healed of is the disease of sin, and God has provided the solution for that. In the shed blood of Jesus Christ. I would be remiss if I did not mention that that tree that Moses grabbed and threw into the water is a picture, a representation of the tree. That tree bore the hope. That tree bore the forgiveness. That or the the the the healing for the water. That tree represents or is a picture of the tree that bore Jesus Christ. That bore our forgiveness, that provided the healing for our sin. Lastly, this morning, I would have you see the process. I want you to see it was a provided process in verse number 25. And the Lord showed him a tree which he cast into the waters. You know, we were talking about higher critics in Sunday school, and the higher critics would look at this passage of scripture and they would say, a higher critic, for those of you that were here, is somebody that really is very critical of the Word of God, and they study it and look for mistakes. They try and find problems. And so they would look at this and they would say, oh, there's nothing miraculous here. There was just something. If we could find the water and do a scientific analysis of the water, and we could find the actual branch and do a scientific analysis of the branch. You would find that there was just some chemicals in that branch. in those leaves. There was something present in there that counteracted the chemicals in the water. When he put that in there, it just fixed it. And it was just science that uh that that fixed that. It was nothing miraculous. Beloved, that may be true. One hundred percent true. But who made the tree? Who knew what was in the water? Who told Moses to get that tree and put that branch in the water? It's still miraculous. Because God is the one that created all of it. God's the one that told Moses to do it. Beloved, when God, the healer, Jehovah Raphae, gives you healing, even if he does it via science. That is, somebody that has studied and learned about the human body and is able to bring healing to you through some medicine, understands it's still miraculous Because God is the one that has given us the ability to learn and to study and to know about these things, to know and understand the human body, and to be able to take other things By the way, man has yet to create anything. All we can do is take things that God has already given us and repurpose them, reformat them to be able to be used. It is quite miraculous that somebody can have You know, I took some I've got this sinus stuff right now because of this heat and whatever. I don't know, but I've been stopped up all week And I I was taking some sinus medicine. I thought, is it pretty amazing that you can take a pill and somehow that pill knows that this part of my body is what hurts Like what in the world? I mean, and you take another pill and you've got, you know, water collecting your leg or something, and somehow that pill knows that Here's the problem. This is what we need to do. Like how does that happen? It's still miraculous, beloved, and I want you to know that God, Jehovah Rapha, he is the healer. And yes, we have science at our disposal and the doctors and and and I would encourage you to use them. Don't be s one of these people that say, boy, uh God's the healer. All I need is God. I don't need a doctor. I'm just going to wait. And God's looking at you and saying, I provided you a solution right there. If you're too ignorant to take it, then it's your fault. Okay, God's provided it. If there's a means that God has already provided, now God can do it miraculously through a miracle, and sometimes he does, but either way it's the miraculous work of God. We give him credit for healing. Praise the Lord for the doctors. Praise the Lord for the medicine and tools that we have available to us today. But still, honor and glory goes to him. The process, the Lord told him what to do. It's a provided process. It's a proving process as well. Just see in verse number 25. He says, when he had cast into the waters, they were made sweet. There he made for them a statue and an ordinance, and there he proved them. Beloved, sometimes God is taking you through a bitter place in your life because God wants to prove you. That means test, to prove, to test. your faith to test your strength to use your life as an example of God's goodness and for God's glory. It's a proving time. I want you to see it's also a prospering time. Look at verse number 27. And they came to Elam. Elam means a place of refreshment. There were twelve wells of water and three score and ten palm trees, and they encamped there by the waters. Beloved, had they missed Marah, They would have never got to experience Elam. Sometimes to get to that place of refreshment, you have to go through bitter water. Realize, beloved, that as long as we respond correctly, God will take you through that bitter time. And God will heal. And he'll bring you to the place of refreshment. I want to give you one last thing and we're going to bring this to a close, but if you would look back At verse number 26, and I just if you haven't done it in the past, I want to point it out to you, and I want you to circle this in your Bible. The Bible says, and said, if thou wilt Would you circle those three words, underline them? I want you to understand that the promises of God, all through the pages of Scripture, The large majority of them are condition promise verses. Here's the condition, and then I will. We circle that if thou wilt, and then he gives us several sentences. If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, and wilt do what is right in his sight, and wilt give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes, then I want you to circle, I will. I will. God says, if thou wilt, I will. He is Jehovah Rapha. He is the healer, and he can and he wants to. But he says, if you will, I will. And he's ready to do that for you. Beloved, what a privilege Are you today going through some bitter waters? God will carry you through. What a blessing it is to be healed by the Master. He lovingly binds up those who've been broken. He comforts and carries those that are too weak to carry themselves. You know, there's something precious about being having a uh a wound cared for. I mean you ask any child, it doesn't matter how small the boo-boo. You want a band-aid? I mean they could be crying and you get a band-aid out and we're gonna we're gonna fix you up and and you put a band-aid on and they're like oh okay yeah thank you just a little band-aid So much better now. If you've ever experienced a sprained ankle Man, isn't it nice when that ace bandage or that ankle support gets put on there and it takes that pressure off of the bone and you can you can it's just bound up. Hey. Jehovah Rapha, he bound, binds up, he heals, he restores God wants to do that for you today. This is Jehovah Rapha, the God who heals. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?