Amen. Grab your Bibles this morning. Turn to two passages of scripture if you would. They're relatively close in the New Testament. Get to the book of Romans, chapter 14. Romans chapter number 14. We're going to be looking Looking at verses 10 through 12. Hold your finger there and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. Romans 14 and 2 Corinthians. Chapter number five. On Thursday night I preached a message. The title of it was Let Us Be Sober. That idea of being serious-minded. uh that there's important things that as Christians we should be considering. Things that uh life is not just a game. It's not just Fun in the sun. There's things that are important for us, not the least of which the Bible tells us to be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion walking about, seeketh whom he may devour. We have a devil, and uh he is an enemy. And he's out to try and destroy our lives. And so there is that level where we're challenged to be sober because of that. But also In the scriptures, another motivation that we talked about for being sober is the fact that judgment is coming. Judgment is coming. Um I'll tell you that usually uh sobers the situation up pretty quick. We've all been there or been part of or been around or whatever a situation something like this where the children are being allowed Little cantankerous, maybe obnoxious. Mom and dad are entertained or they're talking to some guests and it's getting a little out of hand and and mom or dad uh says, hey, hey, you guys hold it down. And the children they they respond for a few seconds. They they say, Oh, we gotta be quiet. But then the you know the roar quickly comes back and it gets out of hand again But then dad stands up and walks into the room and all that tomfoolery stops. now, doesn't it? I mean when when when they think judgments come, when they think dad has come into the s on the scene, all of a sudden Everybody's quiet, nobody's moving a muscle, nobody wants to be the first one to receive the wrath of dad, you know. And uh they they got sober real quick. Because why? Because judgment They've got an answer for not responding to mom and dad's direction. That's something that should be on our minds. We see in the passages of scripture. That I've pointed you to this morning, first of all, in Romans chapter 14, verses 10, 11, and 12, he says, But why dost thou judge thy brother? Or why dost thou set at naught thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. For it is written, as I live as, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me. And every tongue shall confess to God. So then every one of us shall give an account of himself. To God. And in 2 Corinthians 5, verse number 10, if you would look at that passage with me as well, he says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. So this morning, for a few minutes, although this was one point of Thursday night's message, the idea that the judgment seat of Christ was coming, therefore we should live sober-mindedly. I was challenged to talk about this specifically this morning, the judgment seat of Christ. Would you pray with me as we ask God to lead in this service this morning. Lord, we thank you for your love. We thank you, God, for each and every person that's present here in church and those that are watching. Live online. Lord, we pray that you would bless our time together. I ask you, Lord, you'd allow me to get out of the way, that you'd allow my personality not to be a hindrance. To the truth of your word. And I pray, God, that the people present would hear your word, they'd be fed by your spirit. There's some that need to be fed Be challenged. There's some that need to be encouraged, some need to be strengthened, some need to be reminded of this day that's coming and live in light of that fact. And Lord, we ask you to just believe in this service in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Well, I know that you all know that the next thing on God's calendar is the rapture. We have a very simple uh timeline that we put together some time ago. I just want to remind you, if you wouldn't mind, Pastor Gus, would you put up the timeline here? Just to kind of get in your mind to be able to visualize. I know you know these things, but the next thing on God's calendar is the rapture. That's when we are caught up together with him in the air. Now the word rapture itself doesn't appear in the Bible, but uh that word rapture comes from a Latin word which means to be caught up, to be caught together, to be enraptured, to be raptured. And that's where why we use that term, 1 Thessalonians, I think it's 5. 17. is they that we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds. And so that's where that word rapture comes from. The next thing on God's calendar is the rapture. We are right now in the church age, and in the rapture, of course, we as saints are caught up together with him in the clouds. God does not actually put his feet down on the earth in the rapture. He comes in in the clouds. And we're caught up together with him and we go on to glory. Then there's a seven-year period that takes place here on earth. That seven-year period is called the what? The tribulation. That tribulation is you have the uh beginning of sorrows, the first three and a half years, then you have the great tribulation, the last three and a half years, and then you have what a lot of times people they they mix these two up and I'm as guilty as anybody when I'm talking saying something without really thinking about what I'm what I what it is or I'm trying to talk about but I'll say the second coming and I'm really talking about the rapture because Because they're two separate events. The second coming is in the first, the rapture, we go up with God to heaven. But in In the second coming, we come back with God down to earth. So you have the second coming. Then after that, you have the thousand-year reign of Christ. Now, can you tell me there's two things that take place up in heaven During this seven and a half years down here on tribulation. And I don't know. Uh listen, in times, prophecy, if you want to get a little deeper, you can listen to Pastor Derrick's lessons on this. He just put them on online for you. Um and you know in time is not necessarily something I'm really strong on and and the finer details. I don't know how long these two events are going to take. I don't know if The first is going to take three and a half years or if it's going to take two days or hey a day is as a thousand years with God and all that kind of stuff. But I know these two events take place during this time, during the seven and a half years. Does anybody know what those two events are that take place during the tribul while the tribulation is going on here on earth. We have, okay, Carol said the judgment seat of Christ, and then after that takes place what? The marriage supper of the land. The marriage supper of the land. So those two things take place up there while we're in heaven. Now Brother Greg said it. Man, we're looking for the rapture, are we? Amen. Let's get Amen. We're looking for get get out of this place. No more COVID. Amen We go into heaven with nothing to worry about. No more burdens, no more struggles, and and boy, one day we'll be taken out of here. And I think sometimes, friends, that we get so focused on the rapture and looking for that day that we forget. About what happens right after that. The judgment seat of Christ. Yeah, we're going to be caught up together with him in the clouds, and I'm looking forward to that. Those of you that know me, you know I like heights. I like being up high. I like it when my stomach turns and I just you know, that nervousness that takes over you when you're looking down a thousand foot cliff, you know? I mean it's just fun to me N now, I'm looking forward. I don't know. Am I gonna get to like Superman it, fly, you know, up to the clouds? Or or am I just is it just gonna happen? It's gonna be a twinkling of an eye, I probably won't even get bef before I get to experience I'm gonna be there. Yeah, it's gonna be too quick for me, I'm sure. I'm not gonna actually get to experience that travel. Uh my dad always thought that when we get to glory, we'll probably get to be able to travel at the speed of thought in heaven. You're like, oh I want to go over to Jacob's house. Bam, I'm the Jacob's house. I I don't know, and uh don't have any Bible on that, but uh just thinking about, you know, the Bible says I uh I hath not seen and you have not heard the things that God uh and my I that's a problem. There you go. Thank you. So it hasn't even hindered into your heart. The things that God's created for us in heaven. So things that you could the the the craziest and the best thing you can think of as far as heaven, it's gonna be better than that. And we're looking forward to it. But beloved, right after the rapture comes the judgment seat of Christ. And and we've got to deal with that. We've got to realize that it's coming. We've got to understand that. And I want to give you just some simple thoughts this morning with regards to the judgment seat of Christ and hopefully challenge our hearts to really live. With that in view. So, first of all, I want you to see that it's a certain judgment. It's a certain judgment. Everybody, every Christian is going to face This judgment. Now, every Christian faces three judgments. First of all, our sin If you have come to Jesus Christ, our sin has been judged in Christ on the cross. He has taken our sin. If you've come to the place where you realized you were a sinner, And that you had no means or ability to pay for your sin yourself. You had no way to try and earn your way out of this or to get through this. But you know that Jesus died for you and he paid sin's debts. And then all you've got to do is put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, and He'll forgive you of that sin. He'll enter your heart. That relationship with Christ will be started. Your sin was covered by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. At the cross. So our sin is judged at the cross. Listen, we can't pay for our sin ourselves. We could try to and we know ultimately we'll we'll it we'll have to spend an eternity in a place called hell to try and pay for it ourselves. But Jesus Christ came and gave himself, God the Father gave his son, and Jesus gave his life to pay for our sin. All we've got to do is accept that free gift of salvation that Jesus accepted. The first Peter 2. 24 says, Who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree. He took our sins in his body and buried them there. And we can be forgiven of our sins. So every Christian, first of all, has to come to the place if you're going to be what we title and we use the term Christian Which means to be Christ like. It's just a name, it's just a title of a group of people that want to claim the name of Christ. But what it really means is you've trusted Jesus as your Lord and Savior. You've asked him to forgive you of your sin and put your faith and trust in him and him alone. Jesus paid it all, and all to him I owe. Then secondly, there should be a judgment of self. 1 Corinthians 11, 31 says, For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. You see, as Christians, we're to keep short accounts with God. As Christians, we are to examine ourselves and And much of the Christian life is ri seeing where we're at and judging ourselves and saying, oh, this is not right, this is not pleasing to God. The Bible says if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And as I find something in my life that's not right, that's not pleasing to God. I confess that. Listen, I don't lose my salvation. I'm saved. I'm on my way to heaven. I can't ever lose that. Just like my son, he may be bad At times, or maybe he may be good at times, but my son doesn't ever lose that relationship. He's my son. Either way. Sometimes he's very pleasing, sometimes he's very disappointing, but he's still my son. Now you know my daughters, they don't ever do anything wrong. You know that. But we've got to judge ourselves, the Bible says, examine our hearts, not not to continue against Not to earn salvation, but to keep the relationship right. Just like my son comes to me and says, hey Dad, I I messed up on this, I'm sorry. And that relationship is restored. Do we judge ourselves? Then, lastly, there's a judgment of service that we're all going to be at. And that's The judgment seat of Christ. The judgment seat of Christ. Every Christian is going to face this judgment. Now, some think that their loving father, their friend that sticketh closer than a brother. He's gonna be the judge, so it won't be that bad. Um I'm reminded of a story of a man who was caught uh participating in a crime and he went to court and his defense attorney defended him v vigorously. I mean he did a outstanding job and actually got the guy off from this charge that was against him Well it was some years later that this man was charged again for participating in a crime of a like manner and he was going into the courtroom and he thought, man, I'm in trouble. Um this is the second time and and And you know, last time I got off, but boy, I'm this is gonna be they're gonna throw the book at me. And he walked into the courtroom, and wouldn't you know it, that his defense attorney now is a judge And the judge is sitting up there and he thought, I got it made. My judge this the judge is my friend. He's my defense attorney. I mean he defended me so well And the judge called him to the stand and said, I just want to make things clear. When I was your defense attorney, I defended you vigorously. But now I'm your judge. And I'm going to judge you just as vigorously. Oh man. Yeah. Put the warning, the fear of God into him. Listen, Jesus is our friend. He's a friend that sticketh closer than another, and he loves us, but he's a just judge. And he will judge every Christian. Paul said there in uh our text of first Second Corinthians 5 10, he says, Hey, we all must appear. We're all gonna appear. Every one of us are gonna be there. You're not gonna miss this. Nobody's gonna forget to go. We're all gonna be present for this. You know, it's said that the IRS audits approximately 24 returns out of every 1,000 returns that are made. I don't know how they choose, but maybe just randomly they pick 24. or whatever, but on on average, that's what they said, is about 24 of them. So a lot of people miss judgment. But nobody's going to miss this. We're all going to be there. Jesus is going to be the judge. In 2 Timothy 4, verse number 8, he says, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord The righteous judge shall give me in that day. So the Lord, the righteous judge, is going to give us, is going to judge us in that day. And he says, not to me only, but to unto all them that love. His appearing. Them that love his appearing. Now we're looking for the rapture. Amen? The appearing of Jesus Christ. So we know that he is going to be the judge. If you have any questions with regards to that, also in John chapter 5, verse number 22 he says, for the father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son. So Jesus is going to be the one that's sitting on that throne. He is the one that's going to be serving as judge. Not your family, not your friends. Jesus, the one who gave himself for us, the one who became who knew no sin but became sin for us. He's going to be on that judge, on that stand It's a certain judgment that we're all going to be at. It's also a correcting. It's a correcting judgment. That judgment is coming. I want you to see the method of examination we see in our text, 2 Corinthians 5. 10. First of all, that the good and the bad are judged. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be what's the name Next three words? Good or bad. Now that word good, you know, again, I'm not a Greek scholar, and I'm not going to attempt to try and say these Greek words. I have them type Here, if somebody wants to see them, but that that that word means useful, good. It means beneficial. We're going to be judged for those things that were good, that you did, that were right. To him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is. Sin we've got we are supposed to be doing good. That means things that are useful, things that are beneficial. So I wonder, in your daily life Is your daily life beneficial for the cause of Christ? This is exactly what we were talking about in Sunday school. So we're talking about living in light of, spending energy, time, and investment in eternal matters. Where this world will dedicate so much energy and effort to be ready for retirement day So that hopefully they have enough money to last them till the end of their life. And they they work overtime and they sacrifice and they invest all this energy just to be ready for investment, for retirement day. But what about us as Christians? Are we living to be ready for eternity? With eternity in view, is your daily life beneficial for the cause of Christ and for eternity? This word bad here in the Greek, I mean it's not like we think about the idea of just bad. It's basically the opposite. It means unuseful. It's not necessarily something that we would look at and say is evil. But actually, even just unuseful, unbeneficial, unnecessary. We're going to be judged for the things done in our body, both the good, those things that were useful, that were beneficial, and the bad, those things that weren't useful or beneficial. Beneficial to eternity, to the cause of Christ. Beloved, I want you to know that everything is going to be revealed. Nothing is going to stay hidden. In 1 Corinthians 4, verse number 5, he says, Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord cometh, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsel of the hearts. Everything is going to be brought to light. Everything is going to be put on the screen, as it were. Everything is going to be shown. Everything is going to be exposed. Nothing's going to be hidden. We're going to be judged for every idle word, the Bible tells us. Every idle word. Matthew 12, 36, but I say unto you that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. This is coming, and all of us are going to be present. This is an individual judgment. You're not going to be standing there with anybody else. You're not going to be able to point at anybody else like is very prevalent in our society today. Doesn't everybody want to blame something on somebody else? It doesn't matter who it is or what it is, it's all my dad didn't love me like he should have Oh, I came from a hard, hard I grew up in a hard place, or oh I got fired from my job, or I mean there's always somebody else's fault why we did what we did But you see, it's going to be an individual judgment. I'm not going to be standing before God, and I'm going to give an account for the things done in my body. And I'm not going to be able to give some excuse. Oh, I would have done better, but you don't understand. He understands. You know It's not many years ago that the idea of everything in our life being recorded seemed to be Like impossible. Like how in the world could God bring back everything we ever did? How in the world could God have record of all that? And now man has the ability to do that. Just about every part of your life is recorded. Just about. It won't be long. It's it's getting you listen, privacy is a thing of the past, I can tell you that that right now. It's gone, just it's done. I mean you know this contact tracing that they want to do, th th they're no longer gonna give you choice. The apps on your phone they track where you go. Uh you know, I I have a mileage tracker that uh I use for tax purposes And it it tracks everywhere I go. It tells me exactly how what route I took to get there, how long I was there, when I got back in the car and when I left and went to the next place. I mean what I'm saying is we used to think man how in the world could God do that? Well if man can do that, I don't think God's gonna have a hard time. Judgment day is coming, and if anything should motivate us as God's people to be earnest in our Christian life To live like God wants us to live and to invest our time, energy, and effort in eternity, it should be a reminder that judgment day is coming. Amen. It's what's important. This is coming. Listen, we could live our life and invest so much time and energy in today, and today is going to be gone. The things that we valued or thought were so important five years ago, where are they today? But what we live for and invest in our lives and energy in eternity, it lasts for eternity. And it'll be there when we get to glory. I want you to see that it's a day of reward, not rebuke. The judgment seat of Christ could be a day of reward, not rebuke. It's a crowning judgment as well. This, the judgment seat of Christ, comes from two Greek words, the first meaning the place of judgment. the location. It's the place where you're judged. Just like you go into a courtroom. It's the place where judgment is made. The place of judgment. And the second is maybe more familiar, you've heard this referred to as the Bima seat. The Bimeseet. This is found many times throughout the New Testament. Let me read you one commentator's thoughts on the Bemiset. and what it means. In Grecian games in Athens, the old uh arena contained a raised platform on which the president or the empire of the arena would sit. From there he would reward all of the contestants. And here he rewarded all the winners. It was called the BEMA or the reward seat. It was never used as a judicial bench So you see, the bhimasiat was designed as a place to administer and give rewards. And Christian God wants to, at the judgment seat, we are going to give an answer for everything done in our body. All that is done is going to be tried, the Bible says, by fire. And that which is wood, hay, and stubble is going to be burned up, but that which is of gold, of precious metal, is going to remain. That is the things that were valuable, that were useful, that were beneficial for eternity. The things that we did with eternity in view are going to remain. And God wants, for you and I as Christians, when we get to that judgment seat, to the Abima seat, He wants us to be rewarded. For the things done in our body. Now, yes, if we're not doing right, we should dread the judgment day. Amen? But the goal of the Bemis seat really was designed by God because He wants to give you a reward. He wants to recognize what you did as a Christian, and he wants to reward you for the things that you did in your body. God wants to reward you, not rebuke you. Oh, he will rebuke us. But the goal of the judgment seat, the Bhima seat, is that he would administer rewards to the saints. Beloved, at this seat, Christ is not going to ask you, have you accepted him? That will already be a given for you being present there. But he's going to ask you, have you served him? You see, this is the judgment of our service. Sin was judged on the cross. We through our lives judge ourselves that we be not judged. And one day we'll stand before the judgment seat of Christ for our service. Will be judged by Jesus Himself. Every work is going to be tried by fire. The Bible says to see what sort it is. You see, this judge will be judged on quality, not quantity. Quality, not quantity. David said it's better to obey than to sacrifice What I'm asking, Christian, is the life that you're living beneficial for eternity? God has given each of you a certain level of ability. Praise God, you're not responsible for anybody else. Else's ability. But you're responsible for your ability. For how well you live the life God has given you. With the means and ability and capability God has invested you. To whom much is given, much is required. I'm glad I wasn't given much. I I shouldn't have said that. I am very I am very blessed. I'm very blessed. And I I'll have a lot to answer to God for. For what He's given me. You see, you're going to give an account there at the judgment seat of how you use the skills, abilities, and means that you have We were working on the roof this last week and we've made really good progress on that. And we're up there working on it and we've got several chimneys to go around and you've got a cut into the mortar and and flash and counter flash the chimneys so that the water doesn't go down in there. And Brother Glover was working on it for a long time. He's up there working on it and uh you know, he's like, I don't know. I says I I told him, I said, Brother, I trust you. Just do whatever you think it needs and it'll be good. And he's I said I I said you'll make it so it won't leak. And he's like, well you're putting the pressure on. He's like now I have to do a good job. And I s I told him I says here's what I know about you, Brother Glover. I says you You're going to go above and beyond. You're going to do it to the best of your ability, and the best of your ability is probably better than it needs to be. So whatever you do, I know it's going to be okay. And and and I'm happy with that. But I know because I know him that he wasn't going to say, have you ever heard anybody say that's good enough for government work? He wasn't gonna he wasn't gonna do that, you know. He was gonna make sure it was as good as he could do it. Now maybe there's people out there that could do a better job. Maybe Cleaner, nicer, whatever, but I know that he's going to do as good as he can, and I knew that that would be good enough. It's not going to leak. You see, God doesn't ask us to do more than we have the ability to do. At the judgment seat, you're not going to give an account for ability that somebody else had. But at the judgment seat, you'll give an account for your ability And what you did with what God gave you. And beloved, God wants to reward you. It's a The fact of the matter is, is that day was designed for reward. Paul looked forward to that day. He said, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I Do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high call. Of God in Christ Jesus. I think that prize that Paul looked forward to, that he pressed towards, was that Christ Crowning day, the rewards that Jesus would give unto us. The reward is an incorruptible reward. You know, all of man's accolades here on earth? All of me maybe you got your name in the paper once. You know, isn't it amazing how much we value these things as I was contemplating I thought, you know, if somebody received a letter from the president, isn't it amazing how that comes up when you visit their house? Oh yeah, here's a letter I got from the president in 1981 or whatever. You know, whenever it was, been a good president probably, uh, you know, to get a letter from, but whenever it was, you know, we valued that I'm not saying there's anything wrong with it. But we value those things. Maybe you got your name in the paper. Maybe you got uh praised for something that you did uh in in the community or and these things are good But they're very short-lived, aren't they? No matter how valuable or precious your accolade was, it's going to pass away. Even if you had something that was gold clad, you set it on your counter and maybe it's worth a lot of money, but it too is Going to burn up and not be worth anything. But you beloved, the crown that we get in glory is an incorruptible crown. 1 Corinthians 9 and verse number 25, he says, And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. You see, again I go back to Sunday school. You think about all the effort that people put into achieving something here in this life. We were, my kids and I were listening to a motivational speech by Arnold Schwarzenegger. He was talking about the drive to succeed and Pushing. He talked about how as a young man he went to the gym and he would work out. He said, They ask me, they ask me how how you work out for six hours a day, seven days a week. With a smile on your face, and he said, because I am going to be Mr. Universe. And he said, I knew every push-up that I did, I was one push-up closer to achieving that goal. I knew every rep I did, I was one rep closer to achieving that goal. You think about that drive to achieve that goal, to receive the accolades of men, and what are we as God's people doing God wants to reward you with an incorruptible crown. And I don't have time this morning to to teach on the five crowns, the first incorruptible, whether that's a description of all of them or one of its own, but the crowns that are given to us in the scriptures. But let me just tell you what they are. We have the crown of rejoicing that's given to those that win souls. Are you involved in winning souls? Are you involved in giving the gospel out? Giving a track out having a heart for others? Tell me People about Jesus. There's a crown you can earn here on earth. There's a lot of things you do that don't mean anything, but any time that you give the gospel, it lasts for eternity and goes towards that incorruptible crown. The crown of rejoicing. Yeah, that is the crown of life that's given to those that endure persecution and tribulation. James 1, verse 12 says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life. Are you going through it? Are you enduring some things in this life with a good spirit? Honoring God through it? You can get a crown, an incorruptible crown, the crown of life. There's the crown of righteousness given to those who live pure lives and faithfully live and look for Christ. appearing. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, the Bible says in 1 Timothy 4 8. 2 Timothy 4 8. The righteous judge shall give me in that day. There's the crown of glory given to those that are actively teaching and instructing people in the gospel and in Christian growth and discipleship. The crown of glory, many people have looked at this as a pastor's crown, but I believe it's available to any who are investing their life in discipling others. in teaching the Word of God. You can do that in a Sunday school class or you can do that with your friend at home and you can look at the Word of God and say, what does this mean? And you study it out and you get direction and you show them, hey, this is what the Bible is saying right here. And you're just teaching the Word of God and pointing people to Jesus Christ, actively involved in that. And when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. And beloved, the true value of these precious crowns that we'll have in eternity is everything else in this life is going to burn up and be gone. But the value that we have is At that last day, we'll be able to lay them at the feet of Jesus. Revelations 4:10 through 11 says the four and twenty elders fall down before him and This is John a vision from God on what's to come. And he saw these four and twenty elders fall down before him and Sat on the throne and worshiped him that lived forever and ever and cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord. Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou art created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. Can you tell Me, have you done your best for Jesus? Are you doing your best for Jesus in light of the judgment seat of Christ? We're going to be judged for the things done in our body, good and bad. But beloved, we have right now still before us time to do good. So you messed up yesterday or last week or yet a year ago. But listen, you you're not you haven't been called home yet. So we can still do good. We can take the time we have left and work towards earning one of those incorruptible crowns and a little less effort here in this life. To obtain a corruptible one, to receive some recognition from some man. Let's instead look to see a reward from our Heavenly Father.