But it wasn't turned on there. Alrighty. Got something now? Very good. So the book of Acts, this timeline here, the chart that we've given you, just To help put things into perspective and to be able to see where we are in uh time, history, chapters there, really dividing up the book in the introduction there, you'll Uh it it kind of goes both directions, but you'll see if you turn it horizontally the first couple of years uh beginning Uh some people believe that the book of Acts here the things that take place are as early as twenty-nine uh but as late as thirty-three, uh somewhere in those in those years, uh you know, they they can only be a hundred percent sure on certain things like the destruction of Jerusalem uh and then they g they go back from that. Uh And so y they lay this, things can m move a year or two one way or the other. But uh you have the beginning of that, so you have the spirit of the church, the growth of the church. and then kind of a dividing line because you have a transition into the persecution of the church and the expansion of the church. And that was all done under Peter. And that's described as the foundation there. And then these are the Acts of Peter, and then Peter and Philip together as the church expands and goes out to reach the world. Then in each chapter you have kind of a key thing that takes place there in blue underneath the Acts of Peter there. Those things falling in chapters 1 through 12. And also the location took place in Jerusalem, took place in Judea and Samaria Then you have the Acts of Paul, which take place in the uttermost parts of the earth or the far regions of the Roman Empire. And uh the focus, obviously, under Peter was to the Jews that in in the Gentiles in that region and then to the Gentile world uh under the Acts of Paul. So you have Paul's missionary journeys, just a very good uh quick overview you can kind of see what takes place in the book of acts with the growth and the expansion of the church and who's doing what in what chapter as well as time frame there. So uh to answer uh Uh Bob's question last week, uh the events that take place in Acts uh really are right at we we have chapter one that opens up. with the same events that the closing of Luke uh has. You know, uh the basically the ascension, uh Christ walking amongst amongst his uh disciples And the Ascension of Christ. So you have that right there in that 30 to 33 A. D. timeframe. And then it covers about 30 years, getting us to 60, 65, somewhere in that region uh for the close of the book. Um then um Greg asked last week about uh Masada and that is is in seventy-three uh A. D. So that took place right after really just kind of right after the close of the book of Acts. Uh we get a little bit further in that whole event uh according to Josephus took place in 73 A. D. So answering those couple of questions there. So as we get into the book of Acts, you can turn your Bibles to the book of Acts. We're going to be there in chapter number one and kind of walking down through this. I I was telling Pastor Gus is really trying to decide how detailed to get and trying not to get too bogged down in what is important. still give you that which is important without getting into every detail and and I said the first couple of chapters here turned into almost like a verse by verse study. Not quite because I'm not going to get into the minute detail but it was quite a lot So trying to keep it a broad overview uh was was a struggle as some of these events are very, very important. And your notes there I have given you A. T. uh. Pearson who followed Spurgeon in the pulpit of the Metropolitan Tabernacle He said that this could be act actually described as the Acts of the Holy Spirit. Um there are over seventy references to the Holy Spirit in the book of Acts. Uh it obviously is evident that it is in and through the power of the Holy Spirit that the events of Acts take place, that the church is founded, that it grows and it is expanded. It really is the the work of the Holy Spirit in the Church, which is why I've titled this section the Spirit of the Church because that is what empowered and enabled it as the Book of Acts uh takes over uh and the church is founded. And uh so really describing this as the spirit of the church. So we pick up in Acts chapter number one, where we look at the walking with the Savior, walking with the Savior. Uh the person of Christ, uh It was still here. Uh he is at work. We see his work here as he's bringing his ministry on earth to a close. following his resurrection. Luke tells us that Acts was the continuation of the work. In Acts chapter 1 and verse number 1. The former treaties have I made, O Theophilus all that Jesus began both to do and to teach. So he says, hey, I I've given you the former treaties. I've kind of talked to you about this already. I told you about all the work that Jesus began to do. And so really Luke tells us about the work of Christ that he did while he was here. Acts tells us about the work that Christ did after he ascended into heaven. Really in and through the power of the Holy Spirit, but the work that God did through men. And so it is still the work of God. The church is still a work of God. And it's something that's done through men. And so where Luke really gives us Jesus actual things that he spake and did here on earth. Acts gives us the things that he accomplished in and through men and obviously through the power of the Holy Spirit. Until verse number two, until that day in which he was taken up, after that he, through the Holy Ghost, had given commandments. So the work that he did through these apostles as the church grew. The wisdom of Jesus was confounding. It was something that was uh present and evident through all of Christ's life here on earth, everywhere he went, people were always amazed. They said, no man ever spake like this man. John 47. 46 says, he taught as one having authority, not as the scribes. His ability to communicate and to teach with the truth. truth, not just a scribe, not somebody that just uh you know could regurgitate what they wrote down, but somebody that had authority and could speak about it. And Matthew 8. 29, they marveled, whence hath this man such wisdom, just seeing the wisdom of Jesus Christ as he was here on earth And the work that he began was completed. In John 17, verse number four, it says, I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work thou gavest me to do. So Christ finished that work. That work he, you know, his With his death, burial, and resurrection, his work here is done. He is walking among the disciples for a period of time and uh sharing with them some closing truths before his ascension. And then the work is going to continue through the Holy Spirit. We see in verse number three that the proofs of his resurrection were many To whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. So for forty days he walked among them, he ate with them, he taught them, and it tells us here that he specifically communicated to them regarding the kingdom of God. probably went back over some of the things that he gave in the Sermon on the Mount. You know, 633, seek ye first the kingdom of God. Really reiterating the importance of that and the focus of it and what they're supposed to be doing while they were here on earth. So for 40 days he communicates this truth to them. The promise of the Holy Spirit was given in verse number four and five, letting them know the Holy Spirit was coming, and being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise. Of the Father, which saith, Ye have heard of me, but John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. So he tells them, hey, the Holy Spirit is coming. This book of action, the book of Acts, describing for us the Acts of the Apostles or the Acts of the Holy Spirit. this book of action and the first thing that Christ does is tells them to wait. You need to go back to Jerusalem. And you need to wait for the empowering of the Holy Spirit. And I think sometimes we would be better off if we did a little more waiting. Uh waiting for the Holy Spirit to empower us to do the work, waiting for God's direction and God's leading in that next step, instead of just stepping out on our own and and going out to do what we want to do. They were supposed to wait. And the reward for their waiting was they had the power to do the work. The plea for Christ to set up his kingdom was rejected. Verses 6 and 7, you know, Jesus was talking to them about the kingdom, telling them about it was at hand, it's coming, here's what you need to do regarding the kingdom. And uh of course the disciples even still after all this time they require or ask of it to be presently right now. He says In verse number six. When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for ye to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. He says, Hey, it's not now. You guys don't understand. You you you don't know exactly what God is doing and you're not gonna maybe don't have the Uh wherewithal this is not for you all to know every time, every season, everything that God is doing. But it's not now. It's not now. They desired it to be now, but he says, no, it's not now Then he gives to them the program of the gospel again. And we know that the the the great commission really is given to us here in verse number eight. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. both in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and the uttermost parts of the earth. So right there in the introduction to the book, at the very beginning, he says, this is going to be your focus. You're going to be empowered to do this. You're going to be equipped to do this. And the Holy Spirit's going to enable you to do it. What are you going to do? You're going to preach the gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ to Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the uttermost. That is God's plan, the the Great Commission. And uh Jesus The great commission was given to them. He says, you're going to be witnesses unto me. A witness is somebody that just tells what they saw. Tells what happened to them. And as we consider and think about that fact that we are to be witnesses That means we're to share with others what we know personally, what Jesus did for us. You're just sharing what you saw, just like if you happen to be in the proximity uh of an accident and they said, well we're gonna need to get your statement from you and and you know you were a witness so we need to know what happened here and you share what you saw, what what happened And as we are witnesses, we're witnesses of what Jesus has done in our life. Amen. Amen. I hope Jesus has done something in your life you have uh a cause or purpose to be a witness of. He says they were going to the Great Commission, that work of reaching the world is what they were going to be involved in. Then the parting of Jesus takes place. The time had come. Jesus was going to ascend up. And verse number nine. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. He was taken up. One of the commentators I wrote on read this week, I don't remember which one, but he said, Jesus who came in a cradle was taken away in a cloud. And uh he he was taken up uh in a cloud from their presence. And of course we know that they stood there gazing up into the heavens. And uh and while they looked steadfastly towards the heavens as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus So Jesus is taken up into heaven. He sits on the right hand of God, and uh the angels speak to these men. They communicate with them. They tell them, hey, Jesus Jesus is coming again. You don't need to stand here gazing up into the sky. God has given you a commission, a job to do, something you should accomplish. And uh they said that he's going to come again for them. Now, his first coming was complete. The next thing on the horizon is his second coming. We don't know exactly when that'll be, uh but in the interim time, this time, which is the church age, We every day are getting closer to that day, and we know that uh people talk about the end times. In a biblical, theological sense, we have been in the end times since Christ ascended The next thing on the calendar is his second coming. Christ ascended. The next thing he says, hey, he's going to come again. In like manner that you've seen him go, he's going to come again. And that is the next thing on God's calendar. Uh so he's coming back to His work was done. So we see in verses 12 through 26 the waiting for the Spirit They're going to do and accomplish what God had told them to do. The perseverance of the disciples is seen in verses 12 and 13. They did what God said. They returned unto them Jerusalem from the Mount called Alabat, which is from Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey. And when they were come in They went up into an upper room where they abroad where they abode, both Peter and James, and John, and Andrew and Philip and Thomas and Bartholomew and Matthew and James and the son of Alphasis and Simon the zealot, and Judas, the brother of James. So these gathered together in the upper room. They persevered. They did what God told them to do. They were to go and they were to wait for the Spirit. The disciples returned to accomplish this. It's noteworthy that they mentioned here a Sabbath day's journey. You know the beginning here, Peter's ministry was going to be to the Jews. It's mentioned here a Sabbath day's journey. It's not that far. We think about the term of a journey, and we think pretty far. I mean, using that word, I mean just for us. Our world is so small today because of our capacity to travel so far so quickly. Yet for them, you know, I guess the journey could be a much smaller distance. uh it has been stated to be uh around uh two thousand yards a Sabbath day's journey because you were limited by the laws of the Sabbath in how far you could travel So they didn't travel that far, but it was about a Sabbath day's journey, which according to the scholars is about two thousand yards. So I just thought it was interesting. It's given to us there described as a Sabbath day journey, and we just read that and we think, well, they they traveled all day Sunday or Saturday back to there, the Sabbath, but it actually was not uh all day. It's a very short trip. They go back to Jerusalem. And they wait. The prayer of the disciples is heard. They prayed and asked for the power of the Holy Spirit. Verses 14 and 15. He says, these all continued with one accord in prayer and with supplication, with the women and Mary and the mother of Jesus and women with his brethren. And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples and said, the number of names together were about a hundred and twenty. So for ten days they prayed together in one accord, continuing to ask God for the empowering of the Holy Spirit, for the presence of the Holy Spirit. They were unified in their purpose. They were unified in their patience as they waited. They were unified in the expectancy of the promise that God had given. And uh they waited for that. 120 people prayed together for God to send the Comforter, and the Comforter came. So we see in chapter number two, the work of the Spirit is evident. The work of the Holy Spirit. Uh this is what Christ said was going to come. And uh the Holy Spirit was going to empower them to do this work. It's a work that God does, not that we do. And uh the miracle of Pentecost takes place. Verse chapter two, verse number one. And when the day of Pentecost was fully come They were all with one accord in one place, and suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as a of fire, and sat upon each of them So the Holy Spirit presence came. Pentecost was fully come. No longer were men going to have to function in the realm of types and likenesses. Jesus Christ had come, the Lamb that was slain for the sins of the world, had died, had been buried, had rose again, ascended up into heaven, and the Holy Spirit had come to empower men to do his work, and now we're living in that time, the fullness of time here, when the time was come for the Holy Spirit to be doing his work, the work of Jesus himself was done. And so the manifestation of the Spirit was very present. It was shown by a couple of things he describes here in verse number two, the mighty wind. Now it was a sound of wind. That's what it said there. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven. They were indoors. They were in the upper room. They were praying. uh it was a sound of a mighty rushing wind. We certainly would know what that sounds like. Uh but it's something that they uh had to take by faith. They had to believe in, they had to understand uh that God was sending the Holy Spirit, the sound of a mighty wind was brought. Uh and then it was shown by the sight of fire, the the fire that came and rested upon them And appeared verse number three and appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire. Again a likeness they uh Like this. They God describes the Holy Spirit in a couple of ways, that way of the mighty rushing wind, that you you don't know where it listeth, you don't know where it came from, you don't know where it's going is something that we We can't really uh necessarily feel or understand, but we know the wind is there. We know what it's doing. We can see the results of it. Uh and then the idea of fire. Fire, it illuminates. It it it allows us to be able to see and before we had all this electricity where we can pretty much function anytime, anywhere, uh you know if you were gonna go out at night you had to have fire. You had to have some kind of uh lantern or some type some And it also warms, the fire warms uh that uh Holy Spirit will warm the heart of a cold, dead Christian. The Holy Spirit warms the heart of believers. And this is the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. And we get to see that. So it was showered upon all of them. This baptism was upon them all. No one received a special portion, not just one person. They all receive the power of the Holy Spirit. As we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit comes and dwells in you, and you have the Holy Spirit. You have the Holy Spirit's presence to guide you, to empower you, to do the work of God. The question is, how much of you does the Holy Spirit have? And uh so this whole work of the Holy Spirit's one of the most uh convoluted things in Christendom today, uh where people get really out of whack uh and far off base when they think about this idea of the Holy Spirit, and boy, especially like talking about the baptism of the Holy Spirit, and we're going to be baptized by the Holy Spirit, and it's going to be a second baptism. There's a lot of descriptions that they talk about, uh but it's not biblical. You have the Holy Spirit and everybody there received the Holy Spirit. There was not this person over there that had a huge power, you know, Peter. was given a a miraculous endowment of the power of the Holy Spirit in some very special way, and everybody else present there had to just kind of sit and watch. No, Peter is who God chose to use to preach at Pentecost, but they all had the power of the Holy Spirit to do the work that God had called them to do, just like you and I do. Now the ministry of the Holy Spirit helped them. They spake with other tongues. In verse number four. We see, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. You see that word all? They were all filled with the Holy Ghost. Not just Peter, not just somebody special that had a special endowment, but they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now I'm not going to teach uh on What the Bible says about tongues overall, we don't have time to there could be several lessons on that individually, but we do not believe in the speaking of tongues We do not believe in the gibberish that people put forth as a special endowment of the Spirit of God, and if you get close enough to God, you'll be able to speak in this unknown tongue. Okay, that is contrary to Scripture. This very clearly in this passage of Scripture was them speaking in other tongues. That is a I mean I know we got Spanish in here. Uh what other tongues do we have in here? You guys what languages do you speak? Anybody what other languages? Anybody speak anything else besides Spanish or English? Present tonight? Oh Miss Lisa? Yeah. You speak Tagalog? So several languages. So it was speaking in other tongues like that. Not not an unknown tongue. Not gibberish, but a language that God empowered them to do. This was a sign gift given to reach the Jews for a period of time, which the Bible is clear. It ended with the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. It was a gift given to them to help reach the Jewish people. You understand for thousands or for all of history thus far, God had spoken to the children of Israel in their tongue. But now God was going to speak to all men. God was going to speak to everybody. And so all of a sudden everybody was able to hear This uh speaking from the Lord, and it was something new that had never happened before, a sign gift given to them to reach the Jewish people, to help them believe. The multitudes that gathered heard them and said, boy, these are unlearned men, and they heard them in their own language. We see verses 6 through 8. Now was this was noised abroad, verse number six, the multitude came together and were confounded because that every man heard them speak in his own language. Understand? They weren't speaking in an unknown language. They weren't speaking in whatever they thought of in their mind and could make up. They were speaking in their own language, individual languages, people would speak. And it's as if I was speaking in English, but Ms. Lisa was hearing it in Tagalog. She was hearing the Holy Spirit translating that. Now uh with the latest uh iPhone uh earbuds They have live instant translation. You can put an earbud in and speak to somebody in Spanish, and when they communicate to you, it will instantly translate and give you live as it's being spoken. give you the translation. Um I think if we can figure out how to do that with technology, that God, the creator of the universe, can figure out how to do it without it. God can do it in our mind. They heard that. They understood that. And so they heard them in their own tongue. A list of the tongues is provided in verse 9 and 10. He tells us very clearly there. He gives us a list, these lists, verse 9 and 10, all of these people from these different regions heard this in their own tongue. Verse number, look at verse number 11. It finishes the list with the Cretes and the Arabians. We do hear them speak in our tongues. The wonderful works of God. They said, Hey, we heard them speak. We heard them speak in our tongues. The wonderful works of God. An amazing thing, this uh empowering of the Holy Spirit to do this. Now some mocked Some mocked and said that they were full of wine, verse number thirteen, and others mocked, saying, These men are full of new wine. Okay, so there are always going to be mockers. There's always going to be people that don't believe the power of the Holy Spirit and what God is doing. Harold Wilmington described for us the fact that a lot of times the empowering of the Holy Spirit is likened to uh you know where the Bible says, be not drunk with wine. but be filled with the Spirit, that likeness, that the same can be applied to how what happens to you And so he gives a couple of things where he says, first of all, when you're filled with the Holy Spirit or that you are drunk with wine, both of those are a result of a crushing process. How you get wine, the grapes are crushed. How you get filled with the Spirit as you have got to empty yourself. The broken and contrite heart, God God will not despise. So it is a work of the Holy Spirit God does in us. It's a result of a crushing process where we humble ourselves before God. Both are given new boldness. to the one they're under the control of. And you see that uh when somebody's drunk with wine, they have a whole new boldness. They'll do things they would never do if they were in their right mind. And the same is true. When you're full of the Holy Spirit, you'll have a boldness for the things of God that you wouldn't have in your own spirit, in your own flesh. You don't have that boldness, but But you can with the power and the Spirit of God. And then both produce a longing for more. And that's right from Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, page 281. Now Peter understood this, and he understood it to be a pouring out of the Spirit, and he describes that. He explains to them what's happening. You have these people mocking, saying, oh, you guys are just drunk, you know, and Peter says, no, no, no, that's not the case Look at verse number fourteen. He says, But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and he said unto them, Ye men of Judea, and all that dwell in Jerusalem, be this known unto you And hearken to my words, for these are not drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day, but this is that which is spoken by the prophet Joel And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh. So you notice here there's several things that's key with this verse, number 17. This is a almost word-for-word quote. from the book of Joel, which I'm going to read for you in a second. Joel chapter two verses twenty-eight through thirty. If you write in your Bible, you may want to write in the margin of your Bible that that is what he's quoting from Joel chapter 2 verses 28 through 30. But he says, and it shall come to pass in the last days. So I said to you that we, since the ascension of Christ, that we are in the last days. That's what he said. This is what's going to come to pass in the last days. And what's the first thing that's going to come pass? I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh. The Holy Spirit was poured about. The Holy Spirit came right then. That's when the Holy Spirit was delivered to the saints. And the last days we entered the last days at that time. The Holy Spirit was poured out. Now we are in the church age. If you want to mark in the edge of your Bible, verses 17 and 18, that is the church age. That's the age we're in right now. He says, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters, and ye shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall see dreams and dreams uh dream dreams and on my servant and On my handmaids I will pour out in those days of my spirit and they shall prophesy. It's talking about the power of God to do the work of God, the Holy Spirit coming and being delivered. That is the church age. Now, verse 19 and 20, this is coming to the end of the last days. This is the tribulation period. And you see it described here. He says, and I will show wonders in the heaven above and the signs on earth beneath, blood and fire and vapor and smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before that great and notable day of the Lord comes So that the day of the Lord is the tribulation period, the day of the Lord, that day of judgment. And so those last two verses 19 and 20 are a description of that where the time of the church age, this delivering of him of this comes to a closing. And uh so let me read for you Joel chapter 2 verses 28 through 30. It is almost word for word what we just read. And it shall come to pass after that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and old men shall dream dreams, young men shall see visions. And also upon the servants and upon thy handmaids, in those days will I pour out my spirit, and I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood and fire and pillars and smoke. So a description of those things given almost a word-for-word quote of the book of Joel. This is the foundation, the beginning of the church age, and the outpouring of the Spirit was delivered according to or with the scriptures. Uh the Spirit was delivered, the Scriptures were delivered, and the work of God was going to go forward. Complete fulfillment will come in the day of the Lord, verses 19 through 20. I explained that to you already, that that is uh the tribulation that is talking about there. Until the day of the Lord comes, whosoever will may come. We see that in verse number twenty-one. And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen. That's uh any between we are now in the church day, the Holy Spirit came and he delivers that to him. Says, Whoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. So during this time our goal and work and effort is to Tell people about the Lord, tell people about the coming judgment, let people know that God's Son died for them, that great commission that was given to us. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria and the uttermost, and uh see the work of God move forward in and through the power of the Holy Spirit Then Peter preaches a message. Next week we're going to get into that, Peter's message as he uh describes the Messiah and the work of the Messiah and what God was doing. Uh and he tells us several things there, but we're going to I've got a couple minutes. Let's finish this up. Let's finish this section. So Peter gives a threefold proof that Christ was the Messiah. A threefold proof that he was the Messiah. He says the Messiah is recognizable And verse number twenty two, and ye men of Israel hear these words Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs which God did by him in the midst of you He says it was very evident. There was no question that he was the Messiah. We saw what he did, the miracles that he performed, the the the the accomplishments of him, how he spake, the wisdom that he had. That this man was the Messiah. Not only was he recognizable, but he was resurrected in verse number twenty-four. He says the grave couldn't hold him, whom God hath raised up. having loosed the pains of death because it was not possible that he should be holding of it. It wasn't possible that that grave could hold Jesus there down in He says, Nope, not possible. And so God raised him up, and he was a returned Messiah. He returned to the heavens. And he currently is sitting at the right hand of God, and the Holy Spirit has come among us. The conviction of the spirit of seen in verse number 37, and then we see the great conversion of 3,000 souls, that preaching of Pentecost in verse number 41. Now they had a common fellowship, and I'm going to conclude with this because we'll pick up next week with the witnessing of Peter that was strong, but they had a common fellowship, the verses the Bibles tell us in 42 to 47 that they had all things common And Harold Wilmington in his guide to the Bible says it is important that we understand this is communism, not communism. It's communism. They had things common. He said the difference between communism and communism, communism says, hey, what I have is yours. Communism says what you have is mine. That's the difference. If somebody chooses of their own free will to share what they have among others, that's fine But communism, this socialism that, by the way, is encroaching upon America, and people are embracing it so foolishly they don't understand uh uh th it's it's wrong for them to take what you have without I mean it's great Charity, if you want to give it, if you want to share it, that's your privilege. You can take everything you have and share it with whomever you want, but it's wrong for them to take it. And this idea, although we see it here in the book of Acts, we know that it failed. We know that it had problems. If we read the book of Acts, you see the problems that it caused, and we know that it ceased The church didn't continue to do that. So just because you see something on the pages of Scripture, you think, oh well, it's in the scripture we ought to do it. Well, you know what? We know that polygamy is wrong. There's a lot of guys in the Bible that had a whole bunch of wives, which we know is not right. And so you don't look at everything you see in the Bible and say, oh, well that's what we ought to be doing. There's things that are in the Bible that shows that they weren't wise. So it was discontinued. It failed. The Bible still says if a man doesn't work, he shouldn't eat. Okay, that's that's Bible, uh and that's what the Bible teaches. And so you a man's worthy of his hire. He needs to go out and work and earn and uh listen Now we are also told to love and have compassion and to share. And uh, you know, we need to uh try and be helpful to one another. We understand those things. But nobody has the right or shouldn't have the right to take that from you and just disperse what you've earned to other people. And it doesn't matter how much you have. If Bob Gamble was worth $100 million, it's still not right for me to take $100 of his dollars and give it to me because I don't have any money. That's not right. It doesn't matter how much money he has, it doesn't that doesn't make the difference. It what's right is right and what's What's wrong is wrong. And so we've got to be careful because that's getting pushed a lot in society today. Uh this idea of socialism and listen, it's not right. The disparity of of you know the difference between what they make and what we make, and it's just not right. Listen, if you could go out and earn it, go earn it. If you can't, stop complaining. Do what you can do. This is this is that's the way It is made. That's biblical principle. And so we've got to be careful with that thought process or idea. Because people uh certainly like to push that today. All right, let's close in prayer when we dismiss. Lord, thank you for today. Thank you for the time in Sunday school today, your word. And I pray that you would just be with us and help us to follow it, Lord, realize the work of the Holy Spirit, what accomplishes your work in Acts, and also what's going to accomplish your work today. And Lord, it's not something we can just do in and of ourselves, but we need the power of the Holy Spirit to do it. And I pray that we would indeed wait, wait for the Spirit to empower us to do your work and and see that happen. Lord, bless this morning's service, speak to hearts, and we ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.