We're going to go into the book of Psalms. And so as we transition into that, just a quick review, looking over the overview, and we put this on the slides so that they can get projected out to those on on live stream uh but you all can see here uh at least the very small uh very small writing uh that's why you guys should sit closer so that you can see See all the detail on this wonderful timeline. And uh uh so as you look at these different sections of the books, they are uh compiled, uh placed in historically where they land. And so the Psalms generally we'll talk a little bit about it, but a lot of the Psalms uh were done in the and as you can see here this this there's a wide spread of Psalms. We'll talk a little bit as to why that is. But this group of uh This grouping, this section of the Bible, does anybody know what it is called? This section of the Bible. I just hear whispering, I'm sorry. Poetry. Someone said it. The books of poetry, that is correct. Uh that is one uh grouping that is given the books of poetry. Another is called the writings. So the writings of this of this period. Again, a big focus of them, a b a big uh amount of them happen during the kingdom era And so we'll talk a little bit as to why that is, but it is known as the books of poetry and what books make up the books of poetry. There's five of them. Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, and there's one more. Job. Alright, so Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Song of Solomon. Those are the five uh books that make up the books of poetry, the the the writings of this time period. So I'll share with you this. Years ago, I think if I look back on the sermon audio, it was I believe in the timeframe of 2019. uh that there were separate classes that that we did at one point in time and on a Thursday night class there was uh I think three different classes that we had going on and one of them was on uh the uh studies of the book of Psalms And so we did uh uh an emphasis on several of those. Some of them were grouped together, and we'll talk a little bit about that uh probably next week, but there was this this this time. uh of looking at the book of Psalms and I will tell you early on uh uh in in my Christian life this uh this book very much seemed uh a little bit distant from me. It was really hard for me to sink my teeth into that. And uh so teaching a class on the Psalms really took time to delve into to study. And I'll say just from my opinion, if I could add my opinion to this, this book is a book that it's a well that I can always go to. uh and it's gonna give you something rich. And and you get to a point where you read the scripture and you understand the big portion of it uh of the book of Psalms and and and some of the significance in these passages and it's just a wonderful book to look at. And so I'll I'll share with you the introduction that is in your notes Some of these I uh added notes to it, uh so you're gonna have to forgive me if I miss a blank. Uh let me know. Just kind of wave to me, raise, raise your hand or something, we'll we'll get to it and uh just wave me down. I would appreciate it I don't want to skip anything, but I'll read this introduction. It says this selection of scripture is known as the writings, and some would call them the books of poetry. The Book of Psalms is a heavenly hymn book compiled for God's people and for God's purpose. This is an anthology of writings compiled, inspired, and preserved by God through the ages. This collection of psalms is the richest poetry you will ever read and certainly will direct you to praise the Lord. As you look at this passage, or excuse me, as at this book, uh I call it a heavenly hymn book. In the Hebrew Bible This book, the the word, the the title that this book is given is called Tehilim. Tehilim, and that word means praise songs. So when you think about the Psalms and we we talk about it being poetry or or or a hymn, the idea, the word that was used there is a word that means praise songs. So also understand that a collection of psalms is gathered in what has historically been called a Psalter. Alright, a Psalter. So, uh how many have been to the Bible Museum? Has anybody been to the Bible Museum? We got a couple. Alright, if you have not been to the Bible Museum in Washington, D. C. , I highly recommend that you go Uh y it I I would it it's a great experience. Go there and uh y it might take you several trips to to get through everything. Uh but there is one section and I can't remember what floor it's on But there's a section of in medieval times there was a uh a large amount of Psalters that were put together. So they have uh historic hundreds and hundreds of year-old uh books that have been put together with a variety of s of songs uh that were used in in church worship uh or psalms that were used uh there in church. And so again, it's the they're beautifully decorated, they're beautiful books, again, very historical. But I would recommend that there's a whole section, a large section on one of the floors that's dedicated to Psalters But the Psalter, understand that's a collection of psalms put together, and the Psalter has always had a place as part of the temple worship. The word Psalms, where does this word Psalms come to us from? Alright. So there is a translation, a Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible known as the Septuagint. And that translation used the word salmos, which means a song sung to the accompanying accompaniment of a stringed instrument. And so our translation, the one we use, uh adopted that word as well, and that's where we get to the word that we t this title that is known as the book of Psalms. So that's just a little bit uh of history for you. Now I will say when we talk about this hymn book, the idea for you to understand is even in uh a Jewish synagogue to this day you will go to a a synagogue and you will find a book similar to what we use as a hymn book. And uh the Jewish people call theirs a prayer book. And that prayer book you is used again for corporate worship and they have a collection of songs that they sing But again, there's there's Psalms, there's writings from this book in that in that uh book. So even today it's something that's comparable. It's something that we would be familiar with. You go to a synagogue and you would see just in their chairs, the similar to how we have our hymn books and our pews and our pew Bibles, uh th there would be a prayer book that they use in a similar fashion. Alright, so as we get into the outline, the first thing that we'll cover is the age of the Psalms. The age of the Psalms. And so as you look at the timeline, you will see the Psalms go all the way back, all the way back here to the early uh patriarchal period And why is that? It spans the time frame of the Old Testament over the course of 900 years. So almost the entire uh history of Israel uh for the most part covers the the timeline of the book of Psalms. So the Age of Psalms, it spans the course of nine hundred years from the Exodus. From the Exodus, Moses, and I'll have you turn there to Psalm 90. Psalm 90. And we're going to be going back and forth a lot because I want you to see some of these things in the scripture. And uh we'll point some things out and so again I want you to see them for yourselves in uh for your i in your own Bible. Psalm ninety Would someone volunteer to read the heading for Psalm 90? No volunteers. Oh Jacob, go ahead. Jacob you gotta learn how to raise your hand, man. Raise your hand. There you go. Go ahead. A prayer of Moses A prayer of Moses, the man of God. So this is a heading that's at the beginning of Psalms, of a psalm, of many psalms. As a little bit of a detour, a little bit of a side portion, I put possibly here, there is some debate on these headings Alright. There are some people that believe that they are inspired. There are some people that believe that they're just uh commentary or added on afterwards I am of the camp of I believe that they're inspired. At the end of the day, uh it it's not totally relevant which which where you land, but that's why I put this possibly here because we want to make sure that we're just clear. And so this heading specifies that it was written as a prayer of Moses. Alright? And so as we look at that, that that gives us early on, early on history, alright? Early on history uh in i i is where the book of psalms begins. And then it also goes, spans all the way to the time of the exile with Ezra. And so you can turn over to Psalm 137. And Psalm 137 There's not necessarily a heading that specifies the writer, but there is a heading that gives us some indication of the time period of this. So as you turn to Psalm 137, uh where would anyone volunteer to read that heading? Otherwise I'll pick on someone. Ryanna? Did you have it or go ahead? The songs of Zion, is that Psalm one thirty seven? I don't have that. Oh I don't think oh okay, so as we look down, yes, okay. Let me let me take a step back. These headings, uh the headings that I have are the ones that are added. uh from my Bible. Uh they're they're not the ones that are necessarily particular to to the ones that are uh talk about the the Psalms. So my apologies. Uh if you look at it, if you look at the the the passage, uh so mine says here a hymn of the captives in Babylon, but as you read the passage as you read this psalm, uh that psalm does give indication of uh the the people in a time of captivity uh as they were captives in Babylon. And again, this is a time of exile, this is a time when uh the kingdom uh uh of of uh uh judah and israel, Judah was taken captive, and so this happens in that time period. So again As you look at the age, understand that the Psalms cover a span from the time of Moses all the way to the end of the New Testament, which is the period of the exile. So wide, wide time frame that we look at. Ezra. As you look at Ezra, there's interesting things that we learn about Ezra. And why don't we turn there? Let's turn to the book of Ezra, chapter 7. And will point some things about Ezra to learn And if you book look at Ezra chapter 7, and you look at the first uh ten verses, we'll start off in verse 1. You can follow along there in in verse one. It says this, now after these things in the reign of Arta Xerxes, king of Persia Ezra, the son of Sariah, the son of Ezariah, the son of Hilkiah. And so it begins here to give us a um uh genealogy of who Ezra was and who he was a descendant of and so Ezra was the son of Zer Sariah. So as you go down to verse number five It says this, the son of Abishua, again continuing on in his lineage, the son of Phineas, the son of Eliezer, the son of Aaron, the chief priests So here we have an identification of who Ezra was. Ezra was again a son of the of Aaron, the chief priest, a descendant of Aaron, which means he was what? I think I hear it. He was a Levite. Correct. All right. So again, Ezra Understanding who he was, he was a Levite. Alright. And then it goes on uh in verse six. This Ezra went up from Babylon and he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses. So it gives you a little bit of indication as to his job and his responsibility. And it goes on to say what uh some very interesting thing up things about Ezra. Go to verse 9 and 10. It says, For upon the first day of the first month began he to go up from Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem, according to the good hand of his God upon him For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do it, and to teach in Israel's statutes and judgments. So again, we have a little bit of a biography here of who Ezra is. He's a Lev, he's a scribe, he sought after the law of the Lord. to do it and to teach it Israel statutes and judgments. So again, he had a very good familiarity with the scriptures, with the Bible. And so when we look at who Ezra was, there's uh many who believe that Ezra is the one who wrote Psalm 137. But again, pointing out that this is a time of captivity. This is someone who very much would align with uh someone involved in in the temple worship and the in and being a priest and having those responsibilities. And so it's again just very interesting to to look at. And we'll talk a little bit about Ezra a little bit down the road. Alright, so that's the age of the Psalms. Next we'll move into the author of the the authors of the Psalms. The authors of the Psalms. Alright, so As you look at the authors, the first one that we will come across is, of course, David. Now, there is a misconception that David wrote the entire book of Psalms. And when you look at Psalms and when you read Psalms, you're thinking, oh, this is something that King David wrote. Now, for the majority of Psalms, you're probably right. Alright? So the problem for 73 of them uh y there's a uh uh fifty fifty chance that you're right uh on seventy three of them. 'Cause David did write a good portion of this book. So David wrote 73 Psalms, and that's headings that are attributed specifically to uh to David. So let's turn back and Understand why this is commonly thought. Go to 2 Samuel 23, verse 1. This is a title that God has inspired of David, and so we want to point it out. We at least want to learn from it. 2 Samuel 23. There's things that we hear, uh being in church and references that we hear and My goal in a lot of these with giving you a bunch of the scripture is I I want to lay the groundwork. I want you to put eyes on it in the scripture so that you see this isn't just something that we that that was made up or or a title that was given, you know, that's just ancillary. This is something script that's scripturally based. And so that's one of the reasons why I'll why I'll have you read several of these passages so that you can see for yourself. 2 Samuel 23 verse 1 And it says this, now these be the last words of David. David, the son of Jesse, said, And the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel. said. And it goes on in verse 2, the Spirit of the Lord spake by me and his word was in my tongue. So as you look at this passage, here we're talking about David, one of the authors of the Psalms. He was known as the sweet psalmist of Israel. So this is why, for the most part, uh many people believe that the book of Sa or that Psalms W they they they relate those two things together. And and again, understandable because he the his title was the Sweet Psalmist of Israel. So Again, understanding that, that's what it says here in the scripture, but 73 of the Psalms that are in this book, of the 150 that are there, 73 of them are attributed to King David. David at a variety of stages in his life. Next, you will also see the sons of Korah. The sons of Korah. And the sons of Korah have attributed eleven Psalms. If you want to turn, we'll turn to one of them. Psalms 42 And I can give you the list of them. It's Psalms 42, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 84, 85, 87, 88. Those are all the i if you w if you want to write those down. Oh you guys want me to write you give them to you? Okay. Forty-two, forty-four, forty-five, forty-six. Forty seven, forty eight, forty nine, eighty four, eighty five, eighty seven, eighty eight. Sons of Korah are given eleven. So if you look at one of them, you're welcome. If you look at one of them, we'll just turn to Psalm 42. Uh the beginning says to the chief musician, Maskil, for the sons of Korah. So the Sons of Korah, it's a very interesting story and uh maybe we'll talk a little bit about about it if we have time next week. Uh there's a whole section of psalms that uh that I taught on in that study several years ago of the sons of Korah. Who was Korah? If you look at Numbers 16 Numbers 16, you can write this in your note. Number 16 tells you the story of the sons of Korah Korah was the man who rebelled against Moses and uh gathered a bunch of people to rise up in rebellion against Moses. And the Bible tells this story that uh there was this this confrontation between Korah and the people that he had gathered together, again, uh prominent men in the community, gathered against Moses. And there was a confrontation to the point where w it was said, if these men die a normal death, then God is not spoken by Moses. Uh but they did not die in normal death. The Bible says that the earth opened itself up and swallowed up Korah and their families. And this is the ex this is descendants of the sons of Korah, uh, or the descendants of Korah that have the that wrote that these Psalms are attributed to. And there's a An amazing thing that that again we'll we'll look at, but just to see the comparison of how the sons of Korah view their responsibility When these were written and to contrast that with what was taking place in number 16, it's an amazing thing to consider and to look at. So I'll leave that for you for homework if you want to look into that next week. Next we see Asaph who was the chief singer. Asaph was the chief singer, and in First Chronicles Again, we can turn back if you want to see it for with your own eyes. 1 Chronicles chapter 16, verses 4 through 7. The Bible says this, and he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the ark of the Lord, and to record and to thank and praise the Lord God of Israel, Asaph the chief. And next to him Zechariah, Jael, and Shemiramoth, and Jehael, and Mathathiah, and Eliab and Baniab and Obed-Edom. and J L with Psalteries and with Harps, but Asaph made a sound with cymbals. And so Asaph had a very prominent role in the temple worship. And again, it's someone that he was known as the chief singer. And so Asaph is also attributed with writing psalms. He was a contemporary of David. I also want you to understand that he was considered a prophet In 2 Chronicles 29, he is referred to as Asaph the Seer. So again, there's this indication that he was a prophet. And so that is who Asaph was. The next two guys we're going to uh explain. There's a man named Heeman and there's a man named Ethan. And Heman and Ethan many times are uh grouped together. And there's a lot of references in the book uh in the Old Testament to these two uh these two men, Heman and Ethan and what's interesting about that is that who who they were. And there if you look at that, and if you look at uh the where was it? If you look at There's one passage that talks about, oh, when we to last week when we were talking about Solomon. When you talk about Solomon, Solomon was explained to have an immense amount of wisdom. And when his wisdom is explained in the scripture, there's an explanation that's given that says, and he was more wise than these guys. And Heeman and Ethan are two of the guys that are on that list. So these guys are known for their wisdom. And so we'll point it out here. Psalm 88. 1, I'll read it for you. It says a song or psalm for the sons of Korah to the chief musician upon Mahaleth Lianas. Maschil of Heman the Ezrahite. So we find something else about Heman here. He was an Ezrahite. And then in 1 Kings 4. 31. This is that explanation, for he, Solomon, was wiser than all men, than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman And Chalkol and Darta, the sons of Mahol, and his fame was in all nations round about. So that is talking about Solomon. So understand that Heman was known as a a wise, wise man. Then you have Ethan. Ethan is the next one. And Psalm 88 is attributed to Heman. Uh in Psalm 89, the the heading says Mascul of Ethan the Ezrahite. Ethan the Ezrahite. Now what's interesting is that in 1st Chronicles 15, 19, you have these three men that are put together and uh that are put together in one verse. So the singers This is 1 Chronicles 15, 19. So the singers, Hemon, Asaph, and Ethan were appointed to sound with cymbals of brass. So here we have these three men that we're talking about, Asaph, Heman, and Ethan all together making beautiful music together, as it says here in 1 Chronicles 15, 19. This is another one of the authors of the book of Psalms. Also, we'll look and we see Solomon. Solomon is attributed Psalm 127. Song of degrees for Solomon. That's Psalm 127. Of course, we've mentioned already Moses in Psalm 90 is attributed a psalm. Uh there's also uh many who believe Hezekiah was one of the writers of the Psalms. And the Psalms particularly many of the Psalms in between 120 and 134. that are identified as, and you'll see in the heading, a song or psalm of degrees. And those many times are attributed to Hezekiah. And then there's a large variety, I think over 30, that are unknown. They're called orphan or anonymous psalms, where we do not know who wrote the psalm. But regardless of who wrote it, we know that it's inspired and we know it was preserved in uh that the Lord preserved it for our benefit, for our good, and for us to learn from and to uh To treat it as inspired and as holy scriptures. Alright? So that's the authors. We're gonna run out of time. I thought we would get through Oh yeah. Um I'm on page five of thirteen, so Yeah, we're we're we're gonna run out of time. The next uh topic is the arrangement of the psalms. The arrangement of the psalms. So first things first, the psalms are not in chronological order. The Psalms are not in the order in in in a historical order as to which they occurred. Alright, many times as you look at at different books of the Bible you read them, uh, but there's some books that that are not in the order historically, so if you read it from uh the beginning to the end, they're not in the history as to uh in the order as to which they occurred One book that comes to mind is Jeremiah. Jeremiah actually bounces around a lot chronologically, but the Psalms are not in any order particularly in history. The other aspect that's interesting is that the book of Psalms is naturally divided. The book of Psalms is naturally divided. What do I mean by that? All right. Each psalm, as it was written and preserved for us, if it was Five verses or five uh or twenty verses, however long the psalm was, that was a section in in and of itself. Alright? The division of verses is preserved in the Psalms. So how many of you, and maybe this might be new to you, How many of you knew that the chapter and verse divisions were not originally in the Bible? Alright? Got a few? Alright? So, understand. Again, as a little bit of a detour, there are Bibles that are built out there that are called paragraph Bibles. And paragraph Bibles are uh compiled in the section of paragraphs into which they were they were written. So there is those natural orders sections, it's naturally sectioned off in paragraphs. Those things are preserved for us. But chapters and breaking it down by verse That came years and years, hundreds of years, I think in the early 1300s is and again this goes again go to the Bible Museum and they have a whole section as to when uh chapters and verses began to be used. in splitting up the Bible. So I say that because the Psalms are naturally in and of them themselves. So Psalm one, that's one paragraph, and it's preserved for us that way. Alright. Psalm one hundred, same way. It's those five verses. It's a paragraph in and of itself. It's preserved for us that way. So what they said is that there's a little bit of natural um when they broke down and divided into chapter and verse. A lot of it was based on sections and the amount of verses in a psalm, more or less. Obviously that's uh that's pretty uh it's very arbitrary Uh but there's a certain average or natural conclusion sometimes that the verses and the chapters divide. However, I'll also say that there's places where that's not the case, where you come to the end of a chapter, it's actually just continuing the thought, but in your mind, when you read it, you just kind of like It's almost like you see a period and you're like, okay, stop the thought and then move on to the next thought. That's not how the scripture actually flows. It flows from the previous verse into the next. But the Psalms are naturally divided. So Psalm 1 is contained in and of itself. Psalm 2 is contained in and of itself. So again, that's what I want you to take away from this, is that when you look at the Psalms, they are naturally divided, and that's how they were preserved for us. So also, the Psalms The book of Psalms is arranged into five major book divisions. Alright? Five major book divisions. Sometimes your Bibles will actually uh have these written out in them and we'll walk through them uh right now. The first book is broken down Again, five major book divisions. Book 1 is Psalm 1 through 41, that contains 41 Psalms. Book 2 is Psalm 42 through 72, and that contains 31 Psal Book 3, Psalm 73 through 89, and that contains 17 Psalms. Book four is Psalm 90 through 106. And that contains 17 Psalms. And book 5 is Psalm 107 through 150, and that contains 44 Psalms. Each of these book divisions has an epilogue. Alright, so how do you know where one book begins and one book mainly where does one book end? Alright, well let's walk through that. Alright, because this is very neat. The way this is broken up. Alright, so let's go to the book of Psalms and I'll ask you to turn to Psalm 41. Psalm 41. Now some Um scholars believe that, and I've included this in in your notes as well, just as a as a helpful tool to study, to look at. Many scholars actually believe that these sections of books, these groupings, align with one of the uh books of the law. So the first book, book one, which is again covering uh covering Psalm one through forty-one, that would relate to the book of Genesis and the key concept of that is humanity. Alright? So I have all that spelled out in your in your notes. Now, again, going back to the division, if you look at 41, um Psalm 41 and verse 13, the last verse. It says this, blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting and to everlasting. Amen and amen. Alright. So turn over to Psalm 72. Just a few pages over. Psalm 72 And verses eighteen and nineteen Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things, and blessed be his glorious name forever, and let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. So there's that Repetition, the Amen and Amen. Again. Then that next verse says the prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are ended. So I'll read to you, and if you want to look it up later, I'll give you the reference. It's Psalm 8952. Psalm eighty-nine fifty-two. Blessed be the Lord forevermore. Amen and amen. There it is again. Book 4 is Psalm 106. 48, and it's a little bit different, but it says this: Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting, and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the Lord. And then the last book is a grand epilogue where the entire psalm is a conclusion to the the book as a whole, all the Psalms. And so there's that repetition. Amen and amen. Amen. Praise ye the Lord. And then Psalm 150 begins with Praise ye the Lord. Then it goes on, praise God in his sanctuary, and then it ends at the very last uh last verse, let everything that hath breath Praise the Lord, praise ye the Lord. So there's this praise ye the Lord, praise ye the Lord, that serves as this like grand finale of the book of the book of Psalms and those are again some of the key divisions that we see in the book of Psalms. So for reviewing, again some of them some folks believe that these book divisions align with the uh book of the law and have a key idea. So book one aligns with Genesis, the key concept being humanity. Book two being the book of Exodus and the key concept being deliverance. Book 3, Leviticus, and the key concept of the sanctuary. And book four is Numbers with the key concept of wandering or unrest. And then book five is aligned with Deuteronomy, and the key concept of book five is the Word of God. And so those are just some tools, maybe a helpful study for you to look at that's taken, and I think I've attributed it there. uh the Wilmington's Guide to the Bible and again it's some just a very helpful tool uh that if you if you if you don't have one of those and you enjoy studying I would certainly recommend that uh that tool. It's a wonderful tool. Alright, let's see. Let's see how much time we have. Alright, well we'll probably start on this and we might run out of time. So I will say that the Psalms can be compiled topically as well. Alright, this is something that you're going to see a lot of. Alright, many times they're grouped together in these sections that are based on topics. The first one would be devotional psalms. Devotional Psalms many times, and these are the ones that are near and dear to our heart because they contain the promises from God. Sometimes they have commentary and sometimes they they just stand alone. Alright, they just stand, there's a statement that's made, there's a promise of God that's there. And uh the the psalmist does not add any commentary to that or uh or uh illustrate it in any way. It just puts the promise of God. So there's devotional psalms. There's also penitential psalms. Penitential psalms. These are the Psalms of brokenness and repentance. And there's seven of these. And the most familiar one that we would know is Psalm 51, where David is writes a psalm of his brokenness as he's participated in sin that he is is devastated about And so David himself writes this psalm uh as Psalm 51 and and again gives this this idea of his repentance that he's that he's feeling. And there's several uh several other psalms like that. There's seven of them. It's Psalm 6, Psalm 32, Psalm 38. Fifty one, one oh two, one thirty, and one forty three. All right Psalm six, Psalm thirty two, Psalm thirty-eight Psalm fifty one, one oh two, one thirty, and one forty three. I'm not gonna end it on imprecatory psalms. Because that's uh that's a uh a hard one. So we're we're we're gonna wrap it up. So it's it's uh ten after and so we will we will uh wrap it up there and we'll move on to that next week. Is there any questions or anything that stand out? Did I miss any blanks or anything. I think I rushed through a couple, but I think I got we got everything. So alright, so next week, um Imprecatory Psalms, we'll just introduce it. It's a psalm of judgment. To imprecate is to pray against or to invoke evil upon someone or something. And there are psalms in the scripture, particularly nine of them, nine of them, that the psalmist calls down judgment on his enemies. And so these uh have been challenging for Christians over the years. And so we'll we'll look at that. Uh if you want to again do some some homework. One of the sections that I did in 2019 was on imprecatory psalms. That's a hard one, but I will encourage you. Go take a listen to that and we'll talk a little bit about it. We'll briefly go over what that means. and how to look at that next week. So if there's no other questions, then thank you all for being here this morning. Why don't we close in a word of prayer? Authors of the Psalms, and uh we talked about David, who wrote the most, who was the sweet psalmist of Israel. We talked about the Sons of Korah. The Korah uh Psalms I do have in these uh sections uh that I broke up, the the groupings, if you will, of the Sons and Kor Sons of Korah. Uh just to give you just a uh a quick kind of wave top look at that. uh view because we won't have too much time to get into it. But the sons of Korah, again, Korah was uh known in the Old Testament uh in the time of Moses during the wilderness wander wanderings. Uh Korah was discontent. Korah gathered a bunch of people, especially notable people within the people of Israel, to uh rise up and uh against Moses and and against the leadership there. And Moses uh uh again in in the manner that he did uh prayed unto God, talked to the Lord, and uh uh again, these people, if they died the normal death, They uh uh they Moses was not sent of God, but they did not die the normal death. The Bible says that uh the earth opened itself and swallowed up Korah. But it's very clear in uh in uh I believe it's Numbers uh early in the in the wilderness time uh that there was Korah's children continued on. Uh and Korah's children stayed alive. And and there was a a a time as you go throughout the scriptures, uh they had a very important responsibility even in uh the temple worship. They were known as musicians. They were musicians for the military. You see that throughout the scriptures But again, one of the things that, and again, the the Sons of Korah, the Korah Psalms is one of those uh studies that we did when we studied it several years ago. But the children of Korah were s were spared. And just to understand who were some of the famous sons of Korah, Hemon, as we mentioned last week, was a son of Korah. Samuel was a son of Korah as well And if you look at some of the words of the sons of Korah in these Korah Psalms, it's very unique because uh there's there's some uh words that we're familiar with. But again, when you understand the context of who we're saying these, it kind of adds some color and some shade to to to this topic. Uh in Psalm 42, uh this is a Korah Psalm. Uh in verse one we know this we know this. It says, As the heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God, when shall I come and bef appear before God? That was written as a chorus. And uh Psalm 44 says, In God we boast all the day long and praise thy name forever. Uh probably my favorite one. is in Psalm uh I believe it's eighty four. As I look at my note to this Psalm eighty four. Uh and it begins How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts. So again, it's talking about this worship, this corporate worship that the Israelites conducted. And it goes on, and the verse that we'll highlight is verse 10, For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand, I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. And those tents of wickedness are very uh very likely uh a reference to the uh Book of Numbers where it talks about the family and it talks about Korah and it talks about specifically it calls them the tents of the wicked. And so there's just that that c connection uh again that w that we see and it's it's very unique and so again being able to the see that the the the sons of Korah uh really had a change of heart and and and we see that come out in the Psalms and it's really really just a beautiful uh a beautiful story. So we talked about the authors of songs, and I think where we left off was the, was it, let's see, this is still the authors. and the arrangement of the Psalms, right? So that's I think where we left off. We talked about it being divided into five sections. Some believe that it's correlated to the five books of the law. Uh and where we left off then was talking about some of the the topics and some of the div uh the how we we break them up topically. And so as we look at top the verses topically, let's see if I go through the notes here. Yep, we talked about each of the five books there. Let's see. Topically. Alright. So we talked about the devotional psalms. The devotional psalms. Then we talked about the penitential psalms. So Psalms Again, Psalms that we are familiar with that talk about a heart of repentance, a heart of sorrow, and obviously the most famous one being Psalm 51. So also what we left where we left off is the imprecatory psalms. And so impregatory psalms are those psalms of judgment. And there's nine that are that we find in the scriptures. And people have uh s ha really struggled with these portion of strip scripture, but I will say there's a lot of value in studying these psalms. A couple reminders for us in understanding when we talk about this, there's a big emphasis on judgment. And as you look at this this section or the this grouping of Psalms, judgment belongs to God. But what I want to point out is that judgment is not always uh the way that we view it. Alright. Many times we look at it and we think, well, this would be the most just thing. And we have to be reminded of the scriptures that it talks about that that God's ways are above our ways, God's thoughts are above our thoughts. And so even though we may see things from a certain point of view, God ultimately has the clearest and most just and most perfect view of the situation. And there's a couple things that I want to just encourage you to consider as you look at impregatory psalms. You're going to read in these Psalms, I believe it's in your grouping there, there's nine of them. Just some some the psalmist is presenting just a case uh against his enemies uh or against uh certain people. And what I w a a couple the some of the things maybe kind of will will take you aback in in in some of the terminology that is used. But Some helpful tools in as you read these Psalms is I want you to consider the Psalms from the lens of Israel. Alright, it's going to be something that we talk about a little bit uh later, but but understanding that uh God had a very specific plan for his people, and part of that plan was to overthrow other nations uh surrounding them. So you have to view these Psalms. A helpful tool in viewing these Psalms is from the lens of Israel. Another idea that we have to remember in impregatory psalms is the lens of divine judgment. Understanding that God is just, God is holy, and His judgment is perfect, and so we have to view things from that way because God's divine judgment uh will pass. We know it will. It has before and it will once again. And maybe there were people at the time with the sons of Korah where they thought, man That doesn't seem right that they would be swallowed up in the earth. But God judged them for a purpose, and so it's not for us to question, but understand that God's judgment is perfect Then we want to look at it also from the lens of fulfilling prophecy. Alright? There are some psalms that we'll talk about that are prophetic in their nature, and they they have prophetic references. And so in in time, as things come about as the world waxes worse and worse, uh there's some judgment and there's some things that have to occur. And again, as you look at that, take a moment to consider the impregatory psalms from the view of fulfilling prophecy. And then also view it from the lens of God's holy vengeance. If you look at the scriptures, especially in the New Testament, it talks about vengeance belonging to God. And uh a a few it's probably been a couple years now, but there was something that Pastor said that really stood out to me and I don't know if he he got it from some a commentary or if it was something uh else but as you look at what he said it was very very interesting and it's really just stuck with me many many years. God's wrath, when you look at God's wrath in the scripture, it's normally and and I I don't want to use the term always uh but as you see it most of the time I haven't found an example where it hasn't I guess that that that's a that's a uh I'll say that. God's wrath is measured. God's mercy, and if you look in the scriptures, especially in the Psalms, God's mercy is everlasting. And so where do we see that? God's wrath in Revelation is measured in bowls or vials. Alright? And when you see God's wrath, there's always a time frame or a measurement that's allotted to it. But Mercy, God's mercy is everlasting. And we can take it a step further, and in Lamentation, the Bible says that God's mercy is everlasting, but it's also renewed every morning. So that's a beautiful thing to think about. So we talked about the impregatory Psalms. Also, we'll talk about the Psalms of Degrees. There's 15 Psalms of Degrees. And it is thought that the majority of them were or or the Psalms of Degrees were written by three Jewish kings, Hezekiah, Solomon, and David. Uh the Psalms of Degrees, there's a a thought that they could have been sung as the choir ascended the stairs up the temple, up to the temple in Jerusalem. It might have been references to stages of a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. It might be a reference to singing, a choir singing in an elevated place. Because Uh some people call them the the the Psalms of Ascent or the Psalms of Degrees is what i is what we see in the scriptures. So just consider those things. But it might have been a musical reference. And so There's uh I believe 15 of them and they're they're unique to look at, but they're just they're they're enjoyable. I listened to a series one time of uh uh on these Psalms of Degrees, and so there was very it was very good uh a sermon series once on that. The other uh psalm that we'll talk about, the other topic is the Hallelujah Psalms. Alright, so we'll I'll end up rushing a little bit through this because we got a lot of ground to cover. In the book of Matthew, when it talks about Jesus and his and his disciples taking the Last Supper, At the end, there's a verse that says, And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. Now, how many of you have ever wondered, I wonder what hymn that was? Alright? That hymn was a tradition. It was something that was often done in the Passover. And it was called the Halel, and it was Psalm 113 through 118. Those psalms were songs that were sung during the Passover Supper 113 and 114 were done before the meal. 115 through 118 were done at the close. And so again, it's this unique part of Jewish history. uh that we find in Psalm 113 through 118. And again, you we can study those out, but there's the verbiage that it uses very much talks about the Passover But then we can really, if you look look into it and see some of the wording that's used, you can also see Christ in those Psalms as well. It's really, really nice to look at. So the Hallelujah Psalms The other thing that we'll look at, another topic that we see is the historical Psalms. An example example of those are Psalm 78. 105 and 106. And these psalms provide you'll see them and you'll read them and they're very much just a history of uh insight into Israel. and what happened throughout the course of its history. Very unique to look at, and there's uh a handful of these. Then we'll also discuss the Messianic Psalms, uh the messianic psalms. There's a good amount of these where you see references specifically that relate to Jesus Christ and point out, again, him as the Savior. The greatest example of this obviously is Psalm 22, which is known as the Crucifixion Psalm. And so just again, a beautiful, beautiful things that you see within the Psalms, again, that point to or you look towards, look towards the Savior. Now it's not known who compiled all these psalms together. There is speculation that we we talked about some speculation that Ezra may have written Psalm 119. There's also speculation that Ezra uh wrote or compiled the the uh anthology of Psalms together into what we find today. So again, just uh a unique individual who loved the word of God and the Bible specifically points that out. But again, you never know. That's not something necessarily that's that's spelled out, but uh again some pro that that's we see within the scripture, but it's definitely a possibility based on what we know uh of Ezra and what the Bible says about him Alright, so the attributes of the Psalms is the next section that we're going to cover. The attributes of Psalms, the the of Psalms. The book of Psalms serves many purposes. Uh during our psalm studies we put together five purposes that it that the the Psalms uh accomplish or serve. The first is a devotional book, a prayer book. You'll find throughout this this uh these this collection of of Psalms. There are prayers. All right, we'll point out to a couple of them. A song book, as we mentioned, these were songs that were sung uh throughout Jewish history. A praise book, uh again, as you look through it, you see very much one of the Greatest themes throughout the book of Psalms is praise and a poetry book. And we'll talk a little bit about poetry here in just a minute, a few minutes. But again, looking at these purposes of the Psalms, it could be more than one at the same time. So many times it's a it could be a prayer as well as a song. a prayer as well as uh a poem or a devotional uh uh idea. So there's they can serve many purposes. There's key words that we find in the Psalms, praise. Heart, song, pray. And again, the the attributes, one of the attributes of the Psalms is that they are known as a book of poetry. Alright, when you look at poetry when we think of it, we think of poetry as rhyming. Alright, that the the the words sound similar. And that's not the case for the Psalms. We don't necessarily find that's not how we characterize poetry or how the Jewish people characterize poetry. We or what we Hebrew poetry is more about parallel ideas So you'll see very much a lot of comparisons. You'll see a lot of similes. Or Taking things and adding one step to that explanation. So it'll say God is like this and then it'll go on and enhance that idea with more words. That is what how we identify Hebrew poetry. So those comparisons. It's not something where you're going to see a similar meter or similar uh pace in the rhythm of of the words, it's more in terms of the thoughts and the thoughts that the words convey. Another attribute that you'll see within the Psalms is an emotional language. And an emotional language, and what's interesting is that the Psalms dive deep into the nature of God. And it they dive into how God relates to man. And it helps us to understand the depth of man's soul, but also understanding who God is. And God gave us the senses and the feelings that we have. That's something that He that that in a way He built into us And we again this language that comes out in the Psalms, it is emotional, and these emotions are not avoided If you look at Psalm 42, there's a passage or a section there in the beginning of the verse that says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And we look at this and and very much if you were to look at that you would think that the psalmist uh is is very is depressed. And the the scripture and the psalmist does not shy away from that. And so understanding that there's very much emotional language and how important it is to take those things. And what do we see especially in the scripture, the psalmist is taking that to God. Those emotions and those those cries and those yearnings from within are taken before the Lord. And it's a wonderful thing. That should be an example to us in how we what we take to God, what we do with those emotions and feelings that we have. There's also a descriptive language. Descriptive language that provide unique descriptions integration But also descriptions into God. What's interesting about this, and there's a book very likely in the bookstore. I can't remember the title of it right now. But one of the the thoughts that that it conveys is when you read scripture, many times we read it as you know, what does the Bible have for me or what is the Bible trying to to communicate uh uh about you know what I'm going through or what I'm struggling with And that is one way to view it, but there's uh another step that you can take as a as a Christian Where the Bible gives us an insight into God and viewing how God sees things. And looking at it so that God, through through His Word, can change us. Again, we talk about it from the inside out, but understanding what it is that God wants us to do what it is that God wants us to change, what it is that God wants us to do about a particular situation. And again, it's more not necessarily a matter of uh uh looking at ourselves, but it's a matter of understanding who God is and what his will and and how he spells it out in his words and how it relates, uh how we can learn from that. And so we see that d those descriptions uh into God, into some of the ways that God acts, into some of the ways that God feels about certain things, and we see those things in the Psalms very much. There's also insightful language. Insightful language by uh understanding we're giving insight into the history of Israel, into the heart of man, into his repentance, into the thoughts of man's heart. as he prays, even as he prays uh for for judgment, uh there's so much uh i it there's a there's a passage in Psalm 73 just to give you an example of this insightful language Again, the psalmist is holding back no punches. The psalmist says in Psalm 73, verse 2, but as for me, my feet were almost gone, my steps had well nigh slipped. For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. That's very real. And just telling us, explaining how it is that that the what what it is that that the psalmist's heart was dealing with. And so again, it's very much a very wonderful to look at. There's also prophetic Psalms. Some of the attributes or things that we see is that they're prophetic. The literature of the Psalms is rich, but it's enhanced with uh jewels of prophecy throughout that you will see. Even uh I'll give you a couple references that you can look up later. Acts 120 uh has a direct relation with Psalm 6925 and Psalm 109. 8 if you want want to look at those later. Psalm 22, obviously again we've mentioned that already, just beautiful prophetic insight in Psalm 22. Another thing that you see in the Psalms is musical references. Musical references. And again, there's places where you see a chorus. If you have your Bible, turn to Psalm 136, and I'll point that out to you. Psalm 136, when we studied this out, we called this Psalm a tribute to mercy. Uh Psalm 136 uh and as you you go to this passage, Psalm 136. Just give it a look. There's 26 verses, and as you walk down these verses, what is something that you notice? Anyone. His mercy endureth forever. And you see that Repeated after every verse. And when you see this passage, uh it's possible that that phrase was used as a chorus to the song. for his mercy endureth forever. So you you there's a first part of the statement and then the second part of the statement that acts as a chorus and it's repeated over and over and over again. So you see that again there's musical references throughout the c the the Psalms. The you also see the word uh selah. It's commonly seen in Psalms that you see the word sela. The the idea there is that there's a pause in the vocal music, maybe for like an instrument interlude or maybe at the end of a of a song, but there's this reference that is very musical in nature. And there's several others that we point to that I put in your notes. Maskill, and you find that in several psalms. Neganoth, and you see that in a variety of psalms as well. The thought there is that it possibly indicates that the song should be sung with stringed instruments. So it's almost like an arrangement. It's almost as a a musical notation than explanations. And there's several of these Shoshannim is another one that I put in your notes. Many, many more. I have probably another uh eight references to that. And again, there's there's uh explanations of musical elements and what I learned from that is that instruments are an acceptable component of our worship towards God and we learn that even within that there's order, instruction, and excellence. So again, just a little bit of insightful thing that we see musical references in the Psalms. We see the acrostic Psalms. The acrostic Psalms, what are those? Alright. Psalm 119 is broken down into 22 subsections of eight verses each. Each one of those subsections begins with a Hebrew, with a letter of the Hebrew alphabet. Alright. And so it was many times people think used as a memory aid to help remember that, to remember Psalm 119. Uh but there's more than just Psalm 119. There's nine Psalms that are acrostics, uh Psalm 119 obviously being the most famous. Four of them contain all the letters. That's 37, 111, 112, and 119. Psalm 34 and 45 have all but one letter. And then Psalm 9, 10, and 25 are missing several letters. But this is something that you see very much in Psalms By way of insight, you also see this in, I believe, one or two of the Proverbs as well. So this is something that is used very often as a tool, if you will, in the Psalms. Another attribute of the Psalms that I want to point out is that it was written by people under the law. Alright, this is very insightful for us to understand. Uh many this wasn't necessarily uh written under the age of grace, where people were under grace. Now we can learn and we can glean from the truth. But in order to understand these Psalms, we have to remember that from the period of history that it was written in, it was Old Testament insight pointing towards Christ in the future. So I just want you to keep that in mind as you as you look through and as you read the Psalms. Also, uh don't forget that it was written uh from a Jewish perspective. So there's references to Hebrew history and there's references to Hebrew practices that you see in the Psalms. So again, just some attributes, some things that you want to learn from as you review the book of Psalms. In your own study. The next section is the authority of the Psalms, the authority of the Psalms. The understanding and we'll s we'll you have the you should have the the Biblical references there that hopefully you'll get a chance to look up later. Christ confirms the writings of Scripture. Christ absolutely points out verbally, if you have a red letter edition of the Bible, it should be in red. But let's uh I'll read it to you. Matthew 21, 42 says this, Jesus saith unto the unto them Did ye never read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner, and this is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes And in Luke 24, 44, he says, And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. Very much a confirmation that Christ Himself is saying the Psalms are scripture. Alright, we need to treat them as Scripture. There's no question about that. But in terms of the authority, uh the authority of of scriptures, and and I say this just because you're gonna run into as you study things and as you listen perhaps to to people, especially like on the internet There's going to be questions as to is this psalm truly inspired? Is this psalm a psalm that uh should be preserved in Scripture And we have, again, authority given to us by Christ Himself that the Psalms, absolutely, the way they're preserved, the way they were preserved in the Hebrew Bible, these are scripture. This is valuable. Again, it's inspired. It's preserved for us. And so there's no question about that. Let me add on to that. The apostles themselves taught that the Psalms were scriptures, and that's in Acts 1. 16. I'll let you read that on your own. Out of 219 Old Testament quotations, 116 of them are from the Psalms. What we'll find out is that the Psalms are the most quoted book in the New Testament. But that particular in uh part of information is taken from the Psalms Bible study series by David Cloud. So again, several references and quotations that are from the Psalms. The Psalms are quoted more than two dozen times in the New Testament, and they're also the most quoted book by Christ Himself. If you were to look at the scriptures, you would find that Christ uh will quote Exodus seven times, he quotes Isaiah eight times, Deuteronomy ten times, and Psalms he quotes eleven times. So again, the authority that we find in the Psalms, very important for us to consider and remember. The application of the Psalms. The application of the Psalms. This is probably the last point that we'll get to. We only have a few minutes left. The application of the Psalms, the importance of praise. Again, this is a common theme that you see throughout this book, the importance of praise. Praise is beautiful. Praise is referred to in the scripture as a sacrifice. Praise of God is vital, but praise changes your perspective. Praise is beautiful. The importance of prayer. When you look at prayer, some psalms are prayers. If you look at Psalm 55, it says this to the chief musician on Meganoth, Maskil, a Psalm of David. Give ear to my prayer, O God, and hide not thyself from my supplication. It's very clear that the the psalmist was praying. He was talking to God and p petitioning And again, you may not know how to pray. You may struggle to find the words that you want to present before God. And what I would say is if you ever find yourself in that in that way Look to the Psalms. Look at how the Psalmist praised. Learn from that and talk to the Lord. You know, the the uh many times we say prayer is asking, and that is an it, you know, talk to God as you would talk to a friend. And he's a friend that sticks closer than a brother. And it's something that that just opened your heart and and and the thing is is that I think really in our generation and in our maybe in it's our culture We're very reluctant to really open up and hesitate. But again, you can open up to the Lord. You can share your heart with God. And it's important to pray and to lay your request before Him. Also, the importance of corporate worship. The spirit of the Psalms should be a guide to our praise. Learn principles in the Psalms to guide our music. And the greatest idea that you see from this is very much the Psalms take attend take the attention away from us and they place the attention and the focus on God. And take a moment and step back from that. That should be how our music is. Our music and our worship towards God should be, again, putting away and taking the attention away from us and placing the attention and the focus on God Himself The importance of corporate praise, uh we should be praising the Lord as a corporate body, and you see this throughout the Psalms that there were Psalms. that were done as a what they called a congregation, the nation came together and praised God. And that is a good and righteous thing to do. And as a church, uh that's something that we should do. We should praise God together. So we share testimonies and evening service on Sunday night, and that's a good thing. That's a godly thing. We should have praise corporately as well. Praise should be welcome and praise should be done often. And also we see the insight on when to praise, when we should praise If you look at the this passage or these Psalms, there's a couple things that stood out as I studied them that give us insight as to when to praise, and I'll share them with you. Insight on when to praise when you're facing a challenge in the wilderness, when you are alone, when you're running from your enemies. When you are downtrodden, when your soul is cast down, when you are in captivity, when you need to confess to God, and when you feel like no one cares for your soul. These are all references that we will find in the Psalms and in each of these Psalms that relate these emotions and these feelings. there is praise that goes along with that. And it's a wonderful thing. That should be something that we that we do ourselves as well. The last thing real briefly that we'll cover just in a couple minutes is the additional Psalms collection. And these are just groupings of psalms that we put together that were that are available to listen to down the road if you'd like to gain some insight into that. The first is the cave psalms These Psalms are a grouping of Psalms that were likely written in the cave of Adulam when David was running from Saul. And those are Psalm 142, 57, and 34. We also have a category known as the shepherd psalms, Psalm 22, 23, and 24, where 22 talks about the crucified shepherd, 23 talks about the carrying shepherd, and 24 talks about the conquering shepher The next one is the Hallelujah Psalms, and I I categorized it or I wrote that that way, Psalms 146 through 150 because all these songs psalms begin with the phrase Praise ye the Lord. There's no inscriptions, there's no insight as to who wrote it or to why the time frame that it was written. But the instruction is clear, is that it's always good to praise the Lord. So that's the the the last five Psalms of the book. The divine direction, excuse me, the divine directives Psalms is Psalm 37. As you look at these this psalm, there's great there's do's and don'ts. The directions are given to man are rich. And again, do's and don'ts within this passage. There's another psalm that we call the Great Are You Lord Psalm, which is Psalm 138 And it talks about how great God is and how we see how got how great God is. It talks about what He's done and what He's accomplished for us. And the last one is the How to Have a Right Attitude Psalm, which is Psalm 100. And that's the one that we know that says, make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands. And it goes on, and there's several instructions that we categorize or that we summarize this way. Shout joyfully, serve cheerfully, sing praisefully, understand clearly, enter worshipfully, enter thankfully, and bless him respectfully. And that is how to have a right attitude, Psalm 100. So we are about out of time, and I think we are at the end of the book of Psalm.