Verse of the month. This verse in Matthew chapter number six, familiar passage of scripture. We have been discussing prayer this year as we've considered and thought about this idea of prayer in the life of a Christian. And uh I would just implore you uh today to don't put your mind in neutral. Don't think that, oh, this is a topic that we have heard sufficient information on. This is something that we've looked at and I I've I've read this these verses. Uh you know, please engage your heart and mind and ask the Lord to speak to you. on this matter of prayer. Could I remind you of a couple of things regarding prayer, some inescapable truths about it? Prayer is beloved. One of, if not the highest function, and of the most important practices of a Christian. It is part of our lives and it is inescapable the important role that it plays in the life of a Christian. Prayer is the immediate desire of one who has new life in Christ. It is only through the quenching of the Holy Spirit that we put down that desire to pray and commune with God. Over time, the one who has new life. can avoid prayer only because they've quenched the Spirit of God. Because it is the desire that God puts in the heart of man to commune with him. Prayer, that act of faith, declares to God our dependence on Him. That we are not self-sufficient, that we do not believe we have everything under control, but that we are looking to Him Prayer. Beloved, more is accomplished from the prayer of a child than has ever been accomplished by all the religious activity. Ever done. Consider with me, if you would, our limited strength, our limited ability. the uh shortness or or the our limited capacity to accomplish or do much of anything. But think about the omnipotence of prayer. I am very limited in my ability, but when I engage in prayer. I'm enlisting the power of the Almighty God. God can come on the scene and do great and mighty things exceedingly abundantly above all that we could ask or think through this. Act of praying. Think with me, beloved, the amazing power in prayer, in the fact that When I pray here in Hunt Valley, Maryland, I can enlist the omnipresence of God. And I can impact a ministry, a missionary in a foreign country. I can bring on the scene through the power of prayer. I mean I am so limited and so finite in my ability personally that it's almost laughable. Yet through prayer I can reach across the world and be an encouragement to a brother or sister in Christ. Lift their spirits and help them in a major time of need. To pray, beloved, is as much a part of the spiritual man's life. As breathing is to the natural man. And if you, as a born-again believer, have ceased to spend time in prayer, Can I tell you you've started dying spiritually? Just as if the the the the major Problem with COVID physically is that it takes from your lungs the ability to transfer the oxygen that you're breathing into your blood. It doesn't allow that transfer, your oxygen levels go down to a critical state because it's hindered that ability for your body to bring that in. It's something that you need to sustain natural life. Well, beloved, there's a COVID that's killing spiritual people. It's attacked us and it's taking from us the ability that we need To transfer the power of an Almighty God into our lives. And without prayer, we leave that aside, and spiritually, we are dying. The words, the words that we pray, the words that we say are not as important. As the spirit of prayer. It is the spirit of prayer that God sees and understands. Some people think, well, I don't really know how to pray Yes, you do. Just talk to God. Beloved, it's not about Expounding the scripture in your prayer. It's just talking to God. It's not necessarily the words we pray, but it is the spirit of prayer that God sees and God blesses. I suppose this poem says it better than I ever could. A minister passing through his church in the middle of the day decided to pause by the altar. To see who had come to pray. Just then the back door opened, a man came down the aisle. The minister frowned as he saw the man hadn't shaved in a while. His shirt was kind of shabby and his coat was worn and frayed. The man knelt and bowed his head, then rose and walked away. In the days that followed, each noontime king, this chap, each time he knelt just for a moment with his lunch pail in his lap. Well the minister's suspicion began to grow with robe uh with robbery, a main fear, he decided to stop the man and ask him, What are you doing here? The old man said, he worked just down the road. Lunch was but a half hour, and lunch was his prayer time to find God's strength and God's power. I stay only a minute, see, because the factory is so far away. As I kneel here to talk to the Lord, this is kind of what I say. I just came again to tell you, Lord, how happy I've been since we found each other's friendship and you took away my sin. Don't know much about how to pray, but I think about you every day. So Jesus, this is Jim checking in today. The minister, feeling kind of foolish, told Jim that was fine. He told the man he was welcome to come and pray anytime Time to go, Jim smiled and said thanks. He hurried to the door. The minister knelt at the altar as he had never done before. His cold heart was melted and warmed with love. He met with Jesus there as tears flowed in his heart he repented. I just came again to tell you, Lord, how happy I've been since we found each other's friendship and you took away my sin. I don't know much how to pray, but I think about you every day. So Jesus, this is me checking in today. So beloved, it's not as much about the fine or fancy words you use. It's simple. Expressions of prayer where one finds communion with God. Could we look at our text this morning and learn what the Lord says about the posture? of prayer. In Matthew chapter 6, verses 5 through 8, he says, and when thou prayest, Thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogue and in the corners of the streets. That they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, And when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father, which is in secret. And thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. For when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him. Would you bow with me and ask God to stir our hearts this morning in this matter? Lord, we come to you in humble spirit and mind and ask you this hour that you would meet with your people. We ask you, God, that you would take the words from your scripture that is so poignant and powerful that it would be applied to the heart of every believer. That it might find and see us where we are. We pray, dear God, you would challenge us, stir us from our complacency. Stir us from our casual Christianity and the carelessness in which we face or deal with this matter of prayer and motivate us, God, to come into thy presence daily. And seek your face. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. We first of all this morning in verse number five, I'm going to give you a point for each of these verses. We're going to see the example of the hypocrite. the entreaty of the holy, the echo of the heathen, and the endowment of the hopeful as we walk through this this morning. And I hope to be able to keep it moving and not belabor us, but first of all the example of the hypocrite. He says, And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogue, in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have the reward. I want you to understand the defining characteristic of a hypocrite is somebody whose desire and goal, whole motivation, is that they may be seen of men. They're perfectly content to have wickedness in their hearts as long as those that are in the church house think they're holy. They're happy It doesn't really matter how they live Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday and Thursday, that doesn't make any difference, as long as when they come to God's house, there's those that are represented there that they think highly of them The hypocrite cares very little for actual holiness, for actual communion with God, as long as people think they commune with God. In contrast, beloved, the holy are not holy because they're without sin. For who's without sin? The holy are holy because the sin they have Shames them. Because they're broken over it. They cry as David did, create and be a clean heart, O God. The question I have for you this morning is: which reward are you seeking? This verse says here that the hypocrites have the reward. It is mind-boggling to me as I even pondered and thought about this idea that Man, we would give up the presence and the power of God in our lives We would give up communing with our Heavenly Father for the approval of an easily impressed man. For the short-lived approval, I mean, let's let's say I wanted Shamar to think highly of me, and I was Putting on airs and doing things that weren't real in my person, only to have him think, man, Pastor Caleb, boy, he sure is spiritual. That is my reward that Shamar thinks I'm spiritual. And I give up knowing the God of heaven for something so shallow. Which reward are you seeking? Are you seeking the praise of men? The approval of the church family? Somebody that you might meet? Or as we'll see in the entreaty of the Holy, where it says that God will reward them openly. Are you seeking the reward of God? We're not to be as the hypocrites are. It's not about this public prayer. And there's a place for public prayer and we have people here lead in prayer at church as we open and pray over the offering as we take those and And different scenarios where somebody might lead in prayer. But that never replaces or should replace that private prayer. We see the entreaty of the Holy. He says, but when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut the door, pray to thy father, which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Can I let you know, or should I say, remind you of the fact that everyone has a secret life? Everyone has a secret life. God sees that secret life. In this text, it's actually presented and meant to be encouraging. He sees what nobody else sees. In this text, there's three areas where he talks about the secret life of the Christian in verse number four. He talks about secret giving. He says that thine alms may be in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret, he shall reward thee openly When you give to God or do something that nobody else knows about, it should encourage your heart, beloved, that God saw it. God knows. And God is the one that's going to be rewarding you. Would you rather be rewarded by the applause of men? Oh good job. Good job. Or would you rather be rewarded by a heavenly father He says he sees you when you give, and he goes on in verse number six there we see he sees you when you pray When you bow your head in the stillness of night or in the quiet of the morning and nobody else is around and nobody sees you carrying your Bible down to the closet. Nobody sees you Sitting on the porch talking to your Lord and Savior. Nobody's going to applaud you or praise you for that. But God sees you. God knows. And He takes notice that you're doing that and that you're communing with Him. In verse number 18 he says that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. So he talks about the fasting. That a Christian does. All three of these things, beloved, are meant to be an encouragement to us. Letting us know that our Heavenly Father sees your pursuit of Him. Seize the hearts you have and the desire you have to know him and the effort that you're putting forth to spending time with him. I'm going to be teaching on fasting in Sunday school on the twenty twenty-second of this month. Just a couple weeks away. We'll be reminded of that most important principle and part of the Christian life. But these areas are to be part of the Christian life too, this giving, praying, and fasting. And God sees the secret life of the believer. And although for some it brings fear, beloved, this is written and it's supposed to bring faith. It's supposed to remind you that God hears your prayer. You don't have to be in the church house gathered with all the believers and everybody here holding hands. Sing Kumbaya for God to hear you. In the quiet of your night. In your living room. You. God sees you. You say, Well, I'm not Pastor Caleb. Well, praise God for that. You've got at least one thing you can praise him for this morning. Amen. God sees you. He wants to commune with you. Beloved, you might be or consider yourself to be the weakest prayer warrior there is. You might think, I don't know how to pray. I don't know what words to say. I don't know how to sound like those that pray at church But can you talk to your father? And just say good morning, Lord. Here I am. Not real sure what all to say to you, but I just want you to know I love you. Lord, I'm thankful for what you do for me. Can you just talk to him? Just share your heart. And when you do it, he sees you. The greatest aspect of the holy life is secret prayer. Beloved, the world is not the only one that's come out of its closet. Sadly, the Christians have long since left that closet behind. That secret place of prayer. This secret place of prayer should be a private place. He says, When you enter into thy closet. Now I think that you understand uh that wasn't necessarily literally meaning get into your closet. Especially if you understand the fact that in biblical times a closet was probably a chest, like, you know, a a box of some kind. In our days we have these big walk-in closets, right? So you could go into your closet. But the idea here really is that you have a place that's a private place. A place where you can get alone with God. It might be, beloved, your closet. It might be that you would do it on the back porch at your home. It might be that you would do it walking down a deserted road. It may be that you have a special place, but it's a private place where you're not going to be disturbed. This private place is your place. He says, when thou enter into thy closet and shut thy door. It's to be a personal place, the place that you've chosen, that you've set aside. It's personal because you're talking to thy God. Not only should it be a private place, but it should be a quiet place. He says, shut the door. When you enter into thy closet, shut the door. The idea there is that you're blocking out the distractions. You at least for a few minutes in a day, you you on purpose shut the door. You on purpose put away the distractions. You you know uh that might mean you need to Leave this in another room for a couple minutes. Shutting the door might mean uh putting that somewhere where it doesn't matter if it You know if you're praying and that thing, you're going to be like, oh wonder wonder who that is. Wonder what that is. Shutting the door means getting removing all the distractions that you have So that you can commune with God. Our lives today are so full of noise that it seems almost impossible to find a minute for quiet contemplation. But, beloved, it is only in that quiet place that we have the wherewithal to hear the still small voice of our God. For many of us, our lives are so busy and our lives are so full, God couldn't get our attention with a bullhorn. You've got to find a private place. You've got to find a quiet place. And you've got to prepare that place. Preparation is the key to successful prayer. Preparation for successful prayer begins the night before You know, beloved, when you have something important to do in the morning, something you're looking forward to, something that's really necessary, you know what you do. You make sure everything's ready. You got something that's important happening tomorrow morning. You might go to bed a few minutes earlier than normal just because, hey, tomorrow morning I gotta be up. I gotta be fresh. You might you might say, well, tomorrow morning it's very important. I've got to do this. I've got to be here. I'm going to take a few minutes tonight and just set my clothes out so that I'm ready to roll in the morning. Everything's I don't have to think about it. I'm ready to roll tomorrow Any any of you ever done that? You you're getting ready to roll? You know successful prayer takes preparation. Something that we've put some thought into. You need to prepare by at least having a list. A list of things that you would pray for Be sure your list includes spiritual matters. Tozer said prayer is always in danger of degenerating into a glorified gold rush. We simply have our want list. But what about asking the God and your heavenly Father, Lord, teach me about your holiness? Lord teach me how to love the unlovable. Lord help me to see you working in lives today. The physical consumes so much of our life it takes extra effort, I think, for our minds to even come and wrap around spiritual matters. We want to commune with our Heavenly Father. We need to take some time and prepare. Without a list, we tend to pray in broad generalities. Lord, be with all of our missionaries. Or the one or two that come to your mind, but a list will guide you We see here the echo of the heathen, verse number seven. He says, but when ye pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen. As the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. You see, beloved, it's not about empty words. It's not about vain repetition. It's about a moment-by-moment fellowship with your Father. It might take concentration. It might take focus. It might take thinking about what you're saying. But don't use vain repetition. You know, it never hit me until preparing for this message how important this is. I've known this principle my entire life. A Christian Does not say prayers like, Lord, I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. First of all, that prayer is unbiblical. It is is I'm not even going to get into that. That prayer is unbiblical. But that's let's say that there's a lot of prayers. There's people that write prayers, and you can pray those prayers. Um there sometimes people pray different passages of scripture Okay, there is a matter, there's a thing you can pray through Scripture, but you've got to be careful that it's not vain repetition. What does it say here? He says, use not vain repetition as what? The heathen. This is what hit me as I was studying this. This is what the heathen do. They resort to vain repetition because they do not have a relationship with the Father. They strive to feel spiritual through vain repetition, through repeating a set number of words. But you and I, as children of the King, can come to the Father and commune, fellowship, talk to him like you would to anybody else in a spirit of communion with him, in a spirit of fellowship with him. Don't use vain repetition, Christian. This is an earmark of the heathen. That's not what we're supposed to be doing. And I can't tell you how many Christians that I've had conversations with that have asked, well, what's wrong with it? I've never in my life really been this dogmatic, but I think it's pretty clear that this is what the heathen do. Because they don't have a relationship. You and I have a relationship. We should be talking to our Heavenly Father, communicating with Him He says, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. It's not about the abundance of words you use. Some kids are this way. They think they will be heard for their abundance of speaking. I'm looking at Pastor Derek. He has a child like that. He thinks if he just keeps going, somebody's gonna listen. Amen. Abundance of speaking. It's not what w it's not that. It's communing with God. It's not just rattling on endlessly, but talking to your Heavenly Father. There is a measure of just being still before him, letting your words be few, but chosen wisely Speak, but make your speech deliberate. Speak with reverence and respect, with care and love. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse number 2 says, Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter anything before God. For God is in heaven, and thou upon earth. Therefore let thy words be few. Just talking to God. It's a heathen that used to use an abundance of words. Just using And I chose the word echo, the echo of the heathen, because that's all it is. Is an echo. It goes out and reverberates off the walls but goes nowhere else. We don't want to be as the heat But we see in verse number eight the endowment of the hopeful He says, Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him. There's a lot of things in this world that you and I may place our hope. There's a lot of things that we might hope in or hope for. Many of those will let you down, but your hope in God will never leave you wanting. Psalms 38 verse 15 says, For in thee, O Lord, do I hope. And when we hope in God, there's cause for that hope. There is revelation in that hope. He hears your cry. And he knows what you have need of before you even ask. You can trust God, amen. Trust and obey. There's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. But that only trust him. Come, every soul by sin oppressed. There's mercy with the Lord, and he will surely give you rest. By trusting in his word, only trust him, only trust him, only trust him now. He will save you. You see, when you pray and talk to your father, he sees and he hears. Right. And he knows. You may feel that you're the weakest prayer warrior here. You may think I I I am I have the least ability to pray of anybody in this room. But your heavenly Father still hears your cry. And he longs to hear your voice. And he longs. To answer. To give unto you. He says he will reward you. Reward you openly. It's God's plan when we come to Him in private prayer that He rewards us openly Can I tell you something, beloved? God will reward you for every minute of private prayer you spend Oh, I know Satan. He comes and tells you it's useless. He comes and says, Oh, you didn't accomplish anything. He comes and says, well that was a waste of fifteen minutes. Why'd you bother doing that? But your heavenly father has promised he would reward you. The endowment of the hopeful is that your heavenly Father is going to reward you. He's going to reward you, beloved, with answered prayer. With answered prayer. We as a church prayed fervently Thursday night. For Judy, Judith, Nazarenko. She was really on the crust of a very critical turning point. And God answered that prayer. She is taking a turn for the better, a marked improvement over the next twenty-four hours. God answers prayer. God will even provide for you and I the things that we didn't even know we needed. Because He knows what you have need of. And you say, oh, I didn't even ask God for that, or I didn't even go there. But your time in prayer, God heard you, He saw your heart, and He knows what you have need of. You say, well, I don't know how to ask exactly right. That's okay because God knows what you need, and He knows how to ask. And Jesus, the Bible says, Jesus takes your petition to the Father. And he knows just how to phrase it, amen. You might not know how to say it, but you can say, okay, Jesus, let my Father know exactly what I need, because I I'm not sure how to put it, I'm not sure the best way to present it, but He will do it. He is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. You know, beloved, when we look at the heroes of the faith, whether in the pages of Scripture or in the passage of time, we look at their experiences and we're impressed at what they accomplished. But what we don't see is the hours of private prayer that made those things possible. Like Moses, when the Lord appeared unto him in a burning bush. And Moses said, I will now turn aside. And see this great sight. God called unto him. Would you be willing to turn aside from your busy life for a few minutes every day? To talk to an Almighty God. A God that sees you. A God that knows what you have need of. A God that longs and wants to answer your prayer and has promised that He would reward you for doing it.