Turn your Bibles this morning for the morning service here to 1 Corinthians chapter number 9. 1 Corinthians chapter number 9. We're going to look at the topic this morning of a message that I've entitled The Duty of a Christian. The duty of a Christian It was great to get an amen from Titus and Andrew in between Sunday school and this morning service. I got a text from Pastor Derek, you know, how you can record something and send it. And Titus and Andrew said, Amen. I don't know when during the service that was, but they did wait till in between to text it to me. Um but uh Defastor Derek was our our in house A minor last week. He's the only one, so he just kept saying amen, amen. But that was that was good. Now a cure's gotta take his place and she's gonna say amen for for that. But uh this morning we want to look at the duty of a Christian uh as we are holding today the last service of this month. This month's theme was really focused around missions. This is our missions month. And we have, as our text verse, Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ That verse we looked at and we preached on that, the idea of what does it mean to be an apostle? Well, it's a sent one, and that we are all sent, and we have missionaries that we send. I'll tell you what, this coronavirus, not that there's ever a convenient time, but it sure hit us like right at uh inconvenient time. Missions conference and all that. And so we need to make some adjustments. And I figured here just as we're starting out, we're going to be looking at this idea of a duty of a Christian this morning. I wanted to encourage you, if you're able, for now, for the near foreseeable future, uh I understand that many of you made commitments towards missions last year. And we got to March and technically that commitment has been fulfilled. You've reached the next year's Missions Conference. It was a one-year commitment, and that's been done. I would ask you, encourage you to, if you're able. to continue to to keep giving what you were giving last year for a little while. Uh we'll try and kind of regroup once we can get back together, once we can hold services together as a group and Maybe I'll get somebody here that can really deal with this and we'll we'll refocus, have a small uh mini conference or something that we'll do uh to try and have get to reestablish our giving for missions for the coming year. But until then, I I understand your commitment's been fulfilled. And uh you haven't recommitted yet. And uh but if you would be willing to for the foreseeable these coming weeks for the next, I imagine Uh it'd be a couple months until we can work something into the schedule and we don't know when this is going to be over, but if you're able to continue to give what you've been giving uh for the last year to just keep the the missions program of Hunt Valley Baptist Church going, then I would ask that you do so for now. And uh then we'll at uh convenient time we'll go ahead and have a mini conference or something and kinda reestablish for this coming year what God would have us to do individually. But hopefully that gives you some direction, wondering what you're supposed to do or you're obviously free at any time to up your mission scale. You're free to do that anytime you want, but uh if you could at least maintain for right now, that would be a blessing so we can make sure we can support our missionaries. As we've been looking this month at the idea of being called to serve the Lord, to serve God as a sent one, an apostle of Jesus Christ. Uh let's read together our text this morning. Paul, this missionary, possibly the greatest missionary that ever lived, a sent one. Um and we are to be sent as well. Look in First Corinthians chapter number nine, verses sixteen through twenty-one for our text this morning. 16 through 21, he says, For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of, for necessity is laid upon me. Yea, woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward. But if against my will a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me, what is my reward then? Verily that when I preach the gospel I may make the gospel of Christ without charge, that I abuse not my power in the gospel. For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all, that I might gain the more. And unto the Jews I became as a Jew, and un the and the I might that I might gain the Jews, to them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law, to them that are without law, as without law, be Be not without law to God but under the law to Christ That I might gain them that are without the law. To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak. I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means. Save some. We see here in this text the overriding passion of the heart Of Paul. His desire to minister, to serve, to reach the world, and every individual he had the possibility to come into contact with. He had as a desire to present and share with them the gospel. This one overriding principle stands out in the life of Paul As he desires to serve God and specifically to minister to all nations. We have a mission statement here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and I wonder after we have played this mission statement every Sunday for uh over a year now. I wonder how many could quote it, how many could say it without uh without looking. But we've got this mission statement that We want to see the world miss ministered to. It's our desire. We start with our neighbors, those nearest our neighbors and all nations. That's our goal. We give our money, materials, and manpower to see the world minister too. As a church, we have that mission statement, but I wonder how many of you at home How many of you gathered here today have as your hearts passion, like Paul, to see the world minister to? to see the world reached with the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's three principles that are given to us in this text that I want to draw out this morning on the duty of a Christian. As Paul had a passion to see the world minister to, we should as well. First of all, Paul said in verse number 16, he said, For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of. He says, I give the gospel, but there's no reason for me to glory in that. He says, why? Because necessity Is laid upon me. Necessity is laid upon me. There is an overriding passion, there's a desire, there's a driving force inside of me. That makes me do this. He says, I've got no reason to glory, I've got no reason to pat myself on the back. God has put a passion in my heart to see the world minister to, and I have to, I must do this. You know, a craftsman, his ability is put on display. His level of skill is recognized when people see the work that he does. That which he's able to make with his hands. Oh, a soldier is acknowledged for his courage on the battlefield And a Christian, an apostle, by his fulfillment of that which is laid upon him His fulfillment of that which God has called him to do. As we are all called to be servants of Jesus Christ. called to fulfill the great commission, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature Just as a craftsman's skill is seen by the work he performs, and a soldier's courage is recognized on a battlefield, the Christian's ability or the life of a Christian Is recognized by how he's fulfilling that necessity that's laid upon him. That responsibility given to us by God. Beloved, we need to guard against apathy. Apathy. Paul said necessity is laid upon me. And then he goes on and he says, Woe unto me if I preach not the gospel He said, there's something in my heart that says the world needs to be reached. I've got to do this. I've got to do this. And man, there's a burden in my soul to see the world minister to, to See people reach, people are lost and dying and going to hell without Jesus Christ, and I've got to do something about it My how hearts are stirred. Sometimes this is our missions month, and you think about how we watch uh missionary presentations. And our hearts are stirred for what's going on on the mission field. And boy, we're moved and we say, man, we've we've got to do something about that. There's a need out there. And this brother's willing to go, and man, we need to send him and and boy, we gotta help him. I remember back when brother uh Warwick came here and he talked about his mission field and his desire to start that hospital and to to to have these orphanages and to teach ladies how to make a living so they didn't have to live a life of prostitution. He's going through the burdens on his heart and how moved our church was. How moved with compassion the hearts of God's people were. But do you know what happens over time? Apathy sets in. At one point, necessity was laid upon us. At one point, passion was there, and we've got to help him. We've got to do something. This is important. And I think maybe partially because of the fact that I strive to have a missions-minded church. My goal is to have a missionary here at least every other month, somebody coming through that again points our eyes off of our internal selves and what we've got going on and look at the world. And we watched presentations and just like Brother Taylor did this morning, he got up and gave a testimony about one of our personal missionaries that's Again, a goal to get our hearts and minds connected with our missionaries and what they're doing and keeping it in front of you. And we work very hard at trying to make sure the letters are available so that you can read them, so that you can know what's going on on the mission fields. But if we're not careful, that passion and that necessity that was once laid upon us to do something for the world for Jesus Christ dwindles away. We become apathetic. We become less than careless. The passion, the innate desire to preach the gospel fades. So I asked you this morning, do you have a passion to see the world reached? Just like we talked about this morning in in Sunday school, the idea of What you think about is so vitally important in maintaining a positive attitude in this negative world Well beloved, the same is true with maintaining a heart of passion for the lost world. We've got to think about and acknowledge and recognize that many, most of the world that we come into contact with does not know Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. And what that means for them is they will die and spend an eternity in a place called hell. And I know we don't even like to think about it. We don't like to talk about it. We say, boy, that's So harsh, but that's the reality of the truth of the Word of God. And I know any one of us in this church congregation or in the online, as you're watching it from home, any one of us. Saw a burning house. We would do all we could to help them Our hearts would be broken about anybody that was needlessly lost in that fire, who had to endure and go through that. Some, their heart is so compassionate, they would literally bear scars for the rest of their life because they saw somebody in a house burned and they couldn't get them out. Yet the state of most of the world is that end. But we walk through our days and the necessity is gone. The desire to carry a gospel track and point somebody to Jesus, the desire to share the truth is gone. That necessity has a tendency to wane. It is the duty of every Christian to maintain that necessity. Be careful that we don't get comfortable and complacent and lose the necessity that's been laid upon us. Secondly, I want you to see that there's a reward that's guaranteed unto us. There's a reward that's guaranteed. He says, For if I do this thing willingly, I I have a reward. Beloved, we we have a reward. He says, if I do this willingly, I have a reward. What a joy to know that God has promised and he's going to give us a reward. Beloved a reward for doing what you're supposed to do. That's like me telling my son, hey, I want you to mow the grass. And if you mow the grass, I'll take you out for ice cream. He has to mow the grass either way. I'm just giving him a reward. Now, if he doesn't mow the grass, what happens? You see, mow the grass was not a suggestion. It was not a request. I remember hearing a story about a little boy, you know, kids don't like to go to bed. They they're afraid they're gonna miss something. They want to be awake. If anybody in the house is awake, they want to be awake, you know. And uh this kid was told to bet to go to bed. And his dad looked at him and said, Listen, if you don't go to bed, you're gonna get a spanking. And the boy said, well, if I take the spanking, can I stay up? Like Is that is that uh I mean do I get an option 'cause I get go to bed, get a spank and I get to choose here? No, you have to go to bed either way So you might as well go to bed before the spanking. Well, what I want you to understand, beloved, is that God has given us a reward. He's promised us a reward. But what Paul tells us here, he goes on in this verse, he says, But if against my will A dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me. Now, according to Strong's, that word dispensation there means stewardship. But the Apostle Paul is saying, say, hey, if I do this willingly, God's going to give me a reward. But whether I want to or not, I have a stewardship of the gospel of Jesus Christ that I must fulfill. This is not optional. This is not debatable. I don't get to determine whether I want to participate in this thing called the gospel of Jesus Christ. I don't get to decide whether this is for me or for somebody else. No, you see, I've got to do it because I've been given a requirement. A requirement either way. is not optional. The other day I invited someone over to my house And they didn't come. Say you want to come for dinner? He said, no. We're supposed to be social distancing. I but what I told him, I said, Hey you want to come for dinner? I said, if you want to come, uh great. If not, no worries. No problem either way. Basic uh whatever you want to do. You come, we'll feed you if you're busy or you can't, don't worry about it. No problem either way. And uh They they determined not to. But it was fine either way. It was optional. There was no there's no requirement there. But do you understand, beloved, there is a requirement for us to share the gospel. If we do so willingly, there's a reward. But whether we do it willingly or unwillingly, we still need to do it. And I think that everyone tuning in, everyone here uh has at times done so unwillingly. There's been times, I have to be honest, there's been times where I just really didn't want to. I just did not I did not have necessity Laid upon my heart. I did not have a desire to get out and be involved in this. I did not desire to go participate in this. I didn't, that's not what was on my heart. But we're still supposed to do it. We're still supposed to be involved. There's gonna be times in your life Just like there was in the heart of Paul. He says, if against my will. There's been times where I did it against my will. Where uh I would have not given out a track. I would have not. I remember one time I was out knocking on doors in Lawrence, Kansas You know it's so awkward when there's somebody outside and they're watching you come down the street. They're watching you come house by house by house, and you wonder what's building up in their mind. Well, there was a guy sitting tinkering around with his Harley Davidson. And he had tattoos all over He had the long hair, the biker shirt, and he's watching me come down the street and the whole time I'm like, I do not want to talk to that guy. I do not he is not going to like what I have to say. And the whole street I'm hoping he'll go inside, right? I'm going down the street. I hope by the time I get there he disappears. But he was still out there. You know what's amazing? He was really friendly. I had the best conversation of anybody on that street I had with that biker. He was very open, very friendly, did not get saved But I had a I mean in my mind I'm like this is not what I want to do would he please go away and and I finally get up to him And we had a great time and shared I shared the gospel with him in a brief abbreviated form because he didn't let me open the scriptures or anything, but we talked for a little while. And I remember it like yesterday because in my mind there was such a battle of Could I cross the street and he not noticed? I mean, could I do that side or whatever? Um there's times that you're not going to want to do it But we still have to do it. It's still a duty of us as a Christian. Paul said, hey, necessity is laid upon There's a reward that is guaranteed unto me. And we see lastly this morning that the heart of Paul is he had a heart to serve. others service given unto others. Verse number nineteen he says for though I be free from all men, yet I have made myself servant unto Paul truly understood the call to be an apostle. Call to be an apostle and a sent one. Called to serve Jesus Christ and to serve others. As Christians, we need to have that heart It is our duty to have a heart of service to others. Paul understood this. He recognized his position in respect of others. Now Paul was a very educated man. Paul was somebody that had status in society. But you don't see Paul standing up. Okay, look at me. You guys serve me. You guys do for me. You guys, he recognized his position. Regardless of his capability, regardless of his education, regardless of who he was, he recognized his position in relationship to others He said, I made myself servant unto all. Paul the Apostle He didn't ask people, do you know who I am? Do you know who you're who you get the privilege of listening to? You understand I sat at the feet of Gameliel? I was educated by him. It's just a privilege to sit. No. He became a servant to all, that he might, by all means, save That's what he wanted to do. So I ask you, are you a servant? Even me. I'm the pastor. Am I a servant? I am to be a servant, to put myself in place of service to God's people Put myself in place of service to a lost and dying world. Any pastor who stands up and touts his position. Needs to step down. Because it's not about the position you hold, it's about the position that you put yourself in as a servant of Jesus Christ. And we need to have a spirit and a heart and a mind of service. Christ gave us the greatest example of servitude. He who knew no sin became sin for us. He made himself a servant. In Philippians chapter 2, in verses 2 through 4, he says, Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded. There's three aspects of love that are seen in these verses. Three aspects of servitude. The first is love. He says that you be like-minded having the same love. We're to have the same kind of love Jesus had. Jesus loved everyone. He desired to serve everyone. He says, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind. So we're to have love. We're also to have a lowliness of mind. Any type of servant has a lowliness of mind. He's not lifting himself up. He's not esteeming himself better than others or thinking of himself more highly than he ought to think, but has a lowly mind. Let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. So he has a lifting mind. Somebody that has a service heart is going to have a loving mind, a lowly mind, and a lifting mind. He's lifting others above himself. That's the kind of passion that Paul had. So I asked you this morning, are you a servant? Who are you serving? Well, yes, I'm a servant. Well who who are you serving? What are you doing for others? Paul said to the weak, Became I as weak, that I might gain the weak. I have made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some. Paul was willing to put himself down that others might get the gospel. He's willing to go where maybe he didn't want to go, was willing to endure such uh amazing torment and pain and sufferings All that he might see people saved, that he might see the gospel given to others. What are you willing to do that others might be saved? Paul said, I'll do anything. I'll do anything inside of the will of God, as far as God, as long as I'm not just obeying the word of God That others might be saved. I'm a servant. I'll do whatever's necessary to see people given the gospel. What are you willing to do? Are you willing to come and clean the church so that others might have an opportunity to be saved Are you willing to to come and and spread some mulch and clean the parking lot and and and serve as a greeter or uh participate in the ministries in some capacity here where d With the goal and the understanding of not that I get a position and I get to be an usher at church or I get to do this, but that I might by some means serve somebody so that they could at least have the opportunity to trust Jesus. That's what I want to do. I'll serve, I'll sing the special, I'll use what ability I have, however little or great it may be, to try and bring people to Christ. Would you be willing to stuff some John and Romans? Be willing to serve and say, hey, I'll stuff some John and Romans so that maybe somebody can get one of these put on their door and they can hear the gospel? I'll go carry some John and Romans and stick them on the door or I'll give so that the John and Romans can be purchased so that we can take them out and distribute them and give them to people Here's what I can do. Do we have the heart to serve, not so that we can be recognized, so I can be lifted up? Not so that I can be promoted and puffed up in my own mind about who I am or what ability I have, but that the world would be saved. That the lost would be presented with an opportunity to see Jesus. I'll do that. I think sometimes we lose sight of why we're serving. Why are we playing the piano? Why are we singing in the choir? Why are we gathering to pray for our community? Why are we serving as an usher or a greeter or teaching a Sunday school? Is that by all means we might save some? Not everybody's going to believe. Not everybody's going to read it down to Romans and trust Christ. But some will. Some will If you're saved today, you've been called of God, sent by God, to carry the message of the gospel. God's love. The fact that Jesus Christ came. Died, was buried and rose again for the world. The fact is, is most of the world is not saved. I don't know this morning who all is tuning in. I would imagine that in our presence here, the Six or seven that are here that by their testimony and from communicating with them, they have testified unto me that they know Jesus as their Lord and Savior. But I think I would be remiss this morning if I did not Explain to you online the numbers of folks from all over the country and even the world that are tuning in this morning what it means to be saved. We're talking here about the duty of a Christian, but maybe you're not a Christian yet. Maybe you call yourself a Christian, but as I'm talking about being saved, the Bible definition of salvation. Of being saved is trusting in the sacrifice of God's Son, Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sin. You see, Jesus came and he paid the penalty for you. You owe a debt. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You owe it a debt today. A debt of sin. Just as every man, woman, and boy, and girl ever born since Adam. Born a sinner. Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. Every man, woman, boy, and girl is a sinner. For all have sinned. You've got to understand that fact this morning that you're a sinner, that there's you you owe a debt. Some somehow your sin has to be paid for, and you can choose. To pay for it by spending eternity in a place called hell. That's a pretty costly fee. But that's what the Bible says: the wages of sin is death. A wage, what I've earned because of my sin, is to spend an eternity in a place called hell to pay for my sins. But Jesus Christ paid that penalty for me. I don't have to pay that debt. Jesus paid it If you're tuning in this morning and you don't know what it means to be saved, what it means to be saved is to accept that payment. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life It's a free gift that God offers to everybody. And Hunt Valley Baptist Church exists for the purpose of carrying that message of Jesus Christ's death, burial, and resurrection to the world. God's people here serve. Many people even this morning serving that we might hold a service so that we might carry the message of the gospel to you today. How do you accept that payment? At some point you have to accept the payment that Jesus paid to cover your sin. You may be tuning this morning and you say, well, I'm tuning into church. Obviously, I know about Jesus. I know that Jesus died. I know he was buried and he rose again. But has there ever been a day or an hour where you accepted that payment? You know right now that I'm standing here on the platform at Hun Valley Baptist Church. If I held out $500 and told you about it and said, hey, there's $500 here. All you got to do is is take it. There's probably 100, 150 people tuning in online this morning. You can't grab it, can you? It's sitting right here. You y y y you say, Man, wish I was in church this morning. Uh y d at some point if you wanted it you would have to come and get it. You would have to come and receive it. You know about it. You could go all week knowing about it. But unless you've gone and taken it, you still don't have it, do you? Well, at some point you've got to receive it A lot of people know about God. They would even call themselves Christians Matthew tells us about a whole group of people that when they get to heaven, they're going to cry out unto God and say, Lord, Lord, that He's going to say, Depart from me, I never knew you. Because they never accepted the gift of God's Son. You've got to reach out and accept it. How do you reach out and accept it? The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That you can receive and accept this morning right from where you are at home. You don't have to be here in God's house or be with us. You've got to call upon the name of the Lord, and you shall be saved. What you do is you acknowledge the fact that you're a sinner, that Jesus Christ died to pay for your sin. And you trust him to forgive you of that sin And God promises that He would do so. Well, can I encourage you this morning? If you know that you're a sinner, you've never accepted Jesus, could I encourage you to accept him today before it's eternally too late? God wants you to be saved. And this church exists for the purpose of sharing that message with the lost world. That's our duty as Christians. If you want to accept him, you pray and you ask him to forgive you of your sin. Put your faith and trust in him and him only. Not him and your works, not him and going to church, not him and being good, not him and getting baptized. Jesus Christ paid the penalty, the whole thing. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved If you're here with us this listening this morning online, maybe that message is for you. You need to be saved. If you're listening online this morning or you're here and you are saved and you know that, then maybe the message for you is, do you feel the necessity Are you excited about the reward? Understand the responsibility, even if we don't necessarily at times feel like doing it. And are we willing to make ourselves a servant to serve and do whatever is necessary, not to be recognized Not to be patted on the back, but to just be used of God to see people saved. That's what we're here for. And that's the duty of every Christian. Let's close in prayer. I'm asking the pianist to come to the piano and we're going to play a moment of invitation. Lord, we come to you this morning. We ask you this morning for those that are tuning in, if there's any that don't know you as their Lord and Savior, we ask you, God, that they would pray and ask you right now to forgive them of their sin. To admit the fact that they're sinners and put their faith and trust in you. Pray they would do that right now before it's too late. And we ask you, God, you be with every Christian, everyone that knows you as Lord and Savior. That they would feel the necessity to be doing our duty as Christians, to be giving the gospel to the world in any way we know how. In Jesus' name. Amen.