This is chapter number one. Genesis chapter number one. Last Sunday evening Brother Brennan brought a message on the name of God and on God El Shaddai. And uh I was just stirred in my heart and challenged to ponder and look at uh the names of God and who God is and thought this would be very good for our church to to learn and to know the names of God. Uh I know there are some of you that you know the names of God. You understand how important they are, how impactful they are, how powerful it is for the believer and for his faith and his walk. to know God and who he is and uh what is displayed or taught to us through his names themselves. You recognize that and understand that, but there are many who don't And so I wanted to begin over the next few weeks to talk about the names of God And to we're going to do a little bit of Bible study. We're going to be looking at some scripture and some verses and see these things. This morning, we are going to look at Elohim. This is the first mention of God. It is his first name that's given to us here. We see the first four words of the Word of God is this, in the beginning, God. This word that is used here, the name that is translated in our Bible God is the name Elohim. Now there are special aspects of our relationships that we have with others that are defined by a name. That name articulates, gives explanation to, and defines the relationship. You might be a son A father. You might be a brother, a sister. You might be a friend. Maybe a pastor, a co-worker, a boss, husband, wife. Each name that you have defines and explains an aspect of who you are. There are some young men in here that are not yet fathers. They cannot take that name It is not who they are. They haven't experienced that. They haven't carried the weight of caring for a child, and they don't understand the burden of it. They have not held that responsibility. And so therefore that name is not applicable to them. And so it is, as we see in the pages of Scripture, we see the names of God, and the names of God describe for us who He is. Each of the names give us different characteristics and uh they explain different aspects. You know, sometimes a name can also be uh limiting. in its characteristic. Uh for instance, how many of you have ever heard a young person say, You're not my dad? You know, you can't tell me what to do. You're not my mom, right? Or you have somebody that their name would be babysitter Okay, that limits the scope of their influence. That name, that title, does give them some authority to uh help govern the care of the children while they're there, but they're not mom and dad And so sometimes the name is limiting. And so God has given to us many different names for himself, each of them describing for us different characteristics and personalities and attributes of who he is. What I'm saying is that these names teach us about God. In the same way we learn of one another with the different names that we might have. So using this name Elohim this morning, I would like to paint a picture in your mind of who God is. At the end of this time together, my first and foremost objective is that we would acknowledge him in our lives as Elohim. As Elohim. We see here, first of all, his power. His power. This Name given to us, he says, in the beginning God created this name. Uh is introduced to us right at the beginning. And you understand, of course, that uh the children of Israel had spent some number of years in bondage. They had been in Egypt under the influence and the teachings of the plethora of gods that the Egyptians worshiped. They had gods for everything in Egypt. And they were just trying to appease the many hundreds of gods that they had to dictate and control their lives. And so As God Almighty gives to Moses the Pentateuch and he begins to write down for his people these first five books of the Word of God, Genesis, Nexus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, he right at the beginning, he says, wait, I know that you have an understanding of all of these gods that uh Egypt worship, but I want you to know right here from the very beginning, in the beginning, God, Elohim the power of God to create. All of the Egyptian gods that they worshiped, they had gods that worship uh frogs and the the water and the the sea and and the gods of the sun and and all of these gods, we want you to understand that all these things were created by the God Elohim He wanted them to know who this was. The foundational meaning of this name of God literally is the mighty one, the strong one. The root of the first part of this name, L, Elohim, you take the E and the L, L, it literally means power and strength. Deuteronomy chapter 10 and verse number 17 defines that name for us. He says in Deuteronomy chapter 10 and verse number 17, for the Lord your God Is God of Gods, the Lord of Lords, the great God A mighty and a terrible, which regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward. It literally is a definition Of who this is. Now, beloved, I could not hope to even give you a brief synopsis Of all there is with regards to this name as you walk through the Old Testament, for this name of God, Elohim, appears over 2,500 times in the Old Testament. As many as 3,000 times, if you include some of the multiple variations of the name that have secondary aspects to them. So I could not hope to even look at all of them or reference them, but I do want you to understand who it is and realize that from the beginning, from the onset It is a description to the fact that he is God Almighty. He has the power to create I hope this morning, I don't have to spend much time here. I hope there's not anybody under the sound of my voice that believes in any aspect of evolution. Listen, God created the world. In the beginning, God created. If you will take the scripture at face value and you can accept that That first statement found in the pages of Scripture, you will not have a hard time believing any of the rest of it, following it and establishing it. But if you and by Satan's design Will question who created it, you're gonna question the rest of it. That's what Satan wanted. Satan has designed and come up with a plan by which he could provide an alternate belief system, an alternate religion And beloved, don't be fooled. It is not science from the very beginning. It was called the evolutionary Theory. It is still a theory. It is not science. It never has been science. As a matter of fact, from the very beginning Science has continually disproved evolution and they keep making up lies to try and sell it to people. You need more faith and beloved this world that says, oh well, you're you just holding on to that God stuff because you want to have faith in that, you need a crutch and whatever Beloved, you need more faith, and they are taking it by faith that somehow billions of years ago It's crazy to me how they sell it as fact. They sell it as like this happened. Some guy randomly made up a date, pulled it out of thin air, and they put it in a textbook, and now people are saying, well, this 255 billion years ago. This mountain was just a little hill. No, what happened is you see the flood took place in in the book of Genesis, and the whole world was turned over on its head The waters rose up from the deep and these mountains and things were formed. God did that, and he explains how it happened. But this world wants to believe in Satan's lie instead of God's truth. Now I hope that you have that settled in your mind and that you believe that God created. And here's the thing, beloved, if we have the if God has the ability to create anything, let's say this little bush, which is fake, but if it wasn't fake, let's say this little bush that God could create this out of nothing. I mean, you know how amazed that we are when we see a magician perform a trick and somehow is able to produce something out of nothing? I mean, we are just shocked. And we know it's a trick. We know it is 100% mirrors and smoke or whatever. Somehow he hid. But man, we're like, that's awesome. God created out of nothing. And if he had the power to create even the smallest thing out of nothing, that is great. power beyond even our comprehension. But beloved, he didn't create the smallest thing. He created the entirety of our universe. Out of nothing, he spoke it into existence in six literal days. I hope you have that settled in your heart and mind. Well, this is who we are introduced here. In the beginning of the Word of God, we're introduced to Elohim, the God who has the power to create. Not only, beloved, did he create it, but he maintains it. Why is it now for over six thousand years the sun has risen and gone down exactly on schedule? Why is it that the tides come and go so faithfully? Why is it the seasons come and go so faithfully? I want you to know, beloved, that it is not Mother Earth It is not Mother Nature. It is God Almighty who set the bounds of their habitations. And God is the one in control. And here's one of the things that you need to get a hold of is that God is in control. And we know one day it's all going to burn up. None of it is God's going to destroy it with a fervent heat. But until then, God is in control. You don't need to be so worried. About the seas going up, rising up out of their bounds, and overrunning all of the land. Because God's in control of that. I can see that one over well. God is in control of that. He is the Almighty God. By this passage of Scripture, beloved, thirty-two times In Genesis chapter number one, you see the name Elohim You read the book of Genesis, chapter number one, and you'll see 32 times his name is given Elohim, God, the mighty one, the strong one, the one who created it all. He is the Almighty. This also teaches us about the fact that He is eternal and the self-existent one. He is eternal. He, nobody created God. God wasn't born. God did not evolve. You say, well, I can't understand that. There's a lot of things that you don't understand. There's a lot of things that I cannot understand or explain. There are many things that we take by faith. And we need to stop looking at the Word of God and God's things and say, oh well, I just can't accept that. There's a lot of stuff that's a whole lot less important that you take by faith. I mean you ate at McDonald's sometime in the last month and you took by faith that that food was prepared right. Nobody did anything to it back there, right? We take a lot by faith. We we we we don't understand or can't explain a lot of things. Can you tell me how can you explain That data and information can be how let's look let's do this. How can I turn this on to camera And take a video of somebody right here, right now, and that video can be turned into numbers and and into data, into an equation, and it can be saved, and I could send it to somebody in India, and he literally could be looking at it within seconds. Can you explain how that happens? But we do it. We don't question it. So we need to stop questioning God. Take God at His Word. This is who he is. He is the mighty God, the self-existence, the eternal God, the one who always was and always will be. This, beloved, is why the first commandment is so important, thou shalt have no other gods before me. There is no other God, but he understood that we as individuals, and of course, the children of Israel coming out of Egypt with all of the other things that the Egyptians had turned into gods, things that they wanted to worship, he's saying, listen, don't put anything else in front of Elohim. He is the mighty one, the creator, the one who could do what nobody else could do. He created it all from nothing. Elohim, the mighty one. We have a habit or want to put things in front of God. We want to establish or make Gods out of things in our life. And we are not supposed to do that. We are to recognize and acknowledge Him as God, Elohim. I would have you see His power, the first part of His name there, literally means power or strength. The L is the mighty one. Secondly, I want you to see his plurality. This name is a plural noun. Now, I do not know Greek or Hebrew, and I'm glad that I do not need to know Greek or Hebrew to know God. You have the Word of God for English-speaking people here in front of you this morning in this book, and we can know him. You don't have to know that. Now some wisdom and insight can be gained by looking in those and I'm glad that my computer has a number of Greek and Hebrew lexicons on them that can give me the definitions. I can't read half of it. But I could tell me what it says in a summary, and it says this about the second half of this name, Elohim, is a plural noun in reference to a singular item. In English, it could be said like this the gods he said. Now that doesn't make a lot of sense when we say it that way because in English that's not how we speak, but if you look at the word Elohim and its original language and understand that it's a plural noun, it would be stated like that, the gods, he So it's in reference to a singular item, but it is a plural noun. Why is that important? Well, beloved, because we believe in the Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. So here from verse number one in the Word of God, from an introduction to Elohim and who he is, He is telling his people and he is telling us that he is a triune God, that he is God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Beloved, the Mormons have it wrong. Joseph Smith said, with regards to this name of God, Elohim, it is plural. Therefore, there are many gods. Now it is a plural noun, but there are not many gods. There is only one God. And he is three persons, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit Now, the Mormons would take that idea of there being many gods and take it one step further, sadly, and they say, they have a saying that uh As we are, God once was. And as God is, we can become. And they teach that we as individuals can become gods. That is not true. There are not many gods, and we will never take on the attributes of God. We will never be as God. But God is three persons. So his plurality and the fact that this word, which is well established and not questioned that this is a plural noun, it is speaking about the fact that he is one in three God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. We see here in Genesis chapter number one that all three were present at creation. Verse number one: In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, and the earth was without form and void, and the darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the spirit Of God moved upon the face of the waters. We see there both Elohim, and it is noteworthy here. That the Spirit is also called Elohim here in verse number two. He says there, and the Spirit of God The spirit of Elohim, same word, the spirit is recognized as Elohim. He is still God And you go to the book of John, and you see that in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God And we know that in the beginning, when that you read the rest of that passage, it talks about all things were created by him and that he was present at at We see that all three parts of the Godhead, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, we're all three there. What we're learning about is who it is that we're calling God We see, look in Genesis chapter 1 and verse number 26. We see in Genesis 1, 26. I told you we're going to do a little bit of Bible study We're going to try and learn some things this morning. And I've got some truth for you at the end that I want you to go home with, but we need to see this. We need to learn this. He says in verse number twenty-six, And God said, What's the next two words? And God said, Let us make man in our image. Okay, we're talking about creation There is nobody else on earth yet. God has created a few things. What is it that God's crowning achievement is mankind? That individual that he would have fellowship with, that he would walk with in the cool of the day, the one he wanted to be with, his crowning achievement. But let me ask you, who is God talking to when he says, let us The Trinity. He is speaking to God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. He's saying, let us, the three of us, we are going to make man in our image. So we see again that Trinity is there. This is why, beloved, when you see in the scriptures Multiple times, especially in the book of Isaiah, where the angel cried and he said, Holy, holy, holy is the God Almighty! It is Elohim. But he says, and he is called the thrice holy God because God the Father is holy. God the Son is holy. God the Holy Spirit is holy. Every part of the Godhead is holy. And I cannot explain exactly how they can all three be one. and yet all three be individuals and all have their own roles and yet they're all one. And how is it that God the Son who came and was made in the likeness of men and was born of a virgin. How did that happen? And yet God the Father was in heaven and yet they're all one. I can't explain all that, but I believe it because God said it. So we see the plurality of this name. We're introduced first to his power. And then we're introduced to who he is in his three persons, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. This is who Elohim is. And lastly, I would like you to see his promises. Again, those that are much smarter than I have dissected the etymology of this word, and etymology is just the orientation or the originality or where a word came from, circuiting out the history of it, and they searched out this word and the there's a a root form of this word that comes from Allah, Ayla. I don't think it's Allah like the Muslim God, but Ayla, it's A-L-A-H, Ayla. The root of that is found in Elohim, and it literally means to swear or to declare. To swear or to declare. And so what we see here at the very beginning, our introduction to who God is, we see that he is a covenant-keeping God. That God makes promises and He keeps His promises. Amen. He says something, and it's going to happen. We don't even get out of Genesis chapter number three, and God has made his first promise in Genesis 3. 15 that he will Give a deliverer to the world that will ultimately win victory over Satan. Oh Satan Disrupted God's plan and Satan threw a monkey wrench into it, but God right away gives the promise that a deliverer was coming God made many covenants and promises through the pages of the Old Testament, and we don't have time to look at all of those this morning. But David understood that God was a covenant-making God. In 1 Kings chapter 8. In verse 22 and 23. And Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the congregation of Israel. And he spread forth his hands towards heaven, and he said, Lord God of Israel, there is no God like thee. In heaven above or in earth beneath, who keepest covenants? And mercy with thy servants that walk before thee with all their heart. He says, There is no God, Solomon here says, There is no God. That is able to keep a covenant like you. Now, aren't you glad we have a covenant keeping God? Have any of you ever made a promise you didn't keep? I think pretty much all of us. And you know, it might not be that you lied. Here's the thing. I mean, you might have full well been, let's say somebody asked you, uh, Keith, are you going to be in church on Sunday? And Keith says, sure, yeah, I'm going to be there. I'll be in church tomorrow. And then on the way to church, a tree falls across the road and wipes out your car. I mean, totals it. And uh, you know, now he ended up getting here, so he he still kept his promise. But here's the thing, what I'm saying is, you know, sometimes there are things in life that are not in your control. You may have had every intention to buy some flowers for your wife on Valentine's Day, but uh on the way to the store you got stopped by a train and then you had a flat tire, you ended up having to walk the last mile and a half and when When you got there, there were no flowers left. Well, I'm saying there's some things that are out of your control. You, here, here's the thing. Listen You have no power to fulfill the promise. But you see, we've already been introduced to Elohim, who is God Almighty. He has the power to fulfill every promise. There is nothing that is not in his control. So he is a covenant keeping God. He's made so many covenants through the pages of Scripture. We know, beloved, I I I love seeing out here You probably won't see one today. There's no sunshine, but you f you you come after a nice summer rain and the sun is shining and you see that rainbow That rainbow in the sky. And I I love it when I when you see it in perspective of the church and and you can see the the steeple in the in the church and God's promise to mankind. That covenant that he gave us in Genesis chapter number nine. And I will remember my covenant. Which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh, and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh, and the bow shall be in the cloud. That rainbow, a promise, a covenant, that God will not ever again destroy the earth by a flood. He made a covenant with Abraham. He made covenants with Israel. He made covenants with David. That the Messiah would come through his family. And we're digging into New Testament and I We didn't get that far this morning, but the great announcement, and we'll get there next week, but the great announcement is the coming Messiah. That God kept his covenant. And although Satan over and over and over again tried to disrupt it, and we saw that as we walked through the pages of the Old Testament, how Satan tried to find a way to throw a monkey wrench and to stop God's plan. But there is nothing outside of God's control. He is Elohim, the great and mighty God, and He can and will fulfill every promise that He has made. Beloved, his desire through these covenants and promises is that he might have a relationship with you and I. He enjoys and wants to know you, and he wants you to know him. God is not hiding from you. He is not disguising himself and he is not making himself difficult for you to know. He desires to know you and wants you to know him. As I bring this to a conclusion this morning, we've been introduced to Elohim. Who is the mighty God, the God of all power, who is presented to us in his plural form where we know that he is God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit And that because he has power to do so, he will keep every promise he's ever made. Here's the thing this morning, beloved. The church loves to recognize and acknowledge and to know Jehovah Jireh, the God who will provide. We like to know him, and we love to quote verses like Philippians 4:19: My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. Amen, the church says. But, beloved, until you and I acknowledge him as Elohim, until we see him as Elohim in our lives, as the Almighty God. The creator, the one in control. Until we recognize that God, we will not know the God of Jehovah Jireh That is the message. And we are introduced to him in the first pages of our Bible and told who he is, and told to acknowledge and recognize him as God. The psalmist in Psalms 44 and verse number 4 says, Thou art my king, O God. Elohim. Is he your king? Is he your God? Is he Elohim in your life? Have you come to the place where you recognize and acknowledge his authority, his Godhead in your life? Would you turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter number one? I'm going to conclude with this and just give you one little word of warning as we bring this to a conclusion. I want you to see how important this is that we see and acknowledge him as Elohim. In our lives. In Romans chapter 1, beginning down in verse number 20, the word of God says, For the invisible things of Him, from the creation of the world. are clearly seen. You understand, beloved, we've just walked through introduction to Elohim in the creation. God by his plan and design has made his Person knowable through creation. We can see it. The invisible things of God are clearly seen. You look at this world and you cannot help but know there's a God. I drive into New York yesterday You know, you guys have seen this, but as I was going north, it's getting colder and colder. I'm seeing the temperature drop. I'm driving further north. And then I'm starting to drive through some of the hills up there in PA, and you have where they cut through the mountain? And then the the the water that's seeping out the side of the mountain, but because it's cold it is frozen and there's these huge Ice falls down the side of the mountain there or the, you know, just along the side of the road and the sun was shining on it and it was so beautiful Now I'm just driving through that and just seeing the hillsides and all of this, even in the middle of winter when everything's dead, and I'm like, man, this is so beautiful. You think about the beauty of this creation and all that God created, you cannot help but behold him. He says that this world uh it is clearly seen being understood by the things that are made even his eternal power and godhead so that they are without excuse Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. became vain and their imaginations and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. We see in verse number 24, wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanliness But I'm saying, beloved, as Paul gives us a warning here in the book of Romans, that when we fail to recognize him as Elohim, It's a big failure. God is not pleased. And ultimately, those that do not recognize Him as God, God says to you, give them up. They don't want to acknowledge him as God. They don't want to see him as ruler, as the Almighty in their life. And so we, as God's people, must see him as Elohim. So that we can see him as the other the God that is presented to us in the other names that we're going to get into, even Jehovah Jaire, who is God, will provide. But we got to start here. As Elohim. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?