Um we're going to we had just an amazing weekend uh you know twenty-four hours or so at the Marriage Matters Conference. Uh what a wonderful time. And a privilege to minister to so many people. We ended up with a hundred and three couples that were at the conference, and uh we are quite literally gonna have to shut the doors next year. Um uh there was at least four churches that were present. We had seventeen churches represented at the conference, uh and there were four that were present. that said that they were they came with just a couple of people to try it out this year and their plan next year was to come with a group, a larger group. Uh but we were already at capacity and I let 'em know well next year it's gonna be first come, first serve Because the facility that we're in really we were kind of maxed out this year on the capacity. We really couldn't fit more than maybe a hundred and ten couples or so uh would kinda really be the limit. Uh we'll have to meet with the resort and see what what their recommendations are. But uh that's kinda where we're at. Uh but it's just really uh God blessed in a great way. It was a wonderful, wonderful time. Uh we do the Marriage Matters Conference every year and listen, it's not a matter of uh, you know, go to that. If your marriage is in trouble and you need a lot of help, uh then that's for you. No, the marriage Matters conference is for everybody. It's it's basically a weekend away, time with your wife, time to fellowship and uh be with around other believers and I know there's a lot to it. You especially if you have kids, you gotta find somebody to watch the kids and uh maybe take off work on Friday or different things. I know there's a a lot to it, not everybody can make it, but I would encourage you especially as we're the church host unit, uh that if you're available and would like to be a part, plan next year, you know, just make arrangements and plan to to come and participate. It's always the first weekend in February. And uh, you know, that uh we're already locked in for next year and so looking forward to that. But for those of you that don't go, uh it's Marriage Matters Conference. Our first year the theme and idea behind that title was that uh listen, marriage matters. It matters. And uh really with that kind of emphasis. But then the other side of that coin is the matters of marriage. That there are aspects of marriage that we need to learn about, that we need to grow in, that we need to understand. And so at the conference we deal with the matters of marriage. And for those of you that'd never been, I thought this morning we would just throw you throughout the conference. Uh this time I think we watch four or five of these little things and we just kind of throw in these little matters of marriage there in between between songs or in between announcements, different things that we're doing. And uh so we're gonna show you one this morning, just a quick uh video that we show at the conference to give you a little bit of insight, small picture of what it's like. Uh so let's watch that. This is the tree of life here at Red Valley Baptist Church. All the kids who were born while they were in the nurseries here had their names put on the tree of life. And it seems like just yesterday that we added the name for my son Caleb. who is now 17 years old. I mean it's amazing how quickly they go from laying in here and playing with something like this to playing with something like this. If you're not careful You'll miss the little moments. Those little moments that at the time seemed meaningless Really are of utmost importance. Could I encourage you to pause and embrace them? Thank God for them. Take the time to cherish them. Those truly candid moments of joy on your child's face. Boy, one day you won't even realize it until it happens. But you're gonna catch your son for the last time. You're gonna set your daughter down for the last time. I know the days feel long, the schedules are full, and the noise seems like it will never stop. Boy, do the years pass so fast Well we're so busy living life. Those little most important moments. They pass us by. They aren't gonna announce themselves as important. They're just gonna come and go. And then one day, when you're sitting alone, you reflect on how valuable they really were. Each moment is a precious piece of your child's life shaping his heart and mind, making who he is as a person. Deuteronomy 6, 6 and 7 tells us the lessons learned Are learned in the little moments. Yes, you can seize those moments to teach, as the Word of God tells us to do so But could I encourage you also to seize them to treasure? Her sticky hands on yours, the uncontrolled laughter from the back seat. The request to read that same old story one more time. Enjoy those moments of contentment. The opportunities for pride. Because our kids are growing. They grow out of the shoes and out of the clothes and from one grade to the next. That dependence on you is somehow replaced. With a fierce independence. And if you raise them right, they're gonna fly off to go do God's will. For their life. You'll finally have a clean house, but it will be entirely too quiet. That is why today's little moments are tomorrow's lasting treasures. If you'll slow down long enough, Just to notice, I think you'll discover that love is often hidden in the little moment. Laugh a little louder, linger a little longer, listen a little closer. These days aren't going to last forever. But how you live them will. Friends, childhood is not measured in years But in moments. Those little moments, one at a time, that make up his life. Please seize the moment and build a memory that you and your child will cherish forever. So that's just a little picture of the little tidbits that are thrown out as part of the conference. Just little thought-provoking things to try and inspire and encourage you in this journey. Uh I thought it was fitting this morning to share that because this morning I'm going to speak to you for a few minutes and I'll try to go quickly here although we do have a lot of ground to cover, but I want to speak to you for a few minutes on the foundation. of the family, the foundation of the family. To start to embark upon and have a family, beloved, really is a lifelong commitment between three people. Some people might be shocked by that. They're like, wait a minute, I I thought it was a commitment between husband and wife. Yeah, but you forgot the most important person. It's a commitment between a husband and wife and God. It is a lifelong commitment that's rooted in that personal commitment that we make to one another. and to our Heavenly Father. So I want to speak to you on the foundation of the family this morning. You can turn to Genesis chapter number two where we see that the family is formed by God. The family is formed by God. God says in Genesis chapter 2, verse number 18, and the Lord God said, It's not good that man should be alone. I will make a help meet for him. Beloved, the idea, the pattern of family was started by God. the idea that there was not some caveman walking out of his cave and Ug, you know, sees some l lady sitting by the fire and he he looks at her and he thinks, whoa Why don't we make a lifelong commitment to one another and promise to be true only to one another for all of our days so long as we both shall live? They said, Well, that's a good idea. Let's do that. And and then they determined to do that and somebody else saw it and said, Boy, that's a good idea. They did that. Why don't we do that? Listen, the family did not start that way The family was not a construct of man. It was not something that people came up with and thought, boy, this would be nice. Can I tell you that the family, beloved, was formed by God, the Creator. He looked down at the creation. And he saw man, and he said, Is not good that man should be alone. Look at verse number twenty-three. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother and shall cleave unto his wife They shall be one flesh. Now, but I hope that you believe the Word of God. I hope we don't have to maybe teach a lesson on that. Do you believe the Word of God this morning? That God created the world? And God created man? Okay, if if you believe that then you go back to this and you say, wait a minute, Adam and Eve didn't have a mother and father. Yet here we are in the book of Genesis, when God made Eve for Adam. You see, God established the family here and explained right from day one, even for Adam and Eve, who didn't have a mother and father, but for all of us who would come after He says, wait a minute, look what's going to happen. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh, and they were both naked, the man and his wife, and they were not ashamed. Beloved, this is why the biblical definition is so important. You've all heard it said it wasn't Adam and Steve, it was Adam and Eve. This is not a political statement. This is not something that I know it's been to learn turned political today and it's a big deal in society, but I want you to understand this is why it's so important because God established the family And it was of one man and one woman for one life. That is God's design and God's desire that any one of us, once we make that lifelong commitment, we are committed for all of our days that that there is no option. for us to be separated or removed from this thing. We're going to find a way to work to work it out. Amen. Listen, I. Those of you in here, and there are a number of you that have gone through the pain of divorce and you've lived through that nightmare and and and all of that, and you would be the first to say, listen, nobody should have to go through that Nobody should have to endure that. And we don't want to wish that on anybody we would encourage anybody from day one to follow God's design and God's pattern because God's way works. Amen? Amen. That's that's the way it's supposed to be. God designed this. And if we're gonna have happy homes, if we're gonna have homes that are Christian Holmes, I want you to understand that it's necessary, it's foundational, we're talking about the foundation of the family, it's foundational that it be consistent of, or it consists of Saved family members. That is people who have come to the knowledge of the fact that they are sinners. Beloved, the problem of sin is universal. We're all sinners Oh, every man, wherefore as by one man sinned into the world, when Adam and Eve sinned, they cast the entire human race into sin. We're all born sinners. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Right? So we're all sinners. The problem of sin is universal. The punishment for sin is undesirable. The punishment for sin, according to the word of God, is that uh you could try and pay for it yourself by spending an eternity in a place called hell That's what the punishment for sin is, and beloved, th we understand that there must be punishment for sin. If you went out here and shot somebody There has to be law. There has to be order. When you transgress the law, there has to be a penalty. You wouldn't look at a judge and say, well, this judge is really kind. He's really nice. He loves people, so he's just going to let you off. Well, no, people would look at that judge and say, get him out of there. We need somebody standing on that seat that's going to judge based on the law. And God is a just God. Amen. He holds up the law. The law was transgressed. There's a penalty for sin. The penalty for sin is that men stood in eternity in a place called hell to pay for their sin. But God loved us, and God loved us so much that He sent His Son, for God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Yes, God loves us, and He doesn't want you to go to hell, and so God provided a payment for your sin, and that payment is available to all. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Forgiveness for your sin and payment for your sin was covered by Jesus Christ, his shed blood on an old rugged cross and all you have to do is come to the understanding that you know that you were a sinner and that you need a savior. And can I tell you it's not just about a home in the in heaven. The fact of the matter is the Bible tells us that you were dead in your trespasses and sin. Men are dead spiritually until the Bible describes being born again, until we're born and given spiritual life. Now I hope every one of you here this morning know beyond a shadow of a doubt that your sins are forgiven, that you have been born again, you've been given a new life in Jesus Christ. Amen. You I hope you have a new life in Christ and that there's not a question in your heart. It's something you should know. As much as I know that I'm standing on a wood deck this morning I know that if I died right now, I would wake up in the presence of God, not because of anything that I've done, because I'm just a wretched old sinner, a pile of dirt, but I've been forgiven by a God who is perfect, who sent his son who died for me and I accepted that payment. Amen? That's available to us all. And if we're going to have the right kind of family, it starts by having saved family members. Every single one of you that have parents and you've got kids that are born in your home, one of the most precious things in life is as they begin to get to the knowledge of of good and evil and they understand that they've sinned and that they've done wrong. You want the Holy Spirit to touch their heart and realize that they're a sinner and that they would trust Jesus Christ as their Savior. You want them in heaven. Amen. Yeah, we want them in heaven. We want them to ha know Jesus as their Lord and Savior. And uh beloved, that happens when we keep them around the Word of God and in the presence of God. The promise of of of of Salvation is available to all. Now you can reject salvation and spend an eternity in hell. Do you know what else you can do? You can neglect salvation. You can know about it. There's a lot of people, especially in America, because America is founded on Christian principles, and we have Easter, and and I mean who doesn't know about Easter? And it's more than the Easter, bunny beloved Uh it's the fact that Jesus rose from the dead. And we celebrate Easter, and people know that. We celebrate Christmas. That's Jesus' first. And there's a people that know a lot about God. But they neglect so great a salvation. You can neglect it and still you might even know about it, but if you've neglected it, if you've never gone and taken the penal the the payment for your sin, applied it to your own life, then you are on your way to a devil's hell today, and that's not good news, but the good news is you don't have to stay that way. You can accept the payment. It's free. All you got to do is apply it to yourself. Go get the gift that God has given to us all. He's held it out for us. He's offered it freely. But God committed his love toward us and that while we are sinners, Christ died for us. Can you tell we got a long way to go today? I'm trying to go quick. I'm trying to we've got a lot to cover. But this is just foundational. If we're going to have a right family, we've got to know that our sins are forgiven. And I hope that everybody here knows that and that there's no question in your heart and mind. that Jesus has forgiven you, you can accept the salvation, have your sins forgiven, and go to heaven. Don't reject it today. Don't neglect it today. Accept it, please, would you, if you've never done so. That's just foundational. But you know, beloved, how many of you believe or understand that just because I'm saved and I'm on my way to heaven, because I've been forgiven of the fact that I'm a wretched old sinner How many of you know that doesn't mean I'm going to be a good husband? That doesn't necessarily mean that I'm going to be a good father. I mean it's foundational, it's necessary, but there's also some other aspects that are necessary. The Bible talks about the idea of sanctification. You talk to me, what is sanctification? There might be some different definitions, but you guys tell me what's sanctification? Being set apart Any other ideas? Growing. It's a process of growth. Any other ideas? Be more Christ-like Being conformed into the image of God's Son is how I like to say it. It's a process by we're saved by grace, but we're still sinners. Boy, wouldn't it be nice if once you got saved that sin nature was gone? Oh, that would be exciting. That would be fun. If you didn't have to battle with this old flesh anymore and you didn't you wouldn't do any more sin, man, that would be awesome But the fact of the matter is, is God didn't want robots. He wanted people that were, the love of Christ constrained us. He wanted people that are motivated by love to follow Jesus. and to follow him. So it is the love of Christ that motivates me to say, you know what, I want to be conformed into the image of God's Son. So we have this process of sanctification in our lives. where we are solely conformed to the image of God's Son, and that brings about change in our lives. Where we do what God wants us to do because it's right to do. We don't even have the capacity to do that until we're saved. But as a child of God, we are able to be conformed into the image of God, and therefore we slowly, hopefully, become better fathers. Better mothers, better husbands, better wives, and better children. And listen, I want you to know every single person in here is part of a family. So although we're going to talk about husbands and wives or or we're going to talk about children or whatever, this is for everybody here. God the foundation of the family was formed by God A successful family is only had by people who are saved and know and know that their sins are forgiven, and they allow the process of sanctification to take place. In 1 Corinthians 6, verse number 11, he says And such were some of you. You know that passage of scripture, he's talking about adulterers and fornicators and and thieves and robbers. Uh he he goes through a whole list of of wicked activities and he says, And such were some of you. Are you guys familiar with that verse? Okay, that's what he says. And then he says this, he says, uh, but ye are washed. Have you been washed? That's what salvation is. You are washed. You've been forgiven. Your sins are forgiven. He says he would wash away your sin, make you as white as snow. I hope you've been washed. And then the verse goes on. He says, But ye are sanctified. Now that doesn't necessarily mean sanconious. We don't need more santimonious people. Look at me. Yes, I am a good dad, I'm the best father, I oh I I'm a good uh husband, you know, whatever. No, we don't need sanctimodious people, we need sanctified people. That is people who have in their heart, through the grace of God and the strength of God, are being conformed into the image of God's Son. And doing what God wants them to be, and they slowly are becoming more like Christ, and therefore they have a happy home because of it. Would you admit this morning that you're not perfect? Whether you're a husband, a a father, a child, uh you know, uh husband, wife, whatever situation there, uh every one of us are sinners. We don't get it all right all the time. There are some times I get it wrong, just ask my wife. No, I'm just kidding. Don't ask her. There are some times that she gets it wrong. There are some times because why? Because we're not perfect. Let's just get down where the rubber meets the road. Let's face reality this morning. The fact of the matter is, is we need God to do something in our heart to make us what we can be through the power of God to be the kind of husband that our wife needs, the kind of uh wife that our husband needs, the kind of child that our parent needs, these are important things. And so, beloved, the fact of the matter is, is we have a duty, if the process of sanctification is going to take place, we have a duty to know God's will. To know what God wants. If I'm going to try and live in light of God's laws and how God wants me to live, then I must know what God's Word says. Does that make sense? I'm not gonna live it if I don't know what it is. How many of you ladies have ever, uh listen, I don't know I'm going to get myself in trouble. I'm not sure which way to make this application go. How many of you, I'm not going to put it one way or the other, you communicated to somebody or you thought you communicated Uh but what what they got out of it was completely different. And then later they come back and said, Well, what you said was this, and they said, That's not what you said. At least what I what how I took it, or what I thought you meant. Right? There's something in the communication there that got off. You know, see w we if we're gonna know what God's will is, we must be listening. We must be Desirous to know. 2 Peter 3. 18 says, but grow in grace in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We are to grow in grace. How are you going to do that? Beloved, your walk with God is of utmost importance. If you're going to be the kind of father you should be, the kind of husband you should be, the kind of grandfather you should be, you need to be having a walk with God. You need to know what God's will is if you're going to be that right. If you're going to have the right kind of you're going to be the right mom, if you're going to be the right grandma, if you're going to be the right son or the right daug You need to know what the will of God is, you need to have a walk with God You need to be reading the Word of God. You need to be in prayer each and every day and and asking God to teach you the Word of God. The Bible says the Holy Spirit guides us unto all truth, and as you get into the Word of God, you may look at it and say, that doesn't make a lot of sense to me, but can I tell you there is there's blessings and there's benefits as you get into the Word of God and you've got to start somewhere. When you began learning math, it was very it was one plus one and you didn't know what it was. But the longer you studied it, the the better you got at it, and that's every field of study you've ever been in. Listen, it's the same thing spiritually. Some people, man, I read the Bible and none of it makes sense. Well you've got to start somewhere. If you don't have a habit of reading the Word of God, start in the Gospels, start in the book of John Uh hopefully I don't fall off the steps. And begin begin reading there and start getting some knowledge and the more knowledge you get you'll be able to connect some pieces. And hey, be part of the discipleship. That's some systematic, slow learning at your pace where you can grow in the knowledge of the Lord. Amen? That's what we need to do. You need to have We have a duty to know his will, but we have we have we should have a desire to do his will. Beloved, can I tell you The Bible says in Romans chapter 12, verse number 2, and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Listen, knowledge that does not transform is useless. Do you know that Alaska is the only state in which all the letters can be found on one row on a keyboard? That is a useless fact. That did you absolutely no good. And what I'm saying is you can memorize whatever verse you want to memorize, you can listen to how many ever sermons you want to listen to. you can get whatever kind of knowledge you want to get, but if it's just knowledge for knowledge's sake, it's useless. Knowledge of God is supposed to transform your activity. And beloved, if it doesn't change the way that you're treating your wife, then it's done you no good. When you hear the Word of God preached, the Bible says to love your wife as Christ loved the church, and that to love their wife as you love yourself, if you're not doing that, the knowledge that you have that you know you're supposed to is useless. It's wasted. It's not changing what you're doing. Beloved, knowledge should transform your activity. And as we grow in our knowledge and our understanding of God, are you guys doing okay? As you grow in your knowledge and understanding of God, it should change what we do Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. That's why, beloved, not only is your your walk with God important, but your worship for God is important. The church that you attend is vital. We've got some guests here this morning. We're honored and thrilled to have you. And I pray that the Word of God does something in your heart. But listen, wherever you decide to go to church and grow spiritually, you need to be at a place where the Word of God is preached. And it's preached in a practical way that is not just knowledge that you learn about God. but it transforms our lives and the activity and the way we behave at home and how we talk to listen if you're still losing your temper at home then the knowledge that God says make no friends with an angry man has not transformed your life and we need to get on our knees and ask God to allow that knowledge to be made a reality in our life. Amen? It ought to transform how we're living. Your walk is of vital importance. We need to know his will, but we need to do his will. We're not to be hearers only, but to be doers of the word of God. It's gotta transform our activity. And if you want to have a happy home, it's not gonna happen because you have a desire to have a happy home. Listen, it's not going to happen just because uh y you think that you have a match made in heaven and that you've met your soulmate and things are gonna the fact of the matter is is we're all sinners and there's sometimes we do things that are stupid We do things that are that are not right and we respond incorrectly and we misread a situation and and boy we need the grace and the goodness of God to help us to repair that so that our relationship can be strong. So we can have a right kind of home. Now I'm still on the introduction. I'm gonna have to just shut her down because we've got a long ways to go. We need to do his will. Beloved, I want you to know that Satan is going to do all he can to stand in the way of you fulfilling God's will for your life. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary of the devil, I want you to understand, husband, I want you to understand, wife, and children That the enemy is not mom and dad, the enemy is not your husband, the enemy is not your wife, that's not where the problem lies. The problem lies is we have an enemy, Satan who has gotten into your wife's ear or into your husband's mouth or he's gotten into your children's heart. I know he's gotten in some of those kids. I'll tell you that right now. He's got them kids and you're like, what in the world did you do? The Bible says foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. And I'll tell you what, sometimes you look at a kid and you're thinking, What in the world are you doing? Why would you do that? Just dumb and I could so many illustrations come to mind right now, but we don't have time. You guys know the fact of the matter is kids do some dumb things and y sometimes you might must be Satan got in them because boy they why would they do that? And that's a fact. We've got an enemy And he's going to do all he can. You understand he's going to hinder that. And we need to remember he's the enemy, and we've got to guard our homes and we've got to guard our hearts so that we can have the kind of home that God wants us to have Satan's going to do it. You know, you have the three ways in which he attacks us with the lust of the flesh. That is an overwhelming desire to do something. The lust of the flesh. This old flesh wants to do something. You have the lust of the eyes. That is the overwhelming desire to have something. This aspect of covetousness and we're living in a society today where these eyes are drawn and pulled in so many directions. The desire to have something and the pride of life, which is the overwhelming desire to be something. Boy, isn't that a motivator that Satan uses in young people's hearts today? the overwhelming desire to be something and and they make a lot of decisions for their life based on that, the pride of life, instead of basing it on God's will. So we're talking about this process of sanctification where we become the kind of father, the kind of mother, the kind of child that God needs us to be. But I want you to understand that the family functions in God's authority. You see, beloved, every family has a source from which they draw or establish their core values What they're going to do, how they're going to live, what they're going to practice as a family. When Mary and I got married, I was still in ca in college. I had two years to finish college. We were young. We were starting our own home. We could do what we wanted to do. As long it cost less than five bucks. We could go where we wanted to go. I mean we had freedom, but you know what? We decided right at the building in the beginning, we decided we wanted to have a happy home. How many of you did the same? Didn't every everybody that was ever married decided they wanted to have a happy home. I don't think anybody ever got married and said, Boy, I'm looking forward to the day that I'm miserable. I just can't wait till I have just existing. Tell we're just living together I mean just looking forward to that when I don't have to talk anymore. You know, no. They want to have a happy home But you know what? We understood something because by God's grace we grew up in a Christian home and we understood that if we wanted to have a happy home we need to have a God-centered home. And so we decided right at the beginning, beloved, that God was going to be the center of our home. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. And so we determined right from the beginning that we were going to be in God's house. As a family, we decided from day one we were going to attend God's house, we were going to be there faithfully, and we attend God's house every Sunday morning, every Sunday night. And this is before I was a pastor, a long time before I was a pastor. We went every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, and every Wednesday night, every week of my life. Any opportunity to be fed by the Word of God to learn the w to learn the will of God, I wanted it. I wanted a God-honoring, Christ-centered hope. So we decided to do that. We also decided that from day one we were going to have family altar And every day there was going to be a time where we stop, we pause, we open the Word of God, we read this together, we point our hearts towards heaven and spend a few minutes in prayer. prayer together and ask God to be the the director and to help me stop being such an idiot. I've heard her pray that many no I'm just kidding By the way, don't use your prayer time to attack your mate. Lord help him to stop being so dumb. Help him to stop making so many wrong decisions. No. Pray in with a with a true and honest heart that God would do a work, because God can. But don't use your prayer time to attack one another. Well we decided we were going to do that, and from day one we we had a a time of devotion every day, and it doesn't I'm not going to teach on this, but it doesn't have to be you know, an hour-long Bible study. I mean just take a few minutes, turn your heart towards heaven and pray together, read a verse or two, and and just pause for a minute, acknowledge God every day, and we've done that every day since we've been married. I I mean I can count on one hand probably the days that we've missed in in the entirety of our life uh due to the fact that we were driving through the night or or something like that. Who knows what type of situation we're traveling overseas and we missed the day because uh you know you're traveling and and you cross the date line and then now that day's gone. So there's some of those days like that we've missed, but by God's grace we've purposed in our heart to have a Christ-centered home, and we did so from the very beginning. I want you to understand that that is where we determined to have a Christ-centered home. You know some people where they get their foundation for their family, they get it from culture. Most people they tend to go to the culture they know. That is they they they they tend to establish their family off of whatever they grew up However they grew up, whatever their family was like growing up. Maybe if they grew up in a very permissive family where everybody got to do what they want, that's kind of the family they have. Everybody gets to do whatever they want. You know, it's not necessarily the right thing to just do however you grew up. Maybe, you know, you grew up in a home where your father was verbally abusive. That's not right. And you as a father are going to have to guard against that because I want you to know that it's very likely you will resort to the same methods. Why? Because that's the culture you know. You'll you'll tend to do that. You gotta guard against that. Some go to the culture they see. You know, this world tries to influence uh us You have your social influencers, you have modern TV programs, especially the programs that are uh quasi based off of family relationships. And they're they're crude and they are rude to one another and they undermine the authority of the father and they the the the kids are living their own life and the the the the whole concept there all of that is undermining what this book says the family should be. And people look at that and they think, man, my family's pretty good compared to that. But that's not the standard, beloved. This is the standard. Not w don't go to the culture you know, don't go to the culture we see. Some go to the culture that they like. You know the in the book of Judges the Bible says every man did that which is right in his own eyes. And they're gonna take and grab whatever it is they like. But what we should be doing is we should be going to our Creator. You see, he's the one that started it. He's the one that established the family and said, okay, this is how it's gonna work Does anybody in here have a what? Uh a supercar? You gotta really nice well let's just go Maybe exotic car. Maybe not a supercar. You got an exotic car? Like a Ferrari or something like that. Come on, Bob, you got a Bentley at home? You got something, you know, so all of us got the cheap cars, right? We're driving the cheap ones. Of course nothing's cheap anymore. It's ridiculous that you can't even get a cheap car anymore. But um here's the thing. When you have those exotic cars you have in a car like that that's uh It's you have to take it to a specialty mechanic. I mean it's crazy how much it costs to get the oil changed on your Ferrari. I don't remember what car it was, a Ferrari or a Bentley. They said they have sixteen different oil plugs that they have to remove to get all of the oil out of the engine. They can It's not like a Chevy where you pull the plug out of the bottom and it runs out. Sometimes it runs out even though you don't pull the plug out of the bottom. That's what my Chevy does. When there's something so m majestically made, you've got to take it to a specialist and beloved the creator The one that made it and they know how to work on it. Well our creator made the family, and can I tell you that the famil God knows how the family is supposed to run? And we need to line up with his plan. Do it his way. This would fix a lot of the problems. That people are having, would you go to the Creator? If we're gonna go to the Creator, you've got to learn to live by His principles. I don't have time to preach this this morning. The principle, beloved, is direction that is given that should be followed. It's not a precept. We're going to get to precepts in a minute. A precept is a command that has to be followed. But there are some principles, there's some guiding principles for our home. Would you look back at our text in the book of Genesis, chapter number uh two and verse number twenty-four? There are four principles for our homes that are given right here, and I don't Each one of these could be a message in and of themselves. I'm just going to touch on it. I don't have much time this morning, but I want you to know that we see here, therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother Mother, there is a principle there for the family, for the home, that's a principle of priority. You see, Theodore Probably the newest baby in our congregation. Am I right? It's Theodore the the Ur probably the youngest. How old is Theodore? Ten weeks? Okay, let me ask you, who is the most important people in Theodore's life? Mom and Dad. That is the most important The highest priority relationship that they have is mom and dad. Now listen, can I tell you something? That I believe biblically that relationship stays the same in st until You start your own family. That prior whether you are two ten weeks, two, twenty or thirty, I believe that the highest priority relationship in your life is mother and father until you start your own home. That relationship should be the highest priority relationship that you have. And and the problem with a lot of young people is they think because of society basis and all this that well I've reached 18 I can do what I want. Yes you can, but the highest priority relationship should still be mom and dad. I believe that's the biblical example we've given here with regards to the family and he says here that's the principle that should be followed. You see you don't see a command here, but the priority on the relationship is there until when? A man shall leave his father and his mother. So the time comes when you begin and establish your own family that you leave mother and father no longer is that the highest priority But beloved, the relationship that you have with your mate now, you're establishing your own family, that becomes the highest priority relationship. You now have your own family. Now I could keep chasing a bunch of trails here, but you know Our guests and some of you might not know that this is my daughter right down here. Her name's Alicia. And uh her husband is sitting right next to her. They've been married just over a year, right? Two years? Yeah. Yeah, time time flies. When you get old you can't track time. So uh they've been married a couple years. Well Understand beloved, let's say I wanted to have a family dinner. And I said, listen, we're gonna have a family dinner, everybody's gotta be there. You understand biblically, she no longer has a responsibility to be there. I cannot tell her we're having a family dinner, you need to be there. Because they have their own family. Now they are a family. He has to be responsible for what they do. Now I can open the door and say, hey, we're gonna have some Korean ribs if you guys want to come. Hallelujah. You're welcome. And if they want to join up, they can. But listen, some of you grandparents, you need to be careful because you're meddling in things that aren't your business. They've got their own family. Biblically you see the priority has changed. Now they are living their life and you need to butt out. Let them live their life. You have an open door policy. You let them know you're there. You're going to help when you can. Your door is open. They can come over for supper, you would love to have them whenever, but that you understand that they have their own family and now they have to establish their own patterns. They have to build their own life. The priority has changed. I want you to see the second principle here, and they shall cleave unto his wife. The second principle is the principle of pursuit. That word cleave there literally means, according to Strong's, and I'm not a Greek scholar. I just looked it up and the book says this is what it means. It means to attain by pursuit. So there's a law of pursuit there. I want you to tell you what, if you want to have a happy home, there's a principle of pursuit that must be maintained in your life. You see, the problem with men is we are pursuers. And once we've caught it, the race is over. We won. I got a ring on it. I don't have to worry. I don't have to pursue her anymore. I don't have to try and win her heart anymore. I don't have to try and do this anymore. But listen, if you want to have a happy home, there's a principle of pursuit. It doesn't matter if you're young like me I'm young. Just ask Bob and Carol. Just ask uh Mary Ellen if I'm young. Yeah, so it just it's all perspective, right? Right. But it doesn't matter if if you're twenty and been married two years. Or fifty and been married thirty years. Who's been married the longest in here? Let's say you've been married fifty years, Brother Merle, how many years you guys? Fifty-four. You know, even at fifty-four years there should still be a pursuit. He should still be letting her know I'm coming for you. I want to be with you. I love our time together. This would fix a lot of the relationships if your wife felt pursued. The problem is his husband stopped pursuing and the guy at work is pursuing. And that opens the door for for adultery. Right. Because the the husband's not paying her any attention because he's already won, right? Yeah. But if he was still pursuing, she wouldn't have a need to try and get that affection from somewhere else. Right. I mean she wasn't planning to sleep with some other guy. It's not what she wanted. She just liked it that some other guy cared about her Because somebody was showing her attention. And what I'm saying, if we had the if we followed the principle given there, the principle of pursuit, if we were still pursuing, they would feel that satisfaction and that love and they wouldn't be at all interested in the guy at work. We see the fourth one, uh the third one here. I I need to keep moving, but uh the verse goes on. What is what is the next phrase? Oh, and they shall be one flesh. So this is the law of partnership, the principle of partnership. You are now one flesh. Boy, people get this all out of whack today. I want you to know you don't have his and her relationships. I'm you don't have those for sure, hallelujah. I'm talking about bank accounts, his and her bank accounts. You don't you don't have his and her bank, it's all you're one flesh. What her what's hers is mine and what's mine is hers. We are one flesh. I don't have a car that I say that's my car, you ain't touching it. No She has every right to anything that I own, just as much as I I have a right to anything she owns. You understand, beloved, that according to the Word of God, this body, this body, I know that it doesn't belong to me because I've been bought with a price Uh that it belongs to God. I understand that, but you know also it doesn't belong to me, it belongs to her. And her body doesn't belong to her, it belongs to me. Oh boy, ladies don't like that today. What But do we want to know the will of God? This is what God says: that her body belongs to me. My body belongs to her. If you want to have a Christ-centered home, if you want to have a God-blessed home, you're going to learn the will of God, and then you're going to do the will of God. Your partners. And the last one is the principle of purity, and it would take me a long time to fully develop this, but you see this in Verse number twenty-five, and they both were naked, the man and his wife, and they were not ashamed. And there's a lot there with regards to that principle of purity, but here's what I want you to get at the idea is they were not ashamed. What let me just tell you, I was gonna ask you, but you are most vulnerable when you're undressed. You are most vulnerable. Everything is exposed and you are in a place that is so vulnerable. But can I tell you that as a husband and wife, you should be comfortable with one another in your most vulnerable state That idea of pure they were together and they were unashamed, that there was nothing there that that he had to feel like he had to protect or she had to protect. They were open with one another. They were vulnerable with one another. Can I tell you there's times in my life that I have literally like a child put my head down in the in the lap of my wife and wept like a baby. It was comforted by her. It's a state of vulnerability that I'm almost embarrassed or ashamed to admit. But before her that didn't bother me at all. Because of what I was going through and I could I could be with her that way. I was open that way. Why? Because I trust her completely. And she's the same way with me. That's something. Husbands and wife got to get to the place where they can be completely open with one another completely everything exposed and nothing ashamed about. You're together and you know that your love is going to overcome your weaknesses. We're gonna live by the principles of God if we want to have this kind of a happy home. We've got to learn to live his principles. We must learn to obey his precepts. There's some clear-cut commands that aren't questions. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy mother and father. Children, there's no way around that. That's what the Bible says. Husbands, love your wives. Wives submit to your husbands. These are principles that are found in the Word of God that there are commands that are found. It's not up for debate. It's not what does this mean? How do we figure that out? No, it's clear. We want to obey his commands, and beloved, if we're doing so. We can learn to rely on His promises. The Word of God is full of promises that you can have a successful, happy home if we do it God's way. I'm gonna I'm gonna I got one more c one more point. The the the home flourishes under God's blessing. I'm gonna give you the verse, but then we're gonna close it down. Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain to build it. Only under God's blessing will your home truly be happy, and we're only gonna have God's blessing if we're doing it God's way. Does it make sense? I think it's Matthew chapter twenty-four and verse number seven where you see the wise builder. You have the story there. It's not twenty-four. What's what chapter? Matthew, where where's the wise and foolish builder? Is it Matthew twenty-four? Matthew seven. Huh? Matthew seven? Somebody look it up, find it for me. I I know it's verse number seven, but I'm not positive on the reference. 724. Okay. I was right. So 724. The wise master builder. Yeah, the wise man built his house upon a rock. You guys remember that story? And the foolish man built his house upon the stand. You understand, beloved? Everybody had the same knowledge. Everybody heard all the same principles. The wise and the foolish builder, they knew what to do. But the foolish builder said, oh, this is easier. This is what I think. This is how I want to do it. Oh society's different today. I'm gonna do it like this. The foolish man built his house upon sand, whatever that sand is, his own ideas, culture ideas, uh principles that he wanted, he built his house upon But the wise builder built his house upon the rock. The rock is Jesus Christ. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood My mind just went blank. What's the next phrase? This way, this frame. It's gotta be on Jesus. That rock and what he says if you want to have a happy home. Let God do that for you. Satan is doing all he can to destroy our homes. And a church is only as strong as its weakest family. And a society is only as strong as a weakest as the weakest uh member, the weakest person in society, listen, we need to have strong families. And that's only gonna happen if we're following God's pattern. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? The pianist is going to play. We want to have a moment of invitation. Invite you to come and listen, if God spoke your heart this morning, maybe you're you're you're doing a lot of things right, but there's something you're not doing right. We we established at the beginning we're not all perfect. There's no question that we all can improve in some aspect or some area. Are we living and doing what God wants us to do? Are you yielding to God? Are you submitting to His Will for your life? Are you doing his will? Is your home as happy as you would like it to be? Or is there some area that could be improved?