And it's been good to laugh together, been good to fellowship and uh all of this, but I know that ultimately that we come to the house of God for the preaching of his word, and it is the word of God that transforms lives I'm going to speak this evening in the service on a more sure word, and we're going to talk about the Word of God in the church tonight. And it is the Word of God that brings about change. If we have a right view of the Word of God in our relationship with the Lord, we realize that this is how He communicates with us this book. And uh if a man of God is going to stand in a pulpit, if he's not preaching this, he doesn't have anything to preach. This is what he needs to be sharing because this is where the power is There's things that God gives us sometimes to illustrate it, to maybe draw a point home. That's understandable. It's biblical. Christ did that many times uh teaching in parables and giving illustrations so that people could understand, so that it makes it applicable. But ultimately it is the word of God. It's not a story that changes somebody's life. It's the principles that are found in God's Word. Did I tell you Psalms? You guys can turn to Psalms? Alright, you're gonna be in Psalms twenty-three. A very familiar Psalm today. In our text here, the author, uh David has reached that point in his life where a large th I guess that point in life where The reflections on bygone days are filled with experience. Where you have something to consider, I heard uh five-year-old girl talking this week about how she went to therapy and her therapist took her back to when she was a child And uh I thought, well, yeah, that was a long way back, huh? Um but we're talking about somebody here that has uh had some experience. In the psalm here, David really, if you're reading it, you can picture him thinking about his life, and he has gone through the valleys. He has come out the other side. He has been on the mountaintops and enjoyed the view and and the splendor of that. He went from being hunted by Saul for his very life to actually being the king in the palace. As David is giving us this psalm, he's thinking back across his life. He's remembering those days. He's remembering the battles, the storms he went through, and he's remembering the victories that he experienced. And in all of that, he opens and gives to us here his relationship. With his Lord. Would you follow along as we read Psalms 23? It's a familiar passage of scripture. Why don't we read it together in Psalms 23, beginning in verse number 1? The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. We see here in this text another name for God We looked last week and talked to you about Jehovah. That is found in the second word of this text, the Lord, and we explained how anytime you see in the Word of God Lord spelled out all caps, that is Lord Jehovah. That is God's personal name that He has the with His people. It is H the Self-existent One. This morning we are going to look at what would be the first of the compound names that we're looking at. where there is a attribute of God or a character trait of God that is put on display in this second name. This second name here is found in our text as the name Shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. In the Hebrew, it's Rohi, which comes from the root Hebrew word Rau. It means shepherd or to feed. This name that we're studying and we will be studying and for the coming weeks different uh names of God. The compound structure of the name gives us Jehovah and a descriptive character trait. It gives us a window into who God is It kind of puts on display a little bit of his character and a little bit of his relationship with us. And there is a not a more picturesque or more beautiful name than that of the Lord is my shepherd If you were to remove the one word that's in our Bible that was not in the original, which is notated in your Bible by the italicized uh letters that is the word is if you remove that you would say the Lord my shepherd The Lord, my shepherd. In order to properly understand this relationship and realize why it is so meaningful, we must understand ourselves. So I would present to you first this morning the problem that we've got. You see, we have a problem. Beloved, you and I, we are fearfully and wonderfully made In the image of God. You are unique, and God has prepared you for a special purpose. You are a special individual, and for just a second, let me pat you on the back. Because we have a problem. Do you know why we need a shepherd? Because we're sheep Now I hope you felt really good for a second because uh sheep are notoriously uh Yes, they have some uh some idiosyncrasies that lend themselves to not necessarily being the uh they certainly aren't the king of the jungle They sheep have many things that uh uh uh a lot make them prey and and uh cause them to injure themselves and end up in such a mess that they really cannot survive or live without a shepherd. A couple of passages of Scripture that teach this for us that we are sheep. We see Isaiah 53, 6 says, and all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. In Psalms one hundred, verse three says, Know ye that the Lord he is God. It is He that hath made us, not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. John chapter 10 verse 27 says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. The sheep. We are sheep. You know, beloved, that the sheep are naturally defenseless. They're naturally defenseless. They don't have any claws. They they don't have any teeth like to rip things apart. They don't have any means. They don't even have a stink bomb like a s like a skunk. I mean they have no means of defending themselves. They really are defenseless out in the world or in in the wild and they are uh that's why they uh are prey for all of the other predators. They are easy pickings. That's why they need a shepherd to be there to protect them. There are stories of David where he uh destroyed or killed a lion and a bear in protection of those sheep because the sheep cannot protect themselves. Sheep are naturally defenseless, sheep are naturally domesticated. You know, they are by God's design made to be a domestic animal. They are to be in the care of a shepherd. You take a dog and put him in the wild and he will turn wild. He will begin to defend for himself. He will begin to find something to eat You go to other countries like India or even Mexico and there are wild dogs everywhere. There's dogs all over the place. These dogs just roam the streets. They're fending for themselves. They're finding something to eat. They're making it happen Now some of them are pretty skinny, but they're eating something, and uh, you know, a a sheep's not going to do that. He has no means of defending himself, of of of of uh fending for himself, of providing or finding his own food He's not going to be a wild animal put in the wild. He would die. The sheep are naturally dumb. They don't know where to eat. They'll eat the wrong things. Sheep are easily led astray. Do you know one sheep one sheep would follow other sheep right off a cliff? They're easily led astray. They're easily led in the wrong direction. They themselves have no real sense of direction. I know some people like that. Some are more directionally challenged than others. I'm thankful for GPS today and We don't have to really know where we're going. We can just plug it in and and it'll tell you where to go. But uh, you know, sheep can't find their way on their own. When I was uh uh teenager growing up in El Paso, Texas, we lived out in the desert and we had a neighbor that was very contrary and uh he really did not like our dog. And we do not have one hundred percent proof of this, but we believe that our dog's name was Snowball and we believed that this neighbor that hated our dog he was always coming in the yard and antagonizing him, throwing things at him, standing there making 'em mad and you know, they w just aggravating snowball, well we believe that he stole, kidnapped Snowball, and took her way out in the desert and dropped her off. And uh the reason we believe that she actually had uh had had pups at that point And uh both her and her pup was gone. And four days later, Snowball came trotting back in the yard. Took her four days to find her way home. Four hours after that, her pup on her trail, you know, came in. Dogs will find their way. Sheep can't find their way. They would just die. Sheep are naturally disturbed animals They are skittish. The smallest little thing will cause the sheep to scatter, to run, to jump. They're very skittish animals. You know, as I pondered and thought about that, I thought about the world today and how so many people in society are overrun with anxiety. I'm thinking they've s they they have so long ago rejected the shepherd. They have no stability in their life, they have no guiding post in their life. And so everything in life has them all in a dizzy. Because we're designed to be under the care of a shepherd. And when as a people we reject that We're naturally disturbed by everything that comes up. I think a lot of these mental problems and anxieties and things that people have today is a result of Having rejected the shepherd. We see this problem we've got, but there was a provision that was given. This is where we get to our text. This is where we get to this name of God, where we recognize Him as shepherd. David makes a personal declaration. Now I'm going to make a secondary outline for you guys. We're going to take the second point and we're going to go from here, okay? So we have a personal declaration. David says, the Lord is, what's the next word? My shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. Can I tell you, beloved, there was no hesitation in that There was no wondering in that. There was no hoping in that. There was no, boy, I I sure would like it if I could count on the shepherd. No, David declares uh without hesitation that the Lord is his shepherd and I would uh put to you today if you're here and you cannot declare that that he wants to be your shepherd today You can know him as Lord and Savior, and he would gladly be your shepherd. He wants to be your shepherd, but each and every one of us have to make that choice to join him and allow him to be that for us. David declares, the Lord is my shepherd. Think about this with me, beloved. The Lord, Jehovah, the self-existent one. Has signed up to be your shepherd. I mean that's like Taking the president of any company, let's say a car company, and you would say, well, the president of that company is my mechanic You know, you take the the owner of tree true green and say, uh yeah, he's the one that cuts my grass What I'm saying is you have Jehovah, the creator of the universe, God Himself, who has said he wants to be your shepherd. He wants to be your shepherd, David said without hesitation, he is my shepherd. There was a little boy trying to commit Psalms 23 to memory. And uh as many of us did as young people memorizing Psalms 23, but as kids sometimes get things turned around in their head. I recall uh a story of a uh young man in Sunday school class and he was was getting things turned around a little bit and and he said that Oh, I just I I remembered and I just forgot. Let's say Lord help me. He said, Thou shalt not lie. A lie is a very present help in time of trouble. He kind of he was mixing some things up. But this boy memorizing Psalms 23, he he was memorizing it and uh he said, uh, the Lord is my shepherd. And I don't want anything else. That's what David said. Not exactly, but that is ultimately the summary of it. He said, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He is our shepherd, and there could be none better There was one author that said, His riches are unsearchable, his joy is unspeakable, his power is unlimited, his faithfulness is unfailing, his words are unshakable, his love is unchanging. Jehovah wants to be your shepherd. We learned last week that Jehovah is his personal name. Elohim is the name of God as God is the creator. But after God created everything else, when he came to the place where he formed and fashioned man, we are introduced to Jehovah. That is his personal name where he chooses to relate to you and I David declares his personal declaration, he is my shepherd. I hope this morning you can say that he's your shepherd. We see the sheep's practical dependence in verse number two. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, he leadeth me beside still waters. Beloved, we have a need for a shepherd. We are dependent upon the shepherd. We describe that as we describe sheep, but you know sheep are in need of the shepherd in every aspect of their life. Dr. Keller, the author of A Shepherd's Look at Psalms 23, he says definitively in that book, having been a shepherd for many years, he says, sheep will not rest. Unless the following needs are met. You see here in this text, he maketh me to lie down in green pastures, he leadeth me beside the still waters. He maketh me to lie down. Keller says, sheep will not rest unless they are free from fear. Free from fear. They can't lie down for rest unless there is no fear. And beloved God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and love and a sound mind. They must be free from friction. The social behavior in the flock. There has to be a unity in the flock. Can I tell you, beloved, it is by God's design that sheep are meant to be in a flock. Let me say it again. Sheep are meant to be in a flock. But there's not to be friction in the flock. I know it's a sad reality that many of you here have been in flocks, in places where the friction that was present made it so you couldn't even enjoy church. But that's not what God designs, it's not what God wants. He wants the flock to come together in unity. They must be free from fear, free from friction. They must be free from flies. In order to rest, what that is is the parasites that would come in from the outside. The shepherd does what he can to protect them so that They're able to lie down peacefully and the these little parasites, these little things from the outside aren't constantly nagging and and and getting at them. They're able to rest peacefully. And they must be free from the need for food. They've got to be fed. If they're going to lie down, if they're going to rest, he takes them to the still waters because The sheep, in order for them to digest the food that they've just eaten, they have to go to the water and drink. It is the consumption of the water that allows their system to process and to digest the food, and it is only then that they're allowed to lie and rest. Beloved, this is what the Good Shepherd does for you and I. This is putting his concern on display for us. You know, beloved, many people think that the Old Testament only portrays to us a judgmental God. There is a mindset or idea that in order to see the love of God, you must go to the New Testament. But can I tell you there is no greater picture of the love of God short of the cross of Jesus Christ than this found here in Psalms 23? He is the good shepherd, and oftentimes on the pages of the New Testament, you'll see Jesus himself referring back to this fact. That relationship that is special between his sheep and him. In John 10, verses 7 through 9, then said Jesus unto them, again, Verily, verily I say unto you, I am the door. of the sheep. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out and find pasture. Jesus is the door. He is the shepherd. He is protecting the sheep. And by the way, you don't get into the fold any other way. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. He is the door, he is the way to get into the flock. is through Jesus. We see the sheep's practical dependence. We have a dependence that's undeniable on the shepherd. We see the providential direction that he gives in verses three and four He restoreth my soul, he leadeth me. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. You see, beloved, sheep are prone to wander. The psalmist said in Psalms 119, verse 10, With my whole heart have I sought Thee, O Lord. Oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. The sheep are tend to wander and they need somebody to lead them. You know, sheep can only see about 14 feet in front of them. They have very poor eyesight. They don't have a sense of direction outside of that little area which which they can see in front of them But no matter how far they wander, those sheep that have a loving shepherd are pulled back to the fold. The shepherd goes and gets them. This is an amazing picture of this relationship. The shepherd, he restoreth my soul He brings the wandering sheep back to the fold. You know Jacob in the Old Testament there, all the way back in the book of Genesis, that trickster. He was a deceiver. Jacob often did things that were a little underhanded. And he had a tendency to wander. But when Jacob reached towards the end of his life, he said this about his God. He said, and he blessed Joseph. And said, God before whom my father Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me That word fed in Genesis 4815 is the same word as shepherd The Lord is my shepherd. What he's saying is, God shepherded me And through all my life, in all the wandering that Jacob did, he looked back as an older man. He said, In it all, every time I wandered. The shepherd was there. The shepherd drew me back. The shepherd brought me back to the fold. The shepherd found my way, he said, in God which fed me all my lifelong unto this day. All my lifelong unto this day, beloved, I don't know how far you may have wandered from God, but can I tell you that there is a good shepherd? Who is there and he's longing to bring you back. No matter where you're at right now, God is looking for you to turn back to him. And he is a loving shepherd that restoreth your soul. He will restore you. And he leads us in the paths of righteousness for his namesake. Beloved, there's a direction he wants us to go, and he leads us in that path. The shepherd's job is to lead, feed, and protect the flock, and the good shepherd does so for you and I. We have some paths in life that we must go down. There's some paths that we don't have a choice but to take. But even in those paths, he is with us. One of those most challenging of paths is the valley of the shadow of death. But even in that valley there's peace. Why? Because the shepherd's presence Because he's there with us in the valley. He's walking with us. He is there shepherding us even through that valley, that valley of death. And will bring us out the other side. Beloved, we're not talking about a distant, disconnected creator who just made everything and let it go. No, we're talking about a compassionate, loving shepherd who wants to shepherd his flock. We see here that there is no fear through that valley. He says, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. I don't know about you guys, but when I'm scared I don't usually walk. When I when I've got some fear and the heart is heart is beaten I'm like I'm moving man, I'm outta here. Like this is not a safe neighborhood. I'm I'm out, you know, and I'm gonna find my way. And and there's been times in my life I found myself in those places and I'm I'm like, well Time to go. But we see here him saying, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. He's going through what is possibly the hardest thing, a sheep that we're going to endure. And he's just walking through. Why? Because he's got the presence of the shepherd. Walking with him. There is no fear in that. Because the shepherd has already defeated death. He's already defeated the grave. And we know by his promise he'll bring us out the other side. To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And we have that confidence because of the promise of the Father. And we see in verse number five the prepared dinner. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil. My cup runneth over. Thou preparest. That word prepares literally means to set up or to set in order, to prepare a table for you. Not just a table, but a table for you, especially for you. Mary and I were at a wedding on Friday. We went into this large room, tables all over. I picked an empty one. Said number four. I sat down, I texted some friends, I said, Hey You guys coming over to eat, I'll save you a seat. They said, sure, we'll be right there. So after a little while, they joined us. The table is filling up. It's about time for the bride and the groom to come in. You guys see where we're going now? Somebody comes by the table and said, Do you know that that table is reserved? There's a sign right on it. It says reserved. The sign was on the other side of the table facing that way. I sat on this side. I just saw the number four, and I assumed every table had a number I sat at table number four, but that table was not for me. We had to get up and move, and we ended up because now everything else was filled up, we were all the way in the back, almost in another room, where there was no lights. And somebody told me that was because they didn't want the glare. So they put me back there on purpose. But what I'm saying is that that table was not prepared for me, but can I tell you that the shepherd is preparing a table for you? It's gonna stay reserved, but it's gonna have your name on it. He's prepared a table for you. David has a lot of enemies. But God said that didn't matter. He's going to feed you in the presence. There's no need for you to starve, no need for you to go hungry. If matter of fact, it's gonna come to the place where your cup is gonna run over. Gonna run over. Do you know how a cup runs over? It's because there's something flowing into it. It has to continue to flow in order for it to run over. Do you know the Bible says that Jesus is the fountain of life? And he's prepared a table for us and he's blessing us to the point that our cup runneth over. I mean it's it's full. It's not just a little bit, it's a full buffet. In Jeremiah, God was talking about the children of Israel. And how they had forsaken him, the fountain of living water. How about you this morning? Is your cup full? Is your cup running over? Or maybe you have separated yourself from the shepherd? Maybe you've removed yourself out from under the tap. It's only going to run over as long as you remain in that place where it can continue to flow into your life. This is Jehovah Rahi, the Good Shepherd And he has made a perfect dwelling for us. He says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Beloved, there is no better place to be than in the house of the Lord. Do you desire to be in his presence? We will ultimately be in his presence for eternity. Dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I was talking to uh Sarah Williams. I don't see her. She gave me an idea for a Thursday night message. She said, you can because I've been preaching on what does the Bible say about? And she said, uh, preach on what does the Bible say about preparing to go to heaven? Like how do we get prepared to be there? And she knows salvation. She knows that that's obviously the first step, but she said, because I was listening to a guy this week and they were saying something about going to heaven and uh how when you get there you might be uncomfortable because you you you you know you haven't been around much. You you don't know uh much. And I'm not positive about those things, but I know that we can certainly do some things to dwell in his presence now. It ought to be just like going home. He has prepared a perfect dwelling place and it ought to be something that's comfortable for us, something that we are used to, something that we have spent a lot of time in his presence already, and when we pass over to the other side and we're there and we're dwelling in that place forever and ever. It shouldn't be foreign to us. It ought to be something that we've longed for and looked for and we're ready for. It's a perfect dwelling place. Beloved, it is through his goodness that the shepherd cares for our temporal needs, and it's through his mercy that the shepherd cares for our spiritual needs. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. We know it is goodness that leads men to repentance. We know it is mercy that allows men to be restored. It is surely goodness and mercy that follows us through this life. Spurgeon said, these were the two sheepdogs of heaven. Goodness and mercy. They're going to follow us around. They said shepherds use two dogs to corral the sheep. God uses goodness and mercy. It is the Good Shepherd, Yahava Rohi The Good Shepherd gives us a picture. Yes, he is God. Yes, he's the self-existent one. But he's also your shepherd. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed