For this study from Romans chapter thirteen. Romans chapter thirteen. I am planning on this being the last lesson uh in this series. I had one more uh lesson that I have have been wanting to do but I've pushed it off the last two times that I've taught and just don't feel like uh it's going to incorporate well in the Lord to have us go over that subject uh as part of this series we'll save that for another time. I did want to take some time to look at Christian influences on American government and and Christian principles that are found in American government, such as the division of powers between federal, state, and local, as well as the division between the branches of government, executive, judicial, and legislative. That's found in the Word of God. A Baptist pastor had a lot to do, was the primary influence. on us having our Bill of Rights, the first Ten Amendments that are added there to the Constitution, things like that that that just kind of neat in history and how how God's people uh influenced the founding of this country and gave us some of the liberties uh and freedoms that we enjoy but not really fitting into the scope of the series that we'll be talking about um here in in this series of lessons so we're not gonna we're gonna save that uh for another time or something you could look at uh yourself. I could recommend some resources for you if that's something that you'd be interested in re reading further about. If you didn't have a chance to, we did have notes that are available on the back table as well as those that are watching from home. There's a link to a set of notes that's available there underneath the live stream so you can get that with today being the last lesson in a series, I did want to give you a couple recommendations on some materials that I used in my study if you wanted to go further on this topic to read research it for yourself. Now with any, as with any thing that we recommend, not everybody out there agrees completely with Us and what we teach about the Word of God and what we understand the Word of God to teach, so that caveat goes with any thing that uh we put out there. I don't agree with anybody 100% on anything pretty much. Even myself, if I go back and listen to me a couple years ago, I don't agree with that guy either. But that's just the process of growth. So understand us and recommend these resources Um we approach everything with discernment uh and spiritual maturity to understand that not everything in there uh everything that we hear uh from anybody should be compared with the word of God. Uh that's a pro We started this series with, and it's something that you need to continue with in every aspect of your life. First of these is a book that I used, was very helpful to me. Actually And I probably had more material I highlighted in this book than I have given to you in this series, and uh I didn't use very much of it in this series the series. So there's a lot more that you could learn from this book. It is called Civics for Christian Homeschoolers. It's available on Amazon by Scott Clifton. Christian Homeschool books. So if you look civics for Christian homeschoolers, great resource there, and you can kind of just see that I highlighted a bunch of stuff in this book that was very beneficial in my study of that. There's also a Christian group. They're not Baptist, but they're a fairly conservative Christian group that is known as Patriot Academy online. Actually, right now they're offering a class called Biblical Christianity in Modern America. is what it's called. Something along those lines, they're offering an online class for free. I have not yet signed up. I'm planning on taking that class. They do let you watch the lessons that you've missed, but right now they're playing on once a week for a series of about two months. I think there's eight or nine lessons in in that series that they're teaching there. I'm planning to wait until it's done so I can go back and just watch the whole thing at once and not have to wait every week for for the next one to come out. But another resource there, they also have a podcast if you enjoy listening to podcasts called Wall Builders. Just kind of a Christian perspective on what's going on. on in our country and in government, two resources that I use uh during this study that might be of benefit to you if this is something uh that interests you. So again that is Patriot Academy, pretty easy easy to find online and it's right on their main homepage that class on biblical civics. And then there is a Civics for Christian Homeschoolers book that is available on Amazon. Amazon very good. He's also he gave me after I ordered this one, uh he actually sent me a book he has on American government for Christian homeschoolers as well. I have not looked at that one yet, but I did really enjoy the material he presented here. So today we're going to be looking at um Somebody's trying to let me know something. Pastor Caleb said that he is praying for Hunt Valley today. Things are going very well here. He's enjoying seeing many of his old friends. The services have been challenging. So um he has uh he's sharing a smile. My phone is just buzzing in my pocket. It is a distraction to me. So he is he is sharing his greetings. They are an hour earlier uh than we are here, so he's not starting church for another hour. Usually when I'm there with the teenager I'll go sit in the sanctuary and watch Sunday school before we start Sunday school over there. Um but just uh sharing an update there with the church family. So today as we begin we're in Romans thirteen uh once again to study this Romans thirteen being kind of the key passage in the New Testament. on government. We're going to be looking at one other passage on government specifically as we study this topic today. But I want to kind of look at the roles of institutions. We introduce this series with a lesson on the three institutions that God established. These are sources or places of power and authority that were set up by God. We've been looking at a lot of different aspects from this study, including the foundation of government, the responsibilities, rights of citizens, and again like those three institutions. that God established. And we're going to revisit those today and discuss a little more detail the roles of these institutions and how they relate to one another. If you remember, we define an institution as that which has been established or founded by an authority and is intended to be permanent. There are three of these realms of power that were ordained by God. We see in Romans chapter thirteen, verse number one, where I had you turn today, the Bible says, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God, and the powers that be are ordained of God. So God set these powers up, uh these Institutions and these three are, if you remember, the family, the government, and the church. Each of these was invested with authority by God, and each of these interact with the other institutions. And there are places where their authorities overlap, and that's what we're going to be looking at today, and what is our role as a church and government and as a citizen and government and our family in the church and how those roles interact with one another. But let's open with a word of prayer before we get into our study this morning. Morning. Lord God, we love you. God, we thank you once again for your word and the things that we can learn from it. Lord, you just give us so much uh to affect our daily lives, Lord. Uh everything you want us to know for how to be a Christian uh in this world. I pray that we would seek that and desire to have you work in and through us to make a change and to affect um our society and our country, Lord, and I pray that you bless this time we have in your word today. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So we'll be looking at these three institutions. Let me get this off the pulpit is Alright, so we're going to be looking at three these three institutions. We're going to start with family, the role of the family when it comes to civics. If you remember, the study of civics is the idea of how citizens relate to the government under which they are citizens. and how they relate to one another. So one of these institutions, this place where God has invested power and authority is within the home. And whenever you have roles of authority and those interact with one another, there are overlaps. There is a potential for conflict. There is a potential where one authority has more jurisdiction than the other does. And so when we look at this topic, we start with the family. That was where God started in the Garden of Eden with with setting up the family and setting up an authority structure there. And so we find the institution of the family there in Genesis chapter 2. Just by way of review, we'll go quickly through these, these are available in our lesson on the three institutions. We have the purpose of the institution of the family Why it was created. It was created because, remember, it was not good for man to be alone. God created a family because man doesn't do good on his own on his own. And we talked about how uh important family is to society. We'll be looking at that in a The society is not based on the individual, the society is based on families, and that's why God says it's not good for an individual. God looked at an individual And said that's not good. He needs others with him. And that's why God put the individual into a family. The purpose of the institution was because it was not good for man to be alone. the producing of the institution, how did God create this authority? It was through marriage. God put one man and one woman together and his intention, pre-fall, pre-sin. was that this one man, one woman in union, uh would last forever because there would have been no death had there not been sin. Uh we know through sin that um death came into the world and death causes a Separation, so at death, it is a separation in the in the marriage covenant there. But that wasn't God's original plan So God produced this institution through marriage. The power that was given to this institution is the broadest range of authority given by God uh to an institution was given to the home. The closest thing to absolute authority was placed within the home, and that's the power that they are able to exert, that of parents over children is a greater degree of authority than anywhere else you find in the Word of God outside of our authority that we have God has in our life as believers So what was the plan? What was the why did God give set up this institution and give them authority? Well it was set up for companionship. Again, man should not be alone. companionship also for children. God told them that they were to reproduce and to populate the earth, and that was a obligation that this institution institution had, and also they were given the command to have dominion over the earth. And we see the family that was given to the family to exert dominion over creation. And God has given us a stewardship of this world, and that stewardship was given not to the government, uh not to society, not to organizations. It was given to the family that you have an obligation as a family to steward those things that God has put under your control. kind of separate from here, but we talked about in the lesson on these institutions how one can um can pass along their authority to another. And this is an area where we as individuals have ceded a lot of authority to the government. Well I don't want to take care of these things. I'm going to let them do that. And a responsibility we have as a church, even we could talk about that, how we have a responsibility towards the poor, a biblical responsibility. But but we've ceded that authority over to the government. Say, you take care of the poor. We're not doing that. And so it's we whenever we get things out of God's order, uh things are out of order. So the plan for the institution was for companionship, for them to produce children, uh, and them to exert dominion over God's creation. Who are the players of the institution? That would be the husband, the wife, and the children. the purview of the institution, what they have authority to do, that is the raising and training of children. They have the authority to exercise obedience to and make application of the Word of God. And they have the authority to use the resources that God has given them. What is the perimeter of the institution? How far does their authority extend? That is within the home and in the marriage specifically, it's till death do us part. So that's the institution of the family. I want to look a little bit now into the authority that they have. What is the authority structure within the family? We know that the authority of the family extends to the home. You have more authority in your home than any other institution does. There is a biblical principle that everyone should understand regarding authority. This is very key for a lot of things that we understand in the Word of God. If we can get this down, it's something I've stressed often with the young people. In the Bible, authority is always tied to responsibility. Authority is always tied to responsibility. Where you have responsibility you have authority. So think in the in the home, parents and children. I have the responsibility to provide for the needs of my children. I have responsibility for their clothing. So I get to decide what they wear, because I have authority where I have responsibility. I have a uh a responsibility for their education. So I have authority in their education. I get to decide what they're going to learn. I have authority over their providing for their food, our responsibility. So I have an authority to tell them they're going to eat their green beans. uh and their vegetables and the other things that we put before them. Wherever there is responsibility, there is also authority. So parents have this responsibility for children. They also have authority over them. And as fathers, we have the ultimate responsibility before God for what goes on in our home, and that's why God has given us authority in our homes. The government will not stand before God to answer for my children's education. I will. Therefore, I have education or response authority over their education, not the government. And this is true even even of the church. If we had a Christian school at our church, or if I was ever at a church that had a Christian school, 99% chance I'd have my children in that Christian school. But that does not relieve me of my responsibility nor my authority by putting my children into a Christian school. There's people I've talked to that that have said, I don't know what happened with my kids. They have kids that they they've raised and they've They've turned their backs on God and they said, I don't know what happened to my my kids. I I raised them in church. Well, you may have ceded your authority and gotten things out of order. Because even though your children are in church, and that's important, and children's church is important. I've worked in children's ministry since 2009. I've been in children's ministry. I I love children's ministries and working in that in church, but but I don't take the place of the parents As the children's pastor. I don't take this place of the parents. As the youth pastor. You as parents can't cede your authority that God's given you over your children because you are ultimately responsible for them. In the home, the authority, as we said already, is near absolute. So as we're looking at this idea of the roles of these institutions, we're looking at how they relate to one one another. So what is the role of the home or the home's authority when it comes to government? My home's authority over the government is tied to my rights and my duties as a citizens, as a citizen. We've discussed already how in the United States the ultimate authority over the government is the people. Well I'm one of those and my my home is one of those groups of people that exercise authority. So how do we exercise authority? It's when we delegate our authority temporarily to elected leaders under the authority and limits of the Constitution or other governing documents. So our authority is held in our vote and our influence. Since this goes back to that Bible principle we're going to go over several times. Since I have authority in government as a citizen and a voting citizen exerting influence, because I have authority, I also have what? Responsibility. So if I'm not using my authority properly, I'm misusing my responsibility And so that these two are so interrelated in the Word of God. So our authority, our vote and our influence on government is something we have responsibility for because it's an authority that we have as citizens This is why you are responsible for how you use your vote influence, and this is why local politics is so important. The closer the government is to the people, the more authority and influence you are able to exert. We get so wrapped up in national political issues where we really don't have that much influence. I can't pull my cell phone out here and call the President of the United States to tell him what I think he should do. My influence doesn't go that far. But I could probably get a hold of my council member. I probably could get a hold of the sheriff. I could probably take some of these local, my my my co um state representative. I though these are areas where I can exert influence, but we we neglect that influence because we're so wrapped up in these big national issues where we have an authority to make a difference, to have an influence for our vote to count against something, and we treat these things like they don't matter. I'm so worried about how my vote handles in in in the presidential election where 150 million people voted, uh whereas my my local representative they won by two hundred votes And so why didn't I focus there and my influence that I can have in that in that area? So this is a we have authority as citizens. We need to understand that we have a responsibility there as well So this is why it's so important for us to learn to vote biblically. We're not voting personality, we're not voting party, we're voting biblically. What does God want? That's part of the structure of this class is to say what does God expect from government. And which of these individuals is going to get us closer to what God expects the government to do? So this is the um this is the home's authority when it comes to government. Now the other institution is that of the church. So where is my home's authority when it comes to the church? Now in Scripture, we get this off when we say When we look at the church uh as a whole, um and we'll take some more time when we talk about the institution of the church to deal with this, but the only authority that I see in Scripture is an individual's authority over his own home, whether or not his home will follow the church and the leading and the teachings of it. The authority that is in the church is exercised by the pastor. The church also exercises authority as a group. But uh the individuals within the church don't exercise authority outside of we are a um we we have votes in the church and you can have uh But when it comes to actual delegated authority by God, that goes to the pastor and then to the church as a whole, as a as a body, not to the individuals. So those are the roles of authority within the family. We get to the role of the family. What is the family supposed to do, especially in this context of biblical civics? The first thing that I see that the family ought to do or the role that it has is to be the foundation of society. This is one thing we talked about in our lesson on the three institutions. Society is not built on individuals, it is built on family. So the primary role of a family in civics in society is to be a family. That's something that society should be able to count on you for, especially Christians, to have good homes. to have good marriages, to have stable relationships where we are as families the building blocks of society. Society should be able to count on us to be to be solid, to be that foundation. If you take a foundation of a home and you start to influence cracks in that foundation, the whole home's integrity is compromised. Society is the same way families are that foundation. And the more families are destroyed, the more society is going to have problems, and those those problems are going to have to be. going to be manifested in society. When family breakdown, families break down, society breaks down. So as a family, your your role in society primarily is to be that solid foundation for society. Second thing I see when it comes to the role of family in society is the installation of values. After maintaining a solid family, the second civic duty that a family has is the installation of Our society is not built on instincts, it is built on values Instinct is what we do naturally. And naturally man progresses towards more and more degeneracy. But we have a society that was built on values. What's important and what are we going to grow in? What are we going to build? our nation on. What we're seeing right now in our world today takes place when a society ceases to have proper values. In our country today, people do not value life. They've been taught through abortion that life doesn't matter. They've been taught through evolution in school that man's just an animal. We look at the news and we hear about uh had the discussion before What can we do about these mass murder instances where someone takes a weapon and kills a bunch of people? We have to teach values. Those people don't value life. There's nothing we can do to stop a person that has no value for life So we have a responsibility as citizens. This problem we have today is because we didn't teach children to value life and that it was important. People do not value freedom. Over the last year, there's many areas in where we've traded our freedom for the appearance of safety. Because freedom is a value. Safety is an instinct. I want to be taken care of. I have to value liberty. I have to value freedom. People do not value character. Role models for children today are not moral people with good character. People do not value morality. We live in a degenerate society. People do not value hard work. Right now there's a labor shortage in our country because many people just enjoy getting paid not to work. You know, if I could make more on unemployment than I could on working, I would go to work because my dad taught me to value labor, to value hard work. So values is is the role of the home. You instill these values in your children. People do not value heritage and history. And this list could go on and on. Values are not natural, values are taught. And it's much better for society if they are taught in the home. So one of the roles of the home in society is to teach values and is to be the foundation of society. Number three, the role of the famil uh family in society is the raising of citizens. I heard somebody say one time that they don't try to raise, they're trying not to raise good kids. They're trying to raise kids that become good adults. Um and so they don't want them to be just good children. They want them to know how to be good adults. Because what we're raising in our children is we're raising the future citizens of our country Society should be able to expect from your home that you would raise citizens that would respect authority and follow the law. That's a good citizen. A good citizen respects authority, a good citizen follows the law. We've raised a generation in this country that has no respect for authority and no respect for law. Because when they were three or four, they learned that no does not mean no and what mom and dad say doesn't matter until they're yelling. So they did not learn to follow authority. They did not learn to um to have respect for authority or to follow the law in the home, and so they don't do it when they're out of the home either. So the raising of citizens. And then as we talked about last lesson, it wasn't last week, two weeks ago, we have as a home the obligation as citizens to use our rights to protect our rights. Rights that are not used and are not protected will be taken away. Rights that are not used and are not protected will be taken away. It goes back to values. If values are not trained, they will be lost And so this is the responsibility or roles that we have and the institution of the home. The second institution that God created was the institution of So what is the role of government when it comes to civics? You can take your Bible and turn to 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter number 2. Again, this is a review from our other lessons, so I'll go through this quickly. The institution of government, well more quickly than I'm going through the rest of it. The institution of government, the purpose of the institution, it was to exercise capital punishment. That's why God created government was for when someone takes a person's life that a group of people together could exercise that authority to exercise capital punishment. How was it produced? It was produced post-flood. God gave Noah and his sons the collective authority to exercise capital punishment against man or animal that killed another man. What was the power of the institution? The power of the institution is the collective enforcement of individual rights, something that we took time to look at during that lesson on What was the plan? Why did God create this institution? It was to preserve the image of God in man and to preserve the God given rights of individuals. It's also to be a terror to those who would do evil. Who are the players of the institution? In every government, you have those who are in authority and those who are under authority. The purview of authority, what do they have the authority to do? They have the authority to punish those who break the law They have the authority to provide for national defense and they have the authority to raise taxes to pay for these uh things to take place. And the parameter, what are the limits of the authority? It's until it crosses the line of obedience to God. Um it is limited to those under its own authority and it's limited within its own self-imposed limits. Again, all those things we took more time to deal with several times weeks ago. So when we look here at the authority of government, what does the government have authority to do, especially when it relates to these other areas of Again, going back to this biblical principle, the government's authority goes into the areas where it has responsibility. We've discussed these several times already, but the government has a responsibility to provide for the economic, military, judicial, and political authorities within its country. And so where it has that responsibility, it does exercise authority. But looking specifically as it relates to other institutions, what is their authority as related to the home? The government has the authority over the home to the extent that it has authority over its citizens. For example, it can ask of the home taxes, military service, jury duty, decide for the home who gets to vote, and the following of the national laws. It has the authority to punish evil, and it has the authority to protect rights. Their biggest thing that comes into play when it comes to government and homes is when it comes to children and and the authority that the government has there. Well we look at this idea again biblically from the idea of responsibility. A government has a responsibility to punish evil and to protect the rights, God-given rights of individuals. So when a child's God-given right to life is in danger from a parent doing evil, the government has an authority to step in there They do not have the uh authority to come between the parental authority given by God when it comes to biblical discipline between between parent and child. But the government does have authority to protect the child's right to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness against those who would do evil to them. It has the authority to protect a child from evil. So that is one area where it does get to, and this this has gone way beyond in our country and where their government's trying to step in between the biblical authority of a parent and a child and they do not have the biblical authority to do that, but they do have um the authority to protect from evil. When there is actual abuse going on and a child is being protected The government has a duty. Us collectively as citizens have the right and the duty to protect that child's individual rights. And I believe you understand that. It does not have the right to demand the obedience that we owe to God, and it does not have the right to usurp biblical parental authority. So that's when it comes to the home. What is the government's authority when it comes to the church? Now this is a question that would have a different answer depending on which government we're talking about. Always the church is obligated to obey God rather than men. But in other matters it it depends on the government. I'll give you a biblical example of this. Shannarak, Meshach, and Abednego, they're there with the king in the plains of Shinar. And the king says, Hey, when the music plays, you're going to bow down. We're going to obey God rather than men. They don't bow down. So the king throws them into the fiery furnace. Um, and they're put in there. But if you keep reading the story, something interesting happens. The king Who now they're out of his jurisdiction. You know, if you're in in the fire, I don't think that you really can consider yourself in the king's jurisdiction or whatnot Um so he you you you cause King Nebuchadnezzar tells them, says, Hey Shatter Meshakabendoko, come out of the fire. Um Tell you if I was there, I'd have said, well, come get me. That'd have been my attitude. But no, that's not their attitude because there was an area where it did not disobey God to obey the king in that area So in one minute they disobeyed the king because they disobeyed God, but in the next they were coming out of the fire because the king told them to, and following the following the command of command of the king because it didn't go against the command of God. So there are other areas where the church may have a responsibility to the government. In the United States, we have been, as churches, been granted great protections from government authority based on our governing documents It has waived our rights it the government has waived its rights to taxes, military service, and other areas of control from the church. They have conscientious object objectors. Um and things like that that the we have built into our governing documents protection for the church from the government. So the government has waived its right to many of its rights that it may have in other areas. But understand we still have um we still have the no matter what, the obligation to obey God rather than men. This is the benefit we have of living in a constitutional republic. The government still has some uh the same authority that we discussed when it comes to the home. It can punish evil and protect rights when things So what is the role of government? the role of government differently than he does anywhere else uh in the Word of God. We've already talked about this, but the role of government primarily is to punish evildoers. This was the purpose of the foundation of government. It started with capital punishment and it extended to using the sword to be a terror to those who would do do evil But if you look in 1 Peter 2, verse number 13 and 14, it says, Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to king as supreme, or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well. So he extends the gov government's role here not just to the punishment of evildoers. but to the praise of them that do well. So that's that's an interesting extension that God gives here to the role of government. What does this mean? We have not discussed this point yet because it only appears here in this verse. It's not mentioned this idea in the other places that the Bible deals with human government. The one role of human government is to be for the praise of them that do well. Now, a couple things this does not mean. Number one, it does not mean that the government it's not the government's job to compel people to do good. We've given the illustration how we do not want the government requiring everybody in Cockysville to attend Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Well that would boost our numbers very quickly. Myself and Pastor would be voted out of church because they wouldn't they would not not like that if they were required to attend church here. They want somebody uh that would be a little bit talk a little bit slower and uh be a little more entertaining probably So um the the government we don't want the government requiring people to do good. Just because the government has the authority to punish people for doing evil, it doesn't mean that it can require them to Another example of this was we would want the government to punish uh somebody who would do evil in um we're gonna talk about this actually. Let me go on and then I'll come back to that illustration. Secondly, not only does it not the government strategy compels people to do good, it doesn't mean that the government cannot legislate morality. We hear this term, government shouldn't legislate morality. Well every law that a government makes legislates some form of morality. Murder is against the law because it's immoral to kill. Stealing is against the law because it's immoral to steal. We have allowed this false premise to break down most of the morals of our country. Did you know when I looked this up last night? Adultery is currently illegal in twenty-one states in America. How much better would our country be if the government enforced that law? Um as far as societies and the found family being the foundation of society, when someone is disrupting the family through the sin of adultery, the government would have a role and they'd step in and say, that's wrong. And that would be some evil that we could punish. But we would we hear the argument we can't legislate morality. So what what would be saying here, and this is how it ties to the other one, it's good for the government to punish someone who would commit adultery It would be bad for the government to require people to get married. That's the difference between requiring good and um punishing evil. That's the that's the difference there between these two. There are others other laws that we could look at. Many places in our country had laws against using profanity. There are a lot of places in our country today that have obscenity laws that if they were were enforced could be used to make pornography illegal, these areas where it would be good for our country to once again start punishing evil. So it doesn't mean that the government can't legislate morality. It doesn't mean the government can require us to do good. So what does it mean for the government to be for the praise of them that do well? Well, at the very least, it should be sure, the government should be sure not to penal penalize good behavior and promote bad behavior. That should be, we can understand that in the very least. Let me give you two quick examples of this. In our country, uh hard work, a good value, um is punished. Uh is penalized through the progressive income tax. Um it punish penal penalizes good um penalizes hard work. On the other side of things, um The way our welfare system is set up in our country, people can benefit by having children out of wedlock. That is something that is promoted. When you get what you reward And uh when our government is rewarding things that are are are bad for society and punishing things that are good for society, is it any wonder that our society is turned upside down? Um as things are as things are gone backwards. So the government should be for the praise of them that do well. Albert Barnes, I put this quote in your notes so you could see it there for yourself. He put it this way. He said praise here stands for stands opposed to punishment, and it means commendation, applause, and reward. That is, it is a part of their business to reward in a suitable manner those who are upright and virtuous as citizens. This would be by protecting their persons, their property, by defending their rights, and perhaps by admitting those to share the honors and emoluments of office who showed that they were worthy to be trusted. It is an important part of the functions of magistracy to protect the innocent as it is to punish the wicked I end here with the point, the society will get what a society promotes. And so that is the idea of the praise of them that do well. Lastly, we're going to look at the role of the church when it comes to civics. Ephesians chapter 4, verse number 2, if you want to turn there. That's going to give us a uh uh a glimpse here into the role we have as a church when it comes to our civic responsibility. We can look at the institution of the church. I'm gonna not review this uh for sake of time. But we saw where the church started and what its purposes were in our lesson. Again, that's something you can review as soon as we get those uploaded. I apologize that we don't have those online for you yet, but we're working on that to get these sermons up soon So you can listen to them again. But when we look at the authority of the church, we have the authority of the church as it relates to the home. The human authority of the church is found in the pastor. And the pastor's authority is tied once again to his responsibility. A pastor is responsible for meeting the spiritual needs of the people of God. He must give an account of your response to truth. In Hebrews 13, verse number 17. The Bible says, Obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. So right there we have the pastor's responsibility. One day he's going to stand before God and give an account of your behavior, of your response to truth. And it encourages you to live in a way that he can give a good report. Just like when we my mom would go to town for a while and leave me and my brother and sister at home. And she'd come back and she'd ask, hey, how did they do? Ask one of us, did your brother and sister get along? Ask my sister, did your brothers fight while we were gone? You want that person to give mom a good report. Um so you get it uh together ahead of time and say if you tell, I'm gonna tell no, that's not the way to that's not the way to do it. Um that's not the way to do that. But The responsibility. The pastor has a responsibility to give an account to God of your behavior. So he has some authority in that. Authority to tell you what is right and what is wrong, and to have an expectation that you will follow those things. The church has the authority to protect doctrine and to protect purity within the church. This authority is enabled through church discipline. The church, through the pastor, has the authority to tell a family what is right, but it is up to that family to do what is right. If a family chooses not to do right, the church can reject them as members through church discipline with the goal of seeing them repent. and come back to the church and come back to what is right. So the authority, my authority as a pastor, pastor's authority extends to telling you what God says and what you ought to do. Now what you do with that is on you, but if it reflects on the church, then the church has a responsibility in that as well. We don't have time to teach on the whole role of church discipline today. What about the authority of the church when it relates to the government? How do we exercise authority as the church when it comes to government? Number one, the church has the authority to reject any command of man that goes against the commands of God. This does not exempt the church from persecution of an unjust government. If the government decides to punish us for doing us right, we're going to do us right anyway and take the punishment. Flee or or hide or or what whatnot, but we will still we're still going to obey God. In the United States, though, we do have extra authority based on our governing documents. That's why we as a church are able to sue the county based on an illegal decision that they made. That's because of the rights we have as United States citizens and as a church under Relupa, the Religious Land Use Act is a law that was put into place To protect churches from government and we can use those laws uh against an unjust government, and that's uh an an authority that we are able to have In the United States, we are confused about this idea of the separation of church and state. We don't have time to deal with it now, but that idea is not in our founding documents. That idea is actually found in a letter that was written by Thomas Jefferson to a Baptist church. Uh his statement in context uh was talking about there being a wall set up to keep the government from messing with the church. It was never the intention for the church to not have influence. on the government. We would not have a constitution without the influence of God through churches. There would not be an American constitution. There would not be an American government. There would not be a constitutional republic that has existed for over 200 years had it not been for churches. And on the other side, if churches don't do their job, we're not gonna have a constitutional republic for another two hundred years. So we were we were foundational uh in that. We we do not have the um we have that authority when it comes comes to the government to to be involved. And we don't have to stay out of it. They have to stay away from us based on our governing documents, but that doesn't mean we have to stay away from them. So what is the role of the church when it comes to civics? The role of the church. Number one is to empower people to render to God the things that are God's. The church's primary role in civics would be to instruct and empower the people to give their allegiance to God instead of men. It should be at the church where we hear about the laws of man that contradict the word of God. And the church is the place where we should find a community that would stand with us against the laws of man that contradict the law of God. So we should be promoting, here's what God says, and so-and-so in office said this, but we're not going to do that because God said this. And that should be coming from the church. We should be hearing that. But secondly, this is found in Hebrews chapter Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 through 16, we're not going to take time to read the whole passage. But if you look just at verse number Verse number 11 and 12 it says, And he gave some, he's talking about gifts to the church. He gave some apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers. So why did God give the church a pastor? Verse number 12, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. I want to focus on that first statement there. For the perfecting of the saints. Now the word perfect, you understand the Bible, does not mean sinless. It means complete. It means to have maturity. It means to have everything that you need, just as the man of God may be perfect having the Word of God, meaning he has everything he needs when he has the Word of God. And so, as a pastor, it is our responsibility through the church to give you everything you need to be the Christian that God wants you to be. And so that's why we have taken time here at church to deal with a class on civics Some may have wondered, why are we teaching about civics at church? That doesn't make any sense. You learn about civics in eleventh grade in high school. Well, you don't, but um you should. Um and so why are we learning about the church? Because it is the church's responsibility to perfect the saints. That I need to give you, our church needs to give you through our pastors everything you need to be the kind of Christian God wants you to be. And you know what? A Christian, you are a citizen. And there's a way you should act as a citizen. And so the role of the church, the authority of the church when it comes to government, is the shaping and molding of citizens. And we give you what you need to be a biblical citizen. The church should be the place where Christians get the biblical instruction they need to be biblical citizens. So those are the three institutions and the roles that they have over one another. I trust this uh series of lessons that we've had has has been a blessing to you. I certainly have learned some things. I hope I've conveyed those to you as well. I am planning on wrapping up the study. If there's anything from the study here that you have questions about, feel free to shoot me an email and we'll talk those, talk about those before we start the next thing next week, take a few minutes if there's something else you were wondering about. But we're going to close down a word of prayer and get prepared for the morning service. Lord God, we love you, and we again we thank you for uh your word. Lord, it is such a wonderful book. Uh it's inexhaustible. Lord, um Approaching the study, I I don't know that I I would have had uh forty, fifty pages of notes worth of material on the government uh out of the word of God, but you've given us uh in your word the things that we need to know and understand when it comes to uh our job as Christians. And Lord was we began to study talking about how, Lord, we just just trying to figure out what am I supposed to do a as a husband, as a father, as a citizen, as a Christian, uh with everything that's going on in the world today. I trust that through your word. You've revealed this to your people, Lord, and that we can be the kind of Christians, the kind of citizens that you want us to be, Lord. We thank you for our country. We thank you for the men and women, uh godly men and women who had a great influence on the founding of our country and the freedom that we enjoy. I pray we would be a bulwark in our society to be the types of families, types of churches that that hold to those values, to that good character, Lord, that we want to have and we want to see in the Constitutional Republic that you play us in Lord that it can continue uh to go forward and that our children can enjoy the freedoms uh that we do today, Lord. And I pray as Christians we take advantage of these freedoms, Lord. We we live in the freest place in the world to share the gospel. Uh Lord, it'd be ashamed if we didn't do it. We live in the freest place in the world to come and to meet together and to worship and to and to lift one another up and to praise you. God be ashamed if we waste it, Father. Father, the freedoms that we have. Lord, thank you for those. Uh God, I pray that we would value them and that we we could be the kind of Christians you want us to be on a daily basis. We ask you to bless our time now as you get prepared for the morning service. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you. You are dismissed.