Ordinance that's been given to the church that we do in remembrance of our Lord and Savior. uh new people in the church and uh it's always good for us to be reminded of some some truths because it's it's easy for in the world in which we live to get a little bit um you know there's so much stuff out there there's so much content out there and you can absorb things from many different resources today and uh it's easy maybe to get a little bit um maybe misinformed or to have kind of some wrong thoughts or philosophies about what we're doing and why we're doing or or even what it means. Uh I'm on, it just needs turned up a little bit. Can you guys give us a little bit more volume there? All right, thank you. Um I won't be screaming like I did this morning. Okay, so uh We want to just have a correct concept. So we see in Matthew chapter 26, verses 17 through 30, follow along with me as we read this passage of scripture here. We'll see, now the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the Passover? And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The master saith, My time is at hand. I will come to the Passover at uh I will keep the Passover at thy house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them, and they made ready the Passover. Now when Eve was come, he sat down with the twelve. And as he did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And they were exceedingly sorrowful, and began every one of them to say, Lord, is it I And he answered, and he said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. The Son of Man goeth As it is written of him, but woe unto that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It had been good for that man if he had not been born. Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? And he said unto him, Thou hast said, And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat. This is my body. And he took the cup, and he gave thanks, and he gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it, for this is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. When you look around uh the world today and you see different churches and uh many of them observe some type of the Lord's Supper, they practice something, uh it's called different things and different groups it might be referred to or called communion. Uh communion is uh obviously a word that we use as well, but it that just communion is commun communion. We're we're sharing together in the observance of this ordinance that's been given to the church. Some call it uh the Eucharist Which comes from a Greek word Eucharisto, which literally means to give thanks, uh to thank the Lord for uh his sacrifice on the cross. Some call it a holy sacrament, uh which has no biblical basis. It's not found in the scripture anywhere. It is the tradition of priests and this holy sacrament. They'll they'll take uh the wafer and the wine and they believe that they're able to convert it into the actual body and blood of Christ. And that practice is called transubstantiation. And they believe that the priest says some words over this. Uh used to be in Latin. I don't know if they still do it in Latin, but uh they would say some words and uh believe that the elements take on the actual body and blood of Christ Now the Lord's Supper, if you're not careful, it can be something become something that is mystical or magical. It it is something that people look at and they feel that boy it is people's desire or ambition to have an experience. That causes this to take on a essence that is beyond what God had planned for it to be. That is not what God's intentions were. Now, don't get me wrong, this is important. This is, we are commanded by God as a church to continue to, as oft as you do it, to observe the Lord's Supper and to Take time to pause and to consider and contemplate and remember what Christ did. It was a command. It is a sacred time. Certainly a very special time for us. It is is a meaningful time. It shouldn't be done lightly or carelessly. It shouldn't be something that uh that loses its meaning or value. We want it to be something that's special But many have allowed it to maybe grow into something that's beyond even what the Bible intended and expecting there to be some magical level or some impart in imparting of God's special grace because they have partaken of this This is why it's essential that we understand what the Bible teaching is on it, that we know that it is a memorial supper. Uh it is not a supper in which we are supposed to get filled. It's not a meal. We're not supposed to be. The Church of Corinth was kind of called on the carpet by Paul about that. You guys have turned it into uh a great big feast, and that's not what it's for. To just pause and remember what Christ did. So we believe as Christians in the priesthood of the believer Okay, that is each and every one of us have the privilege because of what Christ did for us and have purchased our salvation that He's the one mediator between God and man, and we each and every one of us have the ability to go to God personally. We don't need another mediator. We don't need somebody else to do that for us. In 1 Peter 2, 5 through 9, he says, ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone, elect precious. And he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you, therefore, which believe he is precious But unto them which be disobedient the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner. and at the stone of stumbling the rock of the offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth his praises of him whom hath called you out of darkness. into his marvelous light. Each and every one of us are individually priests. This is notable and important, especially with regards to the Lord's Supper, because in the Roman Catholic Church the priest takes the cup. And after uh he says his words, he it is the priest that has to take it first and uh change it or convert it and He holds this special position and without him nobody could partake of this. But this is not, we we are all equal at the foot of the cross. There is not a position or a place in which one particular person is needed in even in many Protestant churches today. The minister himself will partake of the Lord's Supper first. And thereby, their understanding is thereby he is sanctified. And then he is able to take the Lord's Supper and give it to other people. But you see, that's a it's a misconception of what this does. There is no sanctifying power in the elements that we're taking today. The process of sanctification, the process of examination, the time of confession is supposed to take place before we observe the Lord's Supper That is why this is such an important thing, because it brings us to a point of decision where we have to come before God and say, okay, search me, God. know me and see if there be any wicked way in me and we have to get real with God and say, okay, I understand the importance of this and I realize, God, that you wouldn't have anybody take of the Lord's Supper unworthily. That is somebody that is practicing known sin and but that shouldn't be part of our lives and so it forces us to come to a place and say, okay Lord, uh I I know that I need to take care of this and I've been putting it off, but I'm sorry. And so we get clean first And then we come to the Lord's Supper. So, yes, there is a process or a place in which this motivates sanctification, where this motivates spiritual life in us. But this is not what gives you spiritual life. Hopefully you're drawn to Christ and your relationship after observing the Lord's Supper is sweeter and more precious. Why? Because you've paused and you've taken some time to think about what he means to you, which is what the testimony time was about tonight, the difference that Jesus Christ has made. uh where your life would be without Jesus and what situations you would be facing, but because Christ died for you and because in his marvelous grace somehow he allowed you to hear the truth of the gospel and you trusted him Your life has been changed. And although you're still a sinner, you're a sinner that's been saved by grace. And you're a sinner that has a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And your desire is to please him. That's what this does. There is no magical thing that happens. There is no presence of God in these elements. The presence of God is in you. You should feel and know his presence in your life all day, everywhere you go. You should not have to come to the church and be here on Lord's Supper's night in order to feel the presence of God. Because you're a child of God and He has He dwells in you. You should have and know that presence all the time Your steps should be guided by him. And as the song was so beautifully sung tonight, that walking in the Spirit And ye shall bear much fruit, living in the Spirit, and you'll be able to experience that great relationship with Jesus Christ. This tonight is a reminder of that. Not the cause of it. We see that each and every one of us, although in the church here we serve and fulfill different functions, Tonight we'll have the three deacons who come and they have been elected to that position by the church and will serve as part of their duties as deacons to serve the Lord's Supper We like to have four men, and so we also choose one of the men from the congregation and we just uh pick through the men that are faithful and serving God and and are here and and just a part of the church and uh we just kind of pick through and and work through the church the men of the church and Want everybody to be able to have an opportunity to do that because we want four. But and then of course as the pastor, my role is to administrate or to uh lead in the service. But beloved The reason we partake together all as a family is because we're all sinners saved by grace. We're all remembering what Christ did and the difference that He has made in our lives. And there is no difference between piety and laity. There is no difference between me and you or the other maybe uh you would call leaders in the church of different ministries or what have you, we're all just serving God together. We are all priest. before God. That's what the Bible teaches. That's what we read there in 1 Peter. But ye are chosen generation, a royal priesthood. And we praise the Lord for that truth. We see that we practice this because it is found in the Scripture. It is taught in the Scriptures this uh act here. Christ was coming before the disciples and he they asked him and says, what should we do? How should we prepare this? And he gives them some instructions in our text tonight He tells them what to do for the Passover, and then he says, now the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the Passover? And he said, Go into the city to such a man and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at hand. I will come the Passover at thy house with to Keep the Passover at thy house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus appointed them, and they made ready the Passover. Now, when the eve was come, he sat down with the twelve. You see, beloved, the Passover was that observance, that feast, in which the death angel passed over the house. You see, they observed the Passover because they were remembering the time when the shed blood of that pure lamb was put over the duel doorpost and Their home was passed over by the death angel. They were protected because the blood was shed for them. That sacrificial lamb, the Passover lamb, spared their life. On this night, Christ was going to institute a new memorial. There was no longer going to be a need to observe and remember the Passover Of the Old Testament, because Jesus Christ was going to be the Lamb that was going to take away the sins of the world. And he said, This is my body, this is my blood, this do in remembrance of me. So no longer do we need to remember the time when blood was put over the door and we were spared from that, but we remember the time when Jesus' blood was shed on the cross. And that one lamb that take away the sins of the whole world, his blood was shed for us. And we do so in remember of him. In verse number twenty-seven, there he's he uses the word, actually, the word Eucharisto is there. When he said there to give thanks, he says, and he took the cup and gave thanks. That word thanks there in the Greek is actually Eucharisto, where the term Eucharist comes from. And it just means to give thanks. He took the bread, he ate it, and he passed the cup, and they drank it. He teaches us that this bread and this cup represents his body and his blood. It is to remember what he did. He teaches that he is not going to take part in this meal again until the marriage supper of the Lamb. And verse number 29 there, he says, hey, I'm going. I'm not going to take this again with you. You guys are going to keep doing this, but I'm not going to do it again. See what he says there? He says, but I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of this vine. until the day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. I just want to point out right there that even in this text talking about the Lord's Supper, that he very clearly says that I will not take again of this fruit. of the vine. Just this last week I was talking to somebody about the Lord's Supper and they were talking about how they observe it with wine. And they actually use the word alcohol, that they they use alcohol for the observance. I want you to know that that is not a correct picture. Because it is a fermented element. And fermentation in the scriptures has always represented corruption, sin. And that is not a correct element. He says here the fruit of the vine. Often in the scriptures, the fruit of the vine is referred to as wine. be g is not a fermented wine, it is simply fruit of the vine that uh has not fermented yet. It would be any type of uh you know uh juice that came from uh the fruit of the vine but did not ferment or corrupt. So you want to have correct elements. Now I don't care if it's Welcher's or Giant Brand Grape Juice. It doesn't matter to me It's just just grape juice. As long as it's grape juice, it's just the picture of the of the pure blood of Jesus Christ, unfermented elements, which is why we use unleavened bread. Because the unleavened bread, now my brother-in-law, he he believes, I mean, almost as much as he believes it ought to be unleavened bread, he believes it needs to be prepared. by the pastor's wife on that day. Uh so m my sister for thirty five years or whatever has been making the unleavened bread the day of the observance of the Lord's Supper in her oven. Uh, you know, I don't mind if we buy unleavened bread. It doesn't it doesn't have to be made that day. So um we just want to be we can only be dogmatic where the scripture is dogmatic and say this is what the scripture teaches and that's what we want to stand on. Other things that, you know, people have things they would like to do, there's nothing wrong with that, nothing sinful about it. Um and not knocking my brother-in-law, he's twice the pastor I'll ever be. Uh but he that's just something that he does and it's important to him uh that they do that. But we want to have the correct elements. We want to make sure that the elements are right and make sure that our mindset is correct, that we know that this is not imparting grace to us. This is not a measure of now all of a sudden, oh, I feel so spiritual when I when I take of this element. I hope you feel spiritual before that. Because taking of these elements are not imparting spirituality to you. That spirituality comes from a personal relationship and walk with Jesus Christ. And you know what he means to you. And this is a time of remembering. Just like the anniversary of your loved one, your your your mate, and and you take some time and think about what they mean to you and and uh how precious they are and you contemplate and And you feel extra close to them because you have pondered and thought about how terrible of a husband you are and how unkind you are and she's so good to you and And all of that, and you think, man, I don't deserve such a wonderful lady for sure. And and you feel very close to her. Why? Because you took time to think about it. Well, that's what the Lord's Supper is. It allows us to think about how undeserving we are but how loving and gracious our God is. That's what this is for. The preaching of the Lord's Supper is what draws us to this place where we must make a decision for him because we do not want to take of it unworthily. The message of the bread is to remind us of Jesus' body that was broken for us. His bones were not broken, but we know he was beaten and he was bruised. We know he was battered and his skin was torn. We know that his body was barely the visage of a man after it was so horribly punished for our sins. He was punched and beaten before Caiaphas, who's blindfolded, and they hit him with sticks and They said, hey, if you're a prophet, if you if you have power, tell us who hit you. They mocked and made fun of him. They put a crown of thorns on his head and Scourged his back and pierced his side with a spear. His body was broken for us. And tonight when we partake of the element of the bread The idea of that unleavened bread is the pure precious body of Jesus Christ. And as we partake of that and crunch down on that, it is a reminder of his body that was broken for us. And the message of the cup is the blood of Jesus Christ. And we know, beloved, that without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. And Jesus Christ's blood was shed for you and I. The life of man is in the blood. And his blood fell from that cross. One of the most powerful messages I ever read on the cross of Jesus Christ was by C. H. Spurgeon, and it was on the blood of Christ criest greater things than that of the blood of Abel. I would implore you to read that. It's available online. The blood of Christ crieth greater things than that of the blood of Abel. You see, the first time God heard the cry of blood. was able. When he said, hey, where's your brother? He said, am I my brother's keeper? And he said, his blood crieth to me from the ground. And then take Spurgeon takes a walk over to the pages of the New Testament and he says, if we had ears to hear We could see Jesus there on the cross and every blood drop that fell from his body as it struck the earth, the cry would rise up into the Ears of God and it cries, Father, forgive them. Father, forgive them. Father, forgive them. That blood that was shed for us. To remember that without his shedding of blood, we would not be forgiven, but because of it we are. And we praise and thank the Lord for giving his life for us. So tonight, as we give thanks Tonight, as we have communion together, we share this together as a church family, we remember the suffering of our Savior and the sacrifice of Himself for us We do so after a time of examination. I'm going to ask the pianists to come and play. And I'm going to ask that you you're welcome to use the altar, but we want to take some time. And make sure that we remember what Christ did, and that we are ready before God to partake of the Lord's Supper Is your heart right with God tonight? Are you ready to observe this and to do so as worthily? As a sinner can. Let's have some time of examination now