Tonight, you can turn to the book of 1 John. You know that's where we're we're going. We're in the middle of a study on 1 John. Hopefully we'll move right into 2 John and 3 John. We'll do one after the other Uh don't have an agenda for how long this is gonna take. I was telling one of the men uh this last week that I like doing the the Bible studies of a chapter or by uh book like this because you just basically you're dealing with whatever comes next. And uh I really had no idea uh when I started this study in First John uh all of what we would be covering. Not only that, I did not know that the topic would be overlapping with our Sunday school lesson, which we are in our class, in my class, actually just dealing with. You'll see in the uh tonight the text I looked at my notes from last Sunday and we stopped last Sunday in Sunday school just before I had you turn to 1 John Uh we didn't get into First John yet. That's where we're gonna go beginning next week. Well well a week from Sunday when we come back for Sunday school here. Uh but I had no idea that these were gonna overlap or this is what we would be discussing. But Uh I want to look at this tonight this evening. We're in 1 John chapter number 2. We're going to look at verses 15, 16, and 17. He tells us here, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any men love the world, the love of the Father is not in him For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof And he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. What we have here in these three verses, beloved, is what I am going to title the rejected life. The fact of the matter is as you and I are supposed to observe, to recognize those things that are representative of the world and the world system. And we're supposed to reject those. That's not what's supposed to typify the life of the believer. We are supposed to realize that that is not Christian That is not what honors and glorifies God. That is not what we should be having as part of our life and we're to reject that kind of life. John knowing fully the joy that can be found in Christ, and in Christ alone, we know that's the main reason for him writing the book of 1 John. That your joy may be full. Him knowing the joy that's possible, says if you're going to experience and know this joy that is available to all believers, it's only going to come when we reject A worldly lifestyle. He admonishes us to recognize and reject that. One of the thirteen tests of salvation that I gave you, that you'll find in this book of 1 John. This is one of them right here. You'll find if you truly have accepted the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior and He dwells within you, you'll find that your love for the world is being replaced With a love for the Father. It's something that happens outside of your control because of the change that took place inside of you Because Jesus dwells in you, the love of the Father begins to grow, and your rejection of the world begins to grow. Only when our love for the world is rejected can our love for God reign in our heart. For it is not until a vessel is empty that it can be filled. This is the process that we see in these three verses. We're going to look this evening at the danger learned, at the desires listed. And then lastly at the dedication that is lost as we kind of dissect these three verses and some familiar thoughts this evening, but we serve first of all here the danger that is learned. He says, love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. There's a real danger that comes about when God's people uh desire or want to embrace The activities of the world. He tells us very clearly here that the love of the Father is not in him. This would be one of those tests that I said you can observe. It doesn't matter what we say When we want to embrace the worldly styles, when we want to embrace the things that the world has to offer, when we want to bring all of the worldly atmosphere, even into the church. He says it doesn't matter if you want to stand up and say, oh, how I love Jesus, he's saying the love of the Father is not in you It it doesn't get any more direct than that. It's not my words, it's God's words. I don't know how many of you saw the blasphemous service that was held at Transformation Church on Easter Sunday, just last week. Pastor Michael Todd, the the the wickedness that took place in what they called the house of worship. It was terrible. Things that that happened on this on the platform of a church that You would shield your eyes from if you were in a rock concert. Those types of things are not what's supposed to be in God's house. There has been for many years an idea that you've got to be like them to win them. But if we don't have anything different to offer the world, then why would the world want to come to Christ? We this last week uh one day, I don't remember, Monday or Tuesday, uh Young lady, well last week she called and came here on, I think it was on Tuesday, met with Mary and I, uh, and she wanted to get baptized, and we we spent some time and sat down with her and uh talked to her about her salvation decision and and you know explaining clearly that baptism comes after salvation and and uh we talked for 35-40 minutes and I couldn't get her lost I tried, but she she she uh you know said she knew the Lord, but she said the biggest thing is is that when you know God it makes a difference in your life. It's supposed to change you. It's supposed to do something that beyond just Sunday morning. Amen? And that's what she said. And so we've scheduled a baptism for the 30th of this month. Just a few weeks away we've got some other people that would like to get baptized and if everybody's ready by that day we'll have another baptism on the thirtieth. But she said, hey, when you know Christ, when you know the Lord, when you know the Father, he makes a difference in your life. Amen. You see, beloved, it's very clear that you cannot do both. He says, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Those both they don't both work in. They don't both go together. What fellowship hath light with darkness? None. When you turn the lights on, darkness fades. It goes away. And that's what we're talking about. He's very clear here. No man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and men. John is writing here to the church. He's writing to those that are professing to be believers in Christ, but he's reminding them that if they love the world, then the love of the Father is not in them. Now what is meant by the world? We understand that he's not talking about That we as God's people shouldn't be in awe at the marvelous and wonderful creation God made. He is not talking about this physical earth. We know that it was created by God and It itself declares the glories of God. The earth, creation itself, lets man know that there is a creator. But what he's dealing with is the world system, this world system that's promoted by Satan and stands in rebellion against God. And if you question or don't think the world system is at odds with God, you've had your head in the sand. It is even more and more prevalent in today's world. that this world stands at odds with God. And beloved, our loyalty should be first to God, not to man or man-made organizations I've had conversations with individuals who would gladly leave their church before they would give up their tie to a group. Where is our commitment? Where is our loyalty? They're more committed to the Lion Club than they are to the Lion of Judah. They are more committed to the Masons than they are to the master. I have seen this on numerous occasions. This is what we're talking about, the world system, these world things that are there's things that we can enjoy in life, but when it comes down to it, what are we gonna let go? Are are we gonna hold on to The Father and what he would have for us, or oh, we're gonna let that go and follow after whatever else That lets you know where your heart is. So he's talking about the world system. There's several things, the environment, this goal, this this pursuit of pleasure that is prevalent in society today The environment of pleasure and enjoyment, but we know that by faith Moses Chose rather to suffer the affliction with God's people than to enjoy pleasure of sin for a season. That's what somebody that loves the Father does. Not that we aren't tempted, not that we don't fail, not that at times we don't fall short of what God would want us to be, and we come to Him and repent and get forgiveness of that and go back towards God. So sometimes that happens. But as we've said in church many times, it's God is less concerned with where you're at as He is with the direction you're headed. Where are you going? What is it that you're leaving in the past? The world behind me, the cross before me. No turning back, no turning back. The essence of the world, that is the the spirit and the attitude that the world has. One reason I have a hard time watching sports today is because of the the the rotten attitude that the players have. It's it's really frustrating to me when you you you can't make a shot or get a touchdown without doing your own personal dance. You know, you gotta you gotta get some attention beyond having successfully got across the finish line. You've gotta do some kind of a dance. slam the football. You know that used to be a foul or something. They used to call them when they threw the football down like that. You gotta you gotta do all this and and uh to me it's it's a s sign of this worldly spirit. This, this, glorify me, look at me, see what I have accomplished, see what I've done, that essence of this worldly mindset, Galatians 6. 14 says, but God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Glory in him and him alone. We see the equipment of the world, that is the possessions, the things, he says here, the things that are in the world. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Boy, this world is made up of so many things, isn't it? We've got so many things. There's lots of things in this world. There's the fashions of the day and our possessions. Ephesians 5. 11 says, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. Beloved War Warren Wearsby said, anything in our lives that dulls our love for spiritual things that could be looked at as the world. Anything in our lives that dulls Our love for spiritual things. Those are worldly things, and we need to realize the danger that's there. and avoid them, reject them. Then he lists here some desires that are prevalent in the heart of someone who lacks true love for the Father. We all have desires in our heart. Their desires are not in and of themselves necessarily wrong But it's uncontrolled desire. He says here for all that is in the world, and he lists three areas of desire. Those are listed for us. He says the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. is not of the Father, but of the world. He said, these things are not of God. So we see first of all that the desire of the flesh, our flesh, those are things that we feel, that we touch, we taste, we smell, we hear, we see. These are things that impact our flesh and our flesh likes to be pampered. Our flesh likes the things that we like. And there's not, again, not necessarily anything sinful in and of itself to have a desire. You know, you're out working all day and you get to the place where you're like, man, I just want to get a shower. I just want to, you know, I just want to shower and get cleaned up. That's okay. That's not, you know, there's nothing sinful or wrong about that. But uncontrolled desire Desires that go directly against God's will for you, those are sinful desires. And we've got to be careful, beloved, our flesh is never satisfied. That's why it must be controlled. This worldly flesh is never satisfied. You always want more And so you have to, with the Spirit of God, control the flesh. Whatever aspect of the flesh you want to look at. Whether it's the eyes or the hands or or the feet where where you're going, you know, the places I used to go, I don't go there anymore, you know. Things I used to look at, I don't look at anymore, the things I used to do. I th that old children's song. Because now we're under control of the Father, not just being led around by what we want, by our own flesh. You see, desire for food is not bad A good meal, man. A good meal is great. A great crab cake. Awesome. Yeah, the hunts took our family out to dinner and he's like, you gotta try the crab cakes. And I tried the crab cakes. It was good. Delicious. Enjoyable. There's nothing wrong with desiring a good meal. But do you know uncontrolled desire? It's called gluttony. Even with a matter of just something as simple as eating food. Food in itself is not sinful. But you know, uncontrolled desire, and you'll eat yourself into terrible health. You'll destroy the life you have. And you can apply this to any aspect of your life. We're all adults here, pretty close. I see we have uh Eli. He's right there, he's right on the edge. Uh but you know uh this stuff's in the world, so he's gonna hear about it somewhere, but you know, sexual desire is not sinful inside of marriage. It's God's plan. It's God's design. It's perfectly acceptable and should be enjoyed inside of marriage. But outside of marriage, uncontrolled like the world wants to promote today, is sinful. It's wrong. It's not supposed to be fulfilled or met. That need or desire that you have has to be controlled until it can be used inside of the bounds of marriage as God planned. Now, the sins of the flesh are not just moral failure. You might want to, if you have or you make habit of noting in your Bible, you might want to circle that The lust of the flesh and on the edge there put Galatians 5, 19 through 21. I'm not going to take time to teach on these things because we don't have time tonight, but let me just read these to you. This is where we have the works of the flesh are listed for us. He says now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these, idolatry, fornication, uncleanliness, license, uh uh I'm sorry, adultery was the first one. I said idolatry. Idolatry. Witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, rivalies, and such like Of that which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. These are the lust of the flesh. They're listed there for us in Galatians 5, 19 through 21. So the lust of the flesh can manifests itself in a lot of different ways. I know, especially in our sensual-driven society, we look very much at the moral aspect of it. But there are many other areas where the lust of the flesh can be magnified. And if we aren't controlling it, we can get ourselves in trouble Envy, jealousy, strife, those things, driven by this soul flesh that wants to be satisfied or met, right? So then we see secondly here the desire of the eyes, the second aspect of this desire that's listed for us in this verse, he that is the desire to the things that we see. And again, to see things in and of themselves is not necessarily wrong. But you know your sight is what generates the desire. The Bible says your eye affects your heart. I'm really close to pulling a trigger and buying a new camera. I've been shopping. I've been looking. And this week I pulled it up on the iPad and I said, Hey, love of my life. Do you see this? I think we need this. Don't you? Uh and and we we uh talked about it. But what I'm and and there's nothing sinful or wrong about buying this camera. I don't think I'm putting my family in any financial difficulty. We don't have any other debt. We've got nothing else that I mean we can we can we can afford it. We're okay As long as she's in agreement, we're happy about it. We'll do that. I think probably in the next few weeks we're going to order a camera. But you know what? Had I not been looking, had I not seen this particular camera, I wouldn't be buying it right now Because I saw it, I'm like, oh, and then I started looking up more about it, and then I started reading all the specs, and then I started watching YouTube videos about it, and then I And so now I've I yeah, I don't even have it yet, but I've learned all kinds of stuff about this camera. Why? Because of my eye gate. That's why we gotta control our eye gate. What it is that we're looking at. You know, the eye affects the whole body. Matthew 6. 23 says, But if thine eye be evil, the whole body shall be full of darkness. The eye affects the whole body. What we're looking at affects all of us. There are many examples of this in the scriptures. 2 Peter 2. 14 says having eyes full of adultery that they cannot cease from sinning. Eyes that are looking towards things that are wrong. Matthew 5. 28 says, But I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery in his heart already. So men, we've got to control our eyes, not just with regards to morally, but what it is that we're looking at, what is it that we're desiring of. You know, you won't want that new car if you don't see it If you don't if you don't go digging for it, you know Pastor Derek's gone, but every year in budget meeting he always wants us to buy a uh Skid steer. That's on his list every year. It's the the deacons laugh 'cause he it's like, okay, what do we need to fit into the budget? He's like a skid steer, you know. He was always shopping for one. Look, look at what I found. We could get one and this is what it would cost. We we never did pull the trigger for him. Uh the guys were joking that we're gonna buy one this year. Now that he's gone. We're we're not, but uh that would be funny. He would he would have a connection fit You know, just what are we looking at? Of course it creates di desire in us. Control our eyes. Uh of course Job said, I made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I think upon a maid? He's saying, hey, if I'm not seeing it, I ain't gonna be thinking about it Control control our eyes. The eye produces uh the urge In Ecclesiastes, he says that whatsoever my eyes desired, I kept not from them. You see, that's uncontrolled desire. He says, whatsoever desired, I kept not from them. And you know, the theme of Ecclesiastes is vanity and vanity. Yea, all is vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. He says, I fulfilled whatever I saw that I wanted, I gave it to myself. But then you read the whole of Ecclesiastes and you find out he was unhappy and unfulfilled, and he said, none of that met the need that was in my heart. So we've got to control that eye gate so we don't generate those things. And then we see the desire of the heart, that is the pride of life, that that heart desire that's there. And we see that somebody that has this, the pride of life, they have a self-centered focus. I'm going to give you three things about this, the pride of life. It's a self-centered focus. Life is all about them and how they feel. They're seeking after personal attention any way possible. You know, this is one of the real problems, and I would encourage you parents, don't let your children get involved in TikTok. beyond the fact that it's controlled by China, but it's not what kids should be doing. Life should not be all about them. Life should not be all about how many likes I get. You hear of kids being being discouraged and and all depressed because why? Because they didn't get enough likes. because they didn't get enough hits on their video. Because the TikTok, and what this does is it promotes them, it pushes them to do more and more and more things, more and more obscene, more and more dangerous. ultimately to try and get enough views to be the top the top video for a day. For half a day. Boy, they've arrived. 500,000 people that they'll never see, that'll never see their video again, watch their video one day, and now they're a success. It's a drive, it's a worldly mindset that we should not be promoting in our children. You've got to guard them from that. Seeking attention any way possible. Always looking to try and outshine others. Beware, be be cautious of those that always have one better. You know the person that doesn't matter what you're talking about, they have one better. You jumped you jumped over a five-foot rattlesnake and they jumped over a seven-foot rattlesnake, you know I mean how in the w really? It's amazing, you know, or or whatever. You had a car wreck and almost died, and they had two car wrecks and almost died. Or I mean just the one better mentality this is the pride of life making itself visible to you. That self-centered focus, it is a self-sufficient feeling. Self-sufficient feeling, the idea that I don't need anybody. I did this all myself. I pulled myself up by my own bootstraps. I am where I am today because I'm so good at what I do. This is a worldly mentality. Not acknowledging and recognizing the people that helped you get somewhere. Revelation 3, 17 says, Because thou sayest I am rich, it increases goods and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. Many times the people that are fully self-sufficient have no knowledge of really how bad they are. And yet they view themselves as self-sufficient. Proverbs 25, 14 says, Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds without rain. That's pretty descriptive, you know. I hope we have some clouds without rain on Sunday. We get some shade, but no rain. Amen. And that's sometimes you people boasting And it's like clouds without rain. They got lots to say, but don't have much that they really are. This is the pride of life, again making itself visible, and it is a self-righteous frame. It is a self-righteous frame. It's a self-sufficient feeling, and it is a self-centered focus. That self-righteous frame, like the Pharisees, the Pharisees stood and he prayed thus within himself, God, I thank thee that I'm not as other men. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. Romans 10, verse number 3 says, For they being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves into the righteousness of God. You see, this is Satan's plan all the way back in the beginning. We see when in Genesis chapter number three, I believe verse number six, when he tempted Eve. The Bible says there that she saw the food that it was good to eat, that is the lust of the flesh. And she saw it was good to look upon. I don't I don't remember the exact words, but it was fair, or that it was it was sweet to look upon or something. That it was the lust of the eyes. And that it was to make the wise, right, that she would know what God knows, the pride of life. Those three things used to tempt Eve are used today. But here's the real heartbreak. We see in verse number seventeen that all the dedication and commitment that people give to this world is lost. It amounts to nothing. He says, and the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, all the time, all the desire, all the ambition to succeed I mean, you see the the worldly mentality today, the passion that they have for education and how they want to be become so wise. that they can ultimately get such a big position in a job somewhere and and and achieve some great measure of success. And many times they sacrifice their family on the altar of a promotion. But how shallow and empty is all that when you get to retirement age? Doesn't really mean anything. Oh, but I was a success at work. The employees don't even know where you are today. It's gone. It passeth away. All that ambition, all that worldly passion and desire to succeed, I mean I'm not a good person for this because I don't follow sports very good. Some of you could name some sports players from many years gone by. Gus could give us a whole list of them, I know. He's such a worldly guy. But but um you know I it's just it's not a passion of mine. I don't pursue sports a lot But you know what's amazing is after you know they win the Super Bowl, they get a ring and and a few years later, what does it amount to? I mean I think you know I can I remember one, Michael Jordan. All right. So You guys tell me you're laughing. He was re of course we were in I went to college in the Chicagoland area and he was hot when I was in college. He was, you know, the player, right? And uh so all of that and and you know he did a lot. But pretty much, I mean, where is he today? You know my boys, they don't even know who he is. You know, they're talking about LeBron LeBron James and and who's some other ones, guys? Who's some current current guys, you know? It's the new guys, right? Oh, who's the short guy? The short guy Yeah, Stephen Curry. I've seen some stuff by him, but that's they're talking about those guys. What I'm saying is m all the passion and everything that people put into these worldly desires, they fade away. They say fade away so fast, many times, even while we're still here. But we we know ultimately the Bible tells us that it's all gonna burn up. It's all gonna burn up. That rich man that was gonna tear down his barns and build new ones. And God said, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. All that ambition, that big stock portfolio, and all the passion to succeed in this world. And you know what? It's gone. Today you're going to stand before God. It's lost. We know that in the end it's all going to burn up. But he tells us one other thing here. He says, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. We have a promise here that when we do what God wants, again, many of these things in and of themselves are not sin. Until we take them to the point where we put them in front of God. Until we take them to the point where we would pursue that instead of pursue Christ. When their uncontrolled desires, uncontrolled passions, then they become wrong. But when they're controlled and guided by God and submitted to His will? Lord, what do you want me to do with this? There's nothing wrong. God's blessed some of you here financially. When when you know what, if God wants to give uh Bill a couple million dollars I would say praise God. You're tithe, right? Amen. If God wants to give I mean, hey, awesome. Now Bill's talked to me many times. He he just wishes he could do more for God. Just wants to give more to God, wants to be more for God. And you know, if God does that and you're submitted to him with whatever he gives you Lord, it's yours, whatever you want. However you want. It's o it's okay. But when you would rather go earn a dollar than be in church, Then our priorities are wrong. I'm not saying when you when you have no control or no other option and you and you can't do anything else, but when you have the choice, Oh, I could go to church right now, or I could go earn another buck. I could take this side job or whatever. Well it tells you where your heart's at. Because beloved, what we do for the will of God abideth forever, and everything else is going to fade away. You see, when we live for the world, it directly impacts how effectively we can live for God. You know that we only have so much energy? That's a fact. Brother Matt's in church tonight, praise God. Probably left the house around four or five o'clock this morning. Been out working all day. But he's tired right now. You know, we only have so much energy and when we use our energy and hey, we gotta work. We know the Bible's clear. Man, it doesn't you know, provide for his own is worse than an infidel. We've got to work, we've got to do these things. But are they a means to an end or are they the end? But what I'm saying is it dissipates our ability to serve God. Because I only have so much energy, if I spend all my energy in worldly pursuits, when God comes knocking and saying, Hey, could you do this? Boy man, I would love to, but I'm just whooped. I'm just beat. I just don't have another ounce of energy. Why is that? Because I've taken all of the energy that I have and spent it on worldly pursuits. 2 Timothy 2 verse number 4 says, No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. He just says, hey, there's some things that you know sometimes I think we're too entangled entangled with the things of this world and it dissipates our uh ability to serve God. It depletes our available resources. The most valuable resources we have is time. But it depletes our available resources, time, treasure, talent, whatever those resources are, uh when we have spent them. In pursuit of something else. You all know when we're talking about resources that we have limited resources. We know that, right? It's very limited. For most of us here, the choice to buy a camera means we're not going to be able to do something else. The choice to buy this means I don't have funds to do that. Now some people, like Lee, he could buy what he wants and still has funds to go do whatever he wants. But basically for most of us here they're limited resources. And so when we get tied up in the pursuit of the world, we Our resources are depleted. Matthew 4. 19 says, and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches and the lust of other things Entering in choke the word and it become unfruitful. He said these things came in and choked the word out. But beloved, when we live for God, what we do abides forever. You don't lose it. You don't lose it not today or ever. So what do we do? Should we become Amish and move off the grid and live off the land and deny all types of any type of enjoyment or pleasure or or convenience? I don't think so. Now, in about the next five minutes, I want to give you some simple tests to help guide you. And these will be brief. I want to, first of all. The Romans 12, 2 tells us that we should prove what things are good and acceptable. Amen. So there's a test that you can do, and there's some Bible tests you can do for what you should be doing. First of all, there's a test of expediency, and I don't have time to preach on these things, but first Corinthians 6 verse number 12 says, All things are lawful unto me, but not all things are expedient. So there's the test of expediency. Is it expedient? Some things might be okay, but are they the best thing? I have two choices. Which one's the best choice? Might be okay, but am I doing the best? What's expedient? Then you have the test of enslavement Again, 1 Corinthians 6. 12. All things are lawful unto me, but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful unto me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. So you understand, beloved, when we're under the power of something, that means we're not able to be under the power of God, being directed by God, being led by God. That could even be an ambition You know, some people's ambition and desire to succeed is so powerful that they would sacrifice everything else. That's that they're under the control of that personal ambition to accomplish something particular I know of a pastor many, many years ago that loved climbing mountains. And ultimately, he came to the conclusion, he said, I have to stop climbing mountains. Because it takes too much of my time. This is a sex to successfully climb a mountain, you've got to train. You've got to prepare physically. You've got a lot of preparation. You've got to study route. You've got to get help. There's a lot. And he said, it just, it takes too much of my time. Anything sinful about climbing mountains? No. I mean it gets you in shape physically and so on. But he said, you know what? It's consuming me too much. I gotta let it go. So the enslavement. You know what another example, and I've got to hurry, but is I know a young a young man that uh back in the dot-com era that uh was investing And he was doing well. And every day he was investing and his portfolio was growing like crazy. And every morning he would get up and the first thing he would do is he would turn on the computer and go and look at his investments and uh he he was consumed with it. And you know what happened in the dot com area and one night it was all gone. And he he he got up and gave testimony in church. He says, you know, I know I don't know about anybody else, but I know for me that God did that because before I picked up this in the morning, I was opening to check the stock market. I was consumed with it. It was driving me. I was under the power of that desire to become wealthy. And so it can magnify itself in many different ways. So we see the test of enslavement, we see the test of edification, 1 Corinthians 10 23. All things are lawful for me, but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful for me, but all things edify not. So the law of edification. Is it going to edify somebody, or is it just for enjoyment? When we have the choice, what are we going to do? The law of edification. Then we have the test of example. 1 Corinthians 8, verse number 9. He says, But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. We are an example. It might be okay for you to do, but will it cause someone else to stumble? Or better yet, will it cause someone else To be faithful. Is your example going to encourage and motivate people to follow Christ, or is it going to discourage them? Ultimately, dear friend, what we're dealing with here is that age-old saying: the heart of the matter is a matter of the heart. And it's what what is our heart? What's in our heart? The heart of the matter is the matter of heart When Christians should be gracefully looking for God and what pleases him most, many times we're looking for our own desire and what pleases us most. And then we try and find ways to justify it. And say this is acceptable or okay because of this. Instead of just looking at God and saying, God, what do you want? What's going to please you the most? That's what I want to do. And what we must do as Christians is reject the life, beloved the life in which there is no future. Because all those things are going to pass away. It's all going to fade. It's going to be of no value. And ultimately one day it's going to burn up and mean nothing. Then who shall these things be? So he's saying, reject that life and give your life to the Lord Jesus Christ. To do what He wants for you to do. Embrace a life that will last for eternity. Many times people will sacrifice on the altar of the here and now What could be? What ultimately God wants to be We like our cake and we want to eat it too, right? We want it now. The example of a child, you ask them, do you want a dollar today or do you want ten dollars on Sunday? Most of them are going to say a dollar right now. Until they've learned a few things. Then they start, well let's see, that's uh three days away. I'll take ten dollars on Sunday. Uh good, good a good thing to learn. That but a lot of times people would rather enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season Then to reap the benefit and the blessing of yielding themselves to God and being what God wants them to be and having things in their life that will last for an eternity. They sacrifice what God would have, all that God could do in their life for a little bit right now. But if we're going to be successful, we need to reject that worldly life. I'm going to ask the