Looking forward to studying God's Word together this evening. If we're in First Kings, we're going to look at a couple of passages kind of to lay the groundwork But if you've been following along with the reading program we're doing that's being emailed out to Church Family or that we passed out in booklet form at the beginning of the year, we're we're reading through 1 Kings. And as I was reading this week, this passage in particular caught my attention. The Lord gave me an outline out of this passage. And since I was preaching uh this week and reading it this week, I thought it would pair very very well together. But we're reading about Solomon. Uh beginning of 1 Kings is about Solomon and how Solomon came into the kingship, uh what God did with him, how God built up the kingdom, and ultimately leading to uh the end of his reign and it being transferred over to his son. and the events that followed that. 1 Kings 11, we'll be focusing on this evening, but we won't be starting there. We'll be starting in 1 Kings chapter 2 Chapter 3, but we we'll be getting there to chapter 11. But chapter 11 records the end of Solomon's reign as the king of Israel He ruled over Israel in what we could call Israel's golden age. Uh the kind of if you if you will the Israeli Empire uh stage of world history. Israel was was predominant in world history during the time of Solomon. It became a national power, uh a global power at the time. He had alliances that he formed with other kingdoms, other nations. Unprecedented pre peace and prosperity all took place as um as Solomon was ruling over the nation of Israel. This golden age or this this time of peace and prosperity that they enjoyed with Solomon as the as the king of Israel goes back to a promise that God made to Solomon as a young king. And we see this in 1 Kings chapter 3. We're familiar with the story, but I'd like to read it as we begin this morning to get our mind uh just just reminded of who Solomon was. and what God did with and through Solomon. So 1 Kings chapter 3, a rather lengthy passage of scripture, but thir verses 3 down through verse number 14. And Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of David his father. Only he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places. And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. A thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon that altar. In Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy according as he walked before thee in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee, and thou hast kept for him this great kindness, that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne as it is this day. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father, and I am but a little child. I know not how to go out or to come in And thy servant is in the midst of thy people, which thou hast chosen, a great people that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may be And the speech pleased the Lord. That Solomon had asked this thing. And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life, neither hast thou asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies, but has hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment. Behold, I have done according to thy words. Lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart, so that there is none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all thy days. And if thou walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did walk, then will I lengthen thy days. So God appears to Solomon. That's important in this passage. We'll see it referenced in chapter eleven that God appeared to Solomon at this point and came to him and presented to him Because of Solomon's heart, because of Solomon's pursuit of God, and we see that Solomon made this great sacrifice at Gibeah, and God says, well, what do you want? You've given something to me. Is there something that I can give to you? And Solomon entreats of the Lord and says, Well, look, I don't know what I'm doing. And uh and I need wisdom to be able to judge the people. I need a wise and understanding heart. And God says, Well, you could have asked for all these things. a long life, for riches, for peace from your enemies. These things that you could have asked for, but you instead asked for wisdom, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to give it to you. And I'm going to give you the things that you didn't ask for. I'm going to give you riches. I'm going to give you honor. I'm going to The peace But then the the one, long life, he put a condition on. He said, as long as you walk in my ways, as long as you follow my judgments, I'll give you the long life as well. So s God met with Solomon, and we see it was because of Solomon's heart and Solomon's pursuit of the Lord. Of course Solomon wasn't perfect, but he was pursuing God. He loved God and he walked in the commands of his father. And in the midst of all these blessings that God promised to Solomon, he gave him a requirement in verse 14, If thou wilt walk in my ways to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did walk, then I will lengthen thy days. God promised to extend the reign and the life of Solomon if Solomon continued to walk in the way that pleased the Lord. Solomon had the Lord appear to him again a second time in 1 Kings chapter 9. Let's go there. 1 Kings chapter 9. So God appears first to Solomon. at Gibeon after the sacrifice. Then we see the second appearance of the Lord take place in chapter 9, verses 1 through 5. It came to pass when Solomon had finished Building of the house of the Lord, and the king's house, and all Solomon's desire which he was pleased to do, that the Lord appeared to Solomon the second time as he had appeared to him at Gibeon. And the Lord said unto him, I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication that thou hast made before me, and I have hallowed this house which thou hast built, to put my name there for ever, and mine eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually And if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, in integrity of heart and in uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded thee. and will keep my statutes and my judgments, then I will establish the throne of thy kingdom upon Israel forever, as I promised to David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man upon the throne of Israel. So we see here again after Solomon makes a sacrifice, then he dedicates the temple that the Lord appeared to him this second time And the Lord reaffirms this covenant that he had made, or this promise he had made. If you do this, here's what I will do for you. I'll give you the long life. I'll give you the throne. You'll be able to reign uh as a king of Israel, just like I promised to your father David, all you have to do is to continue on the path that you're on, walking with me, doing what's right, pursuing God from your heart. So twice he appeared to Solomon. It's something that God notes and reminds us of in chapter 11, which is where we're going to be for most of the rest of the message. So we can go there, chapter 11, verses 9 and 10. Verses nine and ten says, And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned from the Lord God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice. And he had commanded him, and he c and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods, but he kept not which the Lord commanded. So as we get to chapter 11, this is describing the end of Solomon's reign as king. God says, I've come to Solomon, and I'm not pleased with his behavior at this point of his life. He c the first two times God came to Solomon, he was pleased, and he mentions that I've been to him twice, and I talked to him twice, I appeared to him twice, and I commended him for what he was doing. commended him to go on the way he was going, gave him precious promises about if he continued in the path that I that he was on, but he he he went astray. At some point um Solomon fell from greatness. Here is a man that God had used, that God had blessed, that God had elevated, and that God had honored, and in chapter 11 he loses all of that. The kingdom goes in one generation from a global power under the next king to be a divided kingdom. So quickly things start to fall apart. A divided kingdom, a country that's headed for bondage and destruction. And this pat this chapter, chapter 11, gives us the pattern that Solomon followed, from being the wisest man who ever lived, to being a pagan idolater. We see Solomon go from being the man who built the most beautiful temple to the Lord to a man who built high places and altars for hundreds of false gods. Solomon was a man who watched the glory of God fill the temple, yet he became a man who offered his children as burnt sacrifices to false gods. We'll see in this chapter how did this happen? How did Solomon fall from greatness and go from chapter 3 and chapter 9 to chapter 11? What was the path? What was the pattern? What brought him to that point? See, God wants us as Christians to have a great relationship with him. God wants us to walk in his ways. God wants us to follow his instruction. God wants us to live in his statutes. God wants us to walk with him on a daily basis. You see this desire throughout the Word of God You look at somebody like Enoch. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. You see you see the other men that Moses, he saw God face to face, that that Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord that The Lord said of Job, Hast thou considered my servant Job? Look at these people that God points out and says, These are men that walked with me. These are men that had a great relationship with me, and we look at these people in the Old Testament and say, Well I could never I could never be like that. Well that's why we're given James where James says Elijah was a man subject to like passions as we are. He's gone through the same stuff that you do, but he was a man that pleased God. And you can live a life that pleases God. You can have this great relationship with God, but you can also lose that. You can follow a pattern in your life that will cause you, like Solomon, to fall from greatness. And we're going to see what caused Solomon to do this, the steps that took place in his life to bring him from a man who walked with God, who pursued God, to a man who the Lord was angry with. And what was the pattern that he went through in his life. So we're going to read as our text passage, and know we've looked at a lot of scripture already, but as our text passage tonight 1 Kings chapter 11, verses 1 through 4. If you have your place and you're able to, I'd ask you to stand with me as we read our text passage, these four verses, and uh ask the Lord to bless the rest of the message. 1 Kings 11, verses 1 through 4, but King Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh. women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, and Hittites, of the nations concerning which the Lord had said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go in to them. Neither shall they come in unto you, for surely they will turn your heart away after their gods. Solomon, clave unto these in love. And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines, and his wives turned away his heart. For it came to pass when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods. And his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of his fa of David his father. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord, we love you. God, we thank you for your word. Lord, the truths that are found in it, the examples that were given, we get to look at the stories of these men. We don't just get the highlights, we get to see the mistakes that they made. And your word tells us that they're there for our example. I pray we would learn from the example of Solomon tonight that our lives would not go down a path that takes us from being great. in our walk with you, Lord, to having turned our heart away from you. Lord, let us learn from Solomon's example in these passages. Lord, we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, maybe seated So we see Solomon. Solomon, a man who pursued God, who loved God, who was after God's heart, like his father was, he had his heart for the Lord. And we see a shift that takes place. We see it right here in the first couple words, but King Solomon of chapter 11. But King Solomon. That just gripped my attention as I was reading this passage a few days ago. But King Solomon, there's a change that happened and and we'll look at where that came from and what transition is being described there from the previous chapter. But it's a drastic mark in his life that this is the moment that things started to go wrong for King Solomon. It it wasn't at it wasn't at the thousandth marriage. It wasn't at the the the time where he he had offered his next child to Molech as a sacrifice. There was a moment where he said, this is God said, this is where Solomon's heart turned away from me. This is where he started going a different direction. This is where things changed in the life of Solomon. If we can if we can be aware of that moment and we can guard against it in our lives, we don't have to follow the same pattern. that Solomon did. So in the first couple verses of this chapter, I see the first thing we need to be aware of, and that's about concerning our affections. Our affections. It was Solomon's affections that drew him away from God. See, Solomon's destruction did not come all of a sudden. He wasn't walking with God one day and ending up deep in sin the next. It was something that progressed over time. This is the way that sin always works. Often sin will be revealed all of a sudden But there's always a pattern of wrong choices that lead to that moment when the sin comes to light, when it comes to the surface, when When something is uh someone's life is destroyed or ministry is destroyed or a marriage is destroyed. Yes, it seems to erupt all of a sudden, but there's a pattern leading up to that, so the decision that that ended up in the explosion happened a long time ago. And the same was true in Solomon's life and is traced back to his affections. I was listening to a sermon this morning. The preacher was talking about how he had a book, a book that had been compiled of all the sermons that were preached at the second Sword of the Lord conference. So our Lord Conference, a very big conference. It's been going on for a lot of years, uh, but in the beginning it was the biggest uh fundamental uh Baptist uh conference in in in the country Where people get together, great men of God would get there and they would preach and he had these sermons and he said he he recently took the book and he looked through it and he saw who preached At his conference, great strong men of God that that walked with God that knew God that and he looked and said, Where are they today? And he didn't give any names, but he started to describe how how one man had had come to the point where he had apologized uh for his preaching and and the the harsh stands that he took to the point where he said he apologized to the Pope and said that the Pope was a good man of God. This is a man who is one day one day serving as a fundamental independent Baptist pastor, preaching in a conference to other preachers, and gets to this point in his life later in his ministry. There was another man who ended up in the place the o um or s he who had defrauded uh through his church, the government of taxes, and he destroyed the church that had been running three thousand, and he completely destroyed the church, closed its doors Uh we had there's another man who had compromised his Bible college in order to receive government money. Stop teaching creation in a Bible college because the government said he couldn't do it. uh so how he had compromised this way. He gave another example of a man who had was had preached in this conference, who had left his wife and the ministry and gone into insurance sales. And you see these well what happened? What went wrong Well, at some point along the line, something got their affection. Something got their affection. The affection that belonged to God. Where we love God and we love the things of God, something else started to steal that affection and that affection once it's stolen starts putting you on the wrong direction and that's what happened in the life of Solomon. These men did not completely change overnight. They allowed influences desires, ambition, and compromise to slowly change them into something unrecognizable. If you were to compare the man in 1 Kings 3 That loved the Lord, that offered a thousand sacrifices to the Lord. Compare him with the man in 1 Kings chapter 11. There's not much that's the same. He's got the same name, but he's got a different heart. And something has happened over the course of time. And they have basically nothing in common because over time he allowed his affection to change him What started Solomon on his fall from greatness was the wrong affections. We saw verse 1 here, but King Solomon loved many strange women. There's a contrast here that's given. He says that this is what's going on, but at the same time this is happening. Here's what's going on in Solomon's heart. What's being referred to is 1 Kings chapter 10. First Kings chapter ten, the end of the chapter describes the wealth of the nation of Israel under the reign of King Solomon. You could read the whole chapter and see amazing, amazing wealth that was there, but it's kind of summarized In verses 23 and 24 of chapter 10. Says there in 23, so King Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches and wisdom. And all the earth sought to Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart. So you see, all the wealth, all the wisdom, all the power, all the influence that King Solomon had You look at the outside and just see, wow, the kingdom of Israel is doing great. King Solomon is on top of the world. Things are so good. And if you read those verses and then just jump into chapter 11, you see the contrast God's trying to make So King Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches and wisdom. And all the earth sought to Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God has put in his heart. But King Solomon Loved many strange women. You look on the outside and wow, everything's great. Wow, things are going so well. Wow, God is blessing this man. God is blessing this nation. On the surface, everything looked really good, but something was going wrong. in Solomon's heart. You couldn't tell from the outside. King Solomon was there and another king would come to him and would be impressed with the blessing of God and the nation. Would hear the wisdom that God had granted to King Solomon and be amazed at that. The Queen of Sheba had visited him and said, Wow, the half has not even been told. But King Solomon had something else going on in his heart. Everything looked good on the outside. He was putting on a good show, but the Lord didn't have his affection anymore. His affections were going somewhere else. It looked like God's blessings were on his life, but in his heart he had the wrong affections. What made these the wrong affections? What was so wrong? Well obviously what's going on in Solomon's life is wrong, but what was it about these affections that were wrong, we see first of all they went against God's word. Look in verse number two of Hebrews or sorry, First Kings eleven. Verse number two. Of the nations, so this is the women he loved. They were of the nations concerning which the Lord had said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go into them, neither they shall they come unto you. Which the Lord had said. You have the word of God. Here's what God told them to do. God had given some instructions. God had given us some hands and said, don't go after these things. Don't be interested in these things. Don't build a relationship with these people. Don't build, and it was specifically tied to marriage with the children of Israel and the commands here, but don't go after these things. That was the word of God, and Solomon ignored the word of God. When it came to his affections. They were wrong because they had gone against God's commands. They were forbidden by God, yet Solomon developed an affection for them. As Christians, we should never allow ourselves to develop an affection for things that God has said no. If God said no, I shouldn't be interested in it. I shouldn't be curious about it. I shouldn't be wondering, well what would it be like? What would it what would it be like to have that, to do that, to enjoy that, to to watch that, to listen to that, uh to know what's going on in the situation, to go to these places I shouldn't have stir in my heart an affection because I'm not allowed to have those things. You're just setting yourself up for failure when you allow your heart to go after something that God says you can't have. And we need to guard we need to stop it at the affection level. And because yes, it it's it's a lot worse and we've gone into sin when we go after and we do the thing God set out to do, but when we allow that affection to be cultivated in our hearts, we're putting ourselves on a path to do what God said don't do. Young people, you will never marry an unsaved person if you never date an unsaved person. Simple simple truth. You will not end up in a marriage where you want to go to church and your husband does not, where you want to go to church and your wife does not. Where you want your children to love God and your spouse to not. You'll never end up in that situation if you don't date someone who's not saved. That's just a very practical example of the situation we're talking about here. Don't develop an affection for something that God said no. And there's lots of other things that we could apply this to, but when we allow our heart to go after something, well I'm not gonna do it. Well I'm not gonna I'm not gonna actually do something that's wrong. I just I just like to think about it. I just like to wonder what things. No, you're allowing an affection to develop, and that affection is going to pull you in that direction And that's what happened to to Solomon. It didn't start with him marrying a thousand women. That wasn't he's like, all right, today I'm gonna just blow everything for the nation, we're gonna have a huge wedding, thousand ladies come. That's not where it started. It started with him in a meeting with the king, and he saw the daughter over there. Said, wow, she's a good-looking girl. And uh and I wonder what it'd be like to. Well, I know God said not to, I'm not gonna marry her, but I'll just I'll just enjoy the view for a little while. And he let the affection develop in his heart, and the affection began to affect him So these are wrong affections because they went against the Word of God. Nothing can ever take control of your life and bring spiritual destruction if you don't allow it to start. If God said no, stay away from it. So these affections they went against God's word. They also went against God's warning. Read the rest of verse number two. In verse number two, it says, For surely they will turn your heart away after their gods. And surely they'll turn your heart away after their gods. God, when God tells us to do something, He doesn't owe us an explanation As a parent with children, uh you you hate to hear that word why. And you don't say no, you don't say why, you say yes sir. Because I told you to do it, that's why enough. Now as they grow older you can give them explanations for things, but especially when they're younger. Dad's word, mom's word, that's law. You just say yes, ma'am, you say yes, sir, and you do it. You don't get to ask why. And as Christians, we should have that absolutely as God. God said it. I don't need a why. But God gave us a why. God gave the children of Israel why He said, hey, don't do this. Here's why. Because here's what's going to happen if you do. Here's the results if you allow this affection to begin in your life. He said, Surely they will turn your heart away after their gods. God warned what would happen when these relationships were tolerated and allowed. He tells them, Your heart's going to be turned away from me You'll go after their idols. We look at other passages where God describes this in the in the first couple books of the Bible. He says, They're going to pull you after strange gods, and I'm going to kick you out of the land. And you're not going to enjoy my blessings. You're going to be turned away from following my people. They had the word of God. They had the warning of God. They had the examples of the generations that had gone before them. And in spite of all that, Solomon allowed this affection. To build up in his heart, build up in his life for things that God had forbidden. Solomon made excuses for his affections. Regardless of what God said, there was something different that Solomon felt. And the verse 2 says, Solomon clave unto these in love. But I love them. Doesn't matter. What did God say? But I feel this way. Doesn't matter. What did God say? We as Christians aren't supposed to live our lives based on how we feel. That's not how we make decisions. We don't go off of feelings, we go off of what did God say about it. If we're following our heart or we're following our feelings, we will go astray. Because our heart's deceitful. What does that mean? It wants to trick you. So if we follow our heart, we follow our emotions, we follow our feelings, that's going to cause us to go the wrong direction, and Solomon did Solomon allowed an affection to melt, and then he followed his affection, and we see the affection affected his actions. That's the second thing we see. So we see the wrong affections, and that leads to the wrong actions. Verse number four. For it came to pass, when Solomon is old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods. And his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart. of David his father. Just like what God said. You do this, you allow this affection, it's going to happen, and your heart's going to be turned away from me, and then you're going to reap all of the fruit of those actions as a result. We see that the wrong act affections have turned into the wrong actions. This is a pattern we see throughout the Bible. Proverbs chapter 23, verse 27 says, For as he thinketh in his heart So is he. What's going on in here is going to come out here. That's again emphasized in James four verse one. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not even hence of your lust that war in your members? All the stuff coming on out here comes from in here. And Matthew chapter fifteen, verse number nineteen, for out of the heart proceedeth evil thought, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. Actions, wrong actions, come from inside. Wrong affections, wrong attitudes, wrong thinking. That always results in wrong actions. And that happened with Solomon. He allowed his affection to turn sinful affection to turn into sinful action. Solomon's sin had caused him to reject God. We see this verse that tells us that his wives had turned his heart away from following God. He no longer had a heart. like David, his father. Solomon made many mistakes prior to this, but his heart was still in pursuit of God before he allowed his affections to get off track. Where we started in 1 Kings 3, verse number 3, it says, Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of David his father, only he sacrifice and burnt incense in high places. God says Solomon's doing this right. He loved the Lord. He's walking in the status of his father. Now he was offering sacrifices in high places. This is a fault. This is something that Solomon was doing, and maybe he didn't know any better, that he was he was sacrificing to God, but he wasn't doing it in the right place. But God didn't excuse that, but God saw his heart and his motive and saw that Solomon was headed in the right direction. Now God came and met with Solomon when Solomon made those sacrifices at Gibeon. Gibeon was where the tabernacle was. God says, hey, this young man, he's pursuing me. He's got some problems still. He's got some things he needs to work out. He's got some rough edges, but he's headed the right direction. And when Solomon got to the point where he's worshiping God the right way in the right place, God says, Okay, I'm going to meet with this guy and I'm going to bless his life. So God saw that and saw the direction that Psalm was headed, even though there were some things that were off. Even though there were some things that Solomon affects, his heart was pursuing the Lord, and God saw that. God saw and he commented on the pure heart of Solomon even when everything was not perfect in his life and worship. You know, at our church we say in our welcome statement that God's not as concerned with where you are as he is with where you're headed And as a young man, Solomon, he had some stuff that was wrong. He had some stuff that needed fixed, but he was headed in the right direction. And he had a heart that was pursuing God But as his direction began to shift to pursue what God had forbidden, his heart turned away from following his God as well His young man is pursuing God, he loved God, he wanted to please God, and then his affections got over here. And yeah, he's trying to maintain them both. Well, I'll I'll hold on to these affections while I keep following God, but the affections won out and his heart turned away from following God. Because his affections started to affect. His actions. God did not reject Solomon as king until his heart was turned from following God. He allowed his affections to change his actions in many areas. Sin had built up in his life until he got to the point where he was rejecting God. Look back in chapter ten, verse number twenty six There it says in that verse, Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen. He had a thousand and four hundred chariots and twelve thousand horsemen. whom he had bestowed in the cities for chariots, with the king at Jerusalem. Notice in verse twenty-eight where he got these horses. Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt. So Solomon he had begun to multiply to himself horses, specifically horses from Egypt. Also, verse number 27. And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars to be as the sycamore trees that are in the vale for abundance. Money flowed like water. He multiplied to himself gold and silver. He multiplied to himself horses, and we see in chapter eleven verse three, he multiplied to himself wives So he did these three things, multiplied horses, multiplied silver, multiplied wives. Why did God point these three out? Well, because of Deuteronomy chapter 17 In Deuteronomy chapter seventeen, God told the nation of Israel, You are going to get to the point when you're in the land that you're going to reject me as as ruler over you're going to say, Give us a king like the other nations. And I'm going to set him up. But when I give you a king, here's what you need to look for. Here's what you need to have in a king. Here's what a king needs to do. Verses sev fifteen to seventeen of Deuteronomy chapter 17 Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee, whom the Lord thy God shall choose. One from among thy brethren shalt thou set king over thee. Thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thy brother. But He shall not multiply horses to himself. Or cause the people to return to Egypt to the end that he might multiply horses. Don't multiply horses, as the king, and don't get them from Egypt And Solomon did. Forasmuch as the Lord saith unto you, ye shall henceforth return no more that way. Neither shall ye multiply wives to himself. That his heart turn not away. Neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold. See, Solomon had allowed a pattern in his life to build up of rejecting God's Word. Saying when God's word says this, well this is what I want. God's word says no multiplication of gold, well I want lots of gold. God says no horses from Egypt, well I want horses from Egypt God says, no multiplying yourself wives, especially those of other other nations, well that's what I want. And he got to the point where he was building a pattern of allowing his affections to affect his actions and he was turning no turning his back on the word of God, which caused him caused him to turn his back on God as well. He'd built this pattern in his life of rejecting God's law, and his rejection of God's law led to a rejection of God Himself. So we see this pattern. We have the affections of Solomon, we have it affecting his actions, and then we see in verse 9 the anger of the Lord The anger of the Lord at the way that Solomon was living in verse nine of chapter eleven, the Lord was angry with Solomon because his heart was turned from the Lord God of Israel. which had appeared unto him twice. Verse ten, and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods, but he kept not that which the Lord commanded. Solomon allowed his wrong affections to lead to the wrong actions, and he stirred up the anger of the Lord against him. Now we dealt with this some this last week in Sunday school, talking about presumptuous sins and the fact that God will Bring chastisement on your life when you sin and you reject His law in your life. God will judge His children for this disobedience. You will suffer for your sin. Sin has consequences. Some of these are natural consequences. You know, God when He created the world, He built into the world this pattern of sowing and reaping. It's called the law of reciprocity. You plant a tomato, you're going to grow tomatoes. You plant corn, you're going to grow corn. You sow to the flesh, you shall of the flesh reap corn You sow the spirit, you shall reap life everlasting. This pattern is built in. So when you're sowing sin in your life, you're going to reap the consequences of that sin. And so as we look at Solomon, this is just a given that he's sowing the sin and he's going to reap the consequences of those sin sins. Think of it of the sins that we just described. He was multiplying to himself gold This led to the rebellion of the nation under his son. They came to his son and said, Hey, your father was being too hard on us. He was requiring too much of us. You lighten the load. And his son said, No, I want to make it heavier. And they said, Well, we're leaving then And the nation divided and it traces it back to Solomon's love for gold. And him multiplying it to himself. We see that see that that consequence came out because of his actions. What about multiplying to himself horses? This also led to the nation rejecting his son as the king. Because they said, Our service, the service that you require of us is too heavy. You're taking our sons and you're putting them in your army. Make our burden lighter, and his son said no, and the kingdom again was divided, a consequence of his sin, Solomon's sin. What about multiplying to himself wives? Can you imagine what Solomon's home life looked like? He reaped a lot of consequences for allowing his affections to control his decisions. When anyone sins, they will suffer consequences of their sin. I remember hearing a story of a uh of a reporter doing these interviews. She was walking through a small town and saw an older gentleman on his porch. Very very older looking gentleman, stopped and talked to him and said, What's your secret? What's the secret to your life? um and and how you live and and things of of how you have you maintained your health. He says, Well I just do whatever I want. I drink as much as I want, I smoke as much as I want, I eat whatever I feel like and said, that's amazing. How old are you? He said, twenty-five He'd reap the consequences of allowing his life to to be lived that way where he looked like he was in his eighties as a twenty-five-year-old. Sin brings about consequences. And it always you're going to reap when you sow. What you sow, you are going to reap. We see this described in lots of places in the Bible. One example that um is uh kind of kind of uh current in the in the news We see in Romans 127. Romans 127 says, Likewise also the men, leaving their natural use to the women, burn in their lust one toward another, men with men. working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meet. He says they did this sinful action And they've received the consequences. Those consequences are there in themselves. This is just one example, but it's one that's current today. But monkeypox is the consequence of sin. And it's described for us here in Romans chapter 1. Monkeypox is in the Bible. Right here described is when you do this sin, you're going to in yourself reap a consequence that's appropriate for the action. And that's what God said. When someone participates in the sin of sodomy, they will receive in themselves the appropriate consequence for that sin. But this holds true for any sin. When we reject God's plan for our own desires, we will receive appropriate consequences. for our actions. That's what God has built into creation itself. So sin has natural consequences. Sin also has spiritual consequences. We see in this sin in particular with Solomon that there it resulted in a loss of blessing. And this can happen to us as well as we go into sin. We reject what God wants for what we want. We're going to lose God's blessing on our life. The Lord was going to take the kingdom away from Solomon. The blessings that he enjoyed that God had promised in chapters 3 and chapter 9, they were conditional blessings. You can have all this if If you do this, then I'll do this. If you follow this way, then this is what I'll do. God gave conditional promises and conditional blessings to Solomon, and when Solomon didn't live up to his end of the deal, he lost the blessings of God. God gave Solomon a lot of grace. But at some point, God had enough. And he took his blessing off of Solomon's life We see that spiritual consequences result in a loss of blessing may also result in discipline from the Lord. God was going to punish Solomon for his sin. You know, God chastens every one of his children. There's lots of ways that God's chastening can be revealed or can in many forms that it can take. I don't try when I'm looking at somebody to say, whoa, look at that, God's really dealing with them. I don't try to look at somebody else's life and say, look, I can see that God's chastening them. But they usually know for themselves. If you ask yourself, why is this happening to me? And there's still a small voice that well because you're doing this, that's the Holy Spirit. And He's giving you the answer to your question of why you're being chastened, chastened by the Lord. But God will chasten and God will correct those of us who are doing uh doing wrong. So a loss of loss of uh blessing, we see the discipline of God. We also see a loss of protection take place in this passage as well. Solomon up to this point had experienced unparalleled peace during his reign. And God gave him this peace on purpose, for a purpose. God gave it to him for a reason. I'm going to give you a peaceful reign why in 1 Kings 5, verses 3 through 5 we see the reason. Thou knowest that David, my father, could not build a house. unto the name of the Lord his God, for the worst which are about him on every side, until the Lord put them under the soles of his feet. But now the Lord my God hath given me rest on every side, so that there is neither adversary nor evil occurrent And behold, I purpose to build a house unto the name of the Lord my God. As the Lord spake unto David my father, saying, Thy son, whom I will set upon thy throne, thy throne in thy room, he shall build a house unto my name. God gave Solomon peace on purpose so that Solomon could build the temple. And Solomon enjoyed that peace until he rejected God. And when he rejected God, God took his hand of protection off of King Solomon. The reason that the kings were not to multiply to themselves horses was so they wouldn't depend on their own military force and they would instead depend on God. But regardless of the fact that Solomon had a huge, uh a well-armored military force. As soon as God took his hand of protection away, didn't matter how many horses Solomon had. You need the Lord's protection no matter how how well off you how how well off you are, or how stable you are, how secure you are When you look at something like finances, it's it's a good thing to have an emergency fund, to plan for emergencies, but God can take away emergency funds like that if he wants to. You need to find your stability in the Lord and you need to stay under the Lord's protection. Solomon, he had the horses. He had the chariots, but as soon as God said, okay, I'm taking my protection away, Solomon was in trouble. This brings us to our next point. We saw the affections of Solomon that led to his actions brought about the anger of the Lord, and part of the anger of the Lord was the adversaries. rose up against King Solomon. Look in verses fourteen, twenty-three, and twenty-six. And the Lord stirred up an adversary unto Solomon. Fourteen we also have verse twenty-three. And God stirred up another adversary. And verse 26. And Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, at the end of the verse, he lifted up his hand against the king. As soon as God's protection was gone, adversaries rose up. There were adversaries to come to go against the rule of King Solomon. This was Hadad, Rezon, and Jeroboam were these three adversaries that God raised up. God stirred up for them to begin to oppress. Solomon. Oppression can only come to one of God's children if God allows it. God removed his protection from Solomon and allowed his enemies to go after him. We remember the story of Job, where God j Satan couldn't do anything to Job until God says, Okay, you can do it. And so God had to give that permission. And so we look at this and see that this adverse adversary is They can have victory only if God allows them to do so. We need to seek to stay under the protection of God. Now, sometimes God allows those trials to come into our lives to test our faith, as with the case of Job, but I want to live my life under the protection of God Because we as believers have adversaries as well. It's interesting that the word adversary, if you look it up in the Hebrew, it's the word Satan. If you transliterate it, it's S-A-T-A-N. That is the adversary described in this passage. It says he had an adversary. It's the word Satan. The enemy. The enemy of God. Satan is the enemy of God, and by extension, he's the enemy of every Christian. We're warned about him in Ephesians 6. 12, for he wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. First Peter five eight. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary The devil walketh about as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Satan would love to see you, your family, your kids, your church, any of it. He'd love to see it destroyed. And it's the power of God that protects you from his attack. We see an example of this in Malachi. We often use this verse when we talk about giving, but there's a verse in Malachi chapter 4, verse 11. Um three verse eleven where it says, And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, that he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground Those that give to God through tithes and offerings are promised by God that He will rebuke the devourer. God holds back the attacks of Satan from believers. Again, this doesn't mean you'll never be attacked for doing right, but as Christians do wrong, you open yourself to further attack because you're living outside of God's protection. Solomon was forced to deal with adversaries because his sin removed God's protection from his life. The adversaries come, and then we see the next thing that happened in Solomon's life, and that was affliction. Verse number 39. And I will for this afflict the seed of David. I will for this afflict the seed of David. This is David receiving God's chastening. This is or sorry, Solomon. This is Solomon receiving God's chasing, receiving God's discipline, affliction came into the life of Solomon because his wrong act affections led to wrong actions. The anger of the of the Lord was a result, there was the arrival of the adversaries, and now affliction. In verse 39, he says, for this, or for this cause, there's a reason. What's the reason that God allowed affliction to come unto the seed of David, to come to Solomon? We see the cause in verse number 33. Verse number thirty three says, Because they have forsaken me, and they worshiped false gods. They have not walked in my ways They did not do that which was right in my eyes. They did not keep my statutes and my judgments. They didn't follow the example of David, his father. This list of reasons is given why did God afflict him? Why did God punish him? Well, because Solomon had forsaken God. Because Solomon no longer walked in the Lord's ways. Solomon was no longer doing what was right. He was no longer following God's law. He had rejected godly leadership and godly examples And that put him to a place where God says, okay, I'm going to bring affliction into his life. The result was they were afflicted by God. You see this pattern of this fall from greatness, of a man who walked with God, who pursued God, who loved God, but he got some wrong affections. And those affections started to affect his actions. And then we see the fruit that resulted, the things that he reaped because of what he was sowing. But in spite of all this was going on in Solomon's life, there's one thing that prevails in the background, and I've called the allegiance. In verses 34 through 36, we see it, God say, howbeit, I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand. But I will make him a prince all the days of his life, for David, my servant's sake, whom I chose because he kept my commandments and my statutes. But I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand, and I will give it to thee, even ten tribes. God in the midst of all that's going on, God said, You know what, I made some promises. And no matter what Solomon's doing, I'm keeping my end of the bargain that I made with his father. I'm keeping my covenants. I'm keeping my promises. And you know what? As Christians, God's given us some promises, and He's going to always hold up His end of the deal. That doesn't give us the excuse to go off and do whatever we want. But we know that no matter how faithful or unfaithful we are to God, God always remains faithful to us As much as Solomon had turned his heart 180 degrees from following God, God says, I remember the promises that I made to him and I made to his dad, and I'm going to keep my promises. I'm going to be faithful even when he's not. And that's the God that we serve. In every chastening of the Lord, there's always mercy that's present at the same time. God made promises that are not dependent on Solomon, and He made promises that are not dependent on us, that are dependent upon the Lord. When we fail to be faithful to God, He's always faithful to us. You will encounter chastening when you're unfaithful to God, but with every chastening, God has mercy. But it's so much better if we don't have to go through this whole cycle to begin with. You as a Christian don't have to fall from greatness. You can maintain that fellowship, that walk, that pursuit of the Lord that Solomon had in chapters 3 and chapter 9. You can have a walk with God that's vibrant and enjoy his full blessings and his relationship. But to do so, you have to guard your affections. And you have to guard your actions if you want to stay right with God. Not every sin leads to a major catastrophe. Praise the Lord. Uh if if I can't my life was destroyed every time I messed up, I wouldn't be here today. So praise the Lord for His grace. Not every sin leads to a major catastrophe, but get this, every major catastrophe can be traced back to a sin. There was somewhere where it started. There was somewhere where things went wrong. Just as Solomon, look at all that God's doing in Solomon's life, Solomon's kingdom. But In Solomon's heart, something went wrong. While everything else was going on in Solomon's heart, there's something that started to go wrong. You could trace the destruction of the kingdom back to the desire in the heart of Solomon. Just because you missed your devotions today does not mean that you'll be a reprobate a year from now. But every reprobate began as a Christian that started missing his devotions. Just because you decided to be unfaithful to the house of God one week doesn't mean you're going to depart from the faith. But everyone who departed from the faith started as someone It was unfaithful to the house of the Lord. What am I saying is not not every not every sin that you mess up today, that doesn't mean your life is over. But it i if you end up at the place where your life and your testimony is destroyed, it's because you messed up back here So we need to guard ourselves back here. When my heart starts to pursue things that don't please the Lord, when there's something that God has said no, and that my heart says that I want, I have to go back to what God said instead of what I feel I guard my affections, I don't have to end up over here. I don't have to end up in chapter eleven if I can keep my heart right back in chapter three and chapter nine and chapter ten. Solomon was destroyed because the affections that affected his actions that led to the chastening of the Lord Guard your affections and guard your actions. Remain faithful to the Lord. In doing so, you will avoid a fall from greatness. If you're here today, we'll go into a moment of imitation in a moment. I'll give you three examples. uh to consider of how this can apply. You as a Christian and you say, well today I I feel like my heart's in the right place and I'm pursuing the Lord. Maybe you want to ask God to help you to guard those affections. To search your heart and say, God, is there anything that my heart's pursuing that's not pleasing to you? Because I want to get that dealt with now. Maybe you've already started to go down that way. And your heart started to pull you after And you're starting to have your actions affected, and you're doing things that you know is not pleasing to the Lord. You don't have to continue down that path. Solomon could have got off and said, you know what, I'm going back to where I started with God And I'm going to go back to sacrifice of God. I'm going to say no to these idols and and to these women and these relationships. And I'm going to go back to what God He could have done that any point along the way. God let Solomon go a long time with grace and mercy, giving him that chance to go back until Solomon's heart flipped. And he was not pursuing the Lord anymore. If you started down that you can get back on the right track. He found grace through his entire fall from greatness. He couldn't avoid the consequences for his action, but he could have restored his walk with God Thirdly, perhaps you know someone who has rejected God and has experienced God's chastening. I don't think there'd be anybody here that was in this category that you've completely rejected God because you're here. But maybe you know someone, a a friend, a a family member that that used to walk with God, used to love the Lord, and now they don't want anything to do with Him. And you see the turmoil in their life because they're in chapter eleven You know, you can come and pray for them and say, God, help them to see that there's mercy at the cross, that there's grace at the cross, because God doesn't give his chastening to punish our sin. Our sins were punished at the cross. The purpose of chastening is correction. God wants you to fix what's wrong. He wants you to get back to doing what's right. God doesn't give you his Chastening just to just to beat you down and show you how terrible you are. He gives it to you so you can say, you know what, what I'm doing is wrong and I need to get it right. We can pray that God's chastening will have that effect and the people that we know and that we love The purpose of chastening is to change behavior and to restore a believer.