I guess let's start here with uh the text. Why don't you turn to Acts chapter number four? Acts chapter number four. We'll read our text and introduce to you the thought. I have kind of a long introduction. In Acts chapter number four, I've got a long passage of scripture. It's unlike me to have so much scripture, but uh in giving to you the full context of it and uh understanding the story. We're going to pick up Acts chapter number four and verse number thirty-two and we're going to read down through Acts chapter five and verse number eleven. And I'll stop and comment a couple of times as we go through just to help keep our minds headed in the right direction and I know sometimes uh the mind tends to wander adrift as the text is being read or announcements are being made. Amen. So in Acts chapter 4 and verse number 32 he says, And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul. Neither said any of them that aught of things which he possesseth was his own But they had all things common. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all. Neither was there any among them that lacked. For as many as were possessors of lands and houses sold them And brought their prices of the things which were sold, and laid them down at the apostles' feet, and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need. And Joseph, who, by the apostles, was surnamed Barnabas, which is being interpreted the son of Constellation, a Levite, and of the country of Cyprus. Having land, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. So we see here the church in the book of Acts that is uh Endeavoring to meet the needs of the people of the church. You, as we're reading this, you see that there were many needs, there were many things that that uh had to be addressed and people said, well I have this piece of land over here that I could sell and or I have this house that I could sell or I have this possession that I could sell and I could gain a little bit of funds from that and we could use that to help meet the need. And they were all pitching in and being a part and participating in any way they could to try and meet the needs of the church And that's what a church ought to do, amen. We ought to love one another, care for one another, and strive to, within the means that God has given us, to meet the needs of those around us. Then this one who was surnamed Barnabas, he saw this happening and he said, well, you know what? I have a house. I'm not using it or maybe he was. I maybe he had to move out of it. I don't know the background. We just know that he had a house and some land. He had that in his possession and he had freedom to do what he would with it, so he sold it And he brought it to the church, and you can imagine that the church, especially since the Lord took a moment to point him out specifically. I mean, he says initially there was a few that did it, but then Barnabas did it. And maybe Barnabas's house was of exceptional size, or maybe it was notable in some way or another. But I mean you can kind of picture Barnabas did this not because he wanted recognition. Not because he was hoping to get praise of men, but because there was a need, and he wanted to try and meet the need. So he came and he laid the money at the fossil's feet, and I'm sure he tried to kind of sneak out, wasn't necessarily wanting any pats on the back. But as word got around because word usually does, you can imagine people talking about, man, you see what Barnabas did? He sold his whole house, gave it all. Gave it to the church just just so everybody would have food to eat, so everybody would need to be met. Isn't that amazing? And word kind of spread through the church and people were talking about it and sure Barnabas is trying to hide and You know, doesn't want necessarily recognition, but that's what was taking place. So then we pick up in chapter five and verse number one, look back at the text if you would. He says, but a certain man named Ananias. Whisphira his wife sold the possession and kept back part of the price. His wife, also being privy to it And brought a certain part and laid it at the apostles' feet. So Ananias and Sapphira had a house, and they sold it. And they decided amongst themselves that, you know what, the house is worth 200,000. We're gonna keep back 50,000. We're gonna give 150,000 to the church. Now that's very generous, isn't it? If any of you have a house that you're looking to sell, just show giving you a physical example here. They kept back a portion. The Bible doesn't tell us how much, but they decided to keep back some of it. And they laid it at the apostles' feet. Now look at verse number three. He says, But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? And to keep back part of the price of the land. Wells it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart, that thou hast lied unto men, not unto men, but unto God? And Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and gave up the ghost. And great fear came on all them that heard these things. So, what Ananias and Sapphira did is they came before the church and said, We're going to give all the money that we got from this house. We're going to give it all because we love everybody. We love the church. We love you guys. We just want to give it all to God. And Peter looked at him and says, why are you lying? Wasn't the house yours to do with whatever you want? Sure. And when you sold it and you had the money. Wasn't the money yours? You had power over it to do whatever you wanted with the money? Nobody has asked you to give anything. Why would you come and lie? You could have just as easily said, hey, we're going to give a hundred thousand of what we took from the house They could have been straightforward, but you see, they wanted the praise of men. They wanted the recognition for having given it all. Yet having held some back. And the story goes on. Verse number six: And the young man arose, wound him up, and carried him out and buried him. And it was about the space of three hours after his wife, not knowing what was done, came in. And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much. And she said, Yea, for so much. So Peter asked her, did you sell it for $150,000? Or did you sell it for $200,000? She's like, we sold it for $150. And the Holy Spirit had already revealed the truth to Peter, and they knew that it was 200. And then Peter goes on, and he says in verse number nine, then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt The Spirit of the Lord, behold, the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door and shall carry thee out. Then fell she down straightway at his feet, and yielded up the ghost. And the young men came in and found her dead, and carrying her forth buried her by her husband. And again great fear came upon all the church, and upon all as many as heard these I want to speak to you this morning on the subject of the importance of integrity. The importance of integrity. This coming Wednesday is Veterans Day. Our soldiers fought for our flag, for our freedoms, and for our families. They walked down lonely roads of foreign lands so that we could walk down the streets of America without fear. We want today to honor those that served our country. We want to say thank you. Today, the last six days here in America have been a disaster of epic proportions. Veterans have fought bravely against communism and tyranny and terrorists so that we could have free and fair elections. What a disgrace this is, what a blot it is on American history. Beloved, this is not some little unknown backwoods village fighting over a few acres of dirt. No, this is America, the home of the free, the home of the brave. It is a people who claim to say that they are one nation under God. Well, can I tell you this morning that God is disgusted? And the rest of the world is mocking. If this continues, it'll be our undoing, and it will not be an undoing brought about by a terrorist or by communism. No, it'll be an undoing brought about by the abuse of our very freedoms. They will be used to destroy all that America is and all it stands for. When we can hold a national election and have not one or two people or one or two precincts involved in voter fraud. But to have it take place across the entire country, there is a massive problem. Beloved, it's not going to be COVID nineteen that destroys America. No, it's going to be corruption Corruption from the bottom to the top. Instead of it being the exception, it has become the rule. Instead of the idea of corruption being something that we know exists, that it's out there that Sometimes it takes place. It has become the rule. It has become something that is blatantly perpetrated upon the American citizen With complete disregard for right and wrong, as if the perpetrators live in a vacuum where right and wrong do not exist. I do care who ends up being president. Personally, I wanted Donald Trump to be president. But only in a free and fair election. If Joe Biden was elected to be president in a free and fair election, then so be it. The reason that I'm ashamed of America today is because there was no one with enough integrity to stand up and say this is not right. Where were the poll watchers that said this isn't going to happen? Where are the postmen that had enough integrity to say, no, this is not the way we're going to do this? Where are the printers that said we will not print more than the allotted number of ballots? Where are the ballot clerks who should have stood up and said, No, we will not submit more than the allotted number of ballots Where are those people that should have stood up and said this is wrong? Regardless of my political agenda, regardless of who I wish was in the presidency Right is right and wrong is wrong, and I will not do it myself, nor will I stand by and let corruption erode the very foundations of this country. The reason, beloved, the majority of Americans do not trust the system is because the majority of Americans know that given the chance They themselves would lie, cheat, and steal to better their tomorrow. How is it they could expect to trust a politician When they know in their own heart they would do what they expect the politician to be doing. Well, if it's not already abundantly clear to you, I hope this morning to deal with integrity and its vital importance for any democracy to continue. Integrity is important for every relationship we have. I hope that you'll stay with me for a few minutes as we discussed this morning this idea of the importance of integrity. And I hope to challenge you that at least I know at some times we look at the world and see how bad things are, and we think we feel like it's there's no hope. There's nothing that can be done. It's beyond fixing. But beloved, we can start with ourselves. We can start with our own heart and our own life and do what we know God wants us to do and be women and men of integrity. We maybe cannot fix all of what's going on in our country. We may never know what took place or happened on election night. But beloved, we personally can be men and women of integrity. Could I first of all this morning describe for you integrity, give you a description of integrity? Just to put in your heart and mind what it is we're dealing with. Oh, the dictionary. com says it's an adherence to moral and ethical principles. 1828 dictionary says it is the entire unimpaired state of anything, particularly of the mind, moral soundness or purity One person said, it is a mind free from deception. Some synonyms of integrity are honesty Faithfulness, sincerity, innocence, uprightness. Beloved, my definition that I would like to give to you this morning that I think Is worth writing down if you care to, is that integrity is the determining to integrate scriptural principles. Into my standard practices. Integrity is the determining to integrate scriptural principles into my standard practices. This is from the root. A root of that word integrity means to integrate. Integrity. It is to integrate into our lives that it is a part of our standard practices. It is our standard operating procedure to act In line with this book, with the scriptural principles that are set in the Bible It's not acting how I think is best. It's not acting or doing what I want to do because I want you to understand that there is a rule. There is a standard. It is the word of God, and all that we do should be based, rooted, and found in the scriptures. That is the rule. It's not what I think. If Brother Abeda and I had a disagreement about A moral position? He may have one position and I may have another. You know what? We may both be wrong if we don't line up with that book Because the book is the rule. That is the standard. If you remove the standard, if you remove the rule, then every man does that which is right in his own eyes. And there is no right and wrong. It's just what you think and what I think. And I think it's perfectly acceptable to cheat in order to win. You say, well, no, it's not. Well, who told you it's not? Why is what you think any more important than what I think? I think it's okay to cheat. You say, well, you can't cheat. Well, why? What I think is just as important as what you think. Well, because there's a rule, there's a standard. The word of God says, thou shalt not lie Thou shalt not bear false witness. There's a rule. This is the standard. And when we remove this, which America has been in a uh Going towards removing this for probably fifty years or longer. society and by doing so they have put us in this place today where we are where every man just does what he wants to do. And there is no right and wrong. There is no means of establishing what integrity is. Because what I think is integrity is not what you think. And I get to do what I want because I'm king. Or you get to do what you want because you're king. But you understand when you line up with the Word of God, God is King. And we follow what He says. Could I further describe integrity integrity to you? Integrity is keeping your word. Integrity is being trustworthy Integrity is a man that, when he's at work, only takes the 15 minutes that he is allowed for his break. Instead of 20 or 30 or an hour. Integrity is a man saying to the enticements of the opposite sex, no, that's not right. Integrity is a teen abiding by the rules even though they know they could get away with breaking them. Integrity is a girl being willing to fail a test. rather than cheat to pass a test. Integrity is showing up on time. Integrity is giving an honest day's work for an honest day's pay. Integrity is telling the truth even when it's going to cost you Integrity is being honest on your taxes. Integrity is refusing to participate in sin. Integrity is doing right Even though what is wrong is beneficial. Integrity is doing your best, even though you could get away with a lot less. Being a person of integrity. I remember close to twenty-five years ago now I was a drywall contractor and I was in Bible college and was preparing for the ministry. There was a much older gentleman who was also a drywall contractor and he was preparing for the ministry, but he happened to already be married and have several kids. and was much further along in life. And I helped him on one job, on one occasion. This man seemed to always be struggling. Always struggling, never, never quite able to make it. I helped him on this job and when we hung this drywall, we did not glue the field. The field is the area of the drywall in the middle around the perimeter. the field is the center. We didn't glue it and we didn't screw it. We hung it and nailed all the way around the perimeter, and I thought, well, we're going to come back and put the screws in later. And I got a screw screw gun and was starting to put screws in. He's like, hey, what are you doing? And I said, I'm going to get all these sheets screwed up. And uh he's like, no, it's fine, just leave it like that. We're going to move on. He went through this whole house, hung all this rock, it wasn't glued or screwed. I couldn't believe it. I mean you're talking about maybe ten, fifteen Bucks worth of screws to do it right? And a little, you know, an hour or two of time, and we're gonna leave it? This man went into the ministry and he didn't make it on the mission field either. Came back to the United States and didn't make it on staff at a church somewhere and still struggling. But I can tell you why You didn't have any integrity. I want you to understand your egg integrity is on display. Your integrity is on display. Whether you have integrity or you don't have integrity, it's on display. You see in our text Verse number three, Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost and to keep back part of the price of the land? What they did, the Holy Spirit had made evident, had made it clean. You know, the Bible says, be sure your sin will find you out, doesn't it? And the fact of the matter is, is if we participate or act or or go through our lives and live in a place where we uh do not exercise and use integrity in our dealings, it's going to be evident. It's going to be known. People are going to be able to see it. Ananias and Sapphira's integrity was on display. Proverbs chapter 10 and verse number 9 says, He that walketh uprightly walketh surely. But he that perverteth his ways shall be known. A man that walks uprightly has that confidence Has that surety. He doesn't have to worry about it. You know, integrity also has the idea of something that is sound, that's solid. Like this pulpit has integrity. It's it's it's not gonna fall apart. I'm not gonna do it this morning, but I have on occasion jumped up on this pulpit up on top here. And and and I know it'll hold me. Pastor Derek and I were talking about doing a renovation of the auditorium next next year to brighten things up, to uh refreshen it up. And he said one of the things we need to do is we need to cut the weight of that pulpit in about half. Like somehow get rid of this thing very heavy, very sound. Uh it it's it'll hold you. And when you exercise and use integrity in your life, you have that surety You have that soundness, you have that stability. But when somebody perverse is perverted in their ways, they're going to be known. You walk through your life with confidence. having been upright. But the individual without integrity is known. There was one day a man and a lady who went to a Sears store back before they They closed down and uh they went to the search store and they were going to buy a refrigerator. And the salesman came up to them and he's showing them this refrigerator, and he looked at them and he and the salesman said to them, Listen. You're not gonna make a down payment. And you're not gonna make one payment for the whole first year. And the husband looked at his wife and says, I thought we He hadn't met this guy yet. Yeah. They were going to different stores and and and sh sh he was telling them of a promotion and they thought he knew who they were. Oh this guy knows we don't pay our bills How does he know we don't pay our bills? Your integrity is on display. We all know the story of Job, the great hardships that he went through. Job chapter 1, verse number 8 says, The Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man that fears God and eschews evil. His integrity was on display. David's integrity was on display. And Psalm 78, verse 70 and 72 says, God chose David also his servant. And took him from the sheepfolds, from following the yews, great with young, he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance. Of his heart and guided him with the skillfulness of his hand. Loved, do you have integrity Is your integrity on display for the world to see? Are you living and practicing and using integrity in every decision that you make? Or are you doing just what's best for you? You see, this is what the world's come to. It's come to just doing fulfilling my agenda, doing what I want, doing what's going to better me. Instead of making our decisions based upon what is right and what is wrong and living with the consequences. God charged Solomon in 1 Kings. The Bible says that the Lord's charge to Solomon at the building of the temple, he said this to him: He says, If thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, in integrity of his heart. And in any uprightness. He says, then I'll bless you. You want to be blessed of God? Walk in integrity. Just do what's right regardless of the consequences. This is one of the things that's so vital that we teach young people. It's not about protecting yourself. It's about doing what's right. It's about being honest regardless of the outcome. It's about telling the truth. Do you desire today to have integrity? To be a man of integrity, to be a woman of integrity? I hope you do. I hope that desire, that passion is inside of you, that you want that more than you want the benefit that comes from being dishonest. Integrity is vitally important. Have you considered how much we rely on integrity in our everyday lives? How many of you have ever been the recipient of some scam? Dealt with some scam? I'm not saying you were ultimately taken, but you I'm sure everybody at some points have have at least come across the scam. Yeah. Listen The reason so many are hurt today by scams is because there's something inside of us that we have an expectation that most people have a certain level of integrity. And when we find somebody that can so blatantly just lie, so blatantly declare to you these things to be so when they're not. It's almost shocking. You always wonder, how can somebody be so dishonest? How can there be somebody that has so little integrity? It's shocking. We live our lives every time we go out to eat. We're trusting that there's some integrity with those people that are in the kitchen. That they're not cooking food that has been spoiled That they're not trying to save a buck and reusing the chips off of that other table. That that that group over there just left and they picked them up and shook them and brought them over. Here you go You you just have some you're really uh you know you're just trusting. You know, if you're like me, when you go shop and buy something I I just trust that most people have some more I I know I shouldn't, but I don't ever look at the receipt. I don't ever compare what I bought with what I spent. Now Mary, she looks at every one of them. And if they're twenty cents shy, she's gonna go get it fixed. Both ways, either way. If she if she owes them twenty cents, she's gonna go in and say, Hey, you guys didn't charge me for this And she's gonna give 'em that twenty cents. Or if they if you didn't give me I bought this can of soup and it was on sale and it's twenty cents cheaper. And I'm like, hon, can we just leave Please. Can we just go? I mean it's here, I'll give you twenty cents, babe. I mean that just uh it's not that bad. Now I appreciate that she's frugal and she has saved us a lot of money. One of the jokes in our house is she's like hun, can you get me anything? And I tell her a million dollars. We've been doing that ever since we got married. And so she's been keeping track of the money she saves on coupons and stuff. She's like, I'm working on it. I'm working on it. So she's she's getting there, you know, getting me that million bucks. But Uh hey, every time you go to the bank and deal and transactions and do you just a lot of our life is really just based on dealing with the integrity of others. It is important. It is vital that people have and exercise integrity Although today it's getting harder and harder to find people with integrity. The fact of the matter is, is the reason we're so untrusting today is so many Many people, they know their own heart. And they know if they could get away with it, they would. And therefore, they know other people would. This is a very old poll. I couldn't find since it's back from around 2000. 65% of American high school students said that they would gladly cheat on an exam in order to pass it Fifty-three percent said they would gladly lie to adults in order to protect a friend. That's a very old pull, and I'm sure it's drastically worse than that today. Yeah. Yeah, those are the ones that are cheating. Teaching the classes now. Listen, without a consistent display of integrity, trust can be not exist. Integrity is important not just for a democracy but even for our own relationships. It means doing what you say you're going to do. You know, if you want to be trusted, you've got to trust They get caught doing right instead of getting caught doing wrong. You know, when your husband comes home and happens to catch you making dinner or playing a game with the kids or Doing homeschool with the kids or whatever, catches you doing things that are for the home. That's one thing. But when he comes home and catches you on the phone with an old Boyfriend. And you wonder why he doesn't trust you. When your wife comes down the stairs At night and she catches you reading your Bible. That's drastically different than when she catches you watching some filth on the television. You see, beloved, if you want to be trusted, if you want to have that confidence, that surety In your relationship. Integrity is a must. It's you will get caught doing right if you do Do not allow yourself to do wrong. Because the beloved what's important is not that you got caught or not. What's important is whether you did it or not. Because we know there is one that sees. Regardless of whether your wife happens to come down and catch you or not. Regardless of whether your husband catches you or not, You're not. All the teens are gone, but this is the same thing. Kids they're like, well, my parents just don't trust me. Have you proven yourself trustworthy? Have you exercised a level of integrity that they believe that you are going to do what's right, whether you're whether they're there or not? Or have every time they thought, you know how with kids it gets quiet in the other room and you're like, okay What's going on in the other room? Uh let's go look. And you go around the other room and you catch them praying, right? Oh, they're just praying Uh they're holding church. No, you know something's going on, right? And so you come around the corner and you're like, are you supposed to be doing that? you know, and they're like, uh eating uh ice cream out of the freezer or something, you know. They're they're doing something they know they're not supposed to do. That's my God, how quiet. But when we teach them correctly, they start to exercise integrity and do what's right. Even when you're not there. And you come around the corner and you catch them, oh, they're doing school. They're getting their homework done. Man, that's awesome. And the more times you catch them doing right like that, the more confidence you have in their integrity. And the same thing goes for us in our relationships as husbands and wives. Which situation do you think builds confidence? and security in your relationship. The lack of integrity, beloved, destroys trust. David asked God to judge him according to his integrity. That to me is mind-bodily. Yeah, I mean you you ask the question to you for yourself. In Psalm 7 verse number 8, the Lord shall judge thy people And he says, judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness and according to my integrity. I'm saying God is judgment have mercy on me according to my sinfulness. God, He says, judge me according to my integrity. I'll tell you, there's a guy that was living by integrity. I wonder, could God judge us according to our righteousness, according to our integrity? Are you living a life of that type of integrity? A lack of integrity destroys your testimony as well. Your integrity is on display people see it. Why would why would an unbeliever want what the Christian has? When many times the unbeliever has high integrity than a Christian. That's sad. Let me give you, in closing here, a couple of reasons why we should desire integrity, why we should want it. Obviously at the heart of it is right and we should want it because of that. But also I want you to understand that integ integrity attracts people. Everybody wants an honest employee Everybody wants to be around the guy that is a true friend. The friend that's not talking about him over here and then patting him on the back over here. That's not the kind of friend we want. We want the true friend, right? Everybody's attracted to somebody that has integrity. Sometimes your integrity is going to cost you, but many times your integrity is what's going to save you. Every parent wants a child that has integrity. Every wife and every husband wants a mate with integrity. Integrity attracts people. Integrity provides peace. There's a peace in your heart. When you lay your head on a pillow at night, you go to bed with a clear conscience. You just know I I I did what I was supposed to do today. I did right today. I pleased God today. To the best of my ability, and none of us, none of us are perfect. But to the best of our ability, we did right. And you have that peace, that knowledge in your heart, and integrity, beloved, gives you, makes you a pattern that others want to follow. It makes you a pattern that others want to follow. This is Veterans Day, and I didn't adequately do it, but I want you to understand, beloved. One of the things that made this country great Is the integrity of the men and women that served this nation. They stood when it was hard. The importance of integrity is vitally important. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we come to you this This morning we ask you, God, that you would be with us as a church, as people, that we would live and be men and women of integrity. Or that we would do what's right, even when it's not popular, even when it offends others. Not that we would offend anybody, that's not the goal. The goal is to do right. And Lord, that integrity would guide us and keep us. That we would integrate into our life, scriptural principles, and make them part of our standard practice. We'll thank you in Jesus' name.