Spending the time here, I was drawn back to this. Uh in Sunday school this morning I knew that I was going to get to chapter 13 and we were going to deal with that tonight, so I wanted to make sure that I at least touched on it in Sunday school this morning So you would have that foundation so you would know uh what I was talking about. Uh but uh I want to point out a couple things in 1 Samuel chapter number 12. Those that you were in Sunday school, what takes place in chapter number 12? Do you remember what happens here? What is notable about it? Uh nope, that was a little bit earlier, but uh That that is just after that happened. It has to do with Samuel. You know, it was Samuel. In chapter number twelve, this is Samuel's final message. This is Samuel's last message that's recorded for us. He's preaching to the people. And we have been thinking about revival. We've been contemplating and talking about revival. And uh literally this is maybe a uh passage of scripture where he's challenging the people with regards to revival. And I want to point out a couple things for you and we're gonna move to chapter number thirteen where our message is tonight. But look in chapter number twelve here. in verse number 7. There's three areas where Samuel is drawing attention to. And he we have in verse 7 through 12, he says, now therefore Stand still that I may reason with you before the Lord of all the righteous acts of the Lord which he did to you and to your fathers. So there in the initial thing he says, and I would encourage you if you write in your Bible, but mark this, circle the word now, that is he's drawing their attention to what God has done in the past. And he begins to go through that and he lays that out for them. And he from set from verse 7 through verse 12, he talks about what happened in the past. Then look at verse number 13. Notice the first word of verse number 13. What is that? Now, again, he draws their attention. He says, wait, now therefore, behold the king whom ye have chosen. He says, Okay, now look at where you're at right now. Notice what God has done in the past. Look where you currently are right now and what is going on right now. Then look at verse number 16. What is this first word of verse number 16? Now, he says, now therefore, stand and see the great thing which the Lord, what's the next word, will do before your eyes. So three times in this passage he says, now think about what God did in the past. Now consider what God is doing right now. Now think about what God will do, what God's gonna do as we move forward for him This literally was a was a pattern, our call to revival, as we talked about in Sunday school, where he called and he asked the people uh to turn to God and not to rebel against God. And then I gave you the the the good and the right way in which they should walk. Verse number 23 in Sunday school we talked about that. I will teach you the good and the right way And the good in the right way is what? Given to us in verse number 24. He says, Fear God, serve God, and consider how great things God hath done for you. That's the good in the right way. This is his call to revival. Then we get into chapter number 13, and right away we see Saul being Saul. And uh we touched on this this morning, but we're gonna read chapter 13 here, at least the first 14 verses. And so Just follow along with me in the Word of God. Let the story get in your heart and mind. Again, hopefully remind you from this morning what we are talking about, what takes place here. So Saul reigned one year, and when he had reigned two years over Israel, Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, whereof two thousand were with Saul in Mikmash And in Mount Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan and Gibeah and Benjamin, and the rest of the people, he sent every man to his tent And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Gibeah, and the Philistines heard of it. So Jonathan won a great victory in Gibeah. Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines. He won victory in Gibeah, and the Philistines heard of it And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear, and all of Israel heard, say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines. Now, did Saul do that Uh no, his son Jonathan did, but I guess by proxy Saul did, right? So uh anyway, Saul called and says, Hey, we won this victory. And that Israel also with had uh an abomination with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal. Now the Philistines aren't happy about getting whooped. So in verse number five, he says, And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel. 30,000 chariots and 6,000 horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the seashore. Now, if the scouts were able to count 30,000 chariots, the number of people that were gathered here basically they just said it was a whole lot. It was a whole lot. It was I mean we're counting the chariots and there's 30,000 of them. But we aren't counting all them people. There was a lot of people that came against them and notice the response that takes place here. Verse number six. When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, they said, Man, we are in a bind, for the people were distressed Then the people did hide themselves in caves and in thickets and in rocks and in high places and pits. I think the idea is they just went and hid wherever they could find a spot. They said, We are going, man. There's way too many people coming. Verse number seven. He says, and some of the Hebrews went over Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling. And he tarried seven days according to the set time that Samuel had appointed. Now you remember Samuel had told him, Hey, I'm going to come and offer a sacrifice after seven days. You go and you wait there and I'm the coming offer the sacrifice. So Saul's there, he's waiting, everybody's afraid, everybody's running and hiding. A bunch of his armies go on AWOL, right? I mean that's what he's seen. So in verse number 8, and he tarried seven days according to the set time that Samuel had appointed, but Samuel came not to Gilgal. And the people were scattered from him. And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt offering to me and a peace offering. And he offered the burnt offering And it came to pass that as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came. And Samuel went out to meet him. And he met and he salute him. And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Here's the excuses that he gives. Saul says, because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed. And that the Philistines had gathered themselves together at Mikmash, therefore said I, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto the Lord, I forced myself therefore. And offered burnt offering. I had to do it. I forced myself. Verse number 13. And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done foolishly. Thou hast not kept the commandment of the Lord thy God, which he commanded thee. For now would the Lord have established thy kingdom upon Israel forever. But now thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has sought him a man after his own heart And the Lord hath commanded him a captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded me So we have looked and read this story here about Saul who, in his impatience Went ahead of God and did that which he was not supposed to do. Saul, being a king, did not have any pattern to follow outside of the pattern of the world, of the kings that were around him. Those that functioned inside the realm of their own desires and wishes. In fact, that's why the people wanted a king, so that they could be like the world around them. Saul here being set in battle against this great multitude of Philistines. Verse number five tells us it was as the sands of the sea. There were so many. his own army going A-WOL. He's feeling the pressure and he's thinking, man, I gotta do something quick. Man, uh everybody's leaving. Uh Samuel's not here yet and and and it's been seven days and I don't think it's been the completion of seven days yet because I believe that He would have a arrived on time. I think he he was in the seventh day maybe and he's like, You know what, it's been seven days and I just can't wait anymore. I I I need to go ahead and do this. We're gonna offer, bring me the sacrifice. And after all Isn't that what a king does? A king does what he wants to do. Nobody tells the king, I mean none of these other kings around me have a ha have a man that goes and tells them what they can do. No, they're the king, they get to do what they want And he's following the example of the kings around him and decides, you know what, I'm going to offer this sacrifice. We're going to go into battle. I'm going to be victorious. Following these worldly examples, but I want you to know that his impatience cost him dearly. Ultimately, we read there in the conclusion of those verses that Samuel told him, hey. God would have established your kingdom forever, but now it's going to be taken from you. Why? Because he was impatient More often than not, beloved, impatience ends in disaster. Proverbs 14, 29 says, He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding. But he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly, being patient, waiting, not flying off the handle. Saul was guilty of impatience and paid a tremendous price. Tonight I want to talk to you for a few minutes about the impact of impatience. The impact of impatience, of not being a patient person, not waiting on God, and surely impatience is something we all deal with. Whether it's impatient with one another, whether it's impatient on God and His plan for us and what He's trying to do in our life, and we want it done right now. Lord, would you do this? We we need this done now. And we we're not waiting on God like we should. Can I give you some of the results here of impatience? First of all, impatience displays a lack of faith. You see, beloved, when we are fully convinced in our heart and mind that God is going to do what he said he would do, when we trust what the process is, we don't have a problem waiting. You remember the story of Hannah, whom the Magod said, God has heard your cry, and you're going to have a child She went away rejoicing. She no longer was sad. Why? Because she had faith. She believed that God was going to fulfill that for her because she had the word from the man of God on it. Well, when we do not wait, we're showing our lack of faith. Saul Said, well it's been seven days and and and it's coming on the end of the seventh day and Samuel's not here yet. Surely he must have gotten distracted. He's not coming and I I'm gonna offer sacrifice right now. He didn't was willing to wait. He didn't have faith that Samuel was going to come through as he said, even though Saul was told to wait, he didn't. Things were bad and getting worse. The situation, the pressure was mounting. Many times as the pressure is mounting, we are getting less and less patient, right? We we like, oh we gotta do something now. Oh the bills are coming in. You know, oh this the the stress is is growing and And we've got to do something now. And instead of being patient and waiting on God, we say, you know what, I'm going to find a way to make it happen and uh I'm just going to we gotta do something, so I'm gonna move my family and we're gonna move to who knows where, 10 bucks two, because we gotta do something Something's gotta break, something's gotta change, and so we just say, I'm gonna take this step. We're gonna take this move or or oh oh no, I I I've gotta have a car this week because my car broke down and I'm gonna go get a car this week because I need one right now. Anytime you are acting out of impatience, it is a telltale big red flag for you that you should know in your heart and mind, I better stop. I better slow down If I'm functioning in the realm of impatience and I'm not willing to wait, I'm probably not going to make a very wise choice. It displays a lack of faith. All those that were left to fight in the battle were afraid. The numbers were dwindling. Saul said, I'm going to be here by myself. If I just keep waiting, but uh can I remind you that God doesn't need numbers to win the battle? We haven't got to it yet. We'll get to it next week. Uh but uh uh Jonathan and his armor bearer. went up against a a great multitude and Jonathan looked at his armor bearer and he said uh let's go up there and whoop those guys His armor bearer is like, What? And Jonathan says, Yeah. I mean hey, God's gonna do it. It's nothing for God to do it with two guys or a hundred guys. He says by few or by many in the in the text, but basically that's what he's saying. God can do it whether we got two guys or we got a hundred guys. So why not us? And I don't know what his armored bear was thinking, but his armored bear said, Okay, let's go. And they went up and they they whooped a whole garrison of people because they had the faith to believe that God could do it And what Saul lost track of, he needed to go back and read the story of Gideon, right? He needed to see that it's not how many people you have with you, it's if God is with you. And he said, Boy, I'm losing my army. I need to do something right now. Zachariah four six says, Then he answered and he spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord unto Zereel, saying Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. It's not how you know what? If they would have had a hundred people or ten thousand people. I mean the the enemy had thirty thousand men and chariots, right? They had numbers as much as the sea. I mean, I don't know that they could have gathered that many men together. Either way, they needed God. And yet his lack of faith moved him to do a disastrous thing. He just thought, well, I'll just do it. I know God has commanded this to be done by the priest. I know that this is not my office and It's not my position, I don't really have the right to, but after all I'm the king, and uh there is a way which seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. Listen, we can't just do everything that seems right in our own eyes. We need to be patient and wait on God. Impatience displays a lack of faith. Impatience deploys weak firepower. I really uh contemplated making that word wicked firepower because really what Saul did here was a gross sin. in offering this sacrifice, in assuming the position of a priest when he should not have done so He was looking for spiritual results through sensual means. He was using sinful tools hoping to accomplish a spiritual thing. He was doing it his way. Can I tell you that there's a lot of churches today doing that A lot of churches today trying to win the world by worldly means. The the problem here is that they're going after the wrong thing. As the problem was with Saul. We read it in the text there, back towards the end, when Samuel pronounced judgment on him, says, Thou hast done foolishly, his kingdom is going to be taken from him. Verse number fourteen, but now thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord hath sought him a man. What's the next four words? After his own heart. And you guys know that David was a man after God's own heart. You see, David was pursuing, going after the heart of God. Saul was a man who was after the heart of people. Saul wanted the crowd. Saul wanted to win people to himself. Saul wanted to please the group Saul wanted to gather a crowd together, and that's what's happening today in a lot of churches. They're not going after the heart of God, they're going after the heart of men And that is they're trying to draw a group of people together and say, oh, look at us or look at what we've accomplished, because can I tell you, if they were trying to go after the heart of God There would be some things that they would say, this is not pleasing to God. We're not going to have it as part of our church. Because if we're going after the heart of God, then we're going to try And hold the standards high. We're going to try and keep ourselves holy unto God and do anything and avoid anything that would hinder that. But they're going after the world, going after men, motivated by their own ambitions. Saul going after the heart of people, in contrast to that of David going after the heart of God. The patient believer knows, beloved, that the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. You see, we can't do or strive to do spiritual work in our flesh. Christians today want to replace the truth with tricks and try and just entertain people Instead of preach the truth and let God change people. Can I tell you they might have a crowd, but I doubt whether they have Christ. The philosophy that's prevalent in many of these places that you have to be like them to win them Can I tell you as a philosophy straight from Satan himself? You don't have to be like him to win him You have to be like Christ to win 'em. You have to be like Christ to win them. They don't need somebody that has more of what they have. They need somebody that's different. They need somebody that has something to offer them that's different than what this world offers them. You see, it was weak He was trying to get the power of God to go into battle and get a victory that way, but he was not going to be able to do that in his flesh. And I tell you it's never right to do wrong. We're not going to win the battle for the Lord by better programs. We're not going to win the battle by having nicer buildings. We're not going to win the battle. I have an uh a powerful youth group We're going to win the battle by being a people of prayer, by being a people committed to going after the heart of God. Because God is the one that wins the battle. Impatience deploys weak firepower, and impatience delivers for poor fruit. It delivers poor fruit. Have you ever picked it too early? You ever got something that wasn't quite ripe? Oh, I pulled that one off a little too early. Now I know some of them, some fruit, and forgive me because I do not have a green thumb and I'm not a gardener. We could ask. Uh Brother Bob here, Brother Humphreys about when we need to pick fruit. I don't know. But uh you know, some of them you can pick it and it'll ripen on your counter or if you set it in the sun or whatever you're supposed to do to it, I don't know. Uh but some of them you can pick it and it'll finish ripening, you know. Others you pick it too early and oh it's done. It's not gonna not gonna ripen up. It's gonna be sour forever. You see, impatience. Oh, I want I want to go get I mean I've been watching it grow every day. I want to go get it right now. It's It's it's ready and you know, maybe mom and dad are like, no, don't pick it, it's not ready yet. Don't pull it off the vine. You gotta let it keep growing. And the kids are excited about it growing and they're ready and Oh, it looked looked good to me and I picked it and mom's like, no, wasn't ready yet. Can't eat it. Kids like, well, I I want it and mom's like, you can try it, it ain't gonna be good. You know. Kids are just like, ah, I want to eat it right now, right? You know, I'm I'm sure everyone here would rather fruit delivered by God than delivered by our own works. When we move out on our own and our own power, we get the fruit that we can produce. You know, I asked. Andrew before church because my memory's failing me. And I said, hey uh I know this has happened, but I cannot recall when or what. I said uh I need an illustration That one time that you kai guys, you kids, just really messed up. So I need you to tell on yourself. I said, you know, sometime where mom or I said, now wait, and uh mom or I are going to help you with that. But you kids were just too eager beaver and you wanted it right then and you made a mess of it. And he had to think like all of ten seconds And uh no just kidding. He couldn't think of any. He's like, Well, I'll think about it and if I could think of something I'll I'll come and tell you. So he came back a little while later and he said, you know, I remember one time that uh You had told us that we were going to load the trailer for our vacation to go up to coal country or camping or whatever, and we're going to fill the trailer. And we've done it several times. But you had said whenever I get back, I'll help you, we're going to load the trailer. And we thought, well, we're gonna we're gonna surprise dad. We're gonna load the trailer ourselves. And uh he you know, he was telling me this, and I didn't remember it, but he's like, you know, you we we went out and we loaded the whole trailer, had it all done, and we were so proud of ourselves, and you came back and you're like, oh You guys gotta take all that out because the weight distribution wasn't correct. Uh we had other things that had to get in there I mean they got it all in there but how it was loaded was not it wasn't gonna ride like that. They needed a little bit more instruction. They they were their heart was in the right place and that's where it hurts you as a parent like uh Like, uh and then my wife gets mad at me because I'm getting on to the kids, you know, and she's like, They were trying to make you happy, you know. I said, Yeah, but they should have waited. They should have waited and then and then it's all stressful for two days, you know. Well you guys act pious like you've never been there. You don't know what I'm talking about. Yeah, uh I'm getting onto the kids because they did wrong and Mary's getting on to me because I'm getting on to the kids and she's like, they were just trying to make you happy. And uh I I know, I know. But if they would have waited I could have helped them do it correctly And these types of situations we've all had in our lives. Especially, you know, it really is a sign of immaturity when you're not willing to wait. I saw uh this week a little short of a guy asking a like a four year old boy. He's like, I have ten ten dollar bills. And you could have all of these ten dollar bills. And go get as many Oreos as you want. Or I have two Oreos right here you could have right now. And this boy goes, he says, what do you want? And he's like, I want the Oreos. And he's like, wait, wait, are you sure? Because you could go get lots and lots of Oreos with this. Or do you want he's like, no, I I want the Oreos. He's like, are you sure? He's like, yeah, I want the Oreos And he's like, okay and the boy took the Oreo and stuck it in his mouth and was happy as it can be. Uh it's a sign of immaturity to not be willing to wait. To not wait on God. And when we don't wait, it delivers very poor fruit. When I was teaching through the book of Galatians, Brother Anthony came to me after the service that I dealt with, the fruit of the Spirit, and he said to me in the foyer, he said, you know, Discipline is self-control. Temperance is spirit control. I said, that's good, brother. I'm going to put that in my notes. I'm going to add that to that message in the book of Galatians so that I have that. Because we think about temperance as self-control. But especially in light of it being in the context of the fruit of the spirit, it's spirit control. And can I tell you that Impatience is the brother of intemperance. Not being able to control yourself, not being able to tell yourself no, not being able to wait For whatever it is. Impatience has gotten so many into such a mess. The young man that just wants to do his own thing, boy wants to get out of the house, he's ready, wants to take that step, and and he's I mean he's he's there, he can, he can do it. Mom and dad say, I don't know if that's a good idea I don't know if I would do that yet, probably shouldn't, but he's gonna do what he's gonna do, right? And he goes ahead of that and and gets himself in a mess. The young couple that doesn't want to wait. to get married or doesn't want to wait to have children or doesn't want to wait to have all the things that mom and dad have. I heard this week a young couple in their first year of marriage, they had four hundred and ninety thousand dollars worth of debt. Outside of their mortgage. That wasn't even their house. $490,000 in debt. Why? Because they could not wait. To have the nice cars. They couldn't wait to have the nice furniture in the house. They couldn't wait. And you know what kind of a mess that put their home in? And you say, well I don't have four hundred and ninety thousand, I only have twenty-five thousand. That's a problem too. That's a problem too. Are you willing to wait? The young lady who can't wait on God to get married? Why time's almost up. I'm I I I I I've gotta get married. This needs to happen. And uh just take any guy that comes along or You say, well, I love him. But he's the only option you had. You're like, oh, I'm just going to do that because that's what's available. And then they find out they're in a mess. Now the opposite can be true too. I know of a young lady many years ago now, but she had a guy that was very interested in her and he was a godly young man. He just didn't have very much of a personality. But he was a godly guy Just more like me, kind of boring. And uh so he he was pursuing this young lady and she was a secretary for a pastor at a church. And uh This guy bought her a dozen roses and dropped them off at the church and front desk there and said, hey, just would, you know, wanna say uh I like ya a lot and would like to get to know you a little more. And uh she uh he left and she took the roses and threw them in the trash. And the pastor came out and he says, what in the world are you doing? You better get those out of the trash. You have a young uh a godly young man here who is pursuing you with the right spirit. He's a good guy, and uh you haven't even given him the time of day. You think you have a whole bunch of options Yeah, maybe you ought to consider the guy that God brought by. So the opposite is true, too. Sometimes we want our own way and maybe we need to let God lead. But the young lady that can't wait to get married gets herself in a mess? Young man that can't can't wait for God to put him into the ministry. Oh, I I want to be in the ministry. I need to be in the ministry. And and the reason I bring this up is I've seen it two times in my life, and I'm telling you by their own words, men that came to me later and they said I had no business going out into the ministry yet. I wasn't ready. They went to a church and and two years later they came back with their tail between their legs and they they just about destroyed that church just about ruined a bunch of Christians because they weren't prepared. They weren't ready yet. And I'm telling you in his own words, he looked at me and says, I almost ruined those people. Because I wasn't ready to be the leader that God wanted me to be yet. I had some growing to do, and that was a pretty hard school of knocks for me. But they but they were graduated from college, they're ready, oh we're gonna go, this is time, well it's time to go get into ministry, let's go! And in their fervency and ambition to go do, they went ahead of God and just did what they wanted to do instead of waiting on God. You see, Saul could have had great victory in God's blessing. Instead, he ended up losing the kingdom. The disciples learned this lesson very well. In Matthew 17, then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? And how long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked the devil, and he and he departed out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could we not cast him out? And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief. For verily I say unto you, if ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, remove hence to a yonder place, and it shall remove, and nothing shall be impossible to you. How be it, this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting. What he's saying is, on your own, in your own flesh. You're going to get some poor fruit. You're going to get some poor fruit. But if you go forth in the power of God by prayer and fasting, You can get the fruit that God produces. Fruit that remains. That's what we want. But that's going to take some time in prayer, some time in fasting, some time of seeking God. There's some things that just aren't going to happen at our pace. But I know we would much rather the fruit that God brings. You know, if you're not careful, you can mess things up. One time Alicia was interested in a young man. I kind of felt like this is possible. So I was sitting down with her and she was I just sat and was talking to her and I was kind of getting around to it and I said, Lucia, do you have feelings for this guy or do you think you might like him? And she said, yes. And I foolishly looked at her and said, that will never happen. That is never gonna happen. You can put it out of your mind right now. And I just about broke her. See, she was already letting her heart go. She was already I I, in my impatience, responded to a situation incorrectly I could have let the Holy Spirit lead. I could have taken wisdom and guided her in a step, but I jumped on her and said, this is not going to happen. And she, of course, began to cry and I praise God that that situation did not ruin Alicia and my relationship because that could have put a wedge between us. And she could have decided, well, I'm going to go and do what I want to do. God gave me the wisdom to recognize my foolishness within about an hour, and I came back and apologized to her. And I said, I'm sorry, I did wrong. I should have seen how Bested, you were already. I should have guided you in this and and you see I could have Said, here's some things to think about. Here's some things that we need to pray about. We want to do what God wants in this situation. Here's some areas of concern. Let's see what God would like. And let God, the Holy Spirit, teach her. I could have waited on God to bring her to that place, and it would have been much better. But in my own impatience, I wanted to stop that right now. I'm saying sometimes as a parent we're like that. Like, bless God, I'm the parent, I'm gonna fix this now. But you're dealing with a human being. that you've raised to at one day go out on their own and they're gonna start making their own mind up and you need wisdom on how to guide them. And uh I learned from that, from that situation, and have oftentimes in my heart and mind caught myself dealing with my other kids As they were coming up in situations, said, okay, I need to let God direct this. I need to let God fix this instead of just me fixing it. And you know what? The results you get with God are so much better. So much better. You could have a bitter, angry child. Or you could have a child that raises up and calls you blessed. But it's how you handle situations And it takes wisdom to do that. It takes patience to do that. And God is the one that has to give you that wisdom because you're walking with Him, because He's leading you. You might not always get it right. Tonight, the impact of impatience. We've all been there. Because of impatience, we've all done dumb things. So the challenge tonight is let's try and function inside of patients and let God take lead us in the steps that we should go so that we can avoid this disastrous effects. Would you stand to your