Weeks we're going to be looking at a at the nation returning and a nation repenting. They kind of overlap a little bit as far as the context and the passages of scripture we're going to cover today. We're hoping to cover the Chronicles Ezra and Esther. But God has told his people through the prophets that there would be judgment, they knew they were going to go into judgment, they knew there was going to be a time of captivity, but they also knew that that was not the end. That the time of captivity was only going to be seventy years. They knew they were going to go into judgment for a set amount of time because They did not observe the sabbatical years that God had instructed them to observe. And so for 490 years they didn't do that. And God said, You're going to go into captivity for one year for every year that you did not observe And we're going to let the land rest and recapture those seventy years. So they knew that that was the time frame in which they would be in judgment And they but they also knew that they were going to be released at the end of that time. In Jeremiah chapter 25, verse 11 and 12, let me read it for you. He says And the whole land shall be desolate, God describing the nation of Israel, the nation of Judah, the land in Jerusalem or in in what we would know as Israel today The land shall be desolate and uh uh in astonishment, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years. And it shall come to pass, when seventy years are accomplished, that I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, saith the Lord, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans, and will make it a perpetual desolation. Excuse me. So they knew that they were going to be released and that God was going to judge. Babylon and uh the nation there that they would be judged. So his plan gave them not only their current situation, but an outlook and a look for the future of what he was expecting. His plan unfolded in this captivity era, post-captivity era that we're looking at here on our timeline. We're the end of captivity, we're crossing this line, we're moving into the return. where we have Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Hegai, Zachariah, and Malachi. However, we also are going to, right here, we're going to give you 1 and 2 Chronicles. Okay. They're all the way over here as far as the time period that they cover, but they were written right here. And they review, they they inform all these people that returned They're giving them the history. So they all returned back to Jerusalem and the chronicles are written and given to them to tell them what happened in 1 and 2 Chronicles, or 1st and 2 Samuel and 1 and 2 Kings. And so it gives them a a review as they go back to their land. And that's what we're going to kind of look at here. We'll look at that in a second. So first of all I want you to see we have a divine reminder. This is God's plan. The book of Chronicles was written after the captivity, somewhere in that time period, and declares the truth that God was not done with his people. God is giving to them a a reminder and uh as a nation that their value as a nation is not over, that their value as a nation also is not tied up in the land that they live in, in the victories that they have. He's informing them that their value as a nation is tied up in the covenant relationship they have with God. And that is the key through the book of Chronicles that he's continually reminding them about. So the writing of Chronicles, the writer is unknown. possibly Ezra. The reason for that is turn to the end of 2 Chronicles chapter number 36. 2 Chronicles chapter 36. We're going to contrast two verses here and show you the reason it's possibly Ezra, and at the same time Ezra may have just been quoting from the Chronicles, but we see in Ezra or in 2 Chronicles chapter 36 Verse 22, the very end of the book, he says, Now in the first year of king of Persia, that the word of the Lord spoke by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying, Thus saith, now turn to Ezra, one page over or opposite page for your Bible. Ezra chapter number one. Now in the first year of Cyrus, the king of Persia, the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia Then he made a proclamation throughout all the kingdom, put it also in writing saying. So you have verse one and two are almost a direct quote. And so possibly Ezra is the one that that pinned 1st and 2nd Chronicles coming from this time period here, looking back. And obviously he was he is the second group to go back to Jerusalem and help the people there in rebuilding the temple, uh rebuilding the people, bringing revival, seeing these things come to pass. And so maybe he's the one that pinned it, but we really don't know for sure. Now we know it was written sometime after the end of captivity here, right close at the end when the decree was written. As we see it ended there with a brief review of the proclamation of the king of Persia. Now, it was written to remind the Jews of their history and of God's plan. Written to remind the Jews of their history and of God's plan. It covers the same time period as 1 and 2 Samuel and 1st and 2 Kings. Now I have a little chart there I've given you kind of showing you the time frame that it covers. You get to, you know, obviously 1 and 2 Chronicles, 1 Chronicles, the first nine chapters are the genealogies. And that's just a list of genealogies. Then you get to chapter 10 and on. And so 1 Chronicles kind of picks up there at chapter 10 or chapter 11 of 1 Samuel and then continues on. through 1 and 2 Samuel, then 2 Chronicles covers the time period that 1 and 2 Kings uh covers. Hopefully visually that is easy to see and understand there. Now I've given you uh this chart here as well that I had Alicia make up the first and second chronicles, which gives you uh the uh outline across the top like what was covered in chapters one through nine, chapters ten through twenty-nine, uh and so on. And then it gives you a little bit of what is covered uh historically. Uh the process where First Chronicles, little is made great, God takes this little nation and raises them up, and then great is became made little. A nation that is risen to power and and doing very well uh becomes full of pride and lifted up and God says, wait a minute, you guys are going to be judged, you're gonna go into captivity. Uh the emphasis is the personal determination. and the national deterioration. And then the theme of the Chronicles is the temple. That's important because it covers the covenant relationship with God. So the structural state of the temple corresponds to the spiritual state of the people. You can almost track that through the book as you You see the temple being built and going up and being added to that the people were growing and getting closer to God and becoming stronger as a nation. But then as the temple is being destroyed, you see the nation as well as being destroyed. So it kind of stands as a picture or a testament of what's happening in the life of the people. So the content of 1 and 2 Chronicles, now back to your notes here, is contrasted with that of 1 and 2 Samuel and 1 and 2 Kings. And we have them here where we see 1 and 2 Samuel and Kings. I'm just going to refer to them as Samuel and Kings to save so much talking. Uh but we see first of all Samuel and Kings looks at both the north and the south. It gives you the history of Israel and Judah describing all of that. Where Chronicles looked only at the South. It doesn't even talk about the nation of Israel, the northern kingdom at all. There's an emphasis in Samuel and Kings on the kings themselves. It talks about the kings and all of the history of the kings and what was happening with them. where the emphasis in chronicles is on the priest. The emphasis in the Kings and Samuel is on the prophet. The emphasis in the chronicles is on the temple. The emphasis in Samuel and Kings is on civil and political history. Chronicles is on sacred history. Again, it's reminding the people that went back to Jerusalem of what's important. So it's giving them just the key details, the important stuff, focusing on the covenant relationships that they have with God. There are a lot of things in the history that are covered in 1 and 2 Samuel and 1st and 2nd Kings that are not covered in the Chronicles because it's not pertinent. to them understanding their relationship with God. So 1 and 2 Kings, the Samuel and Kings look at the failures, where the Chronicles looks at the faithfulness. It really emphasizes the faithfulness, God's people, what God was doing among the people, those that were faithful that followed what God wanted. That's the emphasis there. In the kings and Samuel, wars were prominent. In the Chronicles. So that gives you a little bit of a picture of kind of what information is there and and why Although it's covering the same time period, it is different in its in its emphasis. And so there's the outline just repeated for you, which is on the chart that I gave you. Then we see the message of Chronicles, which we've kind of mentioned or tied in already, but it's devoted really to those whose history lines up with God's plan. If there was somebody that ran from God and didn't want to do what was right and wasn't following God's plan, wasn't yielding to God, wasn't furthering the cause of Christ or cause of God, then Their history was not included in the Chronicles because it is not pertinent to what God is trying to get his people that are going back to Jerusalem there or to Israel and setting up the nation. It it's not pertinent to them. So the story is told of how God worked among those people and the people who had a correct response to God's punishment, uh, what happened with them. As people, you know, a lot of these kings in Judah, some of them were bad, but they repented. They came back and made that change and did what God needed them to do. So the focus on the genealogies gives us the line of Christ, those first nine chapters, from Adam all the way through the captivity. So that gives us the line of Christ. This was divinely given. You have to understand, I mean, di just the the feat that that would be to be able to give the genealogies. I mean we've been studying the Old Testament now for a year. And we've tried to give you some of the gene little pictures of, you know, this person uh had this son and was married to this person and that's who this is and we kind of tracked them through as we we went through Abraham or or Noah and ultimately trying to track that to where we will ultimately get to Christ, right? But If you can imagine, we're looking in hindsight and trying to get a hold of that. And yet they God gave it to them and tracked it down through these so that we would have a record of the line of Christ and how God did that for us. So not only were the names given, but the land allotment was given. So as these families went back to Israel, Uh they needed to know what was theirs. They had been given a heritage, an allotment of land, and they went back But where's my father's land? Where is the where does it start? Where does it stop? God had very specifically laid out your property begins at the beginning of this hill or got this this river, you go from here to the river. And and the allotments of land were reiterated so that the new the new generation that was going back would know what was theirs. So they would be able to track that and know, okay, this is the land that God gave us. And so that is reiterated for them as well. So the focus here is on Christ, who is the greater son of David. All through the kings and First and second Samuel and the Chronicles, you'll hear uh the description of the kingdom of David and uh how that that good God was going to establish David's kingdom forever, right? Well Christ is the greater son of David who established David's kingdom forever. Let me read for you a very familiar passage of scripture, especially this time of year. Isaiah 9, verses 6 and 7. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. The government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom, to order it, to establish it with judgment and with justice, and henceforth Ever, forever. God saying he's going to establish the kingdom of David through Jesus Christ. Who is that wonderful counselor, the Prince of Peace, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, who was born that we celebrate here at this Christmas season. And that's how the kingdom of David was established forever, not just even for mankind's history or time frame, it is God is the king, Christ is the king, and he will continue to be the king, and so that kingdom is established forever as you know David is uh Christ comes from the line of King David. And so we see the f the focus of God's dealing with his people as it relates to the covenant promise that he had made to them. So only things covered in the Chronicles are are focusing on that, that covenant relationship, and how important that is ultimately in the accomplishment of God's plan. There's a lot of things that aren't talked about. Much of David's sin is omitted. As I said, there's things that just aren't part of what is critical for God's communication to this new group of people that are heading back. So although he gives it to us in all its horrid details in 1 Samuel, 12 Kings Uh uh you know, the the sin with Bathsheba is not mentioned in the Chronicles. A lot of the sin of David is not mentioned in the Chronicles because what God is trying to focus on is what is important to his accomplishing his plan with his people as he goes through the Chronicles. Solomon's apostasy is omitted. That's not covered. It's given to us in the other books, but not covered here. The entire history of northern Israel is omitted. God doesn't talk about the northern kings at all. except in where it relates to Judah. Occasionally when Israel rose up and came against Judah, then they're mentioned in the Chronicles. in times that they are directly impacting the nation of Judah, the that that group that followed God and was trying to do what was right. So occasionally in Chronicles you'll see them mentioned, but it is only in relation to how they impact Judah. The book was written to encourage the people that God was not done with them. That God was not done with them. Jeremiah chapter 12 and verse number 15 says, and it shall come to pass after that I have plucked them out I will return and have compassion on them. I will bring them again, every man to his heritage. And every man to his land. So God, again, reiterating that it was his plan to bring them back to the nation, and he was going to give them back the land that was part of their family. Their heritage, their land that God had promised them. And so he made sure in the Chronicles that their boundaries and those things were recorded for them so they would know where to go. As I said already in our overview here that the temple is a large focus of this book. Now God had a divine plan that would be fulfilled in the keeping of his covenant, promise with his people, and that's what this book is focusing on. Chronicles teaches and shows the people God's grace and redemption as they were restored and brought back from judgment in Babylon. So sometimes punishment is necessary. God chastens those whom he loves. And God sometimes is going to send you through the fire. Maybe you have a something that has to be endured, but God is a loving, gracious, merciful God, and we learn about his uh mercy as he Brings them back out of Babylon and establishes them back in Israel. Israel learned from this time that proper and faithful worship of God always brought blessing. But departing from that brings judgment. Departing from that brings judgment. It brings a curse upon the nation. The remnant that returned saw God's faithfulness over and over again. So that is basically 1 and 2 Chronicles, a review of those as it gives them the history as they headed back. Now we're going to get into We're going to look here at divine protection, which ultimately is the book of Esther, as we see this take place. So Babylon was brought under judgment for their sin. They fell to the Medes and the Persians. They in 539 BC. Remember Daniel prophesied to the king and said, hey, this is going to happen in Daniel 528. He said, Thy kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and the Persians. This is before it happened. Daniel told the king, hey Because of your pride, because you haven't followed after God, because of God's judgment, your nation's going to fall. It's going to be divided unto the Medes and the Persians. The Medes and the Persians are now in control of all the Israelites, all those that were in captivity, and we need to remember that they also are in control of those that go back to Jerusalem, back to their home. Yes, they're living back in their home, but they're not a nation. They're not in control of themselves. They're not governing themselves. They are still under the rule of the Medes and the Persians, and they answer to them. If you remember in uh Daniel 6, 15, the law of the Medes and Persians, when Daniel was going to be cast into the lion's den, uh, you know, the king didn't want to do that, but he said, wait. It was written into law, and we cannot change the law of the Medes and the Persians. You guys remember that Okay, so a very similar thing in Esther chapter 1 and verse number 19, he says, If it please the king, let there go a royal commandment from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes. that it be not altered, that Vastai come no more before King Hashawarus, and let the king give her royal estate unto another that is better than she. But recording this in the law of the Medes and the Persians, Um Pastor Gus, do you have those maps? Uh uh I asked Brandon to send you a set of maps of So we have here the Persian Empire. Um over here obviously we're we're looking at Jerusalem. And this land, all this land here is the nation of Israel, the all the twelve tribes and all of that. Then over here is Babylon. But Babylon fell. Do you have the let's look at the Babylon Empire first. So here's the the Babylon Empire right here. It extends up into here a little bit, but you have the Persian Empire over here. And they they begin to expand and grow. Here's the Medes Empire. They they joined up together, the Medes and the Persians joined together and conquered Babylon. Now you have here, this is the path that they would go into exile as they came out of Jerusalem. That's because they want to follow the river here for travel. Cutting across the desert right here is pretty rough traveling. And so they would stay in this area and travel all the way up there and down, although it's almost twice as far You you staying close to your water source is what you need to when you're not in a car going seventy miles an hour. You know. You gotta stay close to the water source So that would be their travel into exile. They're there seventy years. Then God says, okay, it's time for you to be re released. Now show us the next one. So you have the Persian Empire. Now Persia conquers Babylon and all of this They're in control of this. Even though you have here the map of uh what is this uh Zarebbabel and uh Ezra or Nehemiah's route, this is Nehemiah's route, so they're returning here Shushan the palace You remember the story we're going to look at here in Esther? It took place right here in Shushan the palace. And uh so they conquered all this land, but they're still in control of the land where they're back here. Okay, I wanted you to be able to just visually see that. Now those maps are directly out of the Bible maps book we have in the bookstore with the overlay. You can put the overlay and see exactly where it is in relation to modern cities and uh modern time what happens to be in those places if you're interested in seeing that it's in the bookstore. Um so we have the book of Esther. Lock here, if you have any of his books or read any of his stuff, he said Esther is the rose window in the cathedral structure of the Old Testament. Though the light it transmits be dim, it reveals an exquisite tracery and symbolic design in the framework of its colored panes. The reason he says possibly that though the light be dimmed, does anybody know uh one of the most unique things about the book of Esther in comparison to the rest of the Old Testament? That's correct. Jake leave it to the historian here. Uh I should have said except Jacob. Does anybody God's name is not mentioned in the book of Esther anywhere. God's name, although you see the providential hand of God in probably one of the most direct Illustrations that you can possibly observe, yet the name of God is not mentioned, and that is unique to this book only. So that is just interesting. But that's why he might have said that although it be dim It definitely is visible, the handiwork of God. So we see it was written by a Jew, possibly Mordecai or Ezra, not really sure. But it is certainly somebody with firsthand knowledge of Persian customs and the palace of Shushan. I don't have time to read the verses there, 168. I was going to read those But uh this story here takes place in Shushan, the capital of Persian Empire that was in control after they conquered Babylon. Uh now this story here in Esther is taking place back in Shushan the palace and the book uh the story of Ezra Which you have two returns in the book of Ezra. First you have Zerebbabel, and then you have Ezra that returned. Those are both recorded foot in Ezra. So Ezra is a record and tells us what's taking place in Jerusalem Esther at the same time period is telling us what's taking place in Shushan the palace, in in the land where those that didn't return, although they weren't under great Strong captivity, like they weren't being, you know, locked up. The God had given them favor and the pal the king said, Okay, you can return. If you want to return, go ahead. But there was a whole bunch of people that were comfortable And they said, Oh, I'm just going to stay here. This is fine. I'm going to stay here. Now some of them weren't. They were they were servants and they weren't free to do whatever they wanted to, which obviously you'll see in Esther from Esther's story here. Esther contains the story of two women, two men, and uh two plans. We have Esther and Vashtai, Haman and Mordecai. And uh God and Satan. These two plans that work, and you get a bird's eye view and visually see uh what Satan is trying to do to ultimately destroy the line of Christ. to take away God's plan to bring the Savior to the world and how God miraculously works behind the scenes in the lives of men to bring forth his plan. So in chapters one through four uh we see uh a great danger. A great danger. The king asks his queen Vastai to come before him. Vastai says no. And it's kind of humorous if you read the story there. You know Vastai says no and all the king's men are like, whoa, this is a problem. We can't have that. You know what's going to happen when all of our wives hear that Vasti just looked at you and said no? They're all gonna tell us no man we're gonna be in a great this a whole nation's gonna be in an uproar because Vassi said no. You gotta do something about this king and And they're like, You gotta put her away. Get her out of here. You gotta replace her. Do something because we can't have the whole nation hearing about this terrible thing. And so she refused and is removed In chapter 1, verse number 19. I was going to read these texts for you, but we need to move quickly to get through to the end here. She's removed, and so a new queen is sought after. Again. God directing, leading in the affairs of what's happening among men, he is also guiding and putting in place somebody that he wants there. This new king is sought, and Esther, out of all the women in the land Esther is chosen. The providence of God has placed this Jewish girl right next to the throne in a position or a place where she has the power to influence the king. By God's providential plan, she is where she needs to be. Can I tell you something? That God had a plan for Esther, something she was supposed to accomplish, and she is not unique. God has a plan for each and every one of us. Something that we are supposed to be accomplishing in our life, where we're at, where he's placed us. What is God's plan for you? What does God have for you? He's uniquely prepared you. He has uniquely placed you. He has given you the ability or the capacity to accomplish or do something magnificent for His honor and glory. What are you doing for that plan? God has a plan for you, just like he had for Esther. He put her there, and we look at that and we say, Wow, that's amazing. But what about you? God could do an amazing thing with your life if we would submit to him because he has a plan for all of us. Haman, the Agite, plots against God's people. Again, we know Haman's the one that did it, but ultimately it's Satan. Satan is wanting to destroy the land of Christ, to wipe out God's people. And it's amazing he's still trying to do it. And he he's still trying to wipe out God's people. Why is it that that this little bitty nation of Israel, why is it that the whole world is so involved in this little bitty nation of Israel? I mean, can you name Two or three other nations in that part of the world? So many besides Jacob? I mean, what I'm saying is the whole world knows about Israel This little group of people. Why is that? Because God has worked and planned for his people to he's going to bless them that bless them and curse them that curse them. Yet through all this time, uh Satan has continued to try and attack and undermine and do away with God's people. Haman comes up with this plan. Now the Agites, Haman was an Agite. It's notable that the Agites were descendants of the Amalekites. Do you remember the story all the way back at the beginning of the year when King Saul was told by God to go in and to utterly destroy the Amalekites? And Saul said, I did it, except for this and this and that. You know, he's like, uh I did what you said, except for, and he listed the he didn't do it. And now here, all this time later, the descendants of the Amalekites are continuing to give them problems. And so here, Haman, this Eggite, a descendant of the Amalekites, gets filled with bitterness. such anger in his heart that he not only uh is mad and wants to kill Mordecai, not only does he want to kill Mordecai and his family, He wants to destroy anybody that is of that heritage. Anybody that's a Jew. All of them got to die. And he's in a position in the kingdom to put that into place. He's gonna have them all killed. It's amazing. He comes and he talks to the king and says, hey, we want to uh kill all the all these Jews and and the king says, okay. That is amazing. Look at Haman convinces the king to kill the Jews. Look at chapter 3 and verse number 13. I'm in Ezra. I need to be in Esther. Next book. Esther. Chapter number three. So we see in verse number thirteen. He says, and letters were sent by post unto all the king's provinces to destroy to kill and to cause to perish all Jews, both young and old, little children and women in one day, even upon the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which was in the month of Adar, and to take the spoils of them for prey So decree went out and all the land, all right, you guys can all kill all the jewels, young, old, women, children, whatever, and you know what? You can have their homes and their land and whatever you take for your for your benefit. We're gonna wipe the Jews out. That plan was put into place by Satan through evil Haman Yet God is working. So we see a great deliverance. Not only great danger, but in chapters 5 through 7 we see a great deliverance. Haman's plot He's excited about it. It's developing well. He wants to kill Mordecai personally and publicly. In chapter 5, look at verse number 14. personally and publicly. Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends unto him, Let a gallows be made, of fifty cubits high, and to morrow speak thou unto the king that Mordecai may be hanged thereon Then go thou in merrily with the king unto the banquet. And the thing pleased Haman, and he caused the gallows to be made So he's got these gallows built. He's ready to hang uh Mordecai on these gallows in front of everybody. Boy, this is exciting. Uh you know, he was You read the story and over again he's just bitter and angry and he's describing this. And so his friends and his wife say, you know what would be good? This will give this will make you happy. Why don't you hang him and kill him and do it publicly? And he said, okay. And so they built these gallows. But he did not realize that God was working and the miraculous story that's taking place behind the scenes. Where Mordecai, we don't have time to read all of this story, but uh you see Mordecai many years ago God had Mordecai in a position to be able to protect the king from an assassination on attempt on his life. And when he did that, he notified the king of an assassination attempt, and nobody said thank you. You know, when nobody says thank you, God knows. He he's keeping track, right? Nobody said thank you to Mordecai, nobody patted him on the back, nobody gave him a a new chariot or a nice home or nothing for saving the king. And I don't know that Morekai thought anything about it. But that happened many years before. Well then the king is, the Bible says he had a sleepless night. He couldn't sleep. And so he thinks, well, if there's anything that'll put me to sleep, it's a history book. So he says, he says, bring somebody to read to me the history of the land. I want to hear the history. And so they bring a guy out and he begins reading the history. And they just happen upon a story of how a plot was made against the king, and the king is going to be killed, but this man named Mordecai is protects him and saves the king. And the king thinks, wow, that's amazing. What was done for him? And he says, nothing was done for him. Oh, we need to honor him. Yeah, let's let's plan to honor you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to ask my right-hand man, Haman. How can I honor somebody that I really want to honor? Well, you know, uh Haman thought, boy, the king wants to honor somebody. It must be me. I mean I'm the only one that's honorable. I mean I'm the I'm the catch meow and all that. And he's thinking he's gonna he's gonna and so he really lays it on thick. The king says, Who how can I honor somebody I really want to honor? And he says, Well, king, uh, what you need to do is you need to lift this man up. You need to put your robe upon him. You need to put him on your ho your horse and have your your top men lead him through the city on a horse and say, you know, praise be and all these things. And uh then he says, that's a great idea. The guy I want to na uh honor is Mordecai, and you're gonna take him through the city, and you're gonna do and he's like, Oh no, I mean you can imagine how mad he was. God orchestrating this in the background that men could not even imagine But it puts Mordecai in a position to be able to impact and influence Esther, and Esther is in a position to impact and influence the king that ultimately saves God's people. So we see that uh when the story comes out, Haman is punished uh because he wanted to kill them, didn't realize that one of the Jews that they wanted to kill was actually Esther, the the king's new uh queen and And Haman is punished for that. God protects his people. There's great rejoicing throughout all the land. So we see the great delight in chapters nine through ten. The victory that God brings as he protects his people from this attack of Satan And in honor of that great victory, the feast of Purnum is instituted. It is a feast that is still observed by Jewish people today. It is in remembrance of how God protected them. I wish the Jewish people today could see the hand of God in his protection of them today and observe and recognize and see what God is doing. Uh but many of them are very secular, the nation of Israel, uh very secular in nature, although they observe the law and do these types of things. They still don't want to look and see God observing and protecting their nation. But the Feast of Purnum is acknowledging and remembering God's protection of their people and preserving their life through this time. God brought peace through their willing servants who did what was called upon them for such a time as this. Mordecai and Esther. God leading them and giving them putting them in the right place, but they also had to yield and submit. You remember Esther, she purposed in her heart, you know, well If I die, I die. I'm going to go into the king, although I'm not supposed to. And she was willing to do that even at the cost of her own life. And so, Christian, we've got to be willing to do what God calls upon us to do. And uh God will do miraculous things that we can't even imagine. Alright, we are gonna stop there