I'll turn your Bibles this evening to Romans chapter number two. Romans chapter number two. This last week. I was asked a question regarding uh these first five verses actually. Bo, uh who I don't see here this evening, but uh he asked a question about these verses and I responded via email. And gave him a large portion of what turned into this message tonight. But I've never spoke on this topic specifically and as I studied it out, there's a lot more to this topic than just these five verses. But we're going to do a little bit of Bible study here on these five verses tonight as we consider the topic or the idea of the judge and judgment. The judge and judgment. So follow along as we read these first five verses, and uh then we'll kind of get into the thought this evening. Uh Romans chapter two verses we're gonna actually include verse number six, although he was only asking about five, but to kind of keep things In context and the thought altogether, we're going to look at the first six verses. Therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man. Whosoever thou art that judgest, for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou that judgest dost the same things. But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things or doest the same? That thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? But after thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Who will render to every man according to his deeds. Now we cannot rightly divide these verses without getting the full context and grasping and understanding what all is being discussed and talked about here. How we ended up uh launching into this at chapter two verse number one. is really introduced if we were to back up and begin reading in chapter 1 and verse number 18. And uh so I want you to back up to there. We're going to look at that to kind of get an idea of why he was addressing this topic. with his audience here in chapter two. Before we read these verses, I wish you know Jay Vernon McGee said about this that it is well to keep in mind here that Paul is not talking about salvation. He's talking about sin and the basis on which God will judge men. These principles of judgment are not the basis of salvation, these are the basis of judgment How God will judge and deal with men and their sin. You know, one day we'll give an account of everything done in our body, whether it be good or bad. One day there we are going to stand, even as Christians, we're going to stand before God and and be judged for the things done in our body that uh we know is the case. Now we won't be uh judged with our sin, our sin debt has been paid by Jesus Christ, and we won't have to stand at the great white throne judgment. because we know that we've been forgiven and we're going to go to heaven. But the Bible's still clear that we are going to be judged by God for what we do in our body. Now those things definitely they're not underneath the blood of Jesus Christ you haven't confessed and forsaken and taken care of. So I just want to lay that on the outset here that we're not talking about salvation. We're talking about God judging those deeds, the things that we do in our body. So backing up to chapter 1 and looking at beginning in verse number 18, we're not going to read all of this. For the sake of time, I do have quite a bit to cover tonight, but We do want to get the context of what we're talking about. He says here, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteous men. Who hold the truth in unrighteousness because that which may be known of God is manifest in them. For God has showed it unto them. We see in verse number 20, he says, For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead. So that they are without excuse. You understand, beloved, that God has given us a testimony of Himself. Every man In the world, and we're talking about mankind, every man, woman, all of us are without excuse, because God has revealed Himself to all of us through two things that are made very clear in the Scripture. First of all, creation. He says here that man can see God in creation. Verse number 20 tells us that. And the second thing is the conscience of man. God has put it, written it on the heart of men. They have to deny their own conscience, the law that God has written on their heart. They have to go against that to deny God. To deny that God exists, because you go to the most uh remote village in any part of the world at any time in history And they might not have a King James Bible. They might not know John 3. 16. They might not know how to worship God. But they will have some type of faith where in their heart they're searching and looking for God. Why? Because God wrote it on the heart of men that there is somebody else There's a creator of this universe. There's somebody in control, and it certainly is not us. Men understand that. It's innate in their being And only through our educated and intellectual society have we educated ourselves right out of our faith, where we no longer believe that God is. Well, he is, and we know he is. Verse number 21, he says, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. But became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Look down for verse number 26. He says, For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections. For even their women did change the natural use unto that which is against nature. And likewise also men Leaving the natural use of women, burn in their lust one toward another, men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meet. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. Verse number 29, being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of in beings, murders, debate, deceit. Malignity, whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural affections. Immaculable, immerciful, who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death. Not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. So he lists out all of these Sins and makes it very clear that men are going to stand before an Almighty God and be judged one day. Because God here in verse 18 opens up with him saying that listen, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteous men. And yet he opens chapter two with a very clear statement, and he says, Listen, guys, you're without excuse. This is the first group we see in chapter number verse number one. He says, Therefore thou art inexcusable. He opens it up to them and says, Listen. You are inexcusable. You are not going to miss this. I want you to understand what he's dealing with here ultimately is the hypocritical nature in which the Jewish people Looked at the Gentile world which were being brought into the faith by plan of God, and you can see him talking about all of this wickedness And these pious, hypocritical Jewish people who kept the law Who observed all these things, you could see in their heart and minds them saying, oh yeah. Boy, they sure are bad. That's right They don't deserve all of this. Boy, look at look at that. The Jews felt because of their long-standing relationship with God that they somehow had some favor that would excuse them from God's judgment. But he says, no. He says, therefore thou art inexcusable, man. He said, Whosoever thou art that judgest? For when wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. He said, listen, you guys are standing up here in judgment over these other men, and yet you are condemning yourself. Because you are guilty of the same sins. There's nothing that you've done that somehow excuses you from this judgment. We see the display of hypocrisy. Abraham Lincoln said, a hypocrite is the man who murdered both of his parents and then pleads for mercy on the grounds that he was an orphan. This is what we're dealing with here. We're dealing with a group of hypocrites that had a had a position, an honored position with God as God's chosen people, and then yet They looked at the Jew the Gentile world and wanted to cast stones at them, but overlook and ignore their own sin. And beloved, I want you to know that we are all prone to this. We are all prone to casting judgment. The sins, the Bible scholar Philip says, the sin of the hypocrite is that of being indignant of other people's shortcomings. Yet being indulgent of our own. And that's how it is. We live our lives as Christians And we look at other people, think, man, they sure are wicked, or they sure don't, you know, look at how bad they do this or do that. And we're indulgent of our own wickedness. And we want to overlook those things and yet look down on other people for the things that they do. The Jews had taken themselves from a place of judgment to the place of judge. They had set themselves up as judge. Having received the grace of God, they pronounced themselves righteous and condemned the Gentiles' wickedness And beloved, tonight I want you to know that we are all without excuse. Unless you wonder who it is that they're talking about here, he says, thou therefore art inexcusable. The thou that he's talking to, look down in verse number 17. Who is it that he's talking to? He says, Thou art inexcusable, but verse number 17, he says, Behold, thou art called what? So he was speaking to the Jewish people in explaining this to them that, listen, the hypocritical way in which you are judging others, you're you're still without excuse. Satan lies to men telling them that as long as they're nice to others, that their own sin is okay. This philosophy and idea, well, as long as I smile, it's alright if I talk bad about them. It's okay if I'm a gossip as long as I pref-preface it with uh we need to pray. You know, it it's We we somehow find ways to be indulgent of our own wickedness, our own sin, while at the same time judging others. And the prophet says that is a display of a wicked heart We sure do love to be the judge. There's two men, two women walking out of church one day, and one said to the other, Well the preacher said we've got to quit judging others. The reply from the other lady was, yep, takes all the fun out of being a Christian, don't it? That's our mentality. We sure like to cast judgment. It displays our heart. We see the response that the Jews had here in Paul's thoughts. on those that he was talking about in chapter one. But what should our response be? And I don't have time tonight to dig into this idea. This is a whole message in of it of itself, but I just want to touch on this because the question that came to me was specifically with regards to, well, are we supposed to judge or not? Because you you hear a lot today, don't judge me. You hear this my this mindset that that's not Christian. Who are you to judge me? This is a whole nother study, but I want you to understand that God has called us to use judgment But he has not ever appointed us as judge. And see, here's the difference. For me to judge a situation Or to use discernment in a situation. You know, we judge things every single day. We are supposed to. But God never set us up to cast judgment. We are supposed to use discernment. We are supposed to use wisdom. It's very clear in the scriptures that God calls us. To judge matters, and yet we've got to be very cautious because the problem that he was dealing with here was the hypocritical way in which These Jews were dealing with the situation. There's several reasons we've got to be very cautious when we judge others. One is because we don't hold the position of God. We've never been set up as judge. It's not our uh position to cast judgment on, well you're gonna be, you know, sometimes you'll hear people talk about that, well I I cast this curse on you, or I I say you're gonna all of your possessions are gonna be, you know, rotted away, or whatever. They cast a judgment because of the sin. that you have. And you know, Job's three friends did that. They they judged him. But God never set us up as judge to determine a situation. And the reason it is because we have uh incomplete facts We don't know this whole whole situation. You know, how many times have you, gentlemen, have you uh misread or misheard, or let's say misinterpreted something that your wife said You know, in your mind you thought or you felt or it came across this particular way and then you Blew it all out of proportion. This has never happened to me. I'm uh Brother Hunt was telling me about something he did, so so I'm just using his illustration today. Uh blew it all out of proportion. And then you feel dumb and you know of course we're prideful so we don't want to admit that we just did that, that we misread it, and now we've we mess oh man, it takes a lot of humility to come back and say, well, okay, this is all my fault because I misheard you. I misread the situation. That happens. We misread it. We don't have all the facts. There was a group of men one day that did not stand when the Star-Spangled Banner was played on opening day. The commentator surmised that these men were trying to make some political statement, trying to voice their objection to uh American politics or Some other they they they surmised lots of things live on air about this group of men that didn't stand halfway through the broadcast They were informed that the group of men that didn't stand were veterans and they were all wheelchair bound. Veterans that had served our country and were there to see the game and none of them could stand because they gave their li their legs. in service of our country. They misread the situation. That's what happens when we finite men try and pass judgment. So we've got to be very careful about this. God will judge all men one day. We're not to pass judgment. Years ago I heard about a Kansas preacher who uh returned after visiting the New England states One of his parishioners met him at the airport to uh pick him up and take him home. He is he asked his parishioner, he says, hey How are things going here at home? The prisoner replied, Sir, it's really sad. It's really sad, Pastor. The cyclone came through and wiped out my house. The pastor replied, Well, I'm not surprised. I've been telling you for years you can't be living in sin and expect God to let it go. Then the prisoner said, Pastor, it took out your house too. He said, God works in mysterious ways All of a sudden the story changed, right? Oh we we like to cast judgment and we've got to be very careful about that, but I want you to to understand and I'm not gonna t I'm not gonna chase this rabbit because we're gonna get through the rest of these verses tonight But we are supposed to use judgment and this worldly mentality that, oh, don't judge me. We're supposed to judge situations. We're supposed to to uh the Bible says very clear that by their works ye shall know them and we're going to take another service and look at this idea, this mentality that the world has that you know you see it all the time in comments on Facebook and other places, you know, like don't judge me. Who are you to judge me? You can't judge me. You know by the very act of them asking that question they are judging you? They are judging you for making that judgment. Everywhere we go and so many things in our lives, we exercise and use judgment, and we should use judgment, but we've got to be careful not to pass judgment on others. I'm going to dig into that another time a little bit more because we want to get through these verses. Don't you see in verse number two we see that there are those without exception. He says in verse number two, he says, But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things. It is sure. There's two definitive words here. We are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth. Those two words. There's a surety here, and that God's judgment is based on truth. There is no exception. It's a sure thing that judgment day is coming. Christians are going to be judged at the judgment seat of Christ, and the lost are going to be judged at the great white throne judgment one day, but God knows that judgment is coming. And beloved, God's judgment is according to truth. Many times we misread situations, we misinterpret things, we look at things and don't have the full scope of their full story. We misunderstood. You know, I just trying to think of illustrations and I d recently told you guys how that I hurt myself skiing that one time and uh had cut my eye open and I skied right down to the front of the line And everybody in line started I mean people were cussing me out because I was cutting in line to get on a lift. But I wasn't trying to get on a lift and when I turned around and they saw me and I I had blah blood coming all down my face and You know, head wounds, they they don't even have to be that bad. They bleed like crazy. And I had blood all over the place. And then all the whole line was like, Whoa, wait, wait, what do you need? Let's get you some help. And all of a sudden it all changed. See, they misread the situation. But see, God doesn't misread the situation ever. His judgment is according to truth. He knows exactly where we have failed him and fallen short. Jesus is truth. I am the way, the truth, and the life. We see that there are those without escape Verse number three. He said, And thinkest thou, O man, that judgest them which do such things? So he says, Hey, do you think You're judging those that do such things, he says, and doest the same that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? He says, you're standing here and you're judging them for doing that and you're doing the same thing? Do you think you are going to escape the judgment of God? No Not gonna happen. There is no escape. You doesn't re it doesn't just you aren't holier. You know, there's one thing I had to really work with my kids, and this doesn't happen so much now, I praise God, that they're a little bit older and They've maybe grown out of it or maybe they just don't do it when I'm around and can't hear them. But uh, you know, the a lot of times kids they enjoy tearing down other people. And I said, listen, it does not make you look better when you tear somebody else down. That's why they do it. They want to make themselves look better Making fun of other kids and oh look at that shot you made. Boy you couldn't you couldn't hit the broad side of a barn and you're so so you think somehow you're a better basketball player because you tore him down? It doesn't make you better And that's how these Jewish people were looking at their so they were judging the Gentiles and thinking somehow they were going to escape judgment because they were righteous, right? Because they had self-righteousness. Oliver B. Green said this: in these three verses, Paul is asking men if they think they can judge others for doing the same things that they themselves practice. And somehow they themselves might escape the judgment of God. But that's, we know, that all men are without escape. In chapter 1, the Gentiles are dressed, but in chapter 2, the Jews are addressed. John Gills said, Others think that the Jews are meant here, who despised and condemned the Gentiles, and thought themselves to be righteous persons, justified in the sight of God, and who They, though they were secretly guilty of these many abominable iniquities, yet were very severe upon the sins of others, and therefore inexcusable. Listen, we're all going to be judged by a holy God one day because God is no respecter of persons. That's verse number 11 in our text. We're not going to get there, but he's no respecter of persons. All men are without excuse. Then we see those that eschew. He says verse number four, the word eschew, it's a less familiar word, but it's alliterated with my outline. That's why I used it. You don't know what a shoe means. It means to despise. To despise. You know, where's another place that word shows up in the Bible? Chapter 1. Yeah, Job. He eschewed evil, despised, right? Despised evil. So here notice this. He says, Or despisest thou the riches of the goodness and the forbearance and the long-suffering? Not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth me to repentance. You see, the Jews despised the goodness of God, the forbearance. The long-suffering of God, because they he they looked at this Gentile world and the wickedness that was going on, and in their mind, God should wipe them off of the face of the earth Now if you were real honest tonight, how many of you are like me, and you said that about one or two people? You said, I don't know why God doesn't just take them out I don't know why God just doesn't kill that person. I don't know why God doesn't just, you know, we look at it and say, man, God should just, and what he's saying, he says, do you despise The goodness, the forbearance, the long-suffering of God. You see, we've experienced the grace, the goodness, the forbearance, the long-suffering of God, and now that we've received it We look at others and think they don't deserve it. It's like the problem out here on the property, you know, the uh our lawyer said a conservationist. They they a conservation is somebody that has everything they want and they don't want you to have any of it. And that's why we had people fighting us because they want to protect the land. Well that's because they already have everything they want, so they just want to stop you from getting anything That's all they're they they're our lawyer called them cavemen. They're citizens against virtually everything. They're cavemen. But listen, God, he says you can see how the they just they were despised the goodness and the forbearance and the long suffering of God as they looked at these men and said, Man, these people need to be judged. But it's only because in their own heart and mind they thought that they were going to escape that judgment somehow. He says, you can't do it not knowing that the goodness of God, the God's long suffering, God's forbearance All these things are what leads you to repentance, and God is extending that grace and that forbearance and that long-suffering to people that deserve it, or that don't deserve it, but that He loves. Just like he did for us, because we didn't deserve it. He says, don't despise that. Why would anyone despise the goodness of God? It's only the self-righteous That wonder why God hasn't judged the wicked yet. Weirsby said, certainly the Jews would applaud Paul's condemnation of the Gentile world In fact, Jewish national and religious pride encouraged them to despise the Gentile dogs, and he puts that in quote, because that's what they were referred to as Gentile dogs And to have nothing to do with them. But we've got to be careful that that doesn't come into the church today. There's a lot of talk about different prejudices today. Here there was a the a prejudice from the Jewish nation to the Gentile nation. But is there any prejudice in your heart? We've got a guard against that. It's not acceptable to God. When men can't see the goodness of God, they're not drawn to repent So we see in verse number five, we see those that are expanding the wrath of God. In verse number five he says, but after thy hardness and impenitent, which means unrepentant, In penitent heart, treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath. That word treasurest means to store, means to gather up. Just build like a treasure. Some people are gathering up a whole treasure of God's wrath. God's wrath is expanding. To lay up, to amass, Strong says, that word treasurous means to amass. It's ever-expanding wrath of God. I remember my mom used to look at me with that that look. You know how moms look at their kids? She would say, Son, you are cruising for a bruisin. She would say, you better quit. She says, my, you know, that that was letting me know that I had pushed just far enough. If I did not want to reap the wrath of mom, I better settle down. I better stop what I'm doing. And that's what he's saying here. He says, you you are standing in judgment over these other people when you're guilty of this same sin yourself, and what you're doing, you think somehow you're righteous? And the whole time, what you're doing is you're storing up the wrath of God against you. What an amazing truth. An ever-expanding measure of God's wrath bestowed upon us. He says, you've got a hard heart against God. We see the path of the wicked, and it grieves our heart to see them so hard-hearted. But what should grieve us Is our hard heart. This impenitent or unrepentant heart of the wicked here is seen. In Revelation chapter 9, verses 20 and 21, he says, And the rest of men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented. Not of the works of their hands, that they should not worship devils and idols and gold and silver and brass and stone and wood, which neither can see, neither can hear, nor walk. Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts. We had this unrepentant heart. We said, you got a hard heart, you got an unrepentant heart. And you're just storing up the wrath of God. So there are those that have an expanding wrath. And then verse number six, he says, those that are experiencing justice. He says, who will render to every man according to his deeds. Every man, every one of us is going to be recorded, rewarded for the things done in our body. rewarded according to our deeds. You know, beloved, we often misconstrue our own guilt and our own goodness. We take our own guilt very, very lightly, and we look at our own goodness as something magnificent. Have you ever heard somebody say, I don't deserve this from God? I don't deserve for this to happen. God should have never let this happen to me. But, dear friend, when we are faced with the reality of it and we understand the truth of the Word of God, the very last thing any one of us ever would want. From God is what we deserve. You see, there's the problem is we we look at our own goodness and put it way up here and we neglect and forget about our own guilt. And somehow we feel righteous, and so something happens to us. It could be something as as mundane as somebody dents your car. Where's Anthony? Somebody dents your car, backs into you, hit and run. Something could be something greater than that. But that happens, and we look at it and we think, I don't deserve this. This is not right. I've been trying to do good, and look at look at how good of a person I am, look at how good of a Christian I am, look at how faithful I've been. I don't deserve this. We've lifted our goodness way up here and forgot about our guilt. And if we really became face to face with our guilt, we would be like the prophet that says, Woe is me, for I am undone. Right. We would look at that dented car or whatever test or trial you might be going through and we would look at it and we'd say if this is all that I have to do with man I got I I got off easy. I got off easy. Because I certainly deserve a lot worse. But you see when we're not looking at it correctly. We get that misconstrued and we start to maybe even get angry at God because we feel that we've been done injustice. Well, we have been done an injustice. We've been given God's grace and God's mercy and we didn't deserve it. Because if justice was needed, we would receive a lot worse. The poet said, If all things that you ever said were written in a book, and all your thoughts were on display, so that everyone could take a look. I guess there is not a living soul who wouldn't hang his head and feel ashamed before the Lord and wish he were dead. There is a record book, I'm told, with every deed and word. It even keeps a record of the thought that hasn't been heard. The good and the bad and every sin. For nothing has been missed. It really makes me feel ashamed to think what must be on my list. And yet the pages of my past Shall never bother me. For Jesus nailed them to his cross on the day of Calvary And now I stand in him complete, redeemed from sin and strife, for with his blood he wrote my name down in the book of life. The heart of this message is let's be cautious, careful. Refrain from passing judgment on others. And recognize the goodness of God that's been bestowed upon our lives in his mercy, and that we've been forgiven. Not because we deserve it, not because we've earned it. Not because some we have some special position. But all because of him. And now he extends that same mercy and grace to somebody else. Maybe somebody else in the church. Maybe somebody else in the world Maybe somebody else in your family. But we've got to view it from God's perspective. Realize He is the righteous judge. And everything is going to be judged by Him, not by us.