But talked about that illustration of um cutting something straight and building a tent and making sure you end up with the right thing when you're done, and the same is true uh applicable biblically is that you need to make the right divisions in the Bible and say where things go and understand things in the proper context, or else you'll build a a wrong theology. You can take your Bibles with me this morning to the book of Galatians, Galatians chapter 4. I do have notes available in the back, and today would be a very good day to have the notes if you're watching online. They're available on our church website right below the live streaming. If anybody would like those notes, and I'm sure Brother Matt could pass them along. If anybody needs any, if you wanted to raise your hand, we need them up here. A couple of them. Galatians chapter 4. Do make those available every week so that you can follow along because a lot of times I have more material than we get to go over in class. Today is one of those days. Would encourage you to follow along on the notes to follow along in our discussion today. So last week we began to teach on the idea of dispensationalism and what that what that was and what is meant by that. Hopefully I have enough notes for everybody. have tried to figure the right number of notes to print out for everyone with the ladies downstairs, but we can get this uh get this together. So we look at the idea of distensation. And we kind of simply defined the idea as, or the dispensations as God interacting with man differently over different periods of time. If you found your place there in Galatians chapter four, we'll read verses one through five. You follow along as I read. There the Bible says, Now I say that the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant though he be Lord of all, but is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent his sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. Let's open with words Lord, we love you and we thank you for your word and what it can teach us. I pray that the thoughts today would uh uh be sh uh shared clearly that people can I know we have a lot of teaching this morning that it wouldn't be overwhelming, but we could um get some ideas that would help us practically as we study our Bibles on a daily basis, Lord, and see to build a proper theology, understanding what you would have us to believe about these different things in the Word of God. We ask that you bless this time together in your in your word. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So as we look at this idea of dispensations, the idea of God dealing with individuals differently throughout history, one of the illustrations that we gave last week was of a parent to a child. and how when your child is an infant, you treat them differently when than when they're a teenager. Or when your child is a a toddler, you treat them differently than when they're a college student. Most of the time. Uh right, brother brother Bard there, uh traveling with the college students right now. I'm just kidding guys. Uh I was uh I was I was in charge of some dorm rooms when I was in college and I understood what it meant to ha to deal with some from freshmen every once in a while. I'm sure you've you've encountered some of those. Uh but you uh you have the idea of how you deal differently at different times it doesn't change As far as the the way the relationship was established, it doesn't change who the parents are, who the children are, just the way they interact is different. And Paul kind of makes that example here in Galatians chapter 4 He talks about the heir being a child, and when he's a child, there's really not much different. It's treated similarly to the way a servant would be treated, and there there's under-tutors, there are under governors, and then There was a time came when God was going to deal differently and he made his son available, sent forth his son made under the law to redeem them. So it kind of gives this idea of how there was a time that mankind was under bondage to governments and the law. When that time was fulfilled, God sent his son born under the dispensation of the law, to offer redemption to those that are under the law, so mankind could become the sons of God by grace. Today what we're going to do in our lesson is we're going to look at the different dispensations that we see in the Word of God, and we're not going to have time to go into all of them in detail. We are breaking this down in our study to nine dispensations. I'll talk about that in a minute. There are nine of them, and there are eleven points that I've made in your notes about each of them. That means there are 99 points in our lesson today. And we have about 40 minutes left to go over 99 points, and I can't even talk that fast. Although I would like to try. But we're not going to do that. We're not going to go through every point for every one of these. That's why I printed them off for you If you'd like to study them on your own later and see what these points are in these different time frames and how God interacted with man, what man was responsible for, how man was judged, you can go on and study that on your own We're only going to be highlighting a few points of each of these, especially how it relates to our study of rightly dividing the word, understanding things in the Bible in context. I stressed several times last week that even though the way that God interacted with man changed over different periods of time, there were several things that did not change. Number one, God did not change. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. The God of the Old Testament is the same God as the God of the New Testament. There was no change in God's character, in God's nature. How God interacted with man differed, but who God was was the same. I heard a testimony of of an individual was out soul winning and he encountered uh encountered a a woman preacher of this other denomination and was engaging with her about the Bible and she said that she believed that God matured from the Old Testament, New Testament. He grew and he wasn't so he wasn't so harsh in the New Testament as as you see. And that's unbiblical. That's blasphemous. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. God is the same throughout all of history and throughout all of eternity. Another thing that did not change throughout all of this time of history is salvation. From the first judgment after man fell in the garden, God pointed out to man that salvation would come through the seed of the woman Jesus was promised. In Genesis chapter 3, verse number 15, big theological term for that verse is called the proto-evangelium. It is the first mention of the gospel. that God promised when man fell into sin that God was going to make a way for man to be redeemed that would come to the seed of the woman. And the people in the Old Testament were saved by looking ahead in faith, believing in the promise of God. And that's how they were saved, looking to the death of Christ on the cross. They didn't have as much information about Christ's death as we do, looking back at it, but they were saved the same way. Romans chapter 4 tells us about Old Testament salvation. When discussing Abraham tells us that Abraham believed God and it was counted to him for righteousness. Faith in the promise of God, the promise of the Messiah specifically, is how people were saved in the Old Testament. Today we're saved by faith in what was fulfilled by Christ at the cross. They were saved by looking ahead to Calvary. We're saved by looking back to Calvary. Salvation did not change. There wasn't a work salvation in the Old Testament and a salvation by grace in the New Testament. That's not a biblical perspective. There's a couple of other consistencies that we can see kind of throughout these different dispensations. There's a consistency both of God and man's character in the dispensations. An example of this, each of the first seven dispensations. End where man failed and God judged them. You think of the dispensation of innocence there in the Garden of Eden. Man failed by partaking of the fruit, and it ended with God judging them by kicking them out of the garden. In the time of conscience, man failed through his exceeding wickedness, God judged them by sending a flood. In the time of human government, man failed by building the Tower of Babel. God judged them by sending the confusion of tongues In the time of promise, got man failed by going down into Egypt, and God judged them through the Egyptian bondage. In the time of the law, man failed by crucifying Christ, and God judged them through the destruction of Jerusalem and the dispersion. In the time of the church, man will fail through apostasy. And we see the judgment of Christ in the book of Revelation being outside the church and candlesticks being removed. In the time of the kingdom there will be man's false obedience, and there will be a renovation of the earth with fire. So man fails, and God judges man's sin. That's consistent throughout all the dispensations. Another way that is consistent is that we see God always reaching out to man. It's not man going to God, it's God coming to us. We see that in each of these. In the time of innocence, God came down to the garden. Where art thou, Adam? God's looking for man, God coming to us in the time of conscience. God looked for a man and he found Noah. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. God came down to Noah. Time of human government. God comes down to see what man was doing at the Tower of Babel. In the time of promise, God comes down, meets Abra Moses at the burning bush, meets Abraham there in Ur. God comes to man. In the time of the law, God physically comes to man in the person of Jesus Christ there at the end of the dispensation of the law. God came to man. In the time of the church, God's going to come for us when the Lord descends from heaven with a shout. And in the time of the kingdom, Christ will return to earth and reign physically from David's throne in Jerusalem. God always reaches out to man. It's not us coming to God. And we see man's responsibility through each of the dispensations can be kind of summed up with the idea of believe God and obey God. In the time of innocence, believe what God said, obey God by not eating the fruit. In the time of conscience, believe the testimony of creation. Obey the law that was written on your heart In the time of government, believe what God said, and obey God by spreading out and multiplying. In the time of promise, believe what God said, and don't go into Egypt. Obey by not going to Egypt In the time of the law, believe what God said, obey the commandments, obey the law. In the time of the church, believe on God's Son, obey the Great Commission. In the time of the kingdom, believe what God said, and obey the law of Christ. So we see this consistency that man has a responsibility to believe God and to obey God. We see the consistency of God always reaching out to man. We also see the consistency that when man sins, God brings judgment So now we're going to go into the actual dispensations. We're just going to highlight a couple truths out of each of these. I told you last week that there are as As far as how people had divided the scriptures, they had divided it into as few as three and as many as thirty-seven in the study that I have done of of what would be defined as different dispensations. I told you that most conservative people who look at the Bible would divide it into seven to ten. Some of the differences come where some would leave off Eden as the time of dispensation. Some would leave off eternity. Some combine the kingdom and the judgment together and make that one instead of two. So that's why there's some difference. And not something to really stress about, as long as we understand the overall idea that there's things the Bible need to be understood in a context, especially it's historical context. who God was talking to, what those people were responsible for, and um and understanding that thing historically, biblically as we study the Word of God. So we've broken it into nine. We're going to start with the dispensation of innocence. You have your notes there. This is also known as the Edenic dispensation or the time of Eden. The accounting or the time frame of this lasted from creation until the fall. Biblically, this would be Genesis chapter 1 through Genesis chapter 3. What was going on here? What was God's plan during this time? In this original arrangement, this is the program, Adam and Eve are sinless but not perfect. They enjoy perfect conditions and are given a perfect innocence. God gave Adam and Eve every opportunity to do what was right. They had no sin nature. They just had to believe God and obey God. God gave them one rule. Don't eat of the tree That's all you need to do. God gave them some responsibilities, but God's overall primary responsibility He gave them was don't eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. They could partake of the tree of life. They could partake of every other tree in the garden They could enjoy fellowship with God each and every day. God would come down to the garden, walk with him in the cool of the day. This is the time frame that God gave them this perfect opportunity. to serve and obey God and do it forever. They were not going to die. They had no sin nature. There was no corruption in the earth. And they could have lived forever in perfect harmony with God, being fruitful and multiplying in this perfect environment without a sin nature, but man messed it up. And that would go to show we would we people would try to blame their circumstances on w the the reason why they behave the way they do. Well it's because of I grew up this way or because of this neighborhood that I'm part of or you don't understand what my family is like It's not our environment that determines whether or not we we serve God and obey God. That's the decision you have to make personally. And it's a decision that Adam and Eve chose to disobey God personally. They did not follow God's program, what God planned for them. How did God interact with man during this time? We see through Revelation that God spoke directly to man. God would come down to the garden in the cool of evening and would talk directly with Adam and Eve, would engage one-on-one with them in this environment. That was how God revealed Himself to man And what was their responsibility? I brought this out already. Now when we look at the responsibility, we're talking about the primary responsibility. There's other things Adam was supposed to keep Keep the garden. Adam was supposed to name the animals, but the primary responsibility was to not eat of the forbidden fruit. We see that in Genesis chapter 2, verses 15, 15 through 17. That was man's job. That was his responsibility before God. God interacted with man in a perfect environment, asked him, here's one thing I don't want you to do, and man failed in that responsibility. What's a lesson we can learn from this dispensation? We can learn that this perfect environment is not sufficient to maintain man's obedience to God. So we look at how God interacted with man, understanding to rightly divide, when you're reading Genesis chapter 1 through 3, that was man in a perfect environment. engaging directly with God on an individual basis, God actually physically being there with them, speaking to them in the cool day, walking with them in the garden. that was during this time frame. Things changed, however, in the way God related to man when man fell into sin. This brings us into the next time period of Bible history, or world history even. And that would be called the dispensation of conscience or the anti-deluvian dispensation, meaning prior to the flood. That's the antediluvian word, it means before the flood. What is the time frame or the accounting of this? This goes from the fall to the flood. This is Genesis chapter 4 through Genesis chapter 7. lasted about sixteen hundred and fifty-six years. Those are somebody else's dates that I have trusted sources that I didn't come up with those numbers on my own But that's the numbers that we have there about that time frame. Going back to the dispensation of innocence, we don't know. This question was asked last week. How long did that last? We don't know how long it lasted. I personally don't think it was very long, but the Bible doesn't give us really any idea of how long that that would have uh that would have been The only thing that we know it was it happened before Adam and Eve had their first kid. Um but we're given the date that Adam and Eve have Seth in the Bible, not Cain and Abel, so we don't know the time frame uh biblically when that when that took place So we get going into the again to the dispensation of conscience that lasts from the fall of Adam and Eve until the time of the flood. What was God doing here? God imparted to man a basic knowledge of himself. including right and wrong through conscience, which is testified of by creation. Turn with me to Romans chapter 12. I'm sorry. Romans chapter 2. Beginning here after the after the fall that God started to reveal Himself to man through their conscience. This is called in Romans chapter Romans chapter 2, where God's law is written on their hearts. Romans chapter 2, verses 14-15, it says, For when the Gentiles which have not the law do my nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts their conscience always also bearing witness, and their thoughts, the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. He's particularly here talking about the Gentiles, which means those that were not Jews. that were not given the law of God. That was who he's addressing. But it would it would apply to those, all those that do not have the law, which would go all the way back here to the time of the fall where mankind is given a conscience by God that tells them what's right and wrong. They understand by their conscience the law of God and their heart. Here's what's right, here's what's wrong, here's what we should do, here's what we shouldn't do, and they understand through the testimony of creation, we see that in Romans chapter 1, verses 18-20. Creation testifies that there is a God, and their heart testifies that there's right and wrong. And so that lasts all the way till today, but that was the revelation that God had given to man. during the time of conscience. We see that in the Revelation portion of the notes. In addition to the creation without man, the conscience within man God also spoke to some men personally. For example, Cain was one. Remember, God came to Cain after he made a sacrifice that God did not accept. And when he came to Cain and made the sacrifice, that who had made the sacrifice, he said, If you do well, won't you be accepted? He came and gave some further revelations. Cain, you you didn't you did what you knew you weren't supposed to do. You knew you were doing something that was wrong. You went against your conscience. You went against the instruction that you had or what you knew to be right. If you do what's right, I'll accept you. So God did reveal things personally to individuals. Enoch. We know that Enoch walked with God and God took him. We also know that during this time God came to Noah, gave Noah specific instructions for building the ark. But overall, to mankind, um he he uh spoke to them through their conscience. He also revealed himself through representative preachers. We know that Enoch and Noah were both preachers, testifying of who God was. That was how God interacted with man during this time of conscience What was man's responsibility? It was to choose good over evil. Let's look at Genesis chapter 4. Genesis chapter 4, verse number 7. This is God talking to Cain. He says, if thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? If thou doest not well, send lieth at the door. Unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. So God gives Cain the instruction. You know what's right. Do what's right. Do well. You know what you're supposed to do. You do it. Choose good instead of evil. That was what Ant Man was responsible for Again, as we're going into this, I don't want you to confuse the responsibility for the means of salvation. Salvation is still faith in Jesus Christ looking ahead to him. Responsibility was what God was expecting man to do during this time. That would be saved and lost. This is what man got man was expected to do, not for their salvation, but based on what they have been revealed to them by God, how they were supposed to behave themselves. Responsibility. Choose good over evil. What's the lesson from this? We saw man put in a perfect environment, given every opportunity to do right, and they still chose to do wrong. The lesson from the time of conscience that man left to his own conscience will tend to move away from God and degenerate in sin. This kind of answers the question of whether or not people are basically good. Man left to their conscience became exceedingly wicked, and every thought of the imagination of their heart was only evil continually. Genesis chapter 6 tells us that. Man left to themselves, they're going to just just get worse and worse. There's a verse in Proverbs about that with children. A child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. When you just lead people to their own devices, things aren't going to get better. And that's what God gave the opportunity for man to see. You got a perfect environment, your environment was good, and uh you couldn't do what's right. I gave you a conscience to show you what was right and wrong. You didn't do what's right. That moves us into the next stage because God judged man for their sin. And that brings us to the dispensation of human government. Number three. The dispensation of human government also called the post-Dilubian dispensation, or post-meaning after the flood. General timeframe of this was from the flood to Babel, Genesis chapter 8 through 11, lasting approximately 427 years Now a caveat to that, this is where the world history and Bible history is going to take a little bit of a break because the rest of the world outside the Jewish nation is going to maintain this dispensation of human government while Israel is given the dispensation of promise. The promises given to Israel we talked about in our lesson on the covenants were not for the whole world. They were for Israel. So we're gonna we're the Bible's gonna shift focus from the whole world. to the nation of Israel in particular, and the world's going to remain under this human government. But prior to the promises coming, that would be from the flood to Babel approximately 427 years. What was the program? What did God have going on this time? God charged Noah with the task of enforcing justice for murder. And it's following this that we begin to read of tribes and nations and kings. These governments would enforce the law that is written in their hearts with conscience. Governments were to come up with moral laws. What's right, what's wrong, how are we going to judge right and wrong? What is the punishment when somebody does wrong? And how do we enforce that? God started that out by giving capital punishment to the government to uh execute someone who commits murder. and kill someone else that's uh set up in Genesis chapter nine. We took a lot of time to look at that when we did our lesson on biblical civics a few months ago uh maybe a year ago now, however long that was, that we looked at that idea. But that human government began there in Genesis chapter nine as God gave them the responsibility to enforce the law that was given to uh to to men by God. As far as revelation from God, we don't have really anything in the Word of God of God speaking to men or God speaking through men during this time. assume that that that Noah for a period of time we know he fell into sin after the flood, but he would have continued to be a godly example to his family prior to him falling into into sin there at the end of end of his life. Um and there would be that testimony of the flood uh where mankind, I hope, would have thought twice about going back into sin after they saw what just happened to the whole world. But the This time God someone appears to be silent. He's given the responsibility of keeping the moral law to human government. All right, men, you can't do it on your own, so I'm gonna put somebody else in charge of you. And that's that's what human government is for. When you can't control yourself, somebody else has to control you. There would be no need for human government if people could control themselves And we'd have a lot less need of it if we taught parents how to control their kids, because uncontrolled kids become uncontrolled adults. And then they have to be controlled by an external force of human government So human government, God gave the responsibility of man staying in line to human government. What was the specific responsibility given during this time? God told them to spread out and replenish the earth. Go have a bunch of children, be fruitful, be multiply, and spread out. And did man do that? Well, they were fruitful and multiplied, but they congregated, and that brought them to the Tower of Babel when God had to again bring judgment down to man. What's the lesson we learned? We're kind of seeing man's failure over and over again through these time frames. The lesson here is that men that cannot govern themselves can also not rightly govern other people. The people that are in charge are just as corrupt as the people that they're that they're ruling over. And man continues to fail when they're doing things on their own without without submitting to God's guidance. If man won't submit to God's rules they're not going to be fit to to rule or in state rules over other people either. The dispensation of human government. Again, that continues in the Gentile world as we move biblically to focus on the Israelite nation with the dispensation of This is also called the patriarchal dispensation, named after the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The time frame of this would be from the call of Abraham when he was at Ur. until Mount Sinai, after the Egyptian captivity, when God brought them out and came to Mount Sinai with Moses to give them the law, which would begin the time of the law. During this time frame, God called out a man, through whom all the nations of the earth would be blessed, to whom would be given the great promises of Scripture How did God reveal Himself? God is still silent to those under human government, but speaks personally to Abraham and his offspring, and through Abraham and his offspring does bear witness to the Gentile nations. Those that were in the land of Canaan saw the Israelites, saw the Jewish nations, saw God's uh God's presence there, how God spoke through Moses to uh the king of Egypt, to Pharaoh there. God did work through his people. God is speaking personally to Abraham's offspring and he is giving to them promises. These promises relate to a geographical location. God's going to give them a land. These are earthly geographical promises, and we dealt with those in our lesson on the covenants a few weeks ago. What was man's responsibility? Well, the responsibility that Abram had was to leave his homeland. to jo journey to the land that God had promised them and to stay there. Did Abraham fulfill that? No, he didn't. He went down into Egypt. And his son went down to stay with Abimelech, and they didn't stay in they didn't stay in the land where God wanted them to be. So what's the lesson we learn about man's failure here? Individual revelation to a chosen people does not guarantee faith and obedience. Sometimes people say, Well if God would just speak to me, then I believe. If God would do this, then I believe. Well well God came right down to Abraham and called him and made him a chosen nation, and Abraham still journeyed into Egypt and lied about his wife and then did it again. And then his son followed the pattern after him. So direct revelation from God speaking to an individual wasn't enough for man to man to follow God. Now we know that Abraham did follow God overall, but it didn't guarantee his obedience. This brings us to the dispensation of the law. I know we're moving through these quickly, but that's why I've given you a lot of notes. You've got a lot you can read and review later on. Dispensation of the law, also known as the legal dispensation, this lasts from Sinai to Calvary, from Exodus 20 to Matthew 26, approximately 1491 years. Jesus was born into this dispensation. We read that in our first verse we read in Galatians chapter 4 where it said he was made of a woman made under the law. Jesus was born during the dispensation or the time frame when the law was was in place of how God dealt with man. What was God's Program during this time, he provided a very detailed record of his legal expectations for the nation of Israel, which would ensure their prosperity and longevity in the land of promise. He laid out, here's my rules, gave him everything. Alright, one rule wasn't enough there in the in the Garden of Eden. You couldn't do it on your own. Just let me let me give you in your heart what's right or wrong, so let me spell it out for you Here is my law. How did God reveal Himself? He speaks to man through the tables of stone. Priests teach the tables. Prophets point men back to God's law. God is adding to his word during this time through prophets. There's a strong emphasis during this time frame on the written word of God. Think back to the times where they got the Word of God out and they read it to the people, different times where people would come back and point the Israelites back to God's law. That's where you need to be. Back in the Word of God. What was man's responsibility? It was to follow these laws, to live by the laws that God gave them. There's different numbers that have been counted, but the most common number, six hundred and thirteen things that God spelled out for the children of Israel. Here's what I want you to do So very clearly, they didn't have any question. It wasn't about, well, my conscience, I feel like this is okay. God just wrote it down. And there, now man can do what's right. They have it written out for him, right? No, mmm. They still failed. They still failed to follow uh and and do what God had wanted them to do. Again, they're not following the law for salvation They're following the law because that's what God has given them a responsibility to do. What's the lesson for this time frame? Outward legislation cannot institute inward change. Uh I wish we could teach that to governments today. You can't legislate and change people's heart based on a law that's been made. When you make something else illegal, it's not going to make people follow that law. Oh, now it's illegal, I guess I won't do that anymore Written down, th having the law written down didn't guarantee that men would change on the inside. So the dispensational law that ran through the time of Calvary. This brings us into the next dispensation, and that would be the dispensation of the church, or the cle ecclesiastical dispensation. This one lasts from Calvary until the time of the rapture. Matthew 27 through Revelation 3, approximately 2,000 years so far. This is the current dispensation that we are living in right now. We're living under the ecclesiastical dispensation. What's God doing? What's his program? He's calling out a people for his name, both Jew and Gentile, and that will constitute a bride for his son. How is God dealing with men or revealing himself to men? God speaks through his word. The word that's been recorded by the apostles and the prophets. Ephesians chapter 2, verse number 20. You can write that down. We're not going to take time to go there. It talks about the foundation of Christ that was laid and a foundation with the apostles. And the prophets, the word of God, written by the apostles, written by the prophets, that's what the church is built on, on the Bible. That's what we go back to for what does God say about the matter. We go back to God's Word. What's our responsibility? After trusting Christ alone by grace through faith, churches to carry the gospel into the whole world, be good stewards of the mysteries, and there are a lot of other things we could put in there as far as our responsibilities go. But trust in Christ By grace and through faith, you are saved, and then you have a responsibility to carry the gospel into the whole world But what's the lesson from this time? Now mankind, don't worry about all these little details and laws and stuff. I've got a free gift. Anyone can have it. All you have to do is believe in Christ. You can Be saved forever. Be free from the judgment of your sin and the penalty of hell. Here's the free gift of salvation. That's something that everybody should take advantage of. Isn't that the case? No. Mankind as a whole will still reject God's free gift of salvation and they choose their own righteousness instead. That's the testimony all the way back from the time of Cain and Abel. Cain chose his own good works, his own effort instead of God's way. And men today are still choosing their own effort instead of what instead of God's way. Turn it to Christ and by in faith and and receiving salvation by God's grace. These last three dispensations are the dispensations that are still future to us today. The first one is the dispensation of judgment. This will last from the time of the rapture until the millennial kingdom. We see this described in Revelation chapter 3 through Revelation 18. During this time, God will, through judgment, prepare Israel and the world for the second coming of Jesus Christ. It is at this point where God turns his attention back to his chosen people. We've stressed several times the study of dispensations as well as the covenants that the church has not replaced Israel. God still has a plan for Israel And that plan is in the future, and it's during this time that God will put his attention back on Israel. How does God reveal Himself? God speaks through His Word and the testimonies of His two witnesses and the 144,000 They'll be preaching the gospel of the kingdom, very specifically the gospel of the kingdom found in Matthew. Matthew 24, verse 14 tells us that this gospel of the kingdom will be preached there in the last day. What's man's responsibility during this time? They're to refuse the mark of the beast and they're to be washed in the blood of the Lamb. Won't take time to go there, but I'd encourage you to go back and read Revelation 7, 9 through 14 Revelation 14, 9 through 11, and Revelation 20, verse 4. That shows man's responsibility during this time. So here, man again has an opportunity to turn to God. They're under horrible judgment by God. And they're being judged for their sin. They're feeling the wrath of God surely that would cause them to turn from their sin and repent. But no, man still blasphemes God in the midst of their judgment instead of repenting of their sins. Still in rebellion to God. This leads us into the dispensation of the kingdom, the millennial dispensation. This lasts from the coming coming the second coming of Jesus Christ until the great white throne judgment is described for us. in Revelation 19 through 20, and it lasts for a thousand years. During this time, Jesus Christ will rule the earth with a rod of iron from his throne in Jerusalem. with the nation nation of Israel as the head of the nations. This is the time frame where we will rule and reign with Christ. This is the time when Satan is bound. This is a this is a time where be there will be a time of peace. Here's an example for you as far as rightly dividing the word. We have this idea of of the peace that's in the world, and there's the verse in Isaiah about men meet beating their swords into plowshares And this is a symbol that the United Nations has taken. They have a a statue of a man beating a sword into a plowshare, because they're going to bring about this peace. Well, this peace isn't something that we can bring about. The more more man mankind gets involved, the worse things get. This peace only comes through Jesus Christ. So when you read that verse in Isaiah, it's not talking about the United Nations. I don't think anybody was confused about that. What it's talking about is when Jesus comes and rules and reigns. When you have in Psalm 122, verse 6, pray for the peace of Jerusalem. What you're praying for is that Christ will come back and reign in Jerusalem and will have peace. That's what we pray for. That's the time that it's talking about. There's a false teaching out there from wrongly dividing the word that it's the church's job to bring about the kingdom by making the world so good, Jesus says, Oh, I can come down there now. It looks like a great place That's that's not what our responsibility is, to to make the world so great Jesus can come rule over it. The world's gonna get worse and worse and we're to be a light for Jesus and to point people to the gospel and to see people saved, um he's gonna come back and straighten out as far as bringing about peace. What's the revelation? God will be speaking from in person from his throne in Jerusalem. The responsibility of this time will be to submit to and worship the King of Kings. We see that in Psalm 2, verse number 12. And a lesson here. Now we have world peace. Again, that perfect environment i is set back up again. Man's conscience, he has his conscience, he has the perfect law. And yet still man rebels against God during this time, with Jesus ruling uh ruling there from Jerusalem. This brings us into the last time frame uh of of world history. And that would be the dispensation of eternity. Also could be called the perfect dispensation. This lasts from the great white throne judgment through eternity future. described for us in Revelation chapter 22, 21 and 22, and this one will last forever. What's the program? There's a new heaven, a new earth, a new Jerusalem. God the Father and God the Son will be the eternal center of all worship, and the kingdom will ever be expanding in Isaiah chapter 9 that's described for us. The revelation, God will be speaking directly from his throne. The responsibility that man has will be to worship and serve God and the Lamb. We can look at that real quick in Revelation chapter 22. This will be our last verse. We see a man's responsibility during this last time frame. Revelation 22, verse number 3. There the Bible says, And there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him. So we'll be worshiping and serving the Lord throughout all of eternity. We haven't looked at all these so far, but I would like to just quickly. . There is satanic diversion? There's none during this time because Satan has finally been judged, cast forever into the lake of fire. Any failure of man, there is none, because sin and death have been eradicated. Is there any judgment? None, because death and hell have already been cast into a lake of fire. What is our lesson? God wins. God wins in the end. And that's where w that's where we conclude uh eternity enjoying forever with the Lord. And hopefully you can see through all of that kind of just how God's dealt with man differently throughout time, how man's consistently failed God, but God's consistently And for us today, no matter how much you fail the Lord, God still reaches out to you. And God still offers you his salvation, and you still have an opportunity to join there in the end where god we're with the Lord forever in that perfect environment where where God wins. But that is only available to you like it's been the entire time. By looking in faith to the sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross.