We are, of course, concluding our study on the intertestamental period, and we're kind of in the home stretch here as far as the time frame goes as well. We're in the last hundred years. We're closing in on the birth of Christ. Things are kind of coming to a point. And we're entering the realm of you should recognize names by the end of this. Okay? We're going to end up to the biblical names that you are familiar with. with the story surrounding the birth of Christ, who was in charge, all those things. So we are closing right in here on the end. But before we get exactly there, I thought I needed to take one little half-step back and just kind of describe what's been going on in the rest of the world. Kind of at this same time. So Rome has been expanding uh at a pretty rapid rate. They started by consolidating modern day Italy, and then they took on another republic, the Carthaginian, they called it Empire, it was a republic, that was three times its size. And they won. It was a long, bloody struggle, three separate wars, took a long time, but that expanded their holdings to North Africa. That expanded their holdings to South. Spain that expanded their holdings eventually all through the western part of the Mediterranean, and then they turned east. And they started conquering some of those Alexander's successor kingdoms. Remember, he had split up his empire into four separate kingdoms. And one of those kingdoms was the kingdom of Macedon over there in modern-day Greece. They conquered that region. All of this was expanding, and it was still not technically the empire. This was the Roman Republic. The Senate still held sway. People were elected or dismissed from office. Generals were appointed for short times. There was not an emperor yet. But that time was quickly approaching. And so we see this man, Lucius Cornelius Sulla He saw the Republic beginning to become corrupt. He saw problems in the streets. The people had kind of how we have a Senate. and a House of Representatives today. Well, they had a two-tiered system of elected representatives. They had the Senate. And then they had the People's House, where tribes set delegates kind of like we elect representatives. And they had an office there would almost kind of be like our Speaker of the House. They were called tribunes. And these tribunes held the right, like our president does today, to veto laws. To say, no, Senate, you're going too far. We need to stop this corrupt law. And two of these tribunes, brothers, were assassinated in the street People were being killed, gangs were roaming the capital, serious, serious problems on the streets of Rome. And to kind of save the Republic. Sulla broke it. He marched an army into the capital, not officially the legions, but men that were loyal to him because he was a general. He executed people he viewed as corrupt, confiscated property, reformed the judicial system, and then retired. He said, I fixed the republic. Little did he know that his successor was watching him the whole time, a man by the name of Julius Caesar. who realized that now Rome could be taken by force, and he wasn't going to be so generous when he took the reins a few So Sulla, in an attempt to save the Republic, I'm going to reform it, I'm going to save it, kind of paved the way for its destruction. just a few years later. And of course we have the first group of men who are going to rule it almost together. Power consolidated around these three men. Julius Caesar, who we're familiar with, Gaius Julius Caesar on the left, Naeus Pompeius Magnus, Pompey. General Pompey is very important. He is going to be the one who brings Jerusalem and Judea into the Roman fold. That's why I'm mentioning this at all. And then finally, Mr. Crassus over here, one of the richest men to ever live. He earned and was worth the annual budget of the Roman Republic. The annual budget of the entire nation, 200 million sisterces, he had that value roughly and was accruing that on a regular basis. He did this through, have you ever heard of the term a fire sale? A fire sale. Everything must go. That is a spin-off. It is linguistically tied back to what he did Fire companies in Rome were private. Individuals paid for them. He owned them all. When someone's house was on fire, he went over to them and offered and said, I'll buy it for this much. And as the house continued to burn, he said, I'll buy it for this much. I'll buy it for this much. I'll buy it for a literal fire sale. I'm not exaggerating. That is where the term comes from. And when the owner finally caved He says, okay, fire guys, go in. He bought the property, put out the fire, and with their ability in construction, they were building high-rises five, six stories tall with their concrete. So he tore down old houses that had been there for the founding of Rome and put up these high-rise apartments charging rents. He was a very, very wealthy individual These three men essentially controlled the republic. They consolidated power around themselves And I wish I had more time to go into exactly what they were doing, but Julius Caesar was a priest, the Pontificus Maximus. If that sounds familiar, for those familiar with the Roman Catholic Church, it was the pagan position that he held as the chief priest of their religion. And he used his power to influence elections. Of course, Pompus Magnus was the general, and Crassus had the money. And it was his desire to win glory in battle that ultimately got him killed. He hired and outfitted an army. entirely out of his own pocket and marched it to the east and got killed. So that was the end of him. But uh yeah, he tried. Meanwhile in Judea, you say, Mr. you know, Brother Peterson, why were you talking about that at all? Because I'm trying to set up these are the men that are in charge of Rome and what's going on in the East. Now let's look at what's going on in Israel So, I had mentioned last week this gentleman by the name of John Hyrcanus. He was the son of those first set of brothers. that had freed Israel from the Seleucids. He managed to now consolidate and declare their independence again. He said, we're not going to be ruled by anyone. He was the first one To claim the title of king. Now he did not claim to be of the house of Judah. He didn't claim to be of the line of David. He wasn't claiming to be that kind of king, but he was claiming to be the king of the Jews. And so he held that political position as well as the position of high priest. He consolidated both of those positions together. And it was going to lead to serious problems. This gentleman, John Hyrcanus, for the set first several years of his rule, they were still kind of under the sway of an outside power, but when that king died, he declared independence. Once again, during the years of his reign, he focused on extending the borders of the Jewish nation. He also believed in forcibly converting peoples to the Jewish faith. He, whenever they would conquer a region, um, he viewed it as rightful Jewish territory. And he viewed them as, you know, strangers. And he said, as long as you're inside of our borders, you're going to practice our faith And so he instituted this policy of forcefully converting people essentially to Judaism. He would demand that the people, entire cities and regions would follow mosaic law. He he really pushed uh for that effort to continue. Um in each location where foreign peoples were subdued, he would leave scribes to oversee the religious ceremonies necessary to teach the law. And it was from these groups that he planted that we really begin to see the group that we know today as the Pharisees. These men were strict legalists. You follow the law, and then you even expand on the law to make sure you're not violating the law. This is where the Pharisees really begin to gain a foothold. Anywhere there's a synagogue. Which remember, he's forcefully converting populations to Judaism, so they're establishing synagogues in all of these places. Who's teaching in those synagogues? Pharisees, Pharisees, Pharisees. And so they are teaching strict observance to the law. They are teaching Of course, to preserve in their minds Jewish culture. They are doing these things to preserve in their view what Judaism is. And so they continue to do this. But there is a branch at the same time back in Jerusalem that is gaining power. We know them as the Sadducees. These were more secular Jews, and their power was concentrated around the high priest. Because they controlled the priesthood. Now, at this time, John Hyrcanus, he was a Pharisee, but all of his children, essentially, all of the next several rulers. were Sadducees in their belief. They were politically aligned with a secular view of Judaism. They rejected the idea of the resurrection. They rejected the ideas of the supernatural things in the Bible. They said, the Bible, you know, God's law, it's a good set of moral principles that we can kind of live our life by. But they were accepting of Greek culture, and so they almost like a hate to say it, modern Christian, you would hear, well you just gotta you gotta change with the times You gotta get with the program. We gotta adjust to the culture around us. Listen, we've got to be pragmatic. We've got to reach people This was the policy that they embraced. And so you see these two separate groups of Jewish belief and thought, and they're very quickly forming into political parties They still have the Sanhedrin, the 70 members of the Sanhedrin, but how do you get appointed to that? You're normally elected, or some of them were elected and sent from villages to represent an area, and some were appointed, but there were still 70 of them, and almost all of them were Sadducees. At first. But we're going to see this political thing is going to lead to civil war. It's going to lead to problems. We see the strife. Really starting to crank up between these different Jewish sects of their faith. Antagonism between these two factions of Judaism, the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Would later become so great that it would result in the destruction of the Hasmonean dynasty and would bring an end to Jewish freedom as they knew it. So, after John Hyrcanus dies, his son takes the throne and rules for one year He was a horrible man, a drunkard. He was the high priest for crying out loud. And he was a drunkard. He was a horrible person. His wife. Basically, uh this his name was Judas, uh Judah, I'm sorry, before he took on his Greek name of Aristobulus. All right, say that ten times fast, Aristobulus. But he was so Greek in his thought and so modern in his ways, he rejected his Jewish name entirely. He wanted to be known as Aristobulus I. I am the new king of the Jews. And he held this position He cast his mother and all of his brothers into jail to starve them to death. Only one of his brothers would survive this. He murders his own family. Aristobulus was also afflicted with a mental illness. He was an alcoholic, and he died. The Jewish people were not exactly mourning in the streets. Okay, generally speaking, when this man passed away. But we went from bad to worse. That one surviving brother Yeah, he finishes what his brother started and purges the rest of the family, the extended family. This brother, uh Alexander Janius. He takes the throne. He's the last surviving brother of that family. And he is no less cruel than his other brother. His first official act was to kill the remainder of the family. There you go. I take the throne and I remove all contenders. Not not exactly a nice guy. He is going to He was a Sadducee through and through. He agreed with the Sadducees' philosophy. He agreed with their Of course he did. I mean, of course he did. How could he have any thought of claiming to follow the word of God in a literal fashion? It's a drunken murderer. I mean you you can't, you know, blend those things together. He um the Jews were still faithful to God, and the law absolutely hated this man, the Jews who were still faithful to God. For the next 27 years he reigned. dragging them into war again and again to keep expanding the borders and keep taking more territory as he could. And truthfully, he was successful in doing that. But he caused a lot of problems at home while he did it. In 94 B. C. , at the Feast of the Tabernacles, Alexander, who was the high priest, decided to perform an act which would display his contempt for the Pharisees. He was tired of hearing them chirping is here about how he wasn't faithful to God. how he wasn't really following God, how God was going to judge him. And so he decided to show. He says, I'm the high priest of this faith. I decide what our religion looks like. And the offering that he was supposed to pour out on the altar as prescribed in God's law, he pours on his own feet. showing his contempt for the Pharisees and contempt for God, the Jewish people had to purchase this fruit necessary for this portion of the feast. Very expensive because it was very rare. And they take their fruit and they start pelting him with it. They're at the altar. And he orders his soldiers to attack, and hundreds of Jewish faithful people were slaughtered. Not a good man, not a good king, not a good high priest. As a result of this atrocity against God and the people, civil war breaks out. The Sadducees politically align with John Hyrcanus, and they've got money So they hire mercenaries. And the Pharisees spread throughout the countryside, teaching the common folk, are able to raise an army that way. And so these two meet in battle several times, and the Pharisees actually manage to quarter and capture this man. But they make a mistake in judgment. They think he's learned his lesson. They think now that he's been caught in their hands and temporarily deposed that they'll listen, that he'll see reason. As soon as he gets his crown back, as soon as he's back in his capital, he orders a feast to be held, Pastor. He says, everyone! This is a feast to honor the Pharisees who showed me the way, who taught me so much. I've learned so much from them. I want to repay their kindness. And over 800 leading Pharisees brought their families to this feast. They were crucified, and while they were being crucified, their families were killed in front of them. Not good. Not pleasant. Not a good day to be following the Lord. But he does die. The Lord had his way in the end, right? God might have been silent, but he wasn't slumbering. He saw what was going on and he dealt with this man. It's held by tradition that he repented of his wickedness on his deathbed and supposedly instructed his wife, Alexandra, who is now going to become the queen, to dismiss his Sadducee. advisors and to bring in Pharisees into the court to help advise her and become, you know, rule with a proper hand. It's tradition that holds that. Not a lot of sources back that up, but there are some. You know, we only know for s without without scripture on it, we can only rely on rely on man's witness. And when you have a lot of sources saying the same thing, it's pretty safe to go with it, right? When you have a few things saying it, could it have possibly happened? Sure. I'm not going to, you know, stake my beliefs and my faith and my life on it. But There's a good chance that it happened. Okay? So it supposedly he repented of these actions. And Salome Alexandra in her 60s Is going to become the queen and rules for a period of time. At the death of her husband, Salome Alexandra who is 64 years old ascends to the throne as the queen of the people of Israel. Now, Pastor, please remind me, the last time that the Israelites had a queen It did not go too well. Generally speaking, she was not that bad. Okay? She didn't she um brought in Pharisees to advise her. She had two sons who she wanted to kind of lead on the right path. One was a Pharisee and one was a Sadducee, though So you can immediately see the problems that are going to happen upon her death. Okay, I'm just saying. You could see it coming, right? Since she was a woman and could not serve as high priest She appointed her son, Arcanus II, who was slightly mentally retarded, which would have disqualified him from I use as a technical term, not just being mean, okay. But he had a mental deficiency And should not have held the position of it because it's a disqualifying factor to be a priest, let alone the high priest. And that's God just being merciful Because what happens when a priest, let alone a high priest, makes mistakes, especially when they're officiating their duties? We have examples. They die. So God putting that provision in is not him being discriminatory. It's him saying, no, someone whole of body and whole of mind is the only one who can do this. Why? So that mistakes aren't made, so that their life isn't in jeopardy Okay, it's God being fair and just, all right, being realistic. So this man is appointed, not maybe the best move, her other son is appointed as commander-in-chief of the military. She tries to split up, say here, you have the religion and you have the army. Let's all play nice. Doesn't last. Okay? Doesn't last. She's characterized as being very pro-Pharisee. Her brother was the leader of the Pharisees in the Sanhedrin, so that kind of makes sense She had political backing. She kind of had that going for her. Like we said, Hercanus was a Pharisee. Aristobulus sided more with the Sadducees. And with the death of Queen Alexandra. A struggle for control broke out between the two brothers, once again pitting the two parties, Pharisees and Sadducees, against each other. We are closing and hurtling right towards The coming of Jesus Christ. Because the next thing that happens during this civil war is the Romans show up They hear about this war going on just to the south of them. One of their great generals, Pompey, has just conquered modern-day Turkey. And modern-day Armenia in that area, and heard, he was just north, just a few miles north, and he hears, hey, there's this civil war going on. And both of the brothers Send emissaries to ask Pompey to intervene on their behalf. So he basically gets to march south and pick who's going to be king. And so he does. Alright, I kind of skipped a little bit ahead, but for the sake of time, I'm trying to push us there. Alright, so the war breaks out. Sadducees immediately besiege Jerusalem. They catch the Pharisee brother by surprise. He has to flee. Okay And the Sadducees retake the high priesthood and the kingship. The brother, Hyrcanus, who flees, he's going to go find a man in Edom. An Arab. A man by the name of Antipater. Who is very important. We're gonna get the brothers decide after this quick fight to make a vow of eternal friendship. They marry their son and their daughter together, first cousins. Ew. Very much ick. No thank you. They have one daughter. Important. Okay. Urcanus flees for his life because hostilities break out immediately again, even after the marriage. And he encounters this man, Antipater, the governor of Edom. And this guy convinces them, hey, we'll back you, we'll go back, we'll take your throne. And he's Doing it for himself. He wants to control Judea. Antipater saw an opportunity to fulfill his dream of gaining power. And so he backs this brother, leads an army of Arabs out of the desert, besieges Jerusalem, and this was when the emissaries were sent to Pompey. And he comes marching down and decides. News of this struggle reaches the ears of the Romans. General Pompey was sent by the Romans to the area to straighten out the problem. He's going to get down there and put his big old Roman foot in the situation and figure out who's who and what's what and how they can benefit He arrives in Jerusalem. Both sides present their case to him, each hoping the general and his vast Roman army will come to their aid. Hyrcanus II, the exile, the slightly mentally deficient, is chosen to be king. But he quickly loses the position of king. Pompey says, no, you don't need a king anymore, you need a governor. Because Rome's taking the handles. He lets him become high priest again. He says, oh, you can have your old position back of high priest, but we're going to appoint a governor. Antipater, who essentially led this second revolt, he taps in You say, why do you keep saying this guy is important? Antipater, the father of Herod the Great. Builder of wonders, attempted murder of Jesus. This is how a non-Jew becomes the governor of the Jewish people. This opportunistic Arab governor of Edom manages to get in on the conflict, display his competency to the Romans The Romans say, okay, the mentally deficient guy could be high priest, but you, Antipater, you're going to be the one in charge. Now there's a little bit of a break here. For the next roughly 20 years, there's going to be a series of civil wars in the Republic. Julius Caesar is going to march on Rome. Pompey is going to go back to defend the Republic. He's ultimately going to lose. Julius Caesar is going to be assassinated in the Senate. His nephew, Octavian. Caesar's best friend, Mark Antony, and another man who no one ever remembers, Lanius, once again split the republic and people are going back and forth, and Antipater is kind of hopping sides to whoever's going to win. He's promising vows of friendship, but he manages to hang on to that position of governor of Judea and pass it to his son. Herod the Great, Antipater's son, Herod the Great, builder of wonders and attempted murderer of Christ. Why? Because when the wise men show up, Pastor, and they say, Where is the king of the Jews? There's nothing more scary to a non-Jewish king ruling over Jews than saying there is a legitimate king of the Jews that's supposed to have arrived. We know the story. Murders an entire village worth of children and the surrounding regions. You know, I've never seen a Christmas card. that has the beautiful like manger scene and then over in the corner you see blood like dripping down the walls from all the m massacred two year olds and under that occurs in that region. I mean, this man butchers his own subjects just to make sure, hopefully, that the Christ, this king of the Jews, ceases to exist. Now, in your notes. There's several more pages to go. I understand that. I put that in there to help you kind of bridge the gap into the time of Christ. Because Herod the Great is only going to rule, he dies in his 70s, okay, but he's dead before what? Jesus returns. We're into the accounts of Matthew, and we're into the Gospels now. We're into the Gospels. Alright? Herod the Great is mentioned, and other Herods are mentioned, his children. A bunch of them are named after him and the kingdoms being split when people die and stuff. Those details are in your notes. I wanted to include that so that you could in your minds kind of look a little further. But this was how the Romans came on the scene. This is why the Jewish people are begging for a Messiah. They had just had their freedom for 70 years. And now they lost it again. And it was the Roman boot, and it was a foreign king ruling over them. And these foreign laws Pompey also made a mistake. I should have mentioned this, I'm sorry. When he marched into Jerusalem, he entered the Holy of Holies in the temple. Admittedly, he did not understand the significance of it. He did not understand what he was doing. He tried to make amends You can look at that as you want, but the Jewish people despised the Romans from that point onward. It really lent to the anti-Roman sentiment. Okay, they were fine with, remember the Jews were fine with, let's say, the Ptolemies way back when, because the Ptolemies respected their traditions, helped build the temple, did all kinds of stuff, right? They didn't like the Seleucids as much because the Seleucids persecuted them. Well the Romans started off their rule by sticking their foot in their mouth and entering the Holy of Holies. Not a good move. Pompey records his impression. He was shocked. He enters the Holy of Holies and he's expecting to see a giant statue, you know, places where people do all this stuff. He's like there was a candle, a table with bread on it, and you know, he was like there was nothing in here. He didn't understand that the Jews were that God's people were worshiping a god that did not have images That did not have physical attributes, those kind of things. And he didn't understand that. He tried to make amends. He made a large cash gift to the temple, and he did order That the temple be cleansed of his own presence. He gave them the funds and stuff necessary. He said, Clean the cleanse the temple, do what you need to to resanctify it. And he apologized profusely, but I mean at this point They were very the Jews were very upset. Understandably so. And so they did the Roman rule did not start off great here. And of course Pompey went on to lose his head. in the Civil War to follow. So look at that what you will. So all of this culminating together in our final 3. 5 lesson here, and it is very brief. Very, very brief, literally this slide. The five major factors that prepared the world for the Messiah and the gospel The Messiah and his gospel. Like I said repeatedly, God was silent but not slumbering. His hand was moving history through all of this. In my personal opinion, he brought the Jewish people into the realm and sphere of Rome when they needed to be, because of the benefits that were going to come with it. for the Messiah and the spreading of the gospel. How so? Point number one Kind of one language. Say what do you mean by that? We've already learned when Alexander the Great conquered the world, even though his empire broke apart, culturally He made a significant impact on world history. Everyone, including the Romans, spoke Greek. Everyone spoke Greek. From the edge of the world to the edge of the world, everyone spoke Greek. It was the trade language. It's the reason the New I person It's the reason God had the New Testament written in Greek. Okay? The people spoke Greek. Everyone spoke Greek. I hate to compare it to English today, but even nations that don't have native English speakers in it teach it as their language. Why? Because it's the trade language of the world. Everyone spoke Greek, everybody kind of more or less kind of just trying to speak some form of English. Okay, that's why a lot of nations are pushing to learn Chinese, because they think China's eventually going to be dominant, displaced America. That's fine. As far as not fine, but I understand why they're thinking that way. But one language, God has set the stage for the rapid spreading of the gospel by giving literally the like known civilized world to the edges Greek. Even the Chinese isolated Separate from quote-unquote the Western world, knew and spoke Greek. They had people there that were competent in that language because it was the trade language going to the West Everyone spoke Greek. No frontiers. What do I mean by this? The Roman Republic and now the Empire. Had essentially made peace, forcibly, at the point of a sword, with not only within its borders, But with all of its neighbors, at the time of Christ's birth, at the time of the spreading of the gospel. There were no wars going on on like the frontiers. Someone could travel freely within the Empire and outside of the Empire and be more or less perfectly safe. At the point of a sword, the Romans had managed to establish, and I have it at the next point a little farther down, the Pax Romana, the world peace. They had brought peace at the point of a sword. Pirates had been swept from the Mediterranean. Shipping was safe. Pompey did that. Julius Caesar conquered all of France and a good chunk of Germany. The Romans had pushed into everywhere and had made people play nice And so it was safe to travel. Ease of travel. The road network, all will roads lead to Rome, to reason that saying is there. If you look at a map of the road network of Europe Especially the ones that the Romans built, and a lot of them are still in use, because they built them so well, thousands of years later, still in use. They lead back to the heart that is Rome. With Roman citizenship, or at least Roman recognition of authority, they could go anywhere very easily. And spread the gospel. It's the whole point of this. The gospel was ready to be spread throughout the world. Worldwide peace, I already mentioned the Pax Romana. There was no wars going on inside. There was no wars going on outside. That nephew of Julius Caesar, Caesar, he took the title Augustus, the one who commanded that all the world should be taxed. During his long reign, the world saw peace. During the years of his successors, they still saw peace. They held it together. The world was ready for the Messiah and his message. And finally, a seeking world. Even the Roman historians of this age Recognized that the Roman people were becoming dissatisfied with their religious system. They were dabbling in Egyptian gods. They were dabbling, even though the Roman gods were a direct copy of Greek gods, more or less, they were dabbling in cults and mysticism and Different cults were springing up all over the place. This religious fervor was kind of people were looking for something. They were looking for something. This is a count- I mean literal Roman historians admit that this was a time of religious kind of turmoil in the sense that people were not satisfied With what they had been taught and what they grew up on. They thought it was empty. They thought it was without substance. And I mean they were right. The world was ready for the Messiah and his gospel. It was ready. God was silent, but he wasn't slumbering. All of these world events that were happening were bringing to a head and bringing to a point of culmination with the coming of the Messiah. The world was prepared. The Jewish people thought they were prepared. The Pharisees in their religious zeal had taught of the Messiah, but in a very narrow, kind of pigeon-holed way. A glorious leader to throw off the shackles of the oppressor. Little did they know that the real oppressor was sin and death. They thought if they followed the law they were fine. Jesus had to spend three and a half years with his disciples trying to unwind what they had been taught by their own religious leaders. He warned them again and again, what beware the leaven of the Pharisees. Why? Because they had sifted in some stuff. And it twisted the Jewish worldview to the point where the majority of them didn't even recognize the Messiah that they'd been waiting for by faith. for centuries and centuries and centuries the promise to their forefather Abraham had come manifest among them and they didn't even See it. He walked with them, he talked with them, and they rejected him. Because they couldn't see and they didn't understand. Because they'd been taught somewhat incorrectly I think the stage has been appropriately set. I know I blitzed through a bunch of fancy and crazy names this morning. I understand that. I tried to give you pretty extensive notes for both this time period that I covered and then leading into the birth of Christ and what was going on in Judea while he was alive, who was in charge, who was doing what, that is in that kind of second chunk of notes that's there. I wanted you guys to have that just for your own information. Read through that at your own leisure. The five major factors that prepared the world for the Messiah. One language. Greek. No frontiers. You could travel inside and outside fairly safely. Ease of travel, the logistics and the connections of the empire, you go from one place to another like that. World peace, generally speaking, nobody was really fighting anywhere when Christ came. And it was a seeking world looking for something different. And they were going to get what God had, and what he had prepared from the foundation of the world. His love manifest for the world, for you and me.