I want you to turn in First Thessalonians chapter number two. That's where we're going to be tonight, First Thessalonians. These are some small books, but you know, if you get to the New Testament all the T's are together. If you get to first and second Timothy, you just passed it, you know, we get to Titus a little bit too far, but they're they're all together in the same place there in the New Testament. First Thessalonians I'm gonna begin a a study on Thursday night mm mm beginning next week or maybe the week after, I don't know how quick, but uh on the I I can't decide for sure whether I want to do 1st and 2nd Thessalonians or Ephesians. I was going to do one of these just verse by verse through these and been reading them, been been pondering and thinking about them. And uh Tonight I want to take this morning's message kind of maybe one step further. Um and obviously this morning was some teaching and I really uh wanted the church to understand, I hope not man's opinion but from a biblical perspective why we have an altar call, why we have an invitation on every service, and uh how important it is. And uh that obviously brings people to a point of decision. But uh we have to make a decision, and tonight I want to preach to you on the right response to the Word of God. A right response to the Word of God. In this chapter, 1 Thessalonians chapter number 2, you have Paul's kind of approach to ministry, kind of how he takes the ministry. In the beginning verses here, we start out in verses 1 and 2. We see that he is bold. in the face of persecution. Verse number two he says, But even but even after we had suffered, before we were shamefully entreated And as you know, at Philippi we were bold in our God to speak unto you of the gospel. They were bold, and his boldness there we see that He was pure, verses three through uh six. He says, For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanliness, nor of guile. But we were allowed of God to be put in trust with you, with in trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God So their motives were pure, their actions were pure, their approach to ministry was pure and straightforward. We see in verses 7 and 8 that it was gentle. Uh he says, but we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her child, that affectionate, com compassionate concern that you see there. We see that it was a persevering that he persevered. In verse number nine, he says, For ye remember, brethren, that our labor and travail for laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you uh that we preached unto you the gospel of God. They were d consistent in it. They were blameless in verse number ten He says, ye are witnesses of God also, how wholly and justly and unblamably we behaved ourselves among you That believed this uh is a requirement of a pastor to be blameless. That you're to be blameless. And he says, You can we I I ministered to you in a blameless way, and he was passionate. Verses eleven and twelve we see he says, And ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father doth his children that that kind of concern that grips the heart of a child of a father to guide his children and to serve them and help them to be all that they can be in that passion that uh motivates a a father, maybe sometimes to be a little too overbearing, maybe sometimes to be a little too much, but he's driven by a love and concern for them. And so we see Paul's approach to ministry here. But what I want you to see, beloved, tonight is that the lives of these believers was not changed because of the dynamic ministry of Paul. I want you to see why their lives were changed. Look in verse number 13. This is our text for tonight, 1 Thessalonians 2. 13. We're going to spend the rest of the message right here. He says, for this cause also, thank we God without ceasing, because when ye receive the word of God, which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe Beloved, their life was transformed. Their life was changed, not because of the dynamic ministry of Paul and his bold and passionate and gentle and compassionate and persistent. Th all of these things were great, but their lives were changed because how they received the Word of God. They had a correct response to the Word of God. Beloved, it's possible for a man or a woman to be saved. But for their growth to be stunted. They no longer are growing. They no longer are following after God. Why? Because they have stopped receiving the Word of God. And it does not matter even if they gather in church and sit under the preaching of the Word of God. They might hear the Word of God. They may listen to the Word of God as they're going down the road. But beloved, it's possible to hear the Word of God and remain unchanged. And so I would like to speak to you for a few minutes just on this idea, a correct response or the right response to the Word of God. When we hear the Word of God preached, and we hear the Word of God. It should make a difference in our life. And first of all, we have the reception of the word. He says, for this cause also thank we without ceasing, because when ye received The Word. First of all, they they they had to hear it. Beloved, the Word of God has to be heard before it can help Let me encourage you, that's one of the reasons why you need to just commit to be in the house of God. You need to plan to be here, just mark it down, just set it as part of your life's pattern that's something that you're going to do, you're going to be in the house of God. You're going to be under the preaching of the Word of God. You're going to determine that this is what we're gonna do. There may be a lot of other things in our life that we let go or that we stop doing, but you need a purpose in your heart to be in the house of God and to sit under the Preaching of the Word of God. And by the way, uh online is not a substitute for being in the house of God. You can listen to messages all week. You can listen to preaching any time going down the road. great things and I I encourage you to listen to preaching all the time, but it doesn't make up for being in the house of God. God loved the church and he gave himself for it, and sitting at home listening to the preaching is not church I mean you get good exhortation and that's great and if you're sick and can't make it that's one thing but you ought to be in the house of God. You don't come to church just for yourself. You come to church for to honor and glorify God. You come to church to exhort and encourage the brethren. You come to church to be fed spiritually and in and Looking at a fire on a fireplace is not the same uh on a TV is not the same as sitting in front of that heat. And it's very different. You guys all know when you've been sick or you've been at home and you had to Oh watch the service online. It's wonderful when you can't get here to have that access, but too many people are allowing that to be a substitute instead of getting down to the house of God. I know it's not convenient. I know it's hard when you uh you know you've spent a long day at work or you y you're wore out and now it's Sunday afternoon and man I gotta get showered and I gotta get dressed and I gotta drive all the way to church. and it's not convenient, but bless God it's right. And we ought to do what's right. We ought to be in the house of God. And that you've got to be under the Word of God. Hey listen, if you don't hear it, it's not going to help you. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. They they received the word. Can I tell you, beloved, that word received, they received it, has the idea of having received somebody like like Offering hospitality to a guest that you've been looking to have. I know um somebody had some people over and they planned all week this last week to have some people over and planned all week for it. You know, you're When you do that, you're ready to receive them. You've been looking for them to show up. You've been looking for them to come. The house is ready, dinner's ready, everything's there. And when they come and knock on the door, you go open the door and you you're ready to receive them. You you're looking and you're like, hey, come on in. Boy, great to have you. I mean Been looking forward to you being here. And that's what he's talking about. That they received the word of God. It was like an old friend. It was like they they were looking for it. They were wanting to get it. They were wanting to hear it They were saying, Yeah, let me have some of that. I want to hear the word of God. Amen. We want to hear the word. And they received it with gladness. That's how we ought to receive it, like we're receiving an old friend. Beloved, too many of us are hearing the word of God like it was a salesman at the door and we're hoping if we ignore him long enough he'll go away. Somebody that showed up unannounced and you're like, oh no Who's that at the door? Boy, I don't want that I I don't don't answer the door. You know if you have kids in the house, they're all excited about answering the door. They want to open the door for everybody. And you're like, don't open the door. You know, uh that's how too many of us are are hearing the word of God. We're hearing it, but we are not receiving it like God would have us to. Boy, the Bible says in 1 Peter 2 2, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that they may grow there that they may grow thereby. There ought to be some desire, some anticipation, some longing to hear the word of God preached and to have it brought that it might feed our souls. And we come into church hungry, and we come sitting under the preaching of the Word of God, ready to receive it. We see the reception of the Word of God. Secondly, we see the recognition. You see, they they said, Ye received it not as the words of men, but is it in truth the word of God? You see, beloved, they knew right off that it was not the ramblings. Of pious people. This was not the ramblings of a of a pious man who would stand back and just Just uh discuss the deep theological things of life. No, they understood that what was being shared with them was indeed the Word of God. And therefore, they gave it the authority that it deserved. Are you giving the Word of God the authority it deserves in your life? We have all seen kids. Having this exchange. You need to take out the trash. I ain't taking out the trash. You're not my boss. Well that didn't work. And so the sibling pulls out the big guns. Dad said, you have to take out the trash. All of a sudden that same command from the same person now has a whole lot more meaning. All of a sudden they're like, oh. Okay. And they get the trash to take it out. Why? Because now all of a sudden that same statement, it didn't come from their brother or their sister who they want to annoy. It came from Dad. And beloved, we need to recognize when the Word of God is preached that it didn't come from the pastor standing up here sharing it, that it came from the Word of God. And we need to receive it as though it is the Word of God. And we need to let the Word of God reach our heart and give it the authority that it deserves. Beloved, man's instructions might be optional, but God's instructions are to be obeyed. We get uh letters on occasion four or five times a year we get letters. They come in these very official looking manila uh colored, you know, that that kind of like a vanilla envelope Uh what is it, yellowish, like almost rough paper. Uh very official, like it's from MDOT. And it says your church is uh must file this paperwork within 30 days Or you'll start being fined because you're not DOT compliant. And because we have a bus route and the bus uh has to be DOT compliant and you have to stay up on your inspections and you have to stay up on your registration and you and all the numbers and all the things that have to be done. because the government just wants control and they want more money. And so you have to do all that stuff and and they say i it looks very official. It looks like it's from MDOT. I mean it it looks very official. So you have to read it with a discerning eye and realize it's actually in the fine print you find they are a compliance company. And all they're trying to do is get you to call them and pay them to help keep you compliant. And you'll pay them the money. Now you could already be compliant, you could have everything else done. But they want to they want their cut to make sure you're compliant. And uh it looks very official and I imagine they get a lot of people to me it's very dishonest Because it looks like you're getting a letter from MDOT that you must do this before this time's up or else you're in trouble, but it's not. It's really almost just like a scam. You know, a lot of times I think people listen to the words of God like that. Like, oh, this is not really, it's not really the words of God. That's just the pastor. That's just the man, that's just what he thinks. This is not actually the word of God. Beloved, we need to recognize it As it is in truth, the Word of God. Amen? That's what we should do. And we see, lastly, here this evening the results. Of the word, which effectually worketh also in you that believe. Beloved, the the word of God works in you. It is effective. It is a powerful word. Can I remind you, Hebrews 4. 12 tells us, for the word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than a two-edged sword, piercing even to the bite and asunder of soul and spirit Beloved, the Word of God is powerful. It's a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. It works effectually in you. Well, to will and to do his good pleasure. The word of God has cleansing power. Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. It has guiding power. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. The entrance of thy word giveth light. It giveth understanding unto the simple. Beloved, the word of God is powerful and it is effective if we would indeed receive it at the Word of God. But I want you to Secondly, notice here, with regards to this idea of how effective it is, the result, there's a condition here that defines whether the Word of God is going to be effective for you or not. Notice what it says, also in you that what's the last word? Believe If indeed you recognize and believe it to be the Word of God, and then you take it as such, you have to believe for it to bring about change in your life. I ask you tonight, do you believe that it's the Word of God? And here's what I found to be the case. Everybody believes that the preacher is preaching the word of God as long as he's preaching what you believe to be true. But as soon as the preacher preaches something that you don't think is right, it's no longer the Word of God. Now it's just man's opinion Now it's just what he thinks. Now it's just how he's applying it, how he's interpreting it, his perception of that. It's amazing how we believe it's the word of God and we'll say a hearty amen. And everything that that man says is the word of God until he says something that you disagree with. And then all of a sudden you say, Oh, that's not the word of God. No, I disagree with that. I don't think that's the case. The word of God has just ceased to be effective in your life. Because what makes it effective is believing that it's the Word of God and reading it, receiving it as such. I just want to throw out a few things here. I'm going to ask you, beloved, do you believe the Word of God commands us to study? That we are to be spending time in the Word of God? 2 Timothy 2. 15 says, Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. We need to be studying the Word of God. Are you daily studying the Word of God? Are you spending time in the book? We've heard it preached that you ought to have a walk with God, that you ought to spend some time in the book, that you ought to be studying the word. Well, I may ask you, are you spending more time in study? Are you spending more time in the scripture or more time on social media? I wonder if you if you just checked your quantities there. Does the Word of God have even a close second or third or fourth? Do you believe the Bible commands that women are to be in subjection? This is something that's very Controversial today. People don't like to come into agreement with the scriptures. 1 Timothy 2. 11 says, Let women learn in silence with all subjection. 1 Peter 3:11, likewise ye wives being subject to your own husbands, that if ye if any obey not in word, they also may without the word be one by the conversation of the wives. 1 Peter 3, 5. For after this manner, the old time, the holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands I mean that's what the Bible says. But people don't like to talk about that today. It's it's it's not Misogynistic to preach the book. To define what the scripture says is the role of the wife in the home, what the role of a lady in the church is. They're to be silent in the church. They're not to usurp authority over men. That's why, beloved, why we don't have women first and second things in our business meetings. It's because men ought to be leading. The men ought to be taking the stand. The men ought to be taking the step of leadership. And and so that that would be a woman taking the lead, saying, Oh, I think this is the church, this is what the church ought to do. And we want men to be leading. And ladies ought to want men to be leading. I know it goes contrary to to popular opinion in society today, but do we believe the Bible or don't we? Do you believe that just as much as Women are to be in subjection to their husbands, do you believe that the Bible says that men ought to love their wives as Christ loved the church? That men ought to love their wives as they love their own selves We could fix a lot of problems in the home if we truly loved our wife the way the Bible tells us to love them Do you believe, beloved, that the Bible commands every believer to be a winner of souls? If we say we believe that, I wonder, do we believe it? Is it is it changing our life? You see, to just hear the word does not change us. It's when we believe it and allow it to do a work in our heart that it's effective. Psalms 11, verse number 30 says, The fruit of the righteous is the tree of life, and he that wineth souls is wise. Psalms 126, verse 6. He that goes forth weeping, bearing precious seeds, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his seeds with him. Matthew twenty two, verse nine, go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid them, bid them to the marriage. Mark sixteen, fifteen, he said unto them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Beloved, the Great Commission was not just given to our missionaries. We just had missions conference. The Great Commission was given to all of us. Do we believe that the Bible says we're to be a witness? That we are to be a winner of souls, a fisher of men? Are we doing it? Do you believe tonight that God that God's word puts a priority on church? I quoted already, but husbands love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Beloved Christ gave himself for the church. Hebrews 10. 25, still in the Bible, still in the book, not forsaking the assembly of yourselves as a manner of some is. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching, that's still that's still in the book. It doesn't matter how long I've been saved or how many services I've gone to, I've never reached a point where it no longer applies to me. The Bible still tells us to put a priority on church and to be in God's house You believe that the Bible commands that we should be a giver of tithes and offerings. The Bible says in Matthew 23, 23: Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees and hypocrites. For ye pay tithes and mint and anis and cumen, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, of judgment, mercy, and faith, these ought ye have to have done, and not left the other undone. He's saying, Boy, these weightier matters need to be done, but you shouldn't have left the first thing undone either. You need to do both. In 1 Corinthians 16, 2 he says, Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you bring lay by him in stores God has prospered him. And that there be no gatherings when I come. Has God prospered us? In this country, I can tell you He's prospered every one of us. In a magnitude of ways. It's mind-boggling, and I would encourage you as the church has opportunity to take missions trips. In two years, we're going to take a mission trip to Africa and we're going to see Brother Mickey And I would encourage you to go on that trip. You get on a boat and ride up the river and uh w work in some of these villages and and see if God hasn't prospered you. What I'm asking you tonight is a correct response to the Word of God is to do what it says. And we all say amen until somebody says something that is something we disagree with. Do you believe the Bible commands that we're to be living holy lives? 1 Peter 1, 15 and 16 says, But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. I don't think there's any margin for misinterpretation or misapplication there. God expects us to live holy lives, to be clean. Do you believe that the Bible commands us? Here's another one that's up for debate today. A lot of people want to just debate. Do you believe the Bible teaches abstinence from alcohol? I don't understand how in the world anybody that claims to be a follower of Christ can, with a clear conscience, say it's acceptable to drink. If only verse in the entirety of Scripture we had on alcohol was wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise, if that's the only verse in all of Scripture what he's saying, he says you're a fool if you drink the stuff. That's what the Bible says. Yet there are many believers who call themselves Bible believers that say, oh no, that's not really what it means. It's okay to drink. You just don't want to be be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. You can be drunk, but just not in excess. Anything is in excess. What I'm saying, beloved, is we've got to come to the place where we let the Word of God change our life, change our activity, change what it is we're doing. We've got to stop coming into church and sitting and sitting on hearing the word of God and being a hearer and not a doer. If we're actually Bible believers and we would like to say we are, people enjoy saying, boy, I'm not a Baptist, I'm a Biblicist. I follow the Bible. Do you really? Do you follow the Bible or you just follow what you want? You follow the Bible as long as it lines up with where you line up. You know, everybody to the left of me is a liberal, and everybody to the right of me is a fanatic. Only person in their right mind is me. I mean, that's how we think. We need to allow the Holy Spirit to move us. Allow the Word of God, take it as is the Word of God, and let it speak to our hearts. Do you respond tonight with to the word of God with all the authority that it deserves? Turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter number four. I want you to see a passage of scripture. Hebrews chapter number four and verse number two For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them, but the word preached. What is the next remainder of that? Tell the comma. Did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. Our churches are too full today of people that are hearing the Word of God, but the Word of God is not profiting them. Do you know why? Because it is not mixed with faith. Do you know what faith is? Believe. Believe. The power of the Word of God. It is a quick and powerful book. It's sharper than a two-edged sword. It is the living word of God. But you've got to believe it. You've got to mix it with faith and say, okay, this is what God's Word says. That's what I'm going to do. And you just believe God. And that's when it becomes profitable to you. You see, the Bible does not change your life just because you heard it. In Luke 11, 28 it says, yea, rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God and keep it. Blessed are they that hear the Word of God and keep it. That is, believe it and obey it. Let me read for you a little poem. They turn the pages with practice hand. And trace the lines, yet never stand. In awe of truth that calls their soul, they read the words, but miss the whole. The verse falls upon their ear, but never stirs nor draws them near. Like seeds upon the hardened way It rests a moment, then fades away. They know the stories, name, they can name the men. They can quote the where, the why, and the when. Yet knowledge cold within them lies. No fire burns, and no faith will arise The mere speaks, but they pass by, unmoved to change, unquestioned, why. They see their face And they turn aside and leave the truth they've just denied. For ink alone cannot impart a living faith within the heart The letter read, yet not believed, leaves empty hands, though much received. O solemn truth, here now they come, To taste the feast, yet leave it undone For words embraced without the soul can never heal nor make one whole. Love our churches are too full of people that just come. They hear the word. So boy that that was good. Yeah, I I enjoyed that. I like that part, but that part I don't really care about that. I don't agree with that. I don't like that And one of the reasons that the word is not being as effectual in our lives is because we're not taking it as it is, the word of God. And that's what we need to do. This is the word of God. We need to look at it and say believe what it says, that it might be profitable. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? The songwriter said, I believe the Bible. It taught me how to pray. Jesus heard and answered and took my sins away, gave me peace and pardon, wrote my name above, glory, hallelujah, for his wondrous, matchless love. I believe the Bible, oh, it is divine. Heaven's golden sunlight in its pages shine. Light my way to glory. And I'm surely going through. I believe the Bible. Every word is true. Do you believe the Bible tonight? Are you, when you hear the Word of God, are you ludding it? Are you receiving it as it is indeed the words of God? The pianist plays, if God spoke to your heart, you do what God wants you to do. Are you letting the Bible be effective? Are you letting the Bible change your activity, your actions, what you say and what you do, how you live?