Well, grab your Bibles, turn to the book of Job tonight. The book of Job. This uh has been uh I mean I just enjoy studying the Word of God and and digging in verse by verse and seeing what the Lord has for us. And uh so hopefully uh you'll enjoy going through this study. It's a book that so many people get so much out of because it addresses uh the fact that you know there will be suffering and how we're going to endure or go through suffering. Uh last week we looked by way of introduction at this book. Uh we saw the first five verses. it discussed right off the bat, uh the character of that man named Job and uh God introducing us to him. Uh but tonight I would like us to look at the charge of Satan Satan's charge against this man, uh, Job. And so we will look at verses six through twelve. We see now there was A day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feared God and eschewed evil? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast not thou made a hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. So we'll look first of all here this evening as Satan's presentation. First of all, he presents himself before the Lord. He says, now there was in a day when the sons of God, the sons of God there are angels. The angels are the sons of God, and the Bible says that they were there in the presence of God, probably uh discussing the work of God and what God was doing here on earth and in the lives of men. But then Satan presents himself there before the Lord. Satan comes along with them. Can I tell you that Satan has access to the presence of God? You know, as you ponder and you think about that, it was not just here at this one time with Job. Matter of fact, in the book of Revelation, chapter 2 and verse number 10, the Bible tells us that he comes into the presence of God and that he accuses the brethren day and night. So Satan comes into the presence of God. He is the accuser of the brethren, and the Bible says that he does so day and night, that he continually enters there into the presence of God. He has access to him, he goes before him. And he accuses you and I. Now, Satan, that word, the word, the title, his name, coming from the Hebrew literally means adversary Satan is our adversary. We see that he shows up, but where does he show up from? The Bible says here that he showed up from whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, from going to and fro in the earth and from walking up and down in it. Not only does Satan have access to God, but I want you to understand that Satan's domain is here on earth. And that he is going up and down and to and fro along the earth and seeking whom he may devour. He is our active adversary. He is going to and fro. We know, beloved, the Bible describes him as the Prince and the power of the air. He is. As we think about ultimately God is in control, but as I ponder the fact that He is the Prince and the Power of the Air Uh, you know, uh you remember when Jesus was on the Sea of Galilee, there a storm arose. I wonder if not, if that storm didn't arise from attack of Satan. If i I I don't know, but I know that s Jesus said, hey, be still. And Jesus had power over the storm. He quieted the storm because it's all under his control. But we are in Satan's dominion and we will see in this life of of Job here, times when uh as we get into the actual attack on Job that Satan uses many things in this world to bring an attack on Job and his family. So he is going up and down and to and fro in the earth. He has at his command and at his beck and call his many demons. He is not uh Omnipresent as God is. He can't be everywhere at once, but he has many evil workers of iniquity and people that will do his bidding. And he has them. But you see, Satan is not as the you know Hollywood shows want to depict him sitting in uh hell sharpening his pitchfork He's going up and down and throughout the earth looking for somebody to attack. He is our adversary. Satan is walking amongst us, performing and accomplishing his demonic work. You know, Job's problems were caused because of Satan, his enemy who sought to destroy him Jesus himself was attacked by Satan, tempted by Satan. Jesus, if if Satan would come and try and attack Satan, he's going to come and try and attack you and I. I said that backwards. If Satan will try and attack Jesus, he will try and attack you and I. We are not out or beyond his attack. And we know, beloved, that he has power. You see, Job was doing right. Job was enjoying the blessings of God. He was living and experiencing God's multiplication on his life, as even Satan described and said, you know, hey, look at what you've done for him. Uh so Job was in that, but Satan showed up. And you may be living right or doing right, and things may be progressing in a good way, and you think, man, Uh boy things things are going well. Well praise the Lord for that but don't forget you've got an adversary. His name is Satan And as sure as things are going smooth and going right, you know Satan is going to show up. He's around the corner. And we need to not be, the Bible tells us not to be ignorant of his devices Paul warns us of these the wiles of the devil and his deceitful way and his subtlety and where he comes in and tries to hurt and destroy all that he can. Can I just remind you with regards to the power of Satan? The Bible says that he has the power to tempt. In Mark 1, verse number 13, he tempted Jesus He has the power to hinder. In 1 Thessalonians 2. 18, we see that Paul discussing, he says, Well, we wanted to come unto you, except Satan hindered us. He has the power to hinder the work that you want to accomplish. Whether that is I I think sometimes as we we're go out and we labor and you invite friends to come to church or people that need Jesus Christ and you say, boy, will you be there? And they say, I'll be there. And you say Sunday morning starts at 10 o'clock. You're going to be there early, right? And I'll be there early and everything's good to go. But what happens? Sunday morning, Satan hinders them. Oh, there's any any of a thousand different things, and you guys have all heard the situations that arise on the child is sick. Somebody had to go get some medicine, got a call from emergency out of town, uh the water heater stopped working. I mean all kinds of things Satan's will do to hinder people from hearing the gospel and from God's people from accomplishing his work. He has the power to ensnare in 1 Timothy 3 verse number 7. He says, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. So the power to ensnare like you and I would lay a trap. I don't know if Brother Glover was successful or not, but he's had some groundhogs or some other things around his property he's been trying to get rid of. They're tearing up his yard, and so he's been setting these traps for him. I don't know how successful he's been. Uh you see, Pastor Derek used to do that for us out on the property. Now he's gone and th the these rodents are taking over, you know. We've got to set some traps. Uh you ensnare them and Satan can he sets a trap for us. He will ensnare you. He of course accuses up Revelation 2. 10. In Genesis 3. 13, Satan beguiled Eve. Beguiled, tricked, deceived. He has the power to blind in Luke 13, 16. He says, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan, I'm sorry, not blind, bind, whom Satan hath bound. Satan has bound them. There are many people who would love to be free from the weight or the burden of a particular sin. But this kind cometh not, but by prayer and fasting. They are bound in this particular sin, and God needs to do something miraculous to free them from that. And I believe that God can and God wants to, but beloved, we need to understand that Satan has them bound in that because of the power of Satan. He has the power to persecute, as we see here, as he persecutes Job. He has the power to sift in Luke 22. 31. Satan hath desire to have you that he may sift you as wheat. He has the power to destroy in John 10. 10, the thief cometh not but for to steal, to kill, and to destroy. He has the power to devour. 1 Peter 5. 8, be sober and vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, seeketh whom he may devour. Th these are descriptions that have just come right from the Bible about this adversary Satan, and we're not to be ignorant of his devices and we're not to uh we we're to we're to be cautious about his wiles and understand that just as he was an adversary that came upon the scene here uh that in the life of job that he too can come into our lives. We see secondly here God's paragon. God's paragon Now you guys are laughing. But yeah, I know. It's not a word you use. But listen, I don't know of a better word. A paragon is a person or thing viewed as a model of excellence. A paragon, a person or thing viewed as a model of excellence. God, Satan came up and God said, Have you considered Job? He is the person that is viewed as a model of excellence. God held him up and said, Here is the illustration of a man who loves me and serves me and is following me. God used Job as this example of a true servant of Jesus Christ of God. I wonder, would you and I be an example that God would point to? Would we be the example that God would say, oh, wait, have you considered my servant Brandon? Have you considered my servant Aaron? Have you considered my servant Nancy? Have you considered my servant Jan? Have you considered my servant Anthony? Would God call out your name and say, this is a man This is a lady who is an exemplary Christian that would stand the test of time and that over the years have proved himself to be faithful to me. Wow. Listen to God's recommendation of this man. Have you considered my servant Job that there is none like him? in the earth. Now that's just taking it to a whole nother it's one thing to be considered by God. Is it one thing for him to say, hey, here's a fine upstanding Christian. It's another thing where God said, wait, here's the best Christian in earth. Wow. I mean, isn't that what he says? There's none like him in the earth. That's pretty high commendation. I would say it's something we could work towards. Certainly should strive to be an example of the believer. He was a man of great character that God held up as an example. There was a journalist named Douglas Freeman who wrote about George Washington. He was a historian of sorts and he believed that history was really more a matter of uh it was biographical And that history could just be told in telling people stories, because their story is what made up the greater part of history. And so he took on the life of George Washington. And he wrote, the great big thing stamped across this man's life is character. And by character, I mean integrity, self-discipline, dependability, honesty, and resolve I wonder what would somebody write about us? They were going to do a biography of our lives. Oh, I know God knows it all. Sometimes as Christians we know God knows it all and we're glad he's the only one. But I wonder if others could even just dig into our life a little bit. What would they find or say about us? Would your family, would your friends use you as an example of a believer? Or do they say, well he's a Christian but Well well he goes to church but We need to be an example. We need to be somebody that at least others could look at it and say, boy, they love God. Not perfect. But striving to be perfect, striving to be mature, to be complete, striving to be what God wants us to be. H. G. Bosch. I don't know if he is related to anybody from the Bosch Manufacturing Company or not, but H. G. Bosch once wrote a story in the very well known devotional our daily bread. He said when he was a boy he would often go to work with his father and on those summer mornings they would stop by a particular store and pick up a newspaper. That when their mid morning break came and they would sit down and drink some coffee, Dad would always read this paper. One day they got to work and their mid morning break came and they poured some coffee and they sat down and He said Dad up his paper and realized that he had two copies of the paper. Certainly couldn't read more than one, didn't need to, but because the paper was a little thinner thinner that day than normal He didn't realize that he had picked up two. He just thought, well, that's that's one. And he carried it to to work. And he was sitting there with his son. He said, I've got to go back and return this, or I've got to pay for this paper. And his son said, Well, surely we can do it on the way home, or surely we could do it another time, or surely it's just a paper, it's not that big a deal. And he said, Son, uh that owner of that business knows that I'm a Christian, and he is not a Christian. And the last thing I would ever want to do is leave the impression that me as a Christian is somebody that's dishonest. He says, so he remembers dad going back to that place of business and paying for that at that time, which was probably you know twenty-five cents or something for for a paper, but he made a point to go back in and say, I accidentally picked this up and and and here's a twenty-five cents for it and then went back to work to finish his day. But the thing is, that's not the end of the story. The story goes on, and he said, the very next week there was something of great value that came up missing from that store And the police came and they did an investigation and they found there was only a couple of people that were actually in the store during that time of day when those items went missing. One of those was H. G. Boss's dad, whose name was John. When the police were going through the list and saying, okay, this person and this person, this person had access to the store. We need to interview them. The owner of the business said, you don't have to interview John. I know he's honest. He had that testimony because he handled himself. You know, beloved, people see what we do. And I wonder what kind of an example we're setting. God sees what we do, and I wonder if he would use us as an example as he did. Job. We see Thirdly, here what is it God's presentation? God's preservation. We see in verse number nine Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast not thou made a hedge about him? And about his house, and about all that he hath on every side, thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. You see, God was preserving him. God had put a hedge about him. Satan accuses Job of just acting in his own self-interest. He's saying Job is just self-centered. He's not God-centered. He's saying there aren't people on earth that serve and follow God because they love God. You see, God, the only reason that they're serving you is because. Of what they get out of it. If you change what your servant is getting, they will curse you to your face. That's Satan's accusation. He's saying, surely God, the people that are following you aren't don't believe you're worthy of praise and servitude outside of what you give them. Like a rich man who has a lot of friends because he has a lot of money. Satan is saying, You let the blessing dry up and and their praise will dry up I wonder, beloved, does our praise dry up when the blessings dry up? Are we only excited about praising the Lord when things are going really well? We see not only Satan's accusation here, but his acknowledgement. His acknowledgement is that God had put a hedge about Job, that God was protecting Job. That should encourage you and I. That God is protecting us. Even Satan said, look This is what I want to do, but I can't do it because you have put a hedge about him. You have put protected him on every hand. You've blessed the work of his hands. Substance has been increased. You've put a hedge about him and about his house and about all that he hath on every side There was no way that Satan could get in, and I imagine Satan had been trying. He probably was trying to get in on this side. He was looking, how can I attack Job here? How can I attack Job here? And he got so frustrated because that every time he tried to attack him God was standing there as a hedge. That should encourage you and I that God stands as a hedge That God protects those whom he loves. As a child of God, you are in the family of God and you're under the protection of God. Oh man, beloved, isn't that exciting to know that Satan cannot do one thing to you and I Without God's approval. Oh yes, Satan is an adversary, and as we looked at that first point and we saw Satan is an adversary and who he is and how much power he has. There may be a tendency as a believer to get a little bit discouraged and say, man, what hope do I have? Look at all the power Satan has. But beloved, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world And God is on your side and He has put a hedge about you. As long as you and I are not foolish and step outside the hedge, as long as we don't go and run away from God and put ourselves out there where we can be openly attacked. By Satan, then s Satan is limited by the hedge that God has put up. Zechariah 2. 5 says For I, saith the Lord, will be unto her a wall of fire roundabout, a wall of fire protecting you and I. God is the deliverer of his people, Psalms 34, 7. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. Oh, I know Satan wants to ensure you, but God's your deliverer. God's your deliverer. Satan wants to trick you, beguile you, bind you, but God is your deliverer. That should be an encouragement to us that we know that God is the one that preserves us. So Satan comes back with a prediction and he says, but put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. He said, boy, just put forth your hand and you just you do something about that blessing. You remove the blessing, and he's going to curse you. You see, beloved, Satan's an equal opportunity adversary. He he attacks everyone. Doesn't matter who you are or what's going on in your life. Satan would come to you and attack you. He attacked Eve in the garden. He attacked David, the man after God's own heart. He attacked Peter, caused Peter to curse, and Christ, hour of greatest need, the man who said, Boy, I would never leave thee. He attacked Paul time and time again, in his flesh and in hardship. And he attacked Jesus himself. He attacks us in many different ways. We see from this story several illustrations about that, but he's going to attack you materially. The material things impact our lives. You know, there's nothing sinful. We see here God blessing this man to the point where the Bible says that he was the greatest man in the East. He was blessed. He was wealthy. You see, beloved, there's nothing sinful about having means, having wealth. It's just yesterday I was talking to somebody uh from the church and they were talking about how people misconstrue scripture lots of times and he said one of the big ones is a lot of people love to say that uh that uh money is the root of all evil. And he says I I didn't I didn't even realize it until I've been at church a while that I re uh I said they leave they leave something out is that the love of money. is the root of all evil. And he says, many times I hear these sayings and I have to go back and look at the scripture and I'll see what they left out or what they forgot or what they're not saying about it. Because it's not money's the root of it, it's a love of money. And as long as I mean I'll tell you what, it could be just a testament of how great God is and how good He is to you that you've been blessed with means and ability and and and somehow God has blessed your life like that. If that's not what you're going after, there's nothing sinful or wrong about God blessing his people. God did not tell each and every one of us to live as a pauper on the backside of a desert somewhere. Now God may call some people to do that because that's his call for their life, but God may bless others like he blessed Job. But we need to keep a right perspective and realize that the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And that even in the midst of all that blessing, that if something changes materially, things, you know, what's going to happen is the water heater is going to go up. Satan's going to attack. The roof is going to get a leak. The car is going to have a flat. The transmission is going to go out Satan can come and he can attack you materially with these things that have been brought into your life, and if we aren't careful, we'll allow that to cause great discouragement in our lives and not see it for what it is as an attack of Satan. He'll attack you materially. He'll also attack you physically. Now, in this particular story, we're not there yet because we know that God told him, hey, you can't touch his body. Everything else you can you can take from him, but you can't touch him, but we know that he took his children God allowed him to, and so Satan had the ability to afflict and take his children, and we'll see in a little bit that Satan has the ability to afflict Job but not take his life. So sometimes there's physical things that come into our life that could just be an attack of Satan. We see several times in the scriptures where people were attacked by Satan. In Luke 13, 16, there's a woman who was held in the bonds of Satan. uh the the woman or the the boy that was possessed of demons and and the father looking for some way to help him he says he's destroying himself he often cast himself into the sea and he cast himself into the fire and and and boy we he need some help and Satan was controlling him and had him bound. So physically Satan will attack. We know he attacks your mind. You know the battle a lot of times is fought in the mind It'll bring other things into your life. You know, Job's wife comes here in a later chapter and says, Hey, why don't you curse God and die? You know, why why why don't I mean there's things that that Satan will bring into your life that afflict your mind We know that Luke chapter 8 and verse number 12 talks about his power to corrupt the Word of God, the seed. His power to take the seed before it before it has takes root. You know, the the illustration there is that the birds come and grab it, but that they they're a re representation of Satan, that he comes and maybe he distracts or he he gives other thoughts and Before the Word of God has time to take root in our heart, Satan comes and and messes with our mind. That's a power that Satan has. In his attack, he'll attack us material, he'll attack us physically, he'll attack our mind. It would behoove us to think or consider, are we serving God simply because of the blessings of God? Or is it based off of what we get from God? Is our prayer time just our want list? Or is there praise there? Is it motivated by love? We see lastly here that God gives his permission And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. God said, okay, Satan, you can attack Job. You can afflict him. We're going to see his calamity next week. But Satan's power here we see is limited by God. Very clearly, he could not do anything until God said, okay, and then God said, Okay, you can you can attack him. All that he hath is in thy hand, but you can't touch him. Before Satan could do a thing, he had to get permission. I can't explain why we go through some of the things we go through. I can't explain the the burdens that some people are carrying. I've had multiple meetings this week. With people carrying heavy, heavy burdens. Almost more than they can carry. They're literally looking at me with tears running down their face saying why Why am I going through this? Why do I have to carry this? Why has this come upon me? I I can't I I wish I had an answer. I wish I had something that I could say as far as that goes, but here's what it boils down to is we know that Satan attacks, but we also have to trust that God limits anything that Satan can do and that ultimately God is in control. And we can rest in that. Knowing that regardless of whatever it is, God is in control. God is the one that limits the hand of Satan. Nothing can happen outside of his okay. And in that we trust him. He is our blessed deliverer. God allows test or trial to come into our life to test us. So what we see here with Job I don't know, are we gonna stand up to the test? It's amazing how many of us are willing to say amen when things are going good. But are we really and ready to praise him when things are going bad? Now God believed that Job was going to pass the test. God held Job up as an example. I wonder if God's confidence in you and I is that great. You know, I think of a child, sometimes the kids they have such great confidence in their dad. And you know, my dad can do it. My dad will do it. You know My dad tells a story. I'll tell you this and we'll be done. This is one of the defining moments in my dad's life. He was a young man, and I don't know how it got going because he his his family was mediocre Christians at best. You know, they they weren't like sold out Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night Bible studies, you know, soul winning. I mean they weren't missions, trips, you know, th that's that's not the kind of home he grew up in, but as a young man, for some reason people started calling him the preacher. as I mean in a high school, going to the public high school and all that he just became known as the preacher and people knew that he was a Christian. And you know, as a young man he he Maybe wasn't as excited about that as he could have been or should have been. Uh and he he tells how one day he was out with some buddies and they had a beer. And uh they all passed all these beers around and of course he's feeling the pressure. He had never in his life touched a beer. And he's with all of his friends and you know he's he's there and he he said he he popped the top and he's talking and he's just trying not to, you know, he's trying to blend in. It's very uncomfortable holding on to this beer. And then he's there for a little while and he said he took his t tongue and stuck his tongue in the hole there and put it up to his lips. And he did that a couple times. He said, I didn't drink any of it. But then I later when you nobody's looking, you know, I took it and dumped it. Then I pretended that I was drinking and took it and dumped it and he said I got rid of it. And he says, but even though I didn't drink any of it, he said what happened is A few weeks later, somebody said that they saw Roger Vattrell drinking a beer. And one of his friends said, no way. Never gonna happen. I don't believe you. And he they said, yeah, we saw him. He says, Nope, I don't believe it. And so his friend came to him and says, Roger, you're not going to believe this, what they're saying. What they're saying about you is that you drank a beer, and I told him, No way, you would never do that. He said at that moment he realized what he had done. And he was crushed and realized what he had let he had let down so many people and the testimony that he had built. Through all that time, even though he didn't drink, it doesn't matter, not one of those people that were there he could ever convince that he didn't drink it. Because he had ruined his testimony. I wonder for you and I. Would God, Satan the accuser, come and say, boy, they'll they'll fall for sure. Would God say, no way? Not them. Nope, they're gonna stand. They're gonna be faithful. There's no way. Does he have that kind of confidence in us Does our brother or sisters in Christ somebody come and accuse you of having stole something? Would your brother or sister in Christ be so convinced of your integrity that they would say, not going to happen? No way. They would never do that. Or would they say, eh, maybe. I could see that. We need to guard that. And live as that kind of an example that we see Job was, not just before man, but even before God. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed, nice clothes, and ask the pianists to come and play.