Um so this morning we preached on the idea of the good man. I'm going to take that one step further tonight. Pastor Derek asked if I had one point to round it off to an even twenty for the day. I said, no, actually we're going back to three points in a poem tonight. Uh but we talked about the good man. This evening the message is on the man of God. On the man of God. Would you turn to First Timothy chapter six? First Timothy chapter number six Paul writing here to his son in the faith, he's challenging him. He's encouraging Timothy. This this young man, this minister of the gospel, this pastor of a of a church, uh he's alone. Timothy's by himself really, kinda out there serving just serving God and and Paul is no longer there and you know he Paul's writing back to him and giving some words of encouragement and maybe some last minute instructions. Paul knew that his son in the faith would need some some strength. And because we know that all scripture is profitable, we know that although this is written in Timothy, that it's profitable for you and I. So would you look with me here in 1 Timothy chapter 6? Follow along as we read verse number 11 down through verse number 16. He says, But thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art called, also called, and hast professed a good profession before many. Witnesses. I have given thee charge in the sight of God who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontus Pilate witnessed a good confession. that thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable unto the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, which in his times he shall show, who is the blessed and the only potentate, King of Kings, and the Lord of Lords. Who only hath immortality dwelling in the light, which no man can approach unto, whom no man has seen, nor can see, to whom be honor and power everlasting. Amen. You know, Paul being an encourager of Timothy writing this note to him. He addresses him with this unusual title for an individual in the New Testament. He calls him O Man of God. Now, in the Old Testament, the man of God was a title specifically given to an individual who stood as the point person, as the contact, as the individual through which they could reach God and through whom God was communicating and God was giving instruction for the people through him. He became known as the man of God. And I think about the idea of Paul giving instructions to Timothy and Calling him this the man of God. And the exciting thing is for you and I as we move into the New Testament. You know, sometimes that title is given to the person that stands up here, and especially if he happens to be a pastor, he's called the man of God. And people sometimes will say, oh, the man of God's going to stand up behind the sacred desk and he's going to preach the word of God. And in some respects we kind of maybe get in our mind because of the carryover of that from the Old Testament and maybe the the name being given to pastors as the man of God, we sometimes look at that and we think of Oh, there's the man of God. But the thesis I have for you tonight, beloved, is that we are all to be men and women of God. That is not a title that's held exclusively for somebody that holds the position of pastor or an individual who you see in the New Testament we all have the capacity, we believe in the priesthood of the believer, and we have the capacity to go directly to God, to get instruction for our lives and to get his help and his aid in our in our needs. Every one of us can be a man of God. A woman of God. You know when I was a young man I told you before, but my aspiration, my desire was to be a stinking, filthy, rich businessman. I wanted to be a businessman and I want I mean I didn't want to be rich. I wanted to be Scrooge McDuck rich. You know, I mean I wanted to fly to work in my helicopter, okay I'm I'm d I'm telling you the honest truth. I literally had dreams of flying to work in my helicopter, landing in my backyard, you know. This was my aspiration. I wanted to be a businessman. Some people today, I would say in my generation, there was a lot of people maybe who wanted to be movie stars. Or who wanted to be a rock star. That was their aspiration. That's what they wanted for life, was to be known as that Today, there's probably a lot of younger people that would love to be some type of a social influencer. Just to have that notorize oh how many likes you got. How many followers do you have? You know, there's some little YouTube short or something. There's a I think it's the insurance sales thing. He's like, ah well I'm not bragging, but just so you know, I've I've got, you know, nine hundred thousand in in you know followers and this twelve year old girl goes, that's pretty good. I only have four million. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know how many how many followers you want, but w what I'm saying is where is the aspiration to be a man and a woman of God? To be a man of God. There may be a lot of things in this life that I could do or accomplish or God would let me do, but at the core of it all, at the foundation of it all, when when we get down to brass tacks What is really my heart's desire is to be a man of God that has that relationship with God To be known as that, not because I have a position of pastor, not because I I stand up and preach and proclaim the word of God. You understand there's people and pulpits all over this country today that stood up and preached, but they're not men of God. And there's people that are filling the pews of this this auditorium and other auditoriums all over this country. They didn't preach today, but they're men and women of God. They're men and women of God. Because they're living a righteous and a holy life before God in desire to do that. Let me just throw this out. It is vitally important if you desire to be a man of God that you make sure you have the right kind of friends. This is not really in the message. We haven't got to the points yet, but as I watch and see Especially with the prevalence of social media, it's mind-boggling to me. I'll see somebody, even over the course of time, you just wal you just go down through their their feed, through the course of time, and here you have this sweet young lady. Who who looks and her posts are are representative of a Christian. And you go down through the feed and it just gets worse and worse and worse until the point where you're looking and you're like, what in the world happened? I want you to understand it's vitally important who you hang around. I guarantee you the stuff that's being posted on that feed is being posted there because of the people that she's been hanging around with. I mean let me ask you, do you think if I surrounded myself with preachers that preached in jeans and a flannel shirt and flip-flops? They had a little little uh stand up here with a bottle of water on it, you know. You think if that's who I hung around, how long do you think it would be before we moved the pulpit out of the way and I started showing up in jeans Part of the reason of choosing your friends wisely is to help you stay on the right path. You've got a friend, you're like, boy, he's fun to be around. Yeah, but is he taking you leading you the right way? You want to be a man of God, you need to choose your friends. Because they're going to influence you. They're going to pull you down or lift you up. And it's vitally important. But I want to show you three things here with regards to being a man of God. If you want to be a man of God, God gives them to us right here through Paul to this his son in the faith. He says, But thou, O man of God, flee these things. Beloved, there are certain things in the Word of God That we are to flee. It's clearly taught, it is an expectation. If you're going to be a man of God, if you're going to be a Christian, there's just some things that are not becoming of a Christian. There's some things you ought to flee. We, of course, are instructed to flee youthful lust. We're instructed to flee idolatry. There's some things in our life that we're supposed to flee that we're not supposed to have any part of. Paul tells Timothy here, he says, O man of God, flee. These things. So what are the these things that he's telling him to flee? He said, flee these things. Well, what what things is those? What are we talking about? We back up a little bit in the text and we're not going to take time to Expound all of it and cover the the entirety of it, but first of all we see he says to flee proudful debating in verse number four. He says, he is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes of words, wherefore cometh envying, strife, railings, evil surmisings. Proudful debating. You know, many times people that just want to debate about something they really don't want to learn They don't want to learn what's right. They just want to show their knowledge. They just want to debate about some this or that. And it's really just rooted in pride. And God says, listen, flee that stuff. You don't need to take time and spend energy and try and deal with that. You need to put it off if that's your spirit. Proudful debating. He said, flee perversive disputings. In verse number five, he said, perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness. From such withdraw thyself. You know, I mentioned the prosperity gospel this morning in the morning service, and I don't know why this text didn't come to mind, but this is That's prosperity gospel in a nutshell right here. That is what they're saying. That uh you know gain, if I if I'm wealthy, I'm godly. Gain is godliness, but that is not true, friend. That is not true. That is what he says here, a perverse disputing. That's That is somebody of a corrupt mind and the destitute of any truth is the proclaimer of that. Godliness is gain, but gain is not godliness. Well, you can't help but gain if you're going to live godly. But godliness is not gain. Perverse disputings. And then verses 6 through 10, I've summarized in the pursuit of dollars. In the pursuit of dollars, he says, but godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and is certain we can carry nothing out. I have having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. You see, beloved, these things is what he's talking about. He says, hey, you need to flee from these things. Flee from that. There's just some things that as a Christian we shouldn't be doing that we should flee from. And I could go on and spend some time preaching and give some illustrations and talk about things, and especially young people, that They didn't flee from what they knew was wrong. They didn't flee from that which their mother and father told them to flee from, and they got themselves into a mess and ended up in a heap of trouble. And oh no, now what But the fact of the matter is, each and every one of you young people know in your heart and mind when you're participating in an activity that you know you should flee from. Do you know that to be true? And it's only a weakness of the flesh and a lack of power with God that keeps you from fleeing from that. Whether it's looking at things that are available to you on your phones and devices today Engaging in conversation with friends about things that shouldn't be discussed. Involved in activities and listening to or watching things as you know you shouldn't You know, I was just thinking we were singing. What's that song we were saying? He bore it all for me. What's the title of that song? I gave my life for thee. So when I was a teenager, I was really rebellious. I was a wicked kid. And I went and listened to that song sung by I think it was GLAD, but Neo-Christian group. An a cappella. Oh no, it was a cappella. The group a cappella sang a cappella and they sang that song in a cappella. And We're singing that song and to this day I still hear that a cappella. They they sing it differently and I hear that in my mind anytime I hear that song But I in my mind I'm like, yeah, I was a bad kid, man. I was listening to He Gave My Life for Thee by Acapella. But you know when you're doing something that the authorities in your life wouldn't be pleased with. If you're going to be a man of God You've got to determine, so you know what I'm gonna I'm gonna flee that. I'm gonna flee from those things. We've got to decide that as adults as well. Flee those things. Not only does he tell them to flee, he says, But thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after. He said, there's some things you gotta flee and there's some things you've got to follow after. If you're gonna be a man of God, if you're gonna be a woman of God, there's some things you've got to follow after some things that you need to be in pursuit of, some things that you need to desire and want in your life Not all men are going to do it. Not all women are going to do it. But if you want to be a des if you want to be a man of God, a woman of God, you're going to follow after some things. First, he gives us a list here, and they're divided into two categories. The first is categories that are things that deal with our relationship with God. The first three describe our relationship with God, and we're to follow after, he says, righteousness. You know, beloved, you and I have righteousness that's been imputed unto us. At the moment of salvation, Jesus Christ, his perfect shed blood, washed us clean, and we were given, imputed, to the righteousness of Christ. That's an amazing thing. I can never be without sin, but because of the shed blood of Jesus Christ that paid for my sin, I'm forgiven. But what a sad thing for me to take that imputed righteousness and defile it. I don't mean that you slip up and you fall because we are sinful creatures and We do things that are wrong. But I'm talking about that presumptuous sin, that sin that we continue to go after, that sin that we uh that besetting sin that we don't ever let go and We just continue to defile and defile and defile that precious blood of Jesus Christ that washes away all sin, that imputed righteousness. Beloved, I know that the world and our flesh tempts us with its tantalizing pleasures. But the question is, what is your heart's desire? What is your life's pursuit? What are you going after? What we say at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is God is not as concerned with where you're at as he is with where you're going. All of us have found ourselves in a place where we thought, how did I get here? This is not where I wanted to be. This is I don't understand the mess that I've made of this situation. We've all found ourselves there, but this is not as critical as if you, like the Bible says about that prodigal son, says he came to himself. He he woke up. He realized where he was and said, Man, what am I thinking? The servants in my father's house have it better than me. And and and here I am. Boy, I I'm gonna run home. So he's headed to the Father. And what I'm saying is not that you're perfect, but are you headed to the Father? Are you pursuing righteousness in your life? He said, godliness, pursuing godliness. That's to live after the way of God. After years of his Christian life, George Mueller He had this testament to say. He said, I have seen more clearly than ever that the first great and primary business to which I ought to attend every day Was to my soul's happiness in the Lord. The thing to be concerned about was not how much I might serve the Lord. But how I might get my soul into a happy state with the Lord, and how the inner life might be nourished by the Lord. That pursuit of God. It's in and through that pursuit of God that our works are made fruitful and profitable, and they're not just actions. We've got to pursue godliness. He says, thirdly, here faith. Pursue faith. Pursue righteousness. Pursue godliness. Pursue faith. The growth and exercise of your faith should be important to you. A display of faith. Some people wonder how do I display faith? How do I show faith? I had a revelation and I've shared it with you many years ago, but I don't have too many, so I gotta use the one I got, you know. Um but You know, a lot of times we pray like the disciples and we pray and we say, Lord, I believe, but help my own belief. And we have the prayer and idea of prayer and we say, Well, we're supposed to pray in faith, believing, so how do I know that I'm believing? And it hit me that just the act of praying is an expression of belief. Just the act of praying is an expression of my faith. And the expression of faith that's on display is faithfulness. Faithfulness. When you are faithful, you're displaying the level of faith that you have. The reason you would get out of bed in the morning and faithfully, day by day by day, spend a little bit of time reading God's Word is because you've come to the place you have enough faith That it is making a difference in your life. That it helps you. And that faithfulness shows your faith. When you faithfully, I mean it's something that I've done my entire life and I don't even think about it. It's not even to me, it's just it's just the way it is. I I don't even write the check, so I don't ever see it. So but tithe and give to God, when you when you just faithfully do that Your display of faithfulness shows your faith that God is good on his word. And that he says, Give and it shall be given unto you in good measure pressed down, shaken together, running over, shall men give unto your bosom. That God prospers and blesses those who give, and God judges those who rob from him. You believe that, and so by faith you follow through with it. You know, it's counter-cultural to discipline your children. In today's world You're supposed to let your child scream and holler. You're supposed to let him kick you, throw things, let him get it out, let him feel better And then just calmly ask him what's on his mind. Yes. I heard uh one comedian say that his dad had a uh a double sided belt. He had, you know Uh belt that had two sides. He said one side was brown and the other side was a paddle. He said, I like the brown side. Brown brown's like I said one I like But why would a parent discipline their child in a biblical fashion that is to ply the Board of Education to the seat of learning? When it goes against everything you hear out here in this world today. Because by faith, you know what the Bible says. Spare the rod and spoil the child. And you say, I can't do that. I've got to believe God. And so by faith, you do it. And you see the fruit of it. We could go on down the line, but the exercise and display of faith is your faithfulness, is faith in action. It's one thing to say, I believe it, it's another thing to live it. When you're faithful to church, you're showing your faith in God. When you're faithful to prayer, you're showing your faith in God. Then he gives us three things we're supposed to pursue that have to do with our relationship with man. There's love, patience, and meekness. Love. I mean just look in the Word of God and see how many times we are admonished to love one another. By this shall men know that you are my disciples. What a defining characteristic as Christians were to have love. We're to have patience. This word literally means endurance. Some of you need patience with your children, amen. Patience. But patience with one another. And one of the sometimes the hardest thing to do with others is have patience with them. You know the patience is one of those hard things. It's a virtue. But patience, beloved, will keep you from making rash and hurtful decisions. Patience will keep you from finding a solution that is not God honoring. Which if you had patience, you would wait and God would bring the solution. But without patience, you say, Man, I've got to find I've got to solve this problem. And I have seen it Over and over again in Christians' lives. We can be real simple here on just a very practical level. Let's talk about a need that you have in your life that financially you're not ready to take care of. And you say, man, I've got I I don't have enough room in my in my apartment and I need a house and I have another baby on the way and I'm just gonna get a house and and I and and I don't care what happens, we're just gonna do it because there's a bank out there somewhere that's gonna give me a loan. And you go get the loan because you don't have patience to wait on God and you put your family in a mess. And then all of a sudden, you're starting to have marriage problems. When the marriage problems are really a byproduct of a poor decision way back here that destroyed your financial situation. And now you have all this stress and now you have to work double and triple overtime and you're never home and you're not around the kids and mom saying, How come you're not here and and uh you don't even love me anymore? And all of that can be traced back here where you just didn't have patience to wait on God. We need to have patience. Pursue that. Say, am I getting ahead of you, Lord? Or am I waiting on you? Patience. We need to have meekness. Meekness, you know, is power under control. It's choosing the benefit and the blessing of others over yourself. And lastly tonight we see, he says in verse number 12, to fight the good fight. He says, fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. Fight the good fight. This Christian life is a fight. It takes it's it's a battlefield brother, not a recreation room. It's it takes a fight. And this is the Christian fight. You know, I I think it was A. W. Tozer that was asked by a dear old uh lady, came to his church and She says, you know, I would love to just come and join and be a part of your church, but it just seems like you are always your church is always in some kind of a fight. And boy, I sure would like a place with a lot more peace And he says, Well, cemetery's got a lot of peace in it. He said, But I ain't there yet And until I end up there, I'm going to fight. Because there's some things that are worth fighting for. And we're gonna stand for those principles and we're gonna live in light of the Word of God. And we wanna fight to have the kind of Christian life that God wants us to have. The true nature of the Christian life is that it is a fight. It's a fight against sin and Satan and ourselves, our own flesh. Against this world. It's a battle. You know the battle, and if you don't, it's because you haven't started fighting yet. You're just being led around by Satan. But as soon as you turn and say, you know what, I'm going to do what's right. You you how many of you Christians, you know, as soon as you made a decision to start doing what's right, old Satan came. And the car broke down and the water heater blew up and you were like next Sunday I'm going to church. And next Sunday you get up and you have a flat tire. That's the fight. That's the fight. It's the fight. You say, you know what? I'm going to start tithing and honoring God and my giving. And the next Sunday you will the next week you're going to get a ticket for $225. Oh man. I was gonna tithe, but I can't now because that's Satan. That's the fight. There's just got to be something inside of you. There's got to be some internal grit. There's got to be something there that says, you know what? I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it regardless. It's a fight, but you say I'm going to win. Against Satan, against self, against this whole flesh. Too many Christians just give up. You know, get to 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 7. Paul tells Timothy, I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. And beloved, when I get to the end of my days, I don't know, I mean thinking this morning just about all that God's allowed me to do and and and be and and I might never really be something to write home about. Might never really, as far as this world standards of of success But if I could get to the end of my days and just be a man of God. Honor God. And finish my life. If he would say, you know what? He loved and served God. He was true to God, true to God's word all of his days. And you know what? It's gonna take a fight to make that happen. You say, well, that's not a very lofty ambition. Yeah, I know, but Satan doesn't want me to get there. And he's going to do everything he can to stop me and to stop every one of you from just getting there. You know what you need to do? You need to take that old curse word, quit. And cut it out of your dictionary. There's too many people just giving up. Given up on their marriages Given up on their walk with God, given up on on doing what's right, because the fight is too hard. It's just too hard It's too much of a struggle. It was so much easier when I was just drifting with the world and just letting things happen however they happened, and I was just living. And you give up and yield yourself back over. Could I encourage you tonight? Could I implore you, don't give up. Don't quit. Fight the good fight. There is a fight that's a good fight, and it's a fight that's going to bring you success. Listen, it might have been easier when you were just drifting with the flow, but the quitter, all he ever is, is a quitter He never knows success. He never knows the joy of victory. He never knows the satisfaction of running all the way to the end of the race. You know, there was a a race that we had in high school. We had a uh a summer olympics in school. Our little school, eighty kids, you know, we had intramural competition. And we had this Summer Olympics, and we had all these events, all the Summer Olympic events, and we trained all semester to be to compete in these different events. And there's only one event that I wanted to win. All the rest of them I didn't care about at all. I don't know why, but I had in my heart and my mind I had fixed that I was going to win the half-mile race. Obviously I'm a runner, you could tell by looking at me, right? I had in my mind I was going to win this race. To make a long story short, some like twelve-year-old girl won. Her name was Carla. I've been bitter ever since. I went down, it was a quarter mile down, we had to turn around and come back, and I got to the quarter mile, I turned around and came back, and I saw her crossing the finish line And I was so crushed. I stopped running. I quit the race. And I walked off into the desert. Now my dad was furious that I quit. And he let me know how furious he was. But do you know what for me personally? From that day till now, I wish I would have kept running and just finished the race. I wasn't gonna win, but from that day till this that has been a blight on me that I didn't finish. Christian, the real joy comes when we finish for God. When we cross that finish line, when we just keep running, although it's hard And I know we get weary, and I know Satan fights, and I know we have setbacks, and we get to the place where we wonder if it's worth it Can I say it will be worth it all when we see Jesus?