Turn your Bibles to the book of John, chapter number eleven, John chapter number eleven, we were singing just a moment ago, Jesus Never Fails In life's dark and bitter hour, love still prevails. Trust his everlasting power, Jesus, never fails. I'm going to speak tonight on what I've titled the cry for comfort. We're going to see that in our text. The cry for comfort. We're going to see The question asked that is asked by so many uh in life's situations, the struggles that they face A few weeks ago I was at someone's home and they asked a question, why is there so much pain? Why do good things happen or why do bad things happen to good people? What is uh, you know, there's so much heartache in the world and even just even in our country, the the struggle that we're dealing with and and why are these things so? Why do people have to go through much through so much pain and suffering? I suppose this question has been asked of me as much as just about any question, because it's something we all face. It's something we all deal with. Uh the asking of the question why is something every heart has had to grapple with. Because tragedy is a fact of life. Heartache is a part of living. Everyone goes through things in this life that they don't understand, and if you've lived very long at all, you've found yourself asking God, why? Why? And if you've been saved very long, you've cried out to God for comfort. I want to speak to you for a few minutes on the cry for comfort. If someone here this evening has reached the point that they're looking towards heaven and calling for God to bring and provide comfort, it's because there's deep heartache It's because something in life has struck them in such a way, some tragedy has befallen them in their in their life In John chapter number eleven, we see the Lord Jesus Christ Answering this cry for comfort. Look in the beginning of the book. We're just going to kind of read a couple of verses and then jump down towards uh our text verse here, but we know the story, we're familiar with the story of Lazarus. He says here in John chapter 11, verse number 1, now a certain man was sick named Lazarus of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha. It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. Therefore his sister sent unto him saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. Jump down to verse number 17. Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain in the grave four days already. Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off, and many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary to comfort them concerning their brother Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him. I want you to understand tonight, and I'm not even to the text here yet, but I want you to understand, you see, there were many there that were providing comfort. But the one that can truly bring comfort is Jesus. The one that can truly make a difference is Jesus, and we do need to run to him as she did when the opportunity presented itself when she heard that. He was near. She left those that were there standing around, providing or trying to provide comfort, and she went to the one that could comfort her. Then Martha, as soon as she had, verse number 20, heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him, but Mary sat still in the house. Verse number 21: then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if Thou hast been here, my brother had not died. We are Faced with challenges, with tragedy. And we look at them from our perspective and we often wonder why. And we often try and uh evaluate and adjust and say, well, if this or that I cannot help but be reminded of the day that baby Jeremiah was killed. This year I'd been in church. She's on her way home from God's house. Standing at a bus stop with her baby in a stroller in front of her. And out of nowhere comes a car out of control that drives up onto the curb and runs over her baby stroller and all. She's down on the ground trying to extract her baby from up from under the car. They called me almost immediately. They hadn't left the scene yet and I arrived at John Hopkins shock trauma almost in time with them Went back into Jacques Trauma there and was standing with Tierra as the doctors are working on baby Jeremiah Thirty police officers probably standing around, the doctors working feverishly, nurses everywhere calling out orders, doing everything they can, but It wasn't but just five or seven minutes when the doctor stopped all the work. And he turned and he said, I've done what I can. I'm sorry, but your son is dead. And a grief struck Tierra so that she fell to the ground. And I got on the ground with her, trying to comfort her. Trying to somehow minister to her soul in the face of such great tragedy. I could do very little. Beloved, in a moment, in the blink of an eye, our world can be turned upside down. One phone call. One second through a light, one tragic accident, and our entire life is different. Well, we've read here in our text tonight about one who had reached that exact state of helplessness. There was nothing she could do. Lazarus was dead. She was heartbroken. She had suffered loss And she looked at her Lord and she said, Lord if. Lord if. And verse number 32. She says, then when Mary was come where Jesus was and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. If thou hast been here, Lord, if, can you hear the frustration in her voice? Now man's been asking why as long as there's been problems. Man's been frustrated with the struggle as long as there's been heartache. They came to Jesus and they asked him why this man was blind. Was it his parents that sinned or was it him that sinned? You see, we like to look for answers. We like to have a cause or a reason, like why did this happen? I need to know an answer for what happened here Can you hear their faltering faith? Beloved, can I remind you tonight that every shadow is caused by light? There is no shadow in darkness. But in the presence of light there is shadow created. Even though a storm may temporarily hide it, I want you to know that the sun is always there. The sun S O N is always there. I've always enjoyed taking off from Midway. in a overcast day, which is pretty much normal for Chicago. It's pretty standard. Uh no sun shining. It's overcast. It's gloomy. It's dingy and dark and you're just like depressed, right? Just taken off from Midway Airport, usually southwest. But you know it's just a few minutes And that plane pushes up through the clouds, and you break up onto the other side, and there the sun is shining so bright. And the top of those clouds is so white it looks like you could just step out on them. You could just just step out like like just as far as you can see clouds that are soft and fluffy and beautiful and and un from the underside it looked like the sun wasn't shining at all. But from the top side you saw the beauty that was there, that the sun was shining. I know tragedy comes into life and it looks as though the sun's not shining, but only in the presence of light is there a shadow If there's a shadow come on your life, I want you to know that the sun is still there. The reason it's hard for us is because we don't understand. We don't understand. I remember one time when my son Timothy was very young. Mary might remember an age I can't remember an age. I just remember he was very, very young. And he had gotten a pretty good splinter in his hand. And she could not get him to sit still for the extraction process. So she called me and says, You're going to have to do it. So later, whenever I got home, I remember going to Timothy and telling him very sternly to sit down and give me his hand And of course, he gave me his hand, but he began to pull away from the inevitable pain that he knew was coming, right? And I remember holding his hand and looking at him and saying, no. Do not pull your hand away. I need to fix this for you. And I remember as I began to dig in there with a needle to extract this splinter from his hand the biggest crocodile tears you ever saw coming down his face. And he's looking at me And them tears were not tears of pain from what I was doing to his hand. They were tears of dad. Why? There's pain being created and you're the one doing it, Dad. Why? I suppose in the back of his mind he understood at some level that that was for his good. But it did not stop the pain that I was causing right there. And it hurt my heart to see that look on his face and those big crocodile tears coming down his cheeks And uh here I am as a dad just hurting him, but I knew we got to get it out because it's gonna create an infection, it's gonna cause a problem, there's gonna be a lot more pain if we don't fix this right now And beloved, we don't understand sometimes what God is doing in our life. We see the momentary shadow. We see the current heartache We see the current trial or the struggle or the battle and we think, boy, why is this happening? This isn't fair. Boy, this is hard. I don't like it. And we look up at God with crocodile tears coming down our face and say, Lord, why are you doing this to me? Well, we don't understand what God's doing. God knows what we need. God has a purpose for every storm. It is for his glory or for our good. We can trust him no matter what. We know that to be true. Lamentations chapter 3 in verse 31 through 33, he says, For the Lord will not cast off forever. But though he caused grief, as I was working on Timothy's hand, I was causing some grief. He says here, but though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion according to the multitude of his mercy. And he says in verse number three, For he doth not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men. God does not allow things to come just because Life is not about chance and happenstance. Life is not about good luck or bad luck. God has a purpose and a plan. And he is performing it in our life. Pink said, When circumstances look dark, our hearts begin to question the love of one who permits such great things to befall us. Oh, let me impress upon you this important truth today. The dealing of the Father's hand must always be looked at in light of the Father's heart The dealings of the Father's hand must always be looked at in light of the Father's heart. I've heard Some say that that question, if, she said, Lord, if you would have just been here If you would have just been here, Lazarus, my brother, he wouldn't have died. It wouldn't have happened. And so many times I've heard people say things like that, and in our hearts and minds we think, boy, if I would have just been there. If I wouldn't have left. I know in grief share there's a story about one man telling a story, and he says, you know, it it was our practice that we didn't allow our son to ride with anybody. that was d that was sixteen years old or younger. But we thought, here, this is a pretty responsible boy. It's okay. We'll let him go. And he says, if we just wouldn't have let him go that one time. He would be alive today. That question, if I if I just wouldn't have done this, if we wouldn't have gone there, if we wouldn't have said those things, if we wouldn't have let him do this, or if we would have just stopped him a second earlier I remember a couple of summers ago when the boy's cousin Joe had that motorcycle accident. His leg was literally hanging by the skin. Compound fracture, the bone came out through through the skin, but it was inside of his rubber boot, so we couldn't see how bad it was But we knew when we picked him up, his leg didn't come with him. We had to grab the leg and and hold it and and and move him into the car. And we were out there riding and and and every one of us in our heart and mind were like, man, just if we would have stopped a few minutes earlier If we wouldn't have come to this side where they were riding across the water, if we wouldn't have been riding the rain, if we would have had protection gear on, if he would have had his riding boots, he probably wouldn't have broke his leg. If, if, if, if, if You can play the what-if game forever. But God's in control. We say we believe the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. We say that we believe that He knoweth the way that I take. We say that not one hair will fall from your head except God allows it. Are those things only true if good things happen to us? Or are they still true when tragedy befalls us? God is in control and he has a plan. So we often wonder, well, if the Lord's in control, why would God allow such tragedy to enter our lives? Couldn't God stop it? I heard a man talking some weeks ago about a tragedy that had befallen him. And he said, one of two things is a fact. He said, first of all, either God is powerless to do anything about my situation Or God has power and could have done something about my situation and doesn't care enough about me to do it, and I don't want a part of either one of those gods. There are many people in the world that look at life that way. They look and they say, well, either God doesn't have power to make any difference. Or if he has power, he doesn't care enough to, because why does he allow this? I want you to see a pretty amazing thought in our text here. Would you look at verse number 37? The same thought was asked. In John 11, 37, he says, and some of them said Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have cause that even this man should not have died? They said, could not this man? Could not this man have made a difference? Could not this man have stopped that from happening? And I can tell you in my own life many times over and over I know God is powerful and I believe He has strength and I know that He can make a difference. Sometimes even when I do something stupid I say, God, why did you let that happen? I remember there's a church member which I valued and appreciated and loved having as part of the church here that I went to the hospital be to to to pray with them and when I bowed my head and I prayed, for some reason I prayed and I said the wrong name Later on, some weeks later, they hadn't been to church in a while, and I went to visit them in a home and found out that, well, when you came to the hospital to visit me and you prayed for me, you prayed for the wrong person. And I said, well I'm so glad that God knows who I was praying for. I'm so glad that it's not about me, it's about him. They didn't like that answer, they were very offended and ultimately left the church. Because I prayed for the wrong name. And I drove away from their house that day, and I say, Lord, couldn't you have put the right name in my mind? Couldn't you have made them hear the right name? Why would you allow me to make such a stupid mistake that's going to cause an offense? And I know that it's not God's fault or God's problem, but I know he's powerful and he could do that. And I'm saying, I'm saying, Lord, why? I don't understand sometimes. Could not this man? Did not he have any power to keep this man alive? I mean, could not this man have prevented cancer from ever forming? Could not this man have kept you from falling? Could not this man have caused the car to turn down a different street instead of the one that baby Jeremiah was on? Yes, he could have, but somehow the master knows what's best. And in his great purpose, he knew what would bring about or yield the most fruit. Could not this man have stopped Joseph's brothers from selling him into slavery? He could have. Could not this man have caused the caravan to have taken a different path that day, and it wouldn't have even been an opportunity for his brothers to sell him? Yeah, his brothers meant it for evil. But God knew what needed to happen because somehow he needed to get Joseph down to Egypt to save his people. You see, we don't see the overall plan. We just see the current storm. And we think, man, this isn't fair. Why is this happening to me? Sometimes people ask me why, Pastor. Why'd this happen? Could not have God stopped it? I reminded of a little story of a little boy and little girl who had a kitty, their favorite little kitty. Their kitty got sick and they prayed fervently, passionately for their kitty to be healed and not to pass away. And that didn't happen, and the kitty died. The next Sunday they came to church and they went up to their pastor with tears in their eyes and asked him, why did our kitty die? Why did God not? Save Architty, and the pastor sat him down and gave them some great theological truths about life and God's great working and the scriptures on the matter. And then they got up and they walked away and the little boy looked at her sister and said, He doesn't have any idea either, does he? That's the fact of the matter. People ask me why, and I'm like, it's I wish I could give you an answer I wish I had some great truth I could share. I wish I had some insight that would solve the problem for you, but I just don't have the answer. I can't tell you what it is. Now though I can't give you a definitive answer to ask or to answer all your questions why. We might not have an answer this side of heaven, but can I tell you the believer grows to the point where he's content to know the one who has the answers. Even if all your questions were answered. It wouldn't change your current condition. Even if you knew the why, it wouldn't heal your broken heart Jesus knew what he was going to do. Would you look in John 11? Look back at verse number four. He said, when Jesus heard that he said, this sickness is not unto death, what's the next phrase there? But for the glory of God. Now would you look over at verse number 45? We've come through this whole thing. We see that great thing about Jesus weeping, and we know that we have a great high priest that uh it has been touched with all the feelings of all of our infirmities, but we see down in verse number five they've come through this, and in verse forty-five he says what? Then many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen these things which Jesus did believed on him. Amen. You see, they didn't understand why Lazarus have to die. God knew what he was doing. God knew there was many that needed the truth. There was many that needed to be healed That needed to believe and they needed to see this happen. The question, Lord, if suggests that somehow This tragedy caught him off guard. Somehow he didn't know that this was going to happen. The question, Lord, if really boils down to a selfish question. Because we want an outcome that benefits us. Lord, if you had been here, my brother wouldn't have died. Lord, if we would have stopped a minute earlier, Joe wouldn't have broken his leg. Lord, if could not have you stopped this, it ultimately boils down to we wanted an outcome that was beneficial to us instead of ultimately what God's purpose might be. We know, beloved, that Satan meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. I remember trying to comfort Tierra, trying to give her some answers as to why. After telling her I don't know and that I'm not able to to solve the problem or to give her an answer as to why Jeremiah died, ultimately I tried to give her some insight and I said, you know, you don't know what pain God might have just saved him from. He he may have gotten cancer as a three-year-old boy. And been through three, four, or five years of excruciating pain and treatments. You don't know what God saved him from. I told her, you don't know what life of sin he may have embarked upon and would have broke your heart many times over. The heartbreak and the tragedy. Here you have a child that you know beyond a shadow of a doubt is in heaven, and he's safe. He's with the Lord today. You don't know what God saved him from. God forbid he may have grown up and rejected God and ultimately spent an eternity in a place called hell. But God saved him from that. We don't know what God's plan is, but we've got to learn to trust Him. We've got to be content to know the one who has the answers. When we come to the place that we endure great pain, there is no neutral ground. We're going to be driven to a point of decision. We've got to decide whether we're going to trust him, or whether we're going to abide in him, or we're going to get angry at him. Can we trust him or not? We like to read Romans 8. 28, and I just want to close by sharing a thought with you. Romans 8. 28, and we know that all things work together to a good, to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. That verse there, I want you to see several truths. First of all, we see a confident faith. He said, we know. There's a lot of things about life that we don't know. There's a lot of what-ifs, and there's a lot of whys, there's a lot of questions that we can't answer. But here we have a confident face. We know. We know We know that we can have this faith in God. You know, the evolutionist has at best a maybe. In Darwin's Origin of the Species, 800 times he says, we suppose. We suppose. But beloved, we know. We know. We have a confident faith. Secondly, about this verse, we have a called follower. He says, them that love God and to them who are called according to his purpose. We have a called follower here. We've been talking about the love of God as we address that topic in 1 John, but we know that the commandment, the first and great commandment, is to love the Lord of God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. If you love God, you know. You can have confident faith. Whatever happens, whatever struggle, whatever battle you're facing This called follower, I want you to see has a certain future. He has a certain future. He says all things work together for good All things work together for good. We have a certain future. We don't know exactly how it's going to happen. We don't know how things are going to be brought together. We don't know ultimately what is going to come to fruition that will make it a reality for us. But we know. Because we're called. Because we love God. That we have a certain future that God will work things together for good. That we ultimately are going to be conformed into his image Eventually we're going to be conformed into his image. John, 1 John 3. 2 says, Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know. That when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. We might not know God's plan today. We might not understand it, and we might ask why. Beloved, it's okay to ask why. I'm reminded that Jesus himself on the cross said, why? Why, my God, hast thou forsaken me? It's okay to ask God why, as long as we're still trusting. God can and might choose to give you an answer, but he might not. We need to trust him. A very powerful prayer was uncovered from the horrors of Ravensbrook. That concentration camp built in 1939 for women Over nine ninety thousand women and children perished at Ravensbrook, murdered by the Nazis. Ravensbrook, you'll you'll remember, was the concentration camp in which Cory Timboon was imprisoned. This was not believed to be her prayer, for this prayer was found sewn into the hem of a garment of a child. And the prayer reads like this: O Lord, remember not only the men and women of good will, but also those of ill will. But do not remember all of the suffering that they have inflicted upon us. Instead, remember the fruits that we have borne because of this suffering. Our fellowship, our loyalty to one another, our humility, our courage, our generosity, the greatness of heart that has grown and brought us through this struggle. When our persecutors come to be judged by you, let all of these fruits that we have borne be cause for their forgiveness. Wow. I think this little child was conformed Into the image of the sun. That's the truth of it. The cause, the purpose, may be just that God wants to conform us into the image of his son. And we can trust him. No matter what.