Turn your Bibles to Titus chapter two. Titus chapter two. Each of us here have a area of ministry, somewhere where we serve. Something where we commit our energy and effort and our heart's desire. But today I want to submit to you that the ministry of a mother is the greatest ministry of all. I'm going to speak to you this morning in a message that I've entitled, The Ministry of a Mother. With using Titus chapter 2, verses 1 through 5 as our text, follow along with me if you would as we read these verses. Titus chapter 2, verse 1 through 5. But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine. That the aged men be sober, grave, tempered, sound in faith, in charity, in patience. The aged women likewise that they be in behavior as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things. That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home Good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. Well, could I encourage you this morning to buy into the biblical principles and position in which the Bible places Ladies. The Bible places women and ladies in a place of honor. Lifts up motherhood. The Bible honors and praises a mother Proverbs 31, verse 30 and 31 says, Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman that fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her own works praise her in the gates Don't let this world and the world's mentality and philosophy put you into a box or try and define for you what motherhood is. There's a whole lot of the world that can't even decide whether they're a boy or a girl. And and you're going to try and let them determine uh w the position of a mother or whether that position is something that should be honored or esteemed or something that should be looked down upon. The fact of the matter is that our society today, as whole, by and large, not everybody Certainly not everybody, but by and large there is the idea that motherhood is looked down upon. I can't tell you how many times uh Mary having five children walking through the grocery store has received derogatory remarks, uh comments, to the point where even our children have asked like Why do they say things like that? Something like, oh my goodness, you know, I can't believe you you had five of them. You know, oh oh your hands are full. Oh poor you. You know, things uh and You know, it's just it's the way that this world views and perceives motherhood. Grace Ketterman said this. Mothering has been degenerated by women in recent decades. Competing with men has been a cause. The glamour and materialism of career have deceptively outglittered the often drab and even drudgery-laden task of burying and nurturing the lives of children Perhaps the most urgent need for our area, our our era, sorry, is the restoration of the high value of godly mothering. Those of us who cherish biblical values must teach and practice them consistently. Those of us who are mothers Must see the responsibility as a high privilege. We must reclaim our role as the shapers and the supporters of the next generation of leaders and parents. The fact of the matter is, is mothers are literally shaping the future. They are literally building the leaders of tomorrow. It doesn't matter how strong or how great a man ultimately gets in his life, what level he attains to. Somebody said that, you know, commenting that a baby is mother's youngest, even if he happens to be forty-four years old. Uh it's just mom's baby, right? That's just the way it is. And uh well Napoleon Bonaparte figured this out. After Napoleon had conquered the the known world, had centralized his empire, he had uh enjoyed his power that he had And he reinstated the practice of kissing the hand of royalty. Well, Napoleon uh had told everybody around him that they had to do this. And everybody followed suit as they should, all the nobles and all the generals and all the leaders of his armies and all the uh men of the of the different governmental leaders, everybody followed along. Well one day he was in a big crowd and his mother came up to him and he stuck out his hand for his mother to kiss and she slapped that away and she said, Napoleon I'll have you know you're just one of my eight children. She's still mom. No matter how much of a leader he ultimately became, she's the one that that birthed him and shaped him and trained him and raised him and uh he is still her son. And the fact of the matter is is that's what mothers are doing, they're shaping the future for us. This ministry of mothers is something that is always there. And I want to talk to you about the ministry of mothers from this passage of scripture for just a couple of minutes. First of all, I want you to see and realize that the minis the ministry of mothers is one that has high expectations. High expectations. You know, this position, this job, this requirement of being a mother is something that demands the utmost from you There is more expected of you than in any other capacity. Norman Baylor said The mom's ministry is one of the toughest assignments God has ever given out. She's got to be insightful as a psychologist, tough as a Marine Corps drill sergeant. Gentle as a nurse. She's got to be in labor management, a skilled negotiator, and an apt teacher It requires an endless supply of energy, a massive amount of patience, an iron will, and recognition of the fact that if she were to get sick, she must mend before the end of the school day. Because her job doesn't end. Mom is always on demand. Mom is always on call. In the middle of the night, in the middle of the day, from being there for the skin knees to the broken hearts Mom is present. Mom's job is always on call. One mother After the mad rush of getting her older children ready and off to the party with some friends, she was able to put the baby down to rest. She stopped for just a moment and laid her weary, aching head down on the cool dining room table. It is then when she felt the hand of her four-year-old. Who reached up and said sympathetically, Mommy, don't you have anything to do? Is it just the perception of the little ones? It's one thing to the next, and one thing to the next, but uh no comprehension of the labor and effort that mom puts in There's so much expected of her and oftentimes done without any uh extra level of gratitude or appreciation Which is why we take this day, Mother's Day, to hopefully express some gratitude, show some appreciation, to let them have a day off. Amen. A mother's work is never done. It's a job that requires more than you can imagine. Sadly, the world, as I stated, has a derogatory consideration of motherhood. Let me encourage you. Don't ever be guilty of putting just in front of your title The world would have you say I'm just a mother. Don't do that. You're not just a mother. You're a mother. The mindset that is prevalent in society is, oh, if you don't have a career, if you don't have a task, if you don't aren't involved in all of these other things, then you're just a mother. You're a mother. And that position needs to be put back in a position of honor and respect and gratitude. One mom who was filling out a uh application for work at the county clerk's office. Listed under occupation, mother. The county clerk reviewing the document looked at her and said that was insufficient She needed to have something else there. And so the mother gladly pulled the application back and began to write. She wrote, I'm a research associate in the field of child development in human relations. I have a continuing program of research both in the laboratory and out in real life. I would Uh I'm I'm continuing my study ongoing towards a master's, although I already have four credits to my name. Of cour of course, this job is one of the most demanding of all humanity, and that is often requiring of me fourteen hours a day. Although the job is more challenging than most, the rewards are satisfaction rather than money. The position of a mother. It's one that demands and asks and requires a lot. There's an expectation there from everybody. Why? Because you're mom. You're just supposed to know everything. You're just supposed to do everything. You're supposed to have that capacity, right? The expectations are high. Not only is it one of expectation, but it's one of example. You see there in verse number three, says the aged women likewise that they be in behavior as becometh holiness. Behavior as becometh holiness. Mom is supposed to be one who lives a life of example. This morning uh in Sunday school, Pastor Gus read a a kind of a tribute and and a a uh an expression of gratitude to all those ladies who are effective in helping us raise our kids. And there are many who are involved in that. We praise God here at the church for those that teach Sunday school and work in the nurseries and and help in different classes and and just there you know there are so many that are involved in in raising our kids and and we praise God for that. We are thankful for that influence that is always there. And those that serve in any other capacity, you too are an example. You're an example that the children look up to and they want to follow and be like They one day may follow your example, so it behoove you to live a life of holiness. Holiness is moral cleanliness, living a clean life. Mom's one that's to have a clean life. Supposed to be living a clean life. I hope that you are. She's setting the example. She has a careful life. She's careful with her tongue, we see here that becometh holiness, not false accusers. Um she she's not going to be careless with her tongue. Not just gonna speak out and say this or that or whatever. She's she's Living by example. She's being the example. She's careful. She's putting a watch before her mouth. She's careful what she says. You would never tear down your children Directly, but do you understand that when you tear down, belittle, or talk in a negative way, even about other people, you're tearing your children down spiritually? We've got to be live carefully, carefully guarding our tongue, careful with our appetites. He says not given to much wine. Careful with our appetites. Now this is not a lesson on alcohol. I believe the Bible is very clear that Christians should not be partaking of alcohol. We're not going to get into that, but this here says not given too much wine, and some people might look at that and say, Oh well we're not supposed to have much. I can have a little bit, just not much. I believe that really what it's talking about here is is appetite. I believe it's controlling your appetites. Living being careful with those things that's you know, anything can y you know what happens with alcohol? That using that example, usually alcohol begins to take over a person. Right? They lose control. When they when they take too much alcohol, they become drunk. And it usually affects people one or two ways based on their personality. One, they get really, really nice. Or they get really, really mean. That's what happens. When and they lose control of themselves. I think that what this is talking about is being in control of your appetites. And you know you can lose control in any area You can get too far as a mother you can get too far gone in in any area. Like let's say I know many of you have to work. You you aren't able to stay at home and be with your kids all the time. You've got job requirements and responsibilities you have to fulfill just to make ends meet. you can become too focused in that appetite for that and to the neglect of your family. I mean it's necessary, you've got to do that, but is that what the focus is? Is that where you're investing all of your time and energy? You know, you can become too focused on physical fitness. Take take all of your time. I mean I think we ought to take care of the body. I think you ought to, you know, run some and exercise and you know do those. I mean those are all good things. Eat healthy. But you can be that can become your your total focus. I remember one time when I was a kid, for about a year, we didn't have any decent food in our house. My mom got on this health kick, and man, everything was dehydrated, dried out, uh disgusting. I mean peanut butter that had an inch and a half of oil on top of it that you had to take like ten minutes to stir before you could even get something out of it? Oh, it was terrible. We were praising God when she got off of that that thing. In an effort to keep us healthy. Now that there's some good things, but I'm just saying you gotta be careful that your appetites don't go too far. in any one direction. She's an example in all that she does. Not only is she an example, but she also is to be one that explains. We see in verse number three there the last phrase is that she's a teacher of good things, a teacher of good things. And then there is a list in verse number four and five of the good things that she's teaching, the instructions that she's giving. She's teaching that they may teach the younger women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children. To be discreet, to be chaste, to be keepers of home, to be good, to be obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed She's always a teacher, teaching good things. There is in the text here that idea, that uh implication that the aged women, that is those that have Learned a thing or two. Those that have walked down the road a little ways would take time and energy and effort to help train and teach the younger generation. We've got John and Stephanie are are you been married about seven months? Seven months today. Seven months today. See? They're just getting started. Now I'm sure Stephanie already knows everything there is to know about you know being a a wife and and raising godly children and and all that. You know I'm kidding, right? She she could she could use some encouragement, some help, somebody being an example for her, somebody, somebody we have several other younger uh families in the church That the the aged women, those that have been down the road a little while, are supposed to take their help their time to help train, to teach, to be an example, but also to instruct. To instruct. Instruct them to be sober. Sober, that is to have a serious mind. You know, life is not a joke. It's there there's a time to grow up. And usually when you have kids that happens. But sadly in today's society It's happening less and less. These parents are having kids and still acting like they're teenagers. Like they don't have any responsibility. Like it's okay to just be out doing whatever in all hours of the night. Even though they have children at home. They need somebody to instruct them to be sober. It's you have a family now. It's time to take and assume the responsibility of a family. To teach them to love. To love. If there's anything that we need more of today in our homes, it's love. It's love. And I'm not talking about this this mushy, gushy, uh Hollywood portrayed style of love That is, you know, uh the the the orchestra strikes up and the lights come down and and this fireworks go off in the background and everything's i it's the love at first sight. I'm not talking about that kind of love. I'm talking about the biblical love that sacrifices. That's what love is. Love is a choice. You don't even have the option to show somebody that you love them until it's inconvenient. Until it's until it you don't want to do it. That's when love gets real. When it's hard. When it's not pleasant. Oh, everybody's happy in the for better. But how many of you know there's some for worse that comes along sometimes, right? For better or for worse. There's some of that. That's when you get to show your real love. Love must give. Love sacrifices. That's the kind of love that we need to be displaying to being an example, but also teaching the next generation to love. This kind of lie of love is starting to be a thing of the past. Oh, it's not popular to love your husband or kids Anymore. It's about loving your job, your career, your position. Letting let the kids and husband fend for themselves This is the expected thing. But real love would never let you do that. You see, the world tries to twist this around, and they say, oh, well, if my husband and kids love me, they would let me have my career. Tell me you haven't heard something like that. You see they try and turn that around. And you know what? Your husband and your kids love you and they might let you have your career. But what you're showing is your self-love. And I'm not I'm not down in careers. If you've got a career and you've got a job that you have to do That's not what I'm that's not the point I'm getting at here. You've got a job, you've got to work, you've got to earn in order to make ends meet in this crazy society and world we live in today. The focus is on what is it that you love. You see, love won't let you do that. Love keeps those things in the right perspective Like the three-year-old who really didn't have much say whether his mom went to work or not. But when his mom came home, he said, Mom, I wish I had two mommies. One to go to work and one to stay here on the couch with me. You see, he understood that mom had to go to work and he didn't want to take that from her. But he just wanted his mom to be there, to be present. We need love. You know, you might live in a big house. You might have a hundred thousand dollars worth of vehicles sitting in the driveway. You might have a yard full of toys. But if you don't have love, you don't have a home. Home should be a place that's filled with love. Note the order that's in the text here. The order is to love your husband and your kids. That order is there, and I believe on purpose. One of the biggest Uh uh it was the Lord's timing for us, but I go back to when Mary and I first got married, we had the privilege of waiting five years. Now, many of you know we miscarried one there earlier and uh we have we have one in heaven. I say, Praise God, we raised one good kid. Uh one one one kid that made that made it out. My kids that are still here are like unbelievable. That's such a such a high standard to live up to. One perfect kid in heaven and us. But what I'm saying is we had five years that it was just us. And we got to really build that relationship between her and I. You know a lot of times when when couples get married and right away there's kids and sometimes hey the Lord gives life and the Lord takes away life. I'm not saying that's that that's bad, but you have to be cautious and careful. because you haven't had an opportunity to build that relationship yet. And you know that uh one day the kids are gonna be gone. And it's just gonna be you two again. And you have got to love each other. That love has to be there. One shoebox greeting card read this. Motherhood is full of frustration and challenges, but eventually they move out. So Eventually they're gonna move out. And it's gonna be YouTube. Right, Dave? You know, for as long as we we've no, Dave and his lovely wife, they you know, they were already in that stage of life where the kids were out and living their life and doing their thing. When they come in here, sit next to each other, put their arm around each other, they're happily married. That doesn't happen by accident. You got to keep that love real and that love strong And there's got to be somebody teaching the younger generation what that looks like and how that happens. Goes on to teach on uh correct and proper behavior. He says, to be discreet. You know, ladies have a skill of being discreet Street, don't they? I mean you could have something going on here in the auditorium and there's a problem. There's something let's I'm not going to give an example because I'll get myself in trouble. But what will happen is like let's say there's something happening here and Mary sees it. And she'll stand up and she'll look over there at Miss Trudy. Neither one of them say anything, but both of them immediately know what they're talking about. They both see this problem and let's take care of this. And no everybody else is oblivious, you know. It's like all going on, everything's fine, and they get this to take care of it. Everybody else in the room doesn't even realize, you know, that that skill that God has given ladies, you know, to communicate uh through brainwaves or something, I don't know You know, just to be discreet, this word chaste, that means to be innocent, to be modest. You know, this world is taking this away from us. I mean just the ide there's something supposed to be wholesome, precious, innocent about a mother. But the world is robbing that from us by putting up what are literally pornographic images of mothers Ladies carrying babies. The comedians of today are taking the position of motherhood and turning it into something vulgar and nasty That's not what a mother is supposed to be. And that kind of conversation is allowed to come through, whether it's on your television or at home, and your children hear that and they think, oh, that's what motherhood is That's not what motherhood is. There's something supposed to be innocent and precious and wholesome about a mother. She has that position. It's supposed to be precious. We shouldn't let the world destroy that for us. This keepers at home Here is the idea of home is where your heart is. Home is where your heart is. She is, I'm not saying I don't believe this is teaching that you cannot work outside the home, but that home is where your heart is. Home is where you want to be. Home is what you are living for, that family and those children. Just supposed to be good. To do good. Do good all the time to all men to do good. There's a high expectation of mothers, isn't there? To be obedient to their own husbands You know, some of the older generation might need to take time to help the younger generation see what these things mean. See what this looks like. See how to put these things into practice In a practical way, what are these truths? We know this morning that the ministry of a mother is never done never done. She's got a job that just keeps on going. But at least for today, let's give her a break. Let's let's let mom rest Let's give them their their due honor. Wouldn't hurt if it was beyond just today. Kids helped out once in a while. That's part of training and instruction. You know, teaching your kids How are you gonna teach them to be a mother or to be part of a family if you don't instruct them? You know, just the basic things like how to do their own laundry. You know, it's not so much work if they do their own to themselves, you know, having five kids I think it was about ten years old when mom and dad said, okay, if you want clean clothes, you know where the washer is. At ten years old. Wash my own, dry my own clothes, iron my own clothes. If I wanted something ironed, ironed it. You know, it makes it a lot easier. You don't have to put all that on yourself. Now it takes a lot of work to train them, to teach them how to do those things. But then you're also preparing them for life. When I went to college, you know how many guys asked me to iron their shirts? Because they didn't know how to iron a shirt? I should have done what my dad did. My dad actually uh had a side job by earning shirts. He made money. Uh he charged for it and and uh got paid, but teach them these things. Teach them. This morning as we close this message, would you take note? Don't ever be guilty of belittling or downplaying the role of a mother. For there's more expected of them than of any other. Mothers are to live as an example in all that they do to their children and to the rest of the world. And they're to be teaching, instructing, preparing the next generation for life. If you have a mother That you have still with us, that you can, let me encourage you to take time to honor her today, to express gratitude and thankfulness. Be an encouragement to her today. Moms aren't going to ask for it. Moms usually don't look for it. But it means a lot to them when you give it. And if you are a mother today, we thank you and honor you for all that you do for us. We know that you're probably harder on yourself than anyone else is. You desire, as we've listed these things, you desire to have these attributes. You desire to be doing these things, and you hold yourself to a higher standard than anyone else would. But that's part of a heart of a mother, and that's why we're grateful this morning