We'll uh we'll we'll start off uh real quick in uh the book of First Corinthians, so you can turn there. Uh First Corinthians They are towards the New Testament, or in the New Testament. 1 Corinthians chapter number 10. And what we're going to teach on today is called the School of the Exodus. And uh we'll walk through that together. Uh 1 Corinthians chapter 10, I hope you're there. And then we'll bounce back uh after we pray, we'll bounce back to Exodus chapter 15, so we'll go there. Uh but uh we'll start off here in 1 Corinthians 10 11 as we lay some of the groundwork and then we go back into into the lesson. So uh uh uh this is gonna you're gonna get a title slide and that's about it. Uh each of them I hope will Uh each of the lessons I hope that you will stand out enough that they they kind of resonate in your heart. Maybe you can make an annotation about them as we walk through that uh chapter in Exodus. But As we do, we'll start off with 1 Corinthians 10, 11, and then we'll say we'll read it to read it, and then we will see what we'll pray as we begin our Sunday school hour First Corinthians 1011 says this. Now all these things happened unto them for in samples, and they are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come. All right, let's pray. Father, we love you. We thank you for the day. Lord, thank you for this time in your word. Just pray that you would bless it, use it in the lives of your people. Uh Lord, really just to resonate and to uh hit uh maybe some points home, uh maybe that we haven't considered, maybe that we haven't considered in a while, Father, but just uh Lord I ask that you would bless it and use it in our lives, and we'll thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen As we go in 1 Corinthians 10 11, you know, it's it says all these things, all right? And if you read the first part of this chapter of chapter 10, it really goes over the uh the time that the Israelites, that the people of God were in the wilderness. And it talks about the rock that they drank from. It talks about the food that they ate. It talks about different parts of the the the time that is known as the Exodus and some of the challenges that they walked through. And that whole thing is summarized here in verse uh 11 as it's saying hey all these things all these things put together that happened in the book of exodus these things are written for in samples or an example or something for us to learn from so that we can, again, for our admonition. So the the the idea, what this is saying is The stuff that happened in Exodus was an example to the Corinthians. And so, and Paul goes out and spells out some of that, how that applies. And so I just want to encourage you that as you look through the scriptures, maybe these things uh appear very uh ancient, things that happened in uh thousands of years ago in a time where technology was much different. than it is today. But understand that these there are things, there are lessons that we can draw from to apply to our lives. And that's really what we want to take away from today. So as we go back, we'll go back to the book of Exodus, Exodus chapter 15, and really that's where we'll start. And I don't know if you realize this. Maybe when you're reading, sometimes uh uh I know I can fall into this trap, is as I'm reading the scriptures, I kind of get locked in to uh the place that that's happening in the scriptures and and focus on that time frame. But really there is a weaving and interconnectedness of all the scriptures that maybe sometimes we need to take a step back and look at And we don't always do that. I don't always do that. Again, I get locked in to where I'm at. But uh if you look or if you uh spend more time throughout uh navigating the other parts of the scriptures Obviously, the book of First Corinthians talks about this time in the wilderness. It's not something that was foreign to the Jewish people And the same thing is true all throughout. This is something, this is a very key, very important part of the history of the nation of Israel that is repeated over. And over and over again there are psalms that are fully dedicated to the history of what happened to the people of Israel how they came out of Egypt and the the time of trial that they went through and this this time of the wilderness wanderings are taught over and over and over in the scripture. The account is repeated We see it in the New Testament as well. And again, we see it in this passage in 1 Corinthians But understand that we we ought to enjoy reading the Exodus account. It gives us so many lessons. It gives us lessons on leadership. It gives us lessons on life. We could be here an entire uh year looking at the lessons just in this time uh in the wilderness. Alright, so pop quiz for you guys. Of course, if you've studied or if you know about the Exodus, how long were the Israelites in the wilderness? Forty years. And we can spend so much time now I'll I'll ask I'll I'll ask you this. Well Was the wilderness part of God's will for the people of Israel? No. A large part of it was not. Part of it was. Alright? In the beginning, especially if you read the account of the scriptures, God diverted the people in a different direction for a specific purpose that God identifies in the scriptures that we see. But a large part of that happened of the wilderness was a result of the problems and the disobedience and the problems that they ran into. We learned so many lessons. And as you're reading these stories, I want you to take take some time. Think about the history of this these this people, the millions. of people that as they journey through the desert and and uh and as you read it at times think to yourself, does how does this apply to me? So, this journey is a tough course that God taught his people through. It was, as some some people say, a school of hard knocks. It was a training. It was a boot camp. And these lessons are part of what God wanted to preserve in his word. And as we go back to that reference in 1 Corinthians for the purpose of our learning, admonition, and application to our lives. The wilderness is hard. The wilderness was treacherous, but As we look at some of these lessons, maybe you've thought about them, maybe you've pondered some, but consider them as we walk through them As you go to the book of Exodus, in chapter 15, I want to just draw your attention down to verse number 20. If you're familiar with the account, or maybe you have maybe headlines in your passage or in your Bible, what happens in Exodus 14? What occurs? The Red Sea, at the top of my Bible there it says the Egyptians are drowned. Alright, and then chapter 15 begins with the song of Moses, and then we walk down to verse 20. And then we'll say this. We'll see we'll see this. We'll go through 20 through 27. Uh we'll read it to g we'll read it and just follow along there in your scriptures. And Miriam, the prophetess and sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances. And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously, the horse and his rider hath ye thrown into the sea. So Moses brought Israel from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur, and they went three days in the wilderness and found no water. And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the waters of Marah, for they were bitter Therefore the name of it was called Marah. And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink? And he cried unto the Lord, and the Lord showed him a tree which when he had cast into the waters The waters were made sweet. W there he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he proved them And said, If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, and will do that which is right in his sight, and will give ear to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have brought upon the Egyptians, for I am the Lord that healeth thee. And they came to Elam, there where were twelve wells of water, and three score and ten palm trees, and they encamped there by the waters The first lesson I want us to understand or to recall is to watch your attitude after a victory. Alright? Watch your attitude after a victory. As you read along there with me You look at the verses and it says there that in verse 22, how many days removed were they from the Red Sea? Three days. And so consider that for a moment. We're three days removed from this huge victory where they saw the Red Sea, the waters go up, and they parted on dry ground through the Red Sea, and the Bible there says that they're three days removed and they're running into problems because they have a bad attitude about the water Consider as we begin this passage, the song of Miriam was right there. It was just in verse 20, and it talks about it, and it talks about the song that they sang. And think about that. That song, that tune was probably still fresh in their heads. There might have been some kids. You know how kids are, they he they hear a music, they hear some song once or twice and they haven't memorized completely. There was probably some kids whistling or Singing that song, walking around as they're arriving tomorrow and they're complaining about this water situation. And the people, when they get there, they say, What what are we gonna drink? And we saw they they saw a great miracle, but we have a problem here for Moses. And understand that this is a problem of human nature. When things are going good, hey, we're all good. We're all happy. We're all going along and going along with it and saying, hey, things are great. But when things aren't going so well, our attitude starts showing. Our problems with our attitude can come in many ways. Alright? We'll we'll look at it a couple different ways. After a victory, pride can set in, and you can begin to think that you're invincible. And and and in the case of the Israelites, maybe they Maybe there was some of that that was coming along like, hey, this we can walk through this and this this is gonna be great. This is gonna be a cakewalk because we just beat the Egyptians and the rest of this is gonna be easy And that can set in, and we have to be careful with that. After a victory, discouragement can set in. If you look at Exodus 17 I'll read this to you in seven, uh in verse seven it says, And he called the name of the place Massah in Meribah because of the chiding of the children of Israel, and because they tempted the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among us or not? So again, I don't know exactly how much time has passed from chapter fifteen. We know there was three days when they got to uh Tamara, and then we're looking at it just another chapter or so over in verse 17, and they're like, Is God among us or not? And that discouragement set in, and their attitude was affected that way, and that could happen to any of us. After a victory, we can become presumptuous to assume that everything should go smoothly. We're not supposed to have problems. But whatever it is, we have to beware of our attitude after the victory. What happened here in Mara is so interesting because they were three days and they were so thirsty But it it seems in a way, and this might be me kind of reading into it a little bit, that they excuse me, that they became picky The water was bitter. And when you're thirsty, you'll drink anything. Anything wet. Uh there was some time that uh I was stationed in San Angelo, Texas for training. It was there a little bit over a year, and uh one thing that probably and to this day uh you you can talk to people about that have been there uh they have some really, really bad water. And uh you go to brush you don't even want to brush your teeth with it because it's so gross. It it has a taste. Uh the the water itself And uh uh that we call there was a uh area there called the Concho, so we call it the Conch water. It was nasty water. It was nasty But you know what? When you're running around outside in the Texas in the West Texas heat and uh you're running, you know, on the flight line trying to to to to do laps there uh and you get really, really thirsty uh you're gonna drink the conch water. That's just how that how it is. Alright? But they they were so thirsty Uh they were complaining about the bitterness and they had a bad attitude and how shameful is that for them but again we we can run into that same attitude problem of approaching something and being picky. And having that affect our attitude. We have to be careful with that. Next lesson to learn, don't give up too soon. Don't give up too soon. Alright? As we look at this passage again, focus on the where they they came to the waters of Mara, and there is where they complained. And they made these bitter waters, and these bitter waters became sweet. But when we stop and we take a take just if we take a moment. That passage that we read in verse 27 ends with them showing up at a place called Elam. And Elam was known, or it says here, there were 12 wells of water. There was a bunch of water there in Elam and three score and ten palm trees and they encamped there by the water. So they did arrive to this second place, but understand that The lesson to not give up too soon, Elam is not too far from Mara. Elam was about nine miles from Mara. Now they just traveled for three days and they if you look at some of the ways they they calculate these out different locations that they showed up Some people estimate that they were traveling at about 14. 3 miles a day. So they were less than a day, a full day away. from Elam, where these beautiful wells were, where we don't hear about the problems with the water in Elam. And they were almost there But they stopped in Marah, they had a bad attitude, they started complaining, they complained about the bitter water, and they were right on the brink of this beautiful well at Elam. Or 12 wells Many times we don't like the circumstances that God puts us in. We don't like the pressure that we feel. We want to get rid of that pressure and we give up. And we begin to complain and we begin to uh uh get upset. But you could be just on the brink of blessing. That prayer maybe that you want answered, that victory that you want to see might be less than a day away. And that that happens w when we stop too soon. We have to keep doing what we're supposed to do. Keep moving forward Focusing on what God has us to do. So we see first, watch your attitude after a victory. Don't give up too soon. The next one, I want to encourage you to trust God to supply the need. Alright, when we look at the next chapter, chapter number 16, Exodus. uh we are familiar with the idea of God supplying the need Exodus 16, we see the manna provided. In verse 4, the Bible says, Then said the Lord unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you. And the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day, that I may prove them, whether they will walk in my law or no. Alright, this was a test But God was providing for them. And it's interesting. You see here the Israelites traveled from Elam. And the next location it talks about the wilderness of sin. But we understand that. Many times we rely on ourselves. And the complaints that come up, if you recall really throughout the scripture, as the the problems where the people are hungry. The people are thirsty and they're running into these issues. They become so entitled because of their enslavement to Egypt that they would have rather been back in slavery than free and having to to pick up the manna in the wilderness. But understand that God was providing for them. God made that bitter water sweet And if that wasn't enough, he continued and he fed them. If the Bible says he they provided uh God provided the bread of heaven. And we need to trust God, but the lesson that we learn here is to work within God's boundaries. Alright, there were some boundaries that God set up in this where he said, take enough, take this much. Right. Don't take more. And then on the the the sixth day, there's gonna be plenty. Gathering up for the next day so that you don't have to work on the Sabbath. And again, this is something that was uh you know This instruction from what we read in the scripture was pretty clear for them. But there were still people that said, no, you know what, I'm not going to gather enough on on Saturday or for them uh the the Friday before we're going to and then they come out on Saturday, their Sabbath, and it's like There's no food. And there's no manna. And because they did not do what they were supposed to do, And so when we trust God, yes, God is going to provide, but we need to work within God's boundaries. God's not going to bless our foolishness. As we move into the next lesson, realize that we need to remember the lessons that God is teaching. And understand in verse uh in chapter 16, we we we read about the manna, and then as you go over to verse 31. Through 35, the Bible says this. And the house of Israel called the name thereof Mana, and it was like coriander seed, white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey. And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord commandeth, fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations, that they may see the bread wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness. When I brought you forth from the land of Egypt. And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot and put an omer full of manna therein, and lay it up before the Lord to be kept for your generations. As the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the testimony to be kept. And the children of Israel did eat manna Forty years until they came to a land inhabited, they did eat manna until they came into the borders of the land of Canaan. So really, here early on, we see the importance that God put on remembering this manna. Alright, one thing that always stands out to me as I read this passage, and this is just kind of an interesting nugget that I that you read, there was no outline in terms of the ark of the testimony or the tabernacle that they were carrying throughout the desert All that hadn't been outlined yet. But here there's a reference to it to be laid up before the testimony. But this even before all those things were built, there was a point where they took this manna And it was supposed to be before them. It was supposed to be a reminder. It was supposed to be something that they could visually see, and not just for them, but for their future generations. And we look at that. All these things God outlined to remember. The song that Moses song that Moses sang at the beginning of chapter 15 was done to remember. God wanted them to remember the law. If you remember he put at that in the the the tables of the law in the ark God put a could have outlined for them to put other things. If you remember the sandals that did not uh that did not wear, all right, they were the sandals that they had for 40 years. God could have said, put one of those sandals in the ark of the testimony. But he didn't. What God wanted them to remember is the law, God's provision. And the rod, later on we see that's put in the testimony as well. God wanted them to remember, if you recall the story, as they crossed the Jordan, Joshua and his uh men got twelve stones and they laid it up. They put it up for a memorial. God wants us to remember, to memorialize things that He has done for us. And the idea in that is we have a book And we have a tendency to forget things and we have a reference constantly to be able to look at God did this and God did this and God did this for these people. God did this for for for the people of Israel and for the church and uh all these things that are outlined and there's some very specific things that God did For us to remember, for you and me to remember as well that are in this in this book. We have to remember God's goodness because we have a tendency to forget things. That's just how it is. Remember what God has done and has He not done great things for us? As a family, I I think it's important to remember those things that God has done in your family. Write note. Keep a journal of victories that you've seen in your life. God, remember God, not what you did, but remember what God did in your life. So as we look at this lesson we have one more to learn from uh in this passage and as you look at this passage in ver uh chapter 15 and 16. Uh I I want you to to just think a little bit with me on this. Verse 26 and chapter 15, so right towards the end there, it says this. If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, and will do that which is right in his sight, and will give ear to his commandments, and keep all his Statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have brought upon the Egyptians, for I am the Lord that healeth thee. Then if you go down, we just read verse number four when he was talking about providing the manna and the idea there towards the end of verse four, he says, and the people shall go out and gather certain rate every day that I may prove them whether they will walk in my law or not. The lesson here is The day-to-day, the daily grind, as some people would call it, for the Christian is to obey God and follow his leading. Let me explain a little bit. The Israelites spent a long time getting from the e from Egypt to the Promised Land. And for all that's recalled for us in Scripture, we don't have 40 years worth of records on that time. We don't have a chronicle of all the activities of a journal that says day one. This is what happened. Day two, this is what happened. Day three, you know, we got to the waters and they were kind of bitter. You know, whatever the case may be, we don't have a log of that. We have some highlights. But not every day is going to be crossing the Red Sea. Not every day is going to be water coming from a rock. There's going to be days that you're walking, just following what God wants you to do. The majority of the time Of this 40 years, understand is them following a pillar of cloud or a pillar of fire. We know that that happened, that's what the scripture tells us, but we don't have a record of on this day The cloud went up and we started walking. On this day, the cloud descended and kind of stayed in this area, so we were here. Cloud's still here, so we're staying here. The Bible doesn't explain that There are boring days. There are days that are just doing what is Understood that they needed to do, which was obey God's command and follow his leading. Follow God, and when he says go, go. And there's going to be some days that are going to be difficult. There are going to be some days that are going to be miraculous You get to see some of those miraculous days. But of a lot of those days, are walking with God, following what God wants you to do. Obey His command. And the majority of those days, I would say, are going to be like that. They're not going to be extensive and miraculous. It's just going to be a day-to-day grind. And as we look at that, you know, we we we like to give the Israelites a hard time. And what we what we should understand is that they were coming out of 400 years of slavery in a foreign land. They didn't have a collection of preserved Authoritative words from God, they didn't have that. They were learning about God as they went along. They were learning to follow God in those moments. And we need to turn this to ourselves and realize that again, we have generations and hundreds of years with the revealed Word of God for us, and we still run into problems of following God in the proper way. learning these lessons. We have more even than the Israelites did. They didn't have the books. To learn from the mistakes of others, but we do. So we need to learn from those mistakes, the ones that are given to us as an example. And we need to live in a way that follows the Lord. We need to live by faith, not by our feelings or not by our senses. And that's where we run into problems. So sometimes as as God's people, we want this spiritual uh emotional feeling that that maybe we get when that that will make all this wickedness in our heart go away, this you know, euphoria or sensation that we have, this spiritual high, and we we want that all the time But what it is, is what what what what honestly we need to do is we need to live submitted to the Lord and living a life day by day in obedience to what he's told us to do. Now we're we're so used to instant gratification, but understand that there's a purpose in that God has for your life, sometimes that involves a journey that you have to go through. Sometimes that may involve uh a wilderness. It may involve a trial, or it may involve any more time than we're willing to give it. But understand that God is making a masterpiece in our life. And while he could do it instantly, he chooses to take his time. And in that, we just need to keep doing what God has asked us to do. So as we look at these lessons, as we look at the book of Exodus, again, it's there to learn from. The Bible clearly outlines that. And I hope that some of these things may be resonated in your heart to take and to apply, whether it be to watch your attitude after a victory. Don't give up too soon. Trust God to supply the need. Remember the lessons that God is teaching you. And the day-to-day is to obey God and follow his leading