Romans chapter 12, we're going to continue our study this morning on dealing with devices. We did have a wonderful week at camp, and we'll hear more about that tonight in the evening service, very challenging. messages there, but we're continuing our study. This will be our second to last lesson. We'll have one more lesson next week to wrap up this series. I hope it's been as enjoyable for you as it has been for me. I've been doing some extra reading to try to find some materials that we can put in your hands. I bought three books this week at um at the camp they had relating to technology, so I finished one of them last night. I'm going to try to read another one this afternoon and another one next week in order to recommend those resources to you if you wanted to continue to study in this idea when it comes to how we handle our devices. So we've been looking at our relationships with technology. And if you remember in the first lesson in the introduction, we talked about the devil's devices and how he uses certain things in our lives to take advantage of us as Christians. And we look at what the devil's goals are, one of the goals would be that he wants to keep people from getting saved. We also looked at the goal that he has to uh ruin a Christian's testimony. We also looked at his goal of destroying the simple. That would be a young person who doesn't know any better. If he can get a hold of them early enough, he So those are a couple of Satan's goals. We know there's other things in his relationship with God that he's trying to accomplish, in his relationship with Israel that he's trying to do. But for us to understand these goals that he has We also looked at the devices that he uses to reach those goals. One of those was the lust of the flesh, and that was to appeal to our fleshly desires. We had the lust of the eyes and the pride of life. So Satan uses these tools to accomplish these goals. The lesson we're going to be going into today is going to kind of harken back to two of those goals, the fact that he wants to destroy a Christian's testimony and that he wants to destroy a young person's life. Those are going to play into today's lesson. Our second lessons we actually got into our Bible principles related to technology. If anybody remember one of the Bible principles, if you give them an order, that would be great, but if not just the Bible principle we've talked about so far, we've dealt with three of them. So far? Yes, Sajani. The priority principle. Priority principle that was a couple weeks back, right before Brother Brady was here, I believe, and we um learned about how We need to consider what gets first place in our life. What's the first thing that we look to in the morning? What's the last thing we look at when we go to bed? What's the first thing we go to when we have some free time? What do we turn to when we're bored? What do we turn to when we're when we're sad? when we're depressed, when when when we're having a hard time, when we're discouraged. What are the things that we go to, and for many people it's to some form of technology, to some form of entertainment. When we know from the Word of God that the first place we should run to in time of trouble or when we have a need is to go to God. But we put other things in His place. So that's the priority principle. What has first place in your life? Melissa, you had your hand up? Will you remember another one? The power principle. Power principle was the second lesson that we looked at, and that was the principle where we have to consider what is in control of us. Are we in control of our technology or is it in control of us? We are going to be under the power or control of something. The question is that is that God or is that sin? Are we yielding ourselves to be obedient to something other than God or is God the one who's in control? Priority. Technology controls the lives of most individuals. It will control our time, our attention, our schedule, our entertainment, and many other areas. We need to learn that we need to learn to control our devices instead of allowing them to control us So the next principle we talked about was last week. Anybody remember last week's principle, Mrs. Turner? Purity, the purity principle. In this we study the idea that once you're saved, God has made you pure and holy. And He has asked you to remain so, to remain pure and holy. We have been washed, we've been sanctified, we've been justified, we've been called to be holy. But we understand that all the filth of the world is on technology, is on devices. And no Christian should be in defiling themselves with the impurity of this world. God's cleaned you up. Don't go back to the way you were before and the things that you did before. Even if you were saved as a young person, don't go back to the place where you yield to sin. It's going to look different um now as a teenager than it did when you were four or five six when you before you got saved, but it's still yielding yourselves to something other than God. So the purity principle. Today we're going to be dealing with the presentation principle. A presentation is the way that we reveal ourselves to others. It's to put something on display. It's to show, even one definition for presentation, is to show something as a standard. And then this is what it is to present something to someone. We would call it our testimony or our reputation. The Bible has much to say about the way that Christians should be interacting with the world. Every time we interact with another person as a Christian, we are shaping what they believe about us. and what they believe about God. If somebody knows you're a Christian and you interact with them, that interaction is going to influence what they think about God. Because they understand God through you. Another person's say you've heard the expression before, you're the only Bible that some people may ever read. They're learning about God based on your actions, based on your reputation, based based on your testimony, based on the things that you do and say. So our presentation matters. What you text, comment, like, repost, share, post, blog. and follow all factor into the presentation of yourself. Again, we are dealing with this in the realm of technology and today we're really going to be leaning heavily on the social media side of things. But it goes into every every life. When you're texting with another person, you're representing God to them in the things that you should say in the way that you way that you carry yourself. When you're writing something for other people to read, when you're preparing a business report for for work, when you're going to town and getting dressed up You're presenting yourself to this world for them to understand God through you. So we need to be very wise in the way that we present ourselves. So that's as far as application goes. Some of you are like, well, I'm not me, I'm not on social media. Um my wife and I have a joint Facebook account. She gets a lot of friend requests from people that know me, but I'm never on there. The only thing I do on there is sell stuff on Facebook. So I don't I don't go on I'm not on social media. things of that nature. But there's other areas of this flies as well, because I can be careful on how I'm presenting myself because I'm representing God when I'm at Home Depot. I'm representing God when I'm at the doctor's office. I'm re representing God when uh there's things don't don't go the way that I would like them to So we need to consider our testimony, our presentation. So I'd like us to consider our s the way that we are presenting ourselves to the world. For example, this morning I'd like to put on the screens here some screenshots of some of the social media platforms and profiles of some of our church members. I'd like to do that, but I'm not going to. I'm not going to do that, and then you just got that sigh of relief there. That, okay, good. We're not going to actually do that. But what we're doing is we're that we're we would see if we go to somebody's profile, we're seeing the way they present themselves to the world. I was thinking about going and looking at some Facebook profiles of the church family just to just to kind of get in my mind some things that are out there, and I decided not to do that. That way I have plausible annihilability. So, well you're talking about my Facebook page. I didn't look at your Facebook page. So I don't have that issue there when it comes to this idea. If we had, however, seen the pages of our church family, there'd be some people that here that would be very upset. Well that's not right. You shouldn't have shown that. That's embarrassing. That that's their thing. Why would you reveal that to the whole church? But if they put it online They made it public. If you would embarrass to see your online presentation shown here at church, then there's a problem there that needs to be corrected. If you're okay with revealing to the whole world who you are, but you don't want your church family to know who you are, then we have a problem. We have a problem with our presentation. You remember we talked about in our first lesson that Satan wants to destroy young people and he wants to destroy Christians' testimonies. Their online presentation is one way that he can do that. Just in recent days, how many young people's lives have been ruined because of something they put online when they were a teenager? Even even grown adults, the things that they said ten, fifteen years ago that they posted online, they thought privately many of them, but it destroyed their lives today. It's a medium that Satan is using to destroy people's lives. And I can't tell you how many Christians that I've known in in throughout the years in churches that I've been in, that I would go to their their online profile of some sort and just be shocked that that would be the kind of stuff that they would put online. Because it damages their testimony because of what they've put um out there Of course, they did not lose their salvation, but their testimony online limited their effectiveness for God I already said that I um my my wife and I share this Facebook account, but I'm not really on social media. I've considered it before because I've gone to gone to pastors' conferences like you need to be on this stuff because Your kids are on it and you know what they're doing and things like that nature. Um but there's never been a social media platform that I felt like I could really uh enjoy doing until I started looking at Twitter. Uh there's Twitter is something that I think I could get into. I could really enjoy doing that. I like being argumentative, I like being confrontational, I like making people I like annoying people and arguing or antagonizing. So that would be my platform of choice if I were going to do it, but I I decided not to. As I looked into it, I said that's not something that I'm going to do. One reason is because I never want to use the phrase I just tweeted. I'm not going to use that. I'm not going to use the phrase there as that far as that goes. But also I understand to be a time waster. I'd be on and scrolling and seeing what is everybody else saying because that's where I would be engaging myself. But primarily I understood that if I had the Twitter account I'd be building an online presentation of myself on that account. And I knew that if I was on that platform, I'd be tempted to chime in on many issues and enjoy debating and arguing and all types of things This is not necessarily wrong, but if someone were to visit my account to find out about our church, the nitpicking, the arguing, the antagonizing that would be on my account would not be a good presentation of myself to a possible future church member So I made the decision because I want to guard my presentation. I'm not going to put myself out there in that way online. Because I want to protect my testimony. I want to protect the testimony of God and I want to protect the testimony of So very careful what I've ever put online from myself. Very little is out there that I've put out there online because I'm guarding my testimony. I'm guarding my presentation of myself. So today we're going to look at this idea of the presentation principle. How are you presenting yourself as a Christian to the world? We'll begin this morning in Romans chapter 12, verse number 1 and 2. There the Bible says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present. Present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Let's open the word prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for uh your word and how it ministers to our hearts and our lives, Lord. Thank you for how you've uh been uh been ministering to us and the young people, Lord, that we're at some This week through the preaching of your word. Thank you for the today that we have where we can gather in church and hear a message here in Sunday school, along with the morning service and the evening service, Lord. Pray that today would be all about you. That you would receive the honor and glory. And Lord, the decisions will be made that we as Christians are going to guard our testimony because it's our job to represent you to this world, Lord. Pray bless this time around your word this morning. We ask that in Christ's name. Amen. So number one in our outline today, if you didn't ask didn't get a set of notes, they are some available on the table in the back. And if you wanted some, you put your hand up and one of these young guys will get them for you But looking today, number one, we're going to be talking about the principle of presentation. What is this idea meaning that we're going to be presenting ourselves? Romans 12, verse 1 says that we are called to be a living sacrifice. Notice the wording there. He says, I beseech you. That means I almost I beg you. Here's what I really want you to do. Why? Because this is what God wants you to do. To present your body, to present yourself as a living sacrifice to God. Our lives and our bodies should be an ongoing sacrifice to the Lord. You know, there's many times I was studying for this message that the word present shows up in the Bible. And one of the most common contexts for present in the Bible, presenting something, was in the sacrificial system. In a sacrificial system, they would say they would bring a sacrifice, a lamb, a goat, a uh an offering, and they would present it before the Lord. Or they would present it to the priest. It was a sacrifice, it was a presentation saying, here this is for you to use as you see fit. People were to bring a sacrifice and present it before the Lord. So as we think about this idea of our online testimony, would you be comfortable presenting your social media to the Lord for Him to review and consider? God, this is for you. Look at it and see what you think. Examine, just like the priest would examine that sacrifice. Examine this aspect of my life and see if it's acceptable to the Lord. Am I comfortable with that being a sacrifice to God? Would you be comfortable presenting your phone, your calls, your texts, your emails to the Lord, saying, God this is for you to review and to use as you see fit Are we comfortable with that? Are we comfortable with the way our testimony looks online? Would God accept your Snapchat Snapchat or Instagram accounts as accept acceptable? So sacrifices were supposed to be presented to the Lord. A sacrifice also would be used for God's service. We understand that sacrifices were required by God. God told the Israelites that they were required to bring in sacrifices, and in the same way he told us that we should be a sacrifice as well. It's what God expects from us. God expects us to live lives of sacrifice. Ongoing sacrifice, not a dead sacrifice, and he may call some of us to die for the faith, but he asks us specifically to be a living sacrifice to live your life as a sacrifice. It's pretty, I'm not saying easy in in the sense, but comparative, it's easier to die for God than it is to live for God. Because that's just one choice to die for God. Living for God is choices every day. And so we God has called us to be a living sacrifice. This sacrifice was required by God. A sacrifice was also used for God. The life of that animal was for the service of God. And our lives of sacrifice should also be used for the service of God. So how is God served through your presentation? How is God served through your social media, through the way that you interact with other people through technology? How is God benefited? How is God served through those things? Because the sacrifice is supposed to be served for the service of God Another thing I noticed about a sacrifice is that the sacrifice did not have a say in the matter. No sacrifice in the Bible ever got to tell the priest, you know what, I don't want to be a sacrifice. Now we have that choice. God saved us and we get to choose whether we live for God or not. But God wants us to be a willing sacrifice. God wants us to live for him sacrificially on a daily basis. So that's the sacrifice that was required by God, but it's also and it was used for God's service. A sacrifice was also pure and holy. There could be no blemish, no spot spot, no injury, no sickness. And also this sacrifice was offered for someone else. The lamb wasn't benefiting from the sacrifice. In the same way, when God calls us to sacrifice, yes, we get the benefit. When I give up something for God, when I choose to honor God with my life, I benefit from that. But my sacrifice is supposed to be benefiting others And so if I'm being careful with my online presentation, I might be giving up those arguments that I might like to have, but I'm benefiting others by creating a testimony. And so we need to we need to consider that when it comes to being a sacrifice, that there is something for others in our sacrifice of ourself. There's another aspect other than the offering of a life that comes in when it comes to sacrificing, and that's the idea of giving something up. When we hear sacrifice, that's usually what we think of is that I have to give something up. And the question is, what are you willing to give up for God Perhaps the better question is what are you not willing to give up for God? Would you be willing to give up when it comes to our use of technology? We often find it very hard to give it up. I'm not saying that you have to, but if God wanted you to, could you give up your phone? If God spoke to your heart in service and said, hey, you need to get that out of your life, are you willing to? Are you willing to give it up? Well, I use it for so much stuff. I know. But if God asked you to get rid of it, would you? Would get would you be willing to give up your social media? Would you be willing to give up your streaming memberships? Would you be willing to give up your video games, your TV, your program that you watch? Your video preferences. If God spoke to your heart and service and said, I want you to get this out of your life, not necessarily because of sin, but because of something that's a distraction to you, and I want you to get out of your life, are you willing to sacrifice it Would you be willing to say, okay, God, you can have it? There's a lot of resistance, even in me, to get to that question. I don't know. I I I want to, I want to be willing, but the flesh says I want to hold on to these things So the the for us to consider is that if you're not willing to give it up, good indication that you probably need to. If you're not well I couldn't I could never delete that. That's how I keep track of everybody. If you're not willing to do it, then there's good evidence that that's got more control in your life than it ought to. So it's a sacrifice. What are we willing or not willing to give up for God? As we look at this idea of presenting ourselves, the pastor that was here at the camp this week made a very uh a statement that I really liked. He said, clothing is a language. Um and so I missed and I adapted it for our point here and said appearance is a language. What you sh w the way you present yourself is communicating people to who you are. You've heard the expression, I can't hear you, your actions are talking so loud. I can't but hear what you're saying. And so what way we present ourselves to people is a language. It is telling people who we are and what we believe We know the verse in the Old Testament, man man looketh on the outward appearance. Now I stop that verse intentionally short, because yes we understand, but God looketh on the heart. But you understand that the first half of the verse is just as true as the second half? As much as God looks on your heart and that's true and that's biblical and that's sound, then to the same extent man looks on the outward appearance So for a Christian to say, well, God doesn't care what I look like, well he does because what you wear and what you do and how you act and how you talk communicates what you believe to those around you. Your appearance is a language. Man looks on the outward appearance. We all do it. We all judge things based on how they look. Give you an example, because I usually am wearing a collared shirt, I cannot tell you how many times I've been in the store and somebody's come up to me thinking I was an employee Um I made the I made the mistake one time in college. I was out on bus visits and I went and we stopped at Walmart on the way home. And I very quickly realized what my mistake was. Because we'd gone out um soul winning and visiting visiting folks. I was wearing a nice pair of khakis. I had a long sleeve, dark blue shirt, and I had a smiley face tie that the kids would enjoy. And we went into Walmart with khakis, dark blue shirt, and a yellow smiley face tie And after about fifteen people stopped and asked me where stuff was, we decided to go to another store. Um because what when you when you present yourself, people are going to make assumptions about you. People are going to make judgments about you. We look and see the way this person is addressed, is talking, is communicating, is who they're spending time with, what they're following online. That tells me something about them. And I'm learning about them through those things. The Bible talks about the attire of a harlot, or the attire of a king, or somebody who is poor, the clothing of the rich. The Bible talks about how our outward appearance says something about us. Now we can do, we can, we can kind of finagle with that a little bit. We can take a us and we know we're not right on the inside and we can come to church and be all dressed up and look nice. But when we're not when we're not on guard, what comes out then is what reveals who we really are What you wear communicates things about you. Now this is not a lesson on dress, but there's an important principle that we can consider here. The first mention of the word dress in the Bible comes from the book of Genesis. Anybody happen to know where the first mention of dress is in the Bible? It's in the story of the creation of the Garden of Eden, God told Adam to dress and keep the garden. So the word dress actually didn't have to do with clothing. The dress has dress has to do with the idea of preparing. And that's what you do when you get dressed. You are preparing yourself to be presented to this world. That goes into dress. Dress isn't just the type of clothing we wear. It's the preparations we make for presenting ourselves to this world. And Adam was commanded to dress and to keep the garden. And we applied those principles because he dressing was getting it ready Keeping was protecting. So as Christians, when we prepare ourselves to go see this world, there's some things that we need to prepare, and there's some things that we need to protect. When it comes to our clothing choices. Again, it's not a lesson on clothing, but the idea there is that when we're going out in the world, are you prepared? Are you prepared to be an example of Christ? Are you prepared to show him to this world? Or what are people going to see when they see you in your preparation? And it leads over to online as well. What you decide to put up online. That's showing people What you think about God. That's showing people what you think about life. That's showing people what you like and what you enjoy and what you seek after. People are going to make judgments and assumptions on you based on your outward appearance that you portray online What are they going to assume about us? Also looking at this idea of the presentation principle, we understand not only is our appearance a language, we are supposed to be a sacrifice, but we're also an example. In first Timothy chapter four and verse number twelve, the Bible says, Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Now for a long time I had learned this verse as a young person and I had actually mislearned it. Our kids that are in master clubs, I'm very strict on learning all the right words. So I don't give you helps and I don't make you say it if you miss a word, even if you said plural instead of singular. You've got to say it over again. They're all nodding. They know it's it's I'm very strict on this. And one reason why is because if you don't get it right, it can affect you later on, and this was a verse that I memorized wrong. Because I memorize this verse as you are an example to the believers. Not an example of the verse. The Bible says an example of the believers. And just changing that word, it's actually one letter between two and of that is different. Change that word changes the whole meaning. Yes, we understand the truth that you are an example to other Christians. But if our Bible told us to just be an example to believers, we're only going to worry about being an example when we're with believers. And that's how a lot of Christians take their Christianity. Well, when I'm at church, I'm going to act this way, because I'm an example to those who are at church. I don't have to worry about what I do on Monday, because churches people aren't there, and I don't have to worry about that. No, he says you're an example of the believers What does that mean? That means your life should be the standard of what it means to be a Christian. That means that if I somebody asked me, hey, what does a Christian look like? I should be able to walk over here and grab Jake and say, this guy, this is what a Christian looks like. I should be able to go over and grab Sophia and say this is what a Krishna looks like. That's what God's called us to be, to be an example of the believers, a representation of them. So how about online? Well what what should we have on our social media account as a Christian, Pastor? Well let me pull up Miss Lisa's and I'll show you what a Christian should have. Or let me pull up uh anybody. I'll just pull I I told you I didn't look at people's social media so I don't know what yours looks like But I should be able to say this is what a Christian should look like from any person in this room. Because God's called us to be an example of the believers. Your example of what it means to be a Christian. And your example of that, whether you want to or not. If you've let people know that you're a Christian, they're going to look at you and make assumptions about Christianity. I've been talking to Marley here as he's getting ready to go in the military, and that's one thing we talked about, is that you should go in and let people know you're a Christian Because then they're going to start expecting things of you, of what a Christian is and what a Christian does. And he wants to have that testimony. You guys pray for him as he goes into this next step in his life. But we're examples. When people see us and they understand we're Christians. They're gonna assume things about us. There have been young people, when I was a teenager, other people in our youth group, who actually told, you know what, if that's the way you tell them the story of what stuff that they did at school. So I told them I said, if that's the way you act at school, make sure you're not telling people you're a Christian Why? Because you're representing Christ. If you're announcing I'm a Christian, you're living this way, then you're not presenting Christ very well. So we're an example. Secondly, today we're going to talk about the power of presentation. The power of presentation. Romans 12, 1 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your body as a living sacrifice. Holy. Holy. The word holy there. We talked about that last week. Holiness is God's number one attribute. It defines who God is, and God has called us to be holy. When we present ourselves as holy, we're presenting God to this world. That's powerful. You can have you when people see you, what they should see is God. You have the ability to control people's perceptions of God, the friends and the relatives and the people that you have that are not church. You control their understanding of God through your actions. That's a great weight. That's very powerful because you know what? You could destroy their view of God. Or you could build up their view of God if you're not living a holy life. So we've been- that's the power that's here behind this presentation. We have the power to change people's perspective of God. I can't tell you how many people I've talked to who gave up on God because of the way a Christian presented themselves. Knocking doors, hey we gotta go, I don't go to church. Well, why don't you go to church? Well, because this guy, this pastor, this lady, this pastor's wife, this deacon, because they did this. And if that's if God is anything like them, I don't want to have anything to do with church Because that's how powerful your testimony, your presentation is. It can turn somebody away from God. But you know what? It can also go the other way. You can be the kind of Christian whose testimony brings people to God. Where somebody can say, you know what, man, if God's anything like them, I need to find out more about him. It's the same thing. Your testimony communicates about God. So understand that we all have a reputation and we all have a testimony. I defined it this way: a reputation is what people think about us based on our actions and presentation When you hear Caleb Batrell, what comes to mind? That's his reputation. Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, whether it be right. And so we understand that we're people think about us a certain way because of what they know about us. That's our reputation. Now your testimony is a little bit different because your testimony is what people think about God based on what they see about you So your reputation and your testimony are two things that God says in the Bible are very important. You need to guard those things. Guard your reputation, guard your testimony, because we want people thinking right of us, but we also want people thinking right of God. Both of these are important, should be protected, and both are shaped by our digital presentation. A couple dangers we're going to go over quickly. I won't go into these very much detail, but there are dangers of an online presentation. One danger is lying. A lot of people lie online because they want to be somebody different. You know, you can be anybody you want to online. It's out there, it's the ability. And I I don't have to look uh as gray online as I do in person. I don't have to look as heavy online as I do in person And and I don't have to um look as uh as uh put I I want to be more put together online than I am in person. We we can we can put out some deception. It's a temptation to misrepresent reality to make your post more appealing. But we serve a God of truth, and a God of truth is who we should be representing. Another danger of our online presentation is pride. Social media is filled with the bragging and elevation of self. We can get into that trap of seeing how many followers, friends, retweets, likes, and shares that we get. Our goal is to be noticed, to be popular, to be liked, and uh if we're that's our attitude, that's pride. If I'm increasing, Then what? God's decreasing. But John said, we just read a couple days ago in our devotions. John said, he must increase. I must decrease. What's your social media increasing with? Is it you or is it God? So pride, there's also the age of or the idea of self-worship. We live in an age where people are obsessed with themselves. This is a good test of social media to see how much of it is about you. This is what I'm doing, this is what I'm wearing, this is what I'm eating, this is where I'm at. Is your social media all about you? There's the idea there of self-uh self-worship. My generation, the millennials, we're the generation of the selfie sick Of look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, here's where you are, what I want you to do, and that's our social media. Look at me, that's all it is. You know there's two people we don't have time to preach this, there's two people in the Bible uh who made selfies One of those would be Nebuchadnezzar, and the other was Absalom. And both were set up for worship when they put out a self-image. So it was something to be aware of. What are we filling our cell our our our testimony with? There's also the idea of carelessness that's a danger. We need to be careful to guard our reputation and testimony online. If we are careless, we'll damage those through our actions. I'll give you some examples. If you use a phone to text somebody and you do text the speech, Read it before you send it. Um I've gotten you guys know that's the problem. Uh I've gotten messages before from Christians that had things in them that shouldn't have been in there because they um didn't read it before they sent it. That's just careless. And it's damaging to your testimony when you're car careless that way. Things that are things that are in there. Sharing or forwarding things. I've gotten things from Christians I could tell was just forwarded from something else. And like, well, they didn't read that. I hope they didn't read that, because that's got stuff in it that a Christian shouldn't be saying, shouldn't be doing, shouldn't be joking about, because they just passed it along and being careless. Liking things going through like like like like like what they like that? Why would they like that? That's not something that Christians should be liking, uh but that's carelessness. Another idea here when it comes to the dangers of our presentation online is permanence. You know, stuff you put out there digitally, that's there forever. You can delete it, you can you can you can erase it, you can, you can take away the account, but that stuff's out there. Um and that we're finding it out in our culture today that it can come back. The things that you can come back to haunt you. I'm so glad that all this stuff wasn't around when I was a teenager Because there's a we did a lot of dumb stuff and we would have put it on YouTube if we were if it was around today. So especially young people be very careful what you put out online. If you don't want It just I'm not saying God's gonna call you in this, I don't want to call you. But just think about it this way. If one day, twenty years from now, I'm a pastor, do I want my church family to see this? Or if I'm a pastor's wife, do I want my church family to see this? Let me not put it up then. Let me not put up these things. If we don't want to, it's going to damage your test mode later on because it's there forever. Another danger of our online presentation is the idea of anonymity or privacy. Nobody knows. Nobody else is going to find out. You know it's easier to type something than it is to say something. And a lot of people will type things that they would never say. A lot of people will share things that they would never talk about. Because there's some privacy there when you're behind the screen and someone else is far away. I can say things I wouldn't normally say, I can do things I wouldn't normally do. I can share things or laugh at things I wouldn't normally do because it's private, but it's not. It's not, it's all public So we move on here to talk about the purpose of our presentation. Purpose of our presentation, according to Romans chapter 12, verse 1, is to be acceptable to God. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, you present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. The purpose of our presentation is for God to accept it. But we spend most of our time with our presentation trying to get people to accept us. Oh, yeah. I want people to like me. I want people to follow me. I want because it's all about us. But our purpose should be to make to be acceptable to God. I don't care what my friends think about this post I want it to honor God. I don't care what my followers think about this, but I want it to honor God. I want my life to be acceptable to the Lord. It's to be accessible to God. It's also to glorify God. Matthew chapter 5, verse number 16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. The word glorify carries the idea of making something bigger. We understand God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. We can't make God bigger. Well going back to what I said about people watching us, their view of God changes based on you. And your actions can make God seem bigger to them, or it can make God seem smaller to them. We already gave that illustration. So your life should be magnifying God. That's the word glorify. It should be magnifying God. Another purpose of our presentation is to identify with believers. In 2 Timothy 1 verse 8, Paul told Timothy, Be not thou ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. Don't be ashamed to be calling yourself a Christian. Don't hide that fact. Present it to this world. He said, but nor of me his prisoner. Don't be ashamed that you know me. Tell people, yeah, that guy in prison over there getting ready to be beheaded. He's my friend. He's my friend because he's a Christian. We both serve the Lord. He said, Don't be ashamed of that. He said, Be thou a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. You be part of this. You be part of the of people resisting God. They should be resisting you as well. So you be part of identifying with another believer. We should not be ashamed to be identified with Christ. Your relationship with the Lord should be a defining factor in your life as a believer. If it's a big deal in your life, it will be evidence in your presentation. Another purpose that we have for our presentation is to spread the gospel. I'm going to take time to look at it, but in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, Paul is commending the church of Thessalonica, and he said, We gave you the gospel, you received it. You came and you heard the word of God, you became a follower of Christ, you became a follower of us as the apostles, and um even though you refer received the word in affliction. And then you became an example to all that believe in Macedonia and Achai. We're not saying you you were an example to all these Christians in this area. He said you were the example to these people and they believed because of it. He says later at the end of the verse there It says, also in every place your faith to God is spread about, abroad, so that we need not to speak anything. He says, your Christian testimony is so strong that when people hear about it, I don't even have to say anything. They already know how real God is. As an apostle, I don't have to preach a message because they already heard about what kind of Christian you are. Your presentation is that powerful in the spreading of the gospel. Another purpose for our presentation is to be different from this world. Romans 12, verse number 2, the Bible says, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed. Don't be like this world. There should be a difference between a Christian social media account and a lost person social media account. Should be a difference in the way the Christian dress and the way unsaved person dressed. Should be different in the way the Christian talks, the way the unsaved person talks. We should be different from this world. This is true for all areas of our life. God wants us as Christians to be different than the world. Lastly, this morning, I want to real quickly touch on the pattern for our presentation. the pattern for our presentation. Verse 2 again of Romans chapter 12 says, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Be transformed, be different. When God saved you, He changed you inside. He made you completely different. He made you a new creature. And He gave you, with that new creature on the inside, He gave you the desire to change the outside. Instead of being like the world, God wants us to be transformed to be like his Son. This is accomplished through the renewing of our minds. That means our minds are made new again. And this takes place through the Word of God. God wants us to think differently so that we will act differently. Think that your presentation is to honor God instead of elevating self. Think that your presentation is to point others to the loss to Christ instead of pointing them to your favorite products in politics. When we think biblically, we present ourselves biblically. That's where God wants us to change our mind. And Jesus is the pattern for our presentation. We looked at it a few weeks ago on Thursday night, but Philippians chapter two, verse number seven, the Bible says, but made himself speaking of Christ of no Anybody remember? Reputation. Reputation. He wasn't worried about him. He was worried about what people thought of God. He humbled himself in order to present God to this world. And that's what God has called us to do as well. He set for us the example of humility. He was only concerned with doing and being what pleased the Father. And that's our example. So it takes some time to reflect on how am I presenting myself to this world. Maybe through my digital um digital uses, maybe through my texts, maybe through my phone calls, maybe through my emails, maybe through my social media, maybe through my watch history How are you presenting yourself to this world? What is our presentation and what is it pointing people to? Is it pointing people to me or is it pointing people to Christ? Let's close in word.