Amen. Well, we want to get into the Sunday school lesson this morning and uh a couple of people mentioned to me they wanted to come into class here and I don't know where Uh Brother Hunt was uh in in the lesson, so some of this might be a little bit of repeat. I think that everybody else is a little bit ahead of me. Uh talked to Brother Anthony this morning and he you know, he was looking for the next lesson last week. And I said, Oh, I don't have that hand out yet. Uh so he was quite a bit ahead of where we are. But uh, you know, so just bear with me if a little bit of this is this is review for you. But we are quite literally gonna pick up with the beginning of lesson one here, the the battle primarily involves three influences. We mentioned these uh last week. Uh we have those three influences which are what? The world, the flesh, and the devil. That's a very common thing. We say those and and everybody knows it. You know, yeah, I know we got three enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil. Boy, we've got to conquer those in order to have victory and and amen. And there's people in here that you have been saved longer than I've been alive. And I understand that. And and uh want you to know that what we're talking about here, these foundational truths That they're necessary. We're talking about putting your life in order. Ultimately putting your life in order. And the problem is, is many Christians, they want to have a life blessed of God without observing or following these basic principles of Christian living. And we're going to dig into that. So what we're doing is you understand this lesson is about putting your life in order. It's not a a magical pill It's not a, oh, hey, listen, one, two, three, repeat after me, and you're going to have this God bless life. These are biblical principles that we have to put into practice In order to experience victory, in order to have God's blessing. And it goes all the way back to here in the beginning where we put into practice the biblical principles that God gives us. If we skip these steps, we're going to see as we get further in the lesson today. I'm going to try and wrap it up getting into the story of Lot. And here's a Christian. Who wanted all the blessings of God, but wanted to do it living in the world. And that's where we've got to come away from. So we want to look at that. We have this the world, the flesh, and the devil mentioned here in this paragraph there, this passage of scripture, Matthew 13. 3 through 9 where we have that parable of the sower. You guys know the parable. He goes out and he sows the seed and some fell on good ground, some fell on thorny ground, some fellow you know, uh on hard or stony ground and and those different. You guys know that, right? Okay, so the the uh Explanation or Christ giving us the interpretation is in verses 18 through 23. So if you want to look at that in your Bible, we see these three enemies mentioned, the world, the flesh, and the devil. and how those enemies come in and snatch up and take away the word of God that's supposed to take root in our heart. So he says in Matthew 13, verses 18 through 23, he says, Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one. So which one of our enemies is this? Satan, right. I'm glad that you guys are engaged as you're awake and ready here. So Satan, and catcheth it away, that which was sown in his heart, that which receives seed by the wayside. But he that receiveth the seed into the stony place, the same is he that heareth the word and would receive with joy it, yet he hath Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth it for a while, for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, and by and by he is offended. Offended in our flesh. Something comes up. He's offended. Something happened. And that the word of God is the power of God in our life through the Word of God is squashed. Because of something in our flesh, the flesh, that enemy that would strive to have its own way. In our flesh, we don't want to submit to God. In our flesh, we don't want to yield to God. But Through the Spirit we can. And then we see in verse 22, he also that receiveth seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word, and the cares of this world. And the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he has become unfruitful. So we see that the world has the power to choke out the word of God. It's amazing when you consider or ponder that thought because you think of God as being all powerful and his word is uh the the power that's in his word and we think, oh, if as long as I've read the Word of God today, then I'm gonna be good power Christian But not if we read the Word of God and then we go live after the world. Because this world will choke out what God's trying to do in your heart. And it's a very tr very uh evident truth there. And so these are the enemies we have. So we begin here laying the foundation of the fact that we are in a war. And if we're going to win the war, then we've got to realize that daily we're in a battle. Ultimately, the war is going to be won by Jesus Christ. But daily we need to win the battle for the Lord. And these first three lessons here really are just laying the foundation for us. helping us. Again, uh uh I think sometimes we we especially Christians like me, I've been in church my whole life, Sunday morning, Sunday night, midweek service, every week of my life since I was two weeks old And and we hear these things and we think, Oh yeah, the world, the flesh, the devil, those are our enemies, we know that. And so in some respects, even as I began to study this, can I tell you that in my heart and mind, I'm like, Okay Lord, they know all this stuff. I'm not going to give them anything new, anything impactful. Everybody knows the world, the flesh, the devil's their enemy. What good is this lesson going to really do? I mean, we've all been here. This is nothing new But can I tell you that these lessons are what are destroying Christians' lives because they're not getting it? Because it's not making a difference. And I was convicted in my heart as I pondered these thoughts and just really was in my heart driven home the importance. Of understanding the battle that we're in. And so that's as we as we talk about these things, I don't want to just skim over it. We want to take some time and ponder and think about these things. So we have this, the lure of the world, that attraction of the world. There's four areas that impact the Christian. uh in they have the greatest impact is on us. We must guard ourselves, we must protect ourselves. And he mentions them there at the beginning, peace so people, places, philosophies, and things. So first of all we're going to look at the people. Uh they're sinful, profane, vulgar, scorners, and fools. And fools. That's your first blank you get to fill out today. Man, we just started and you already got to a blank. The first week we never filled out a blank, the whole lesson. So we are doing really good. Uh so and fools, now has not the world become so vulgar? Isn't it just heartbreaking how vulgar the the world has become in in everyday life and everyday it's just mind-boggling that you you look at society as a whole and you just see how profane it is. Well, beloved Christians should not want to be around that kind of person, the profane, the vulgarness of this world. This is years ago, and I feel like even since I've been here, uh I mean obviously it's been a lot of years because it was in 2007. uh that I came here and I was working for Greg, but I can tell you that I'll I'll never forget uh being out in the workforce and and just the conversation that I had to listen to And I'm talking about from the ladies. Not even the men. I'm not talking about the guys out back under smoke break and how vulgar they were. I'm talking about the filth that was coming out of the mouths of the ladies And I use that word loosely, because I don't think a lady would talk like that. I mean I was embarrassed. I've never heard people talk like that. But for them, they didn't even think about it. It didn't even cross their mind that they were being so vulgar. And that was how many every years ago, 2007. And the world is substantially worse, even just in these last 10, 15 years. We see here a scorner. These people that scoff at religion, that mock the ordinance of God, and they like to make fun of the preachers and teachers of the Word of God. They mock and joke about the judgments of God. I've heard, and I can't recall any off the top of my head, but I've heard numerous uh modern day uh comedians. just mocking God and mocking Christianity. You know, y you can pick pretty much any program you want and if if If there's a Christian represented at all, you know they make the Christian look like an idiot. They make the Christian look like, oh, oh, look at him. He he's such he he does not know anything. He uses his faith as a crutch. He he he needs God to get through the day. If he had any education at all, he would he wouldn't believe that. You know, they they mock Christianity. Those are scorners. And Christian, we shouldn't desire or want to be around these kind of people. You know I heard a message by Dr. Larry Brown probably in uh 1994. It's probably when I heard him preach it. It might have been five. But uh he preached a message entitled Buddy Had a Friend. Buddy Had a Friend. And uh in that message he said this, and I've never forgot it. He said, You are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. You are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. This is why it's so important, beloved, what people we're spending time with. I talked about it on Thursday night. There's some people you spend time with, and when you're around them, it's very easy to do wrong. It's very easy to allow your conversation to drift off into things that you shouldn't be talking about. For some reason it's very easy to to to be negative or to be critical or to to joke about things that are kind of off color. Uh but there's other people you get around and when you're around them it's very easy to do right There is not the temptation to be in the world and to do wrong. And those are the kind of people we need to be around. We need to plan and on purpose be around those people. You say, well, they're not much fun. Yeah, but they are going to help you be what God wants you to be. So on purpose, you say, I'm going to spend time with him. I'm going to be around him. I'm going to build a friendship with him because he's going to help me be what God wants me to be. Proverbs 122, you might write this down in your notes right there, just reference the 122. It says, How long ye simple ones, will you love simplicity, and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge. He says, how long are you going to do that? How long are you going to allow yourself to be influenced by these people, the fools of the world? We know the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. And so, beloved, we need to avoid worldliness. Avoid worldliness. He gives us here Psalms chapter 1. And again, you know these lessons are prepared uh and written by Brother Townsley out in Connecticut. And I want to continue to give him credit because these are not my my notes at all. These are all from him and uh gave us permission to use them and uh be a blessing to God's uh family here. Uh but these were prepared by him. So Psalms 1 Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night And you guys know the passage of scripture there, but beloved, he begins here with the counsel of the ungodly. We gotta be careful who we are listening to. Who it is that's influencing our lives? Who it is that's teaching us principles of the Word of God? Who it is that's uh teaching us our philosophy, our way of living, what is our what is our worldview coming from? You know, I had a ministry when I was in Lawrence, Kansas, on on KU University. And uh we had a student, it's amazing, the student that was at KU That was a Christian, see you have to have somebody in the college to be a representative of the group, and then the college has to provide you a room to meet. And so they provided us a room and we went every week and had a Bible study there on the university campus and invited kids to come. Had a had a professor of the college coming to our our Bible study every week for a long time. We saw some college kids saved Uh out there every week ministry, we got in trouble with one thing though. We we printed up the the football schedule and put put the football schedule on one side and and put uh gospel on the other side and we passed them out everywhere And then we used a little Jayhawk, stuck the little Jayhawk on there, and that was a copyright issue. You can't put that, you can't print that. Well sorry, I didn't know Uh so you gotta be really careful what you what you put into print. But you know what we found from working on that min that in that ministry out on the campus every week? We found that if we could catch a young man or young lady when they were freshmen or maybe even sophomore, there was a chance that we could impact and influence their life for Christ. But if they got to junior or senior year, by then they had been so influenced by their secular professors That they denied everything about God. Everything was science. Everything was God was a work of fiction. There was no room for faith in their hearts And uh that's the counsel of the ungodly. When they sit under that kind of teaching, that's what you what do you expect them to come away with? So we've got to be careful who it is that's influencing us. You know, you shouldn't look to your co-worker for advice about how you should live. Now, if he's a good Christian, a godly Christian that loves God, walks with God, serves God, faithful to church, studying his Bible, yeah, listen to him. But you know most of our co-workers out there they aren't godly. If I told you the advice that I've heard people give, it would it would floor you. Bad people come and and their their friends have told a husband and wife they're having problems, well what you need to do is you need to, each of you need to go have an affair. And then that way you'll know what you have when you come back together. That's not Bible. That is foolishness. And and you know they they in my mind I've got so many things that these these people have said that's so contrary to Scripture is the counsel of the ungodly. And we don't want to be influenced by that, we want to be influenced by Christ. Where you get in your counsel, Christian. We're talking about putting your life in order. If you want to put your life in order, you've got to put it in order of biblical principle what God has. We see uh standing with sinners. That word standing there literally means to abide. Abide. As Christians, that's abiding. We don't need to abide. That is hang out, spend time with. Feel comfortable with the wicked people of the world. Oh, I know that you and I are sinners. We're just sinners saved by grace. But we've been washed by the blood of Jesus Christ. We've been made clean. So, Christian, we should not want to go get dirty. And that's what happens when a Christian goes back to Egypt or back to the world. That's what happens when we uh forsake Our first love, when we, like Demas, forsake Christ, having loved this present world. The lure of the world, the attraction of the world, it does have allure, it does have attraction. But we should not be spending a lot of time in places where you're going to get dirty. Christians shouldn't be going to the casinos. That's not where Christians hang out. I hear Christians joking about it and you know, oh yeah, we just went to the casino and you know I just I just went till I lost Uh I think as Pastor Derek talked about, his his grandmother would go to the casino every year and she says, I just go until I lose fifty bucks and then I leave. Now why? She's every time I go, I just go until I lose fifty dollars and then I stop. Why would you go and lose fifty bucks? Every chic, okay, that makes a lot of sense. But you are it's the it's the atmosphere of the world that's there and Christians shouldn't be hanging out in that. Mary and I have told you before that we went to a casino once. It but we didn't know we were in a casino. It was attached to a mall and we asked somebody where where's a good place to eat and they said, Oh, right down here you go to this right there's a huge buffet, it's it's the best and the prices are awesome. So we walked down, we're just in the mall up in uh Niagara Falls, and uh we're walking in the mall and we find this big, huge entrance into this this buffet, and we sat down and ate. And then when we left, we were walking through that that place and realized it was a casino. I'm like, oh my goodness, somebody's going to get a picture of Pastor Gala walking through the casino. This is going to be great. Listen, Christian, you shouldn't be you know, we stayed in a hotel uh not too long ago and when we checked in they're like, oh, and happy hour is, you know, gonna start in about 40 minutes right here in the in the foyer You shouldn't want to be around that. You say, oh, I'm just drinking coke. But why are you comfortable in that atmosphere and that kind of a place? You should not be comfortable in that. We're to avoid. We're to avoid. Christians shouldn't abide with the wicked, but what does God tell us in John 15, verses 3 through 5? Write that down in your notes right there, John 15, 3 through 5. He says, now you are clean through the word which I've spoken unto you. Abide in me and I in you. That's where we're supposed to be abiding We're not supposed to be standing with sinners. That is abiding with sinners. We're supposed to be standing and abiding with Christ. That's how we're going to put our life in order. That's how we're going to have success. One sure way to be miserable as a Christian is to abide with sinners. Beloved, your spirit can't take it The part of you that's been washed, that's been made clean, that the Spirit of God that dwells in you, is not going to be comfortable around that. And so you're going to have this conflict in your soul. He says here sitting with scornfuls. Scorn the scornful. We're not supposed to be sitting with them. A scorner is somebody that's bitter and angry We we want to be careful, don't be spinning around that. We see in Proverbs chapter 1, there are four levels of character that are defined. There's the simple, the scorner, the fools, and the wise. A great Bible study for you would be to uh Just compare these characters in the book of Proverbs. Just look through the book of Proverbs and see the times that the simple are mentioned, the scorners mentioned, the fool is mentioned, or the wise. Proverbs 1 verse 4 says, Give subtlety to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion. Proverbs 1. 22, how long ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity, and scorners delight in their scorning. Proverbs 1 verse number 7 says, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom. Fools despise wisdom. And we are not to be fools, we're to be wise. Proverbs 1, verse number 5 says, A wise man will hear and will increase learning, and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsel. So these different levels of character are defined. Are we simple? Are we a scorner? Are we a fool? Or are we going to be wise? Well, if we're going to be wise, we're not going to do what Psalms 1 says there and walk in the counsel of the ungodly, stand in the way of sinners, or sit in the seat of the scornful. We're not going to be there. And so we got to guard against the wrong friends. The wrong friends is your next blank there. The wrong friends. You got to guard against that. And I mentioned here this this message by uh Larry Brown on on Buddy Had a Friend. He used as his text this passage in Samuel where it says an Amnon had a friend. He had a friend named Jonadab, and Jonadab was a very subtle man. And uh he would not have done what he was good what he did, the wickedness that he did against his sister, his half-sister, Tamar. You guys know the story? Okay, he would not have done that wicked thing if he didn't have a friend that influenced him and said, hey, go ahead. This is not that bad. At first he said, I can't do this. Why why would I even think about that? But he had a friend named Annon, and Amnon was a subtle man. He just subtly said, Oh, oh, oh, oh, don't worry about it. You are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. We've got to be careful about the people that we're hanging around. Wrong friends will destroy your life. Oh, the old saying, uh, well, 1 Corinthians 15, 33, be not deceived, evil communications corrupt good manners. Communications is the companions that we have. That's who we're communicating with. The companions that we have. And good manners are the morals that we have. So the companions we have are either going to reinforce good Bible-based principles of good morals in our life, or they're going to tear those down and pull us away from that Are you having communications with evil men? I'm not talking about just an acquaintance or somebody at work just that you see occasionally, but are they influencing your life? Do you have continued contact with them? You know the more contact you have, the more influence they have in your life. As my kids wanted to start dating The first thing I do when they find somebody they like, they say, okay, here's the rules regarding your communication. You can text each other, but only in a group text. So anytime you communicate with that individual, it has to be in a group text with four or five other people. Why? Because I want their communication to be right. If they're saying things privately to each other without anybody else seeing it, there may be a temptation to say things that shouldn't be said. But if they know there's a bunch of other people going to be reading it, they're real they guard what they're going to say, right? It's careful, but see communication is how you build a relationship. And they want to communicate, they want to talk. So that's where we start. I limit limit the communication, the level that communication they can have. You know, you gotta be careful about that. And so communication affects us, and so we need to be careful who we're communicating with. We see the forward not forward, but forward person that's mentioned here. Uh this is somebody that's not willing to yield or comply. The forward man so is strife. There's different types of forward men that are mentioned. There's drunkards Proverbs 23, verses 20 and 21. Be not among wine-bibbers, among riotous eaters of the flesh, for the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty. And the drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. This drunkards, we shouldn't be around that. That's not something certainly Christians shouldn't be involved in it at all, but we shouldn't even be hanging around it. It's not something we should be desirous or want or comfortable around. And then of course being unequally yoked. Second Corinthians six fourteen. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communication hath light with darkness. Love this is vitally important. And I can't tell you how many Christians in good churches, their children Go out and find somebody in the world and start dating, and first question I ask is, are they a Christian? And they're like, oh well, no, but they're a good person. There's so many problems with this that you don't even're too young and too ignorant to know. But parents, you gotta help your kids to make wise decisions regarding this. The Bible is very clear. If you want to put your life in order, it starts with these principles. Uh we're not to be unequally yoked. What's going to happen in a few years when you want to take the kids to Sunday school and your husband or your wife who's lost, who doesn't believe in God, says no? You're creating lots of problems in your home and your family, and and there's things that you can't even understand yet you're going to end up dealing with because you just didn't follow the biblical principle. Oh, it's okay, I'm hoping one day they'll get saved. Yeah, you're hoping to change them into who you want them to be instead of finding somebody who is what they should be. We're not to be unequally yoked There's many people in our lives that we shouldn't be around. Sometimes they're not necessarily really bad people, it's just the people that influence us. You know When I was growing up, I had a friend. I'm talking about this is all the way back in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, and I was We left Sheboygan when I was nine years old. So let's say from five to nine. This guy this guy's name was Brian Kupas. Can I tell you that every time Brian and I got together we got in trouble? I mean we did so I mean Some of the biggest turmoils I have from the time when from five to nine, they involve Brian. Brian's parents were in the church, they were good people. But you get Brian and I together, and it was easy to do wrong. And we encouraged each other. And we did things it's crazy. So when we were nine, we left Sheboygan, Wisconsin, and we moved to El Paso, Texas. Now some years later. The Kufas family was having a hard time with their son Brian. Brian was very disrespectful, got in trouble with the law, was was you know, on probation it was lots of problems. Mom and Dad were gonna kick him out of the house. And dad my dad trying to help them, which you've seen us do very similar things My m my dad trying to help them allowed Brian to come and to El Paso, Texas, and live with us for six months. So that we could try and help him. But do you know what happened even though Brian and I hadn't seen each other in four or five years? When Brian came to live in El Paso, Texas, and we got together, do you know what happened? We got in trouble. The only time I ever was put into a police car was because of Brian Kufus. Because when we got together we did wrong. Evil communications corrupt good manners. There's some people that you're just not good together, and you know who they are. You know who it is that influences you the wrong way. So don't spend time with them. Get away from them. Get around God-fearing people that will influence you and help you to do right. Beloved, we see secondly here places. Places that Christians shouldn't be. There's so many things here listed. We just know that the world is the world and we're not supposed to be around these things. Just yesterday I was telling uh the Labates about uh the bowling alley right down here in Timonium You know, I mu one Monday afternoon, you know, we try and spend some time with the kids and we're gonna go out to the bowling alley and we're gonna ha play a you know, bowl bowl a game of Bowling. That's kind of repetitive, isn't it? Gonna bowl again. Anyways, uh went out there and can I tell you that just the whole time I was there, I was vexed in my spirit. The atmosphere was just disgusting. The the the the filth that they had playing on the on not just the TVs that were around, but they had these projectors down shining on the bowling alley right where you're bowling, there's the projector in about a ten foot square screen that's playing just filth. I'm talking about people having sex on the screen in the bowling alley where you're supposed to spend time with your kids Now it's okay because it was a music video. No, it's not okay. The music was even worse The people drinking, the whole atmosphere. Mary and I walked out and said, we'll never go in there again. It's not a place where Christians need to be hanging out. The Christians should not be comfortable in that kind of a place. I mean it just the whole time it just vexed my soul my spirit. I said this is just disgusting. Caleb, turn your head. You know you can't even look down there to bowl where you're gonna bowl. It's it's on the screen right there in front of you. That's the way our world is today. Everywhere you go, but you don't have to go seek it out. You don't have to be in those places. You know, Egypt is talks about, you know, the picture of the world. And Isaiah 31, 1 says, Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help and stay on horses and trust in chariots, because there are many on horsemen, because they are very strong, but they look unto Look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the Lord. Woe unto those that look to Egypt, that mixed multitude He mentions here the wickedness that's found in Sodom and Moab and Timnath. You know, Samson is as a as a believer, as a Nazarite, was not supposed to be in Timnath. It's not even where he was supposed to be. It was a place that he wasn't supposed to go. If he wouldn't have been there, he wouldn't have found that woman that destroyed him. But he went to the wrong place. We talk about the attraction of Babylon. Isaiah 13, verse number 19 says, In Babylon, the glory of the kingdom is the beauty of the Chaldeans. That beauty, that idea of Babylon is is the idea of the beautiful things of this world. There's some attraction to it. This world's got some amazing things. I mean you want to see some magnificent structures? Just look at the casinos. The buildings. The the what's the great big casino than like the number one casino in Vegas? Don't get spiritual on me. I know you guys know it. You don't know. Oh come on. It's uh Venetian the Venetian It's I I was watching some stuff on YouTube about that. You know they have like a chocolate fountain in their foyer that costs like three million dollars or something like that. This fountain that's pumping chocolate, huge, like a like a regular water fountain, except it's pumping chocolate. Now if you've seen a chocolate chocolate fountain at uh at like the Golden Corral um I just can't imagine that big of a chocolate fountain. I just no way I would take any chocolate out of that thing. But I mean the world's got some pretty amazing stuff The beauty of it, the magnificence of the structures, Babylon was a sight to behold. It's amazing when we see these things, the beauty of this world. There's allure, there's an attraction for the bright and the shiny things. The philosophies, the philosophies of the world, popularity, evolution, false religion, atheism, selfishness, this philosophies of the world. In Proverbs 9 verses 1 through 4 he says, Wisdom hath built her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars, she hath killed her beasts, she hath uh mingled her wine, she hath also flourished her table, she hath set forth her maidens. She crieth upon the highest places of the city. Who is simple? Let him turn in hither, as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith unto him, Listen, do you want understanding? Do you want wisdom? There's two things trying for your attention: the wisdom of God and the worldliness of this world, the foolishness of this world. Then we get into the things. Internet, movies, television, fashion, money, possessions. Things, beloved, will grab a hold of you if you're not careful. There's nothing wrong with having things, but are you living for things? Do you love things and use people, or do you love people and use things? Things can become a motivation for our living. What are we trying to attain? Stocks, bonds, or a nice home, beloved, they're not going to make you happy. Say, oh, that's what I'm going for. You know, there's some that feel like if they could just get to a certain level financially, they would be happy. That's not true. It's just not it's not gonna happen. You see how do I know that? Well there's some real life examples out there. You just look at the wealthy. Many of them, most of them. If you have any insight into their life at all, you see the turmoil they're in. You see the destruction that's in their families. You see their kids being arrested and hauled off. You see they're they're they're on divorce number four or five. Oh, that money helped them, didn't it? No, it didn't. The accumulation and collection of things is not how you're going to be happy. You know, when Mary and I got married, we we bought a 1970 Fairmont. uh 14 by 70 trailer. This trailer uh had been left empty and the pipes burst and uh flooded the trailer and the floor w was where was places in the floor that it was warped up this much. Like you could you gotta climb over the speed bump in the living room, you know, because the the floor just warped all up. When we started tearing it apart doing some renovation, we found that the neighborhood cats had climbed up underneath the uh insulation from the bottom. and were crawling all the way through the the they would go in there to stay warm in the winter. Anyways, we found a number of dead cats in in the floor of the house. Not much of a house. Little the reason we bought the trailer is because we could get lot rent for $170 a month opposed to six, seven hundred dollars a month for an apartment. So we bought this trailer. I said, trust me, babe, I can fix it. And we did fix it, but you know what? Wasn't much to look at, but we were happy. You know what, we were just as happy living there in that little 14 by 70 with a $175 lot rent as I am right now in this 4,500 square foot home out here on 17 acres on Shawan Road Because that house is not where my happiness rests. Krishna, you've got to be careful that we don't pursue after things because the things are not going to bring you happiness And Luke 12, verses 16 through 20, write that down in your notes there if you would. This is the parable of the rich man His ground brought forth plenty. And he saith unto him, What shall I do? Because I have no room with to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do, I'll pull down my barns and build greater. And you know the story. God says, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. So we gotta be careful. Not to go after the things of this world. Now we there's an example given there in your notes, I think, of Aiken. And I preached on this a couple weeks ago, that Achen, the allurement of the world, the attraction of worldly possessions. There's such a pull for these things. And I'm out of time this morning. This really is the heart of the thought this morning. the idea of the attraction of the world and the pull for these things and and the attention that we have. But We've got a guard against that in our hearts. That comes and rests in a heart of contentment. We're going to pick up here next week Uh well two weeks from now, uh as we look at this idea and dig into the things that get a hold of our hearts, we want to be careful to guard against