Turn your Bibles to Psalms, Psalm chapter number one. Familiar passage of scripture had you turned to Psalms, but As our theme verse is up on the screen there for the month, and we talked about and we looked at this last week, but this passage, and we'll get to Psalms in just a second, but I'm using our Verse of the month and the idea that's found here with regards to fruitfulness. He says, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit he purges it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now you're clean through the word which I've spoken unto you, abide in me, and I in you As a branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me ye can do nothing. That passage of scripture that deals with Bearing fruit. And we looked briefly last week at the idea of this provision of prayer that God has given us. the availability to you and I to bear fruit. And that is part of the joy of the Christian life, to be able to bear fruit And that fruit is had through abiding in Christ and resting in him, and fruit is the byproduct of that. Much Christian fruit that we're supposed to bear. You of course have the fruit of the Spirit that is part of our life, that if we're living and walking in the Spirit, if we're abiding in Him as we should, that fruit of the Spirit is going to be being brought forth in our life. It's just going to happen. It's not something that you have to go and strive for and work for to try and make happen. It happens as a result, as a byproduct of simply abiding in Christ, walking in the Spirit, and that fruit of the Spirit will come out. And of course, bearing fruit and in bringing forth people after your kind that is being a witness, soul-winning, and bringing forth fruit out of our ministry and reaching more people for Christ. This morning, as we look at Psalms chapter 1, I want to talk about the blessing of fruitfulness. We have the benefit and the blessing of bearing fruit, and we ought to desire and want to have fruit in our lives. We ought to rejoice and be exceedingly glad about the fruit that God allows us to have. We see here in our text this morning, we're going to read these six verses, familiar verses. Probably among some of my most favorite verses in the Word of God. Passage of Scripture I committed to memory many, many years ago. And continue to ponder and think about these truths. But he says in Psalms chapter 1: Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit. In his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Oh, the ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Therefore, the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment Nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. Lord, as we come to you, we commit the service to you, I ask you to take these thoughts that have been prepared in preparation for this time where we turn our hearts towards you and we open the pages of Scripture. And God, we ask you this morning that you would speak to our hearts. We ask you to take the Word of God and apply it to us richly and fully, individually, Lord, each and every person present. May you minister to their heart and soul at their hour of need. And we ask this in your precious Son's name. Amen. This morning we want to take our minds and turn our hearts towards the Word of God, and as we've seen here, this Psalms chapter 1, we're talking about the blessing of fruitfulness. First of all, I want you to see the position of the blessed. Now you know the word blessed means happy. Happy. Blessed. Happy is the man. He said, blessed is the man. that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Beloved, there is a promise given to you here, he says, blessed is the man, that is, happy is the man. If you ask any of the young people here this morning, or you find any young person out in society and you ask of them, what do you want from life? What is it that's most important to you? What do you want out of life? I'm not just talking about you want a burger for supper or you want a fast car to drive. I mean I have you have a lot of ambition But if you sum it all up, what do you want? If you get right down to it, every single one of them would reach the point where they'll say what they want more than anything else is they just want to be happy. I just want to be happy. And that's what they're doing in their pursuit of all of their ambitions, whether it's work or whether they're trying to get a certain amount of money or they're trying to attain or get a particular car or they're they've got this this This thing going on in society where they've got to have so many likes on their their social media pages and all of these things, it's all in an ambition and a goal to try and be happy Well, beloved, we have here this morning a plan for happiness. God has given you a plan here, very clearly stated, defined for us as Christians, about how to be happy. He says, blessed, happy is the man. We're talking about the position of the blessed. Happy is the man That walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Now, there are several things listed here that from our society's standpoint and viewpoint are negative You look at that and we say, oh, we like to be positive. We like to look at the positive side of things. We don't like to look at the negative things. One of the problems a lot of people have with Christianity is the fact that they have some don't list. They have some things that as Christians, well as Christians you can't have any fun, and Christians you're not supposed to do this and you're not supposed to do that and oh Christianity is so negative. Well I want you to understand, beloved, that our faith is a positive faith. But there is a portion of our faith as Christians that if you're going to be happy, there is a portion of our faith that's going to be instructed in and on purpose avoiding some things. There's a lot of society, there's a lot of stuff that happens and a lot of things that go on that as Christians our faith is going to say, hey, I'm not going to be part of that I'm not going to do that. And we're talking about the position of the blessed, somebody that's happy. If you want to be happy, God's giving you a very clear plan on how to do that. So the obvious question is, why is it that there are so many miserable Christians? God has told us right here, happy is the man, blessed is the man, happy is the man that does this. Well, the reason there are so many miserable Christians is because they have chosen to not do what God said to be happy. Right? I mean am I am I making sense this morning? First of all, I want you to understand the position of the blessed is one that avoids ungodly counsel. He says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. You've got to be careful where you're getting your counsel, where you're getting your instruction from. You've got to be careful about that. There's a lot of things out there concerning salvation and how to get to heaven. There's a plethora of sources. There are people in every means or way of communication today that would try to tell you about their particular plan or philosophy with regards to attaining heaven. With gaining salvation. But if you want to be happy, you've got to get that from the Word of God. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. You don't want to be getting your advice your directions, your plan on how to attain salvation from all of the crazy sources that are out there. And there's a lot of people with different philosophies That are promoting them or pushing them, and they push it out on every type of vlog and blog out there, and they stick their YouTube videos up and they they post their thoughts online and there's a lot of sources that you could read today, but you don't want to be getting your plans and your directions on how to attain salvation from all that. The Word of God is very clear that for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth him should not perish but have everlasting life. God has given us a clear plan for salvation. He sent his son, but God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. God sent his son for the sinner. Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost. It is God's plan, the message of the gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, was to save the souls of men. Men have to understand that they're sinners and that they need a Savior, and Jesus Christ is a Savior who gave himself and shed his blood to cover that sin. To forgive you of that sin. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. It doesn't get any simpler than that, it doesn't get any clearer than that. It's called God's simple plan of salvation And beloved, there's a lot of people out there that will give you a different plan. They'll talk to you about the work that you need to do and the baptism that has to be part of it. You're a church, faithful church attendance that's necessary to maintain your salvation. They'll talk to you about all the different things that are needed for you to attain this level of heaven. But I want you to understand the word of God is clear No other name given among men whereby a man must be saved but Jesus Christ. It's clear what God said about salvation, how to get to heaven. You don't want to be listening to all the crazy sources that are out there. We've got to be careful not just about salvation but about our life. You want to be happy? You want to be blessed? Then get your direction for life from a spiritual source. Not from CNN. Not from NBC or ABC or any of the other news stations. Get what you think and your philosophy about living and what you're going to do for your life from God. Live your life in accordance with the Word of God and with God's plan. Oh, I know there's a lot of people that have their own ideas, and they're more than happy to tell us about them. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. But you know that just because people are doing what's right in their own eyes doesn't mean it's right in God's eyes. And if ultimately you want to be happy, young people, if you ultimately you want to be happy, if your goal and ambition from life is to be happy, there's a plan here for you. Don't listen to all the crazy foolishness that's out there, the stuff that's promoted in the world. Oh, you can go after that You can follow that. You can give your heart and your life to that, but one day you'll wake up down the road and you'll look back at your life and you'll say, why? You're miserable and upset, lost and undone, like the prodigal of old who found himself there eating of the pig's husk. He woke up and he says, man, what am I doing here? There's nothing in this life Think of Ben sitting here this morning when he got baptized. Said, you have anything you want to say? And he said, I'll say one thing to the young people here. This world's got nothing to give you. There's nothing out here in this world that's going to give you any satisfaction, that's going to give you any joy, that's going to give you any of the happiness that you desire. I'll tell you one thing. Reject that and follow Christ. Amen. God told us how to be happy. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. He's given us a prescription for happiness. He says here to abstain from the path of sinners. He says, nor standing in the way of sinners. It's not hard to understand the description he's given us here. This word standeth nor standeth in the way of sinners. It literally means to abide. To abide. And if we contrast that to our verse of the month and the thoughts that we had last week about how we are to abide in Christ. And fruitfulness for our life comes out of abiding in Christ. He says, Blessed is the man that standeth not, or that abideth not in the way of sinners. Christian, we can't be living our life in the world, in sin. in all that this world has to offer and the filth that's there. You can't run with a skunk and smell like a rose. You can't lie down with the pigs and and and expect to be unmarred Although just a sinner myself, I'm a washed sinner. I hope this morning that you have known and experienced the forgiveness of God. You know that your sins have been forgiven and that you've been washed. And it's God's plan that the Christians, once they've been washed, that we don't go back into the world to get covered with that stuff again. We want to try and avoid those things. What a contrast. John 15, 3 through 5, he says, Now you're clean through the word which I've spoken unto you. Now you're clean. You've been made clean through that word. Abide in me and I in you. We're to abide in him, not to abide in this world, not to abide in the filth that fills our society Blessed or happy is the man that chooses to abide in him, not to abide in this world. You know, there's really not much more miserable. than a Christian who instead of abiding in Christ is abiding in the world And then they wonder why life is so hard. And they wonder why they're so miserable. They say, I'm a Christian, I'm supposed to be happy. That's what the Bible promises, is happiness. But you see, they're not abiding in Christ, they're abiding in the world. And there's that turmoil, that struggle, that challenge in their heart. Because they're abiding over here in the world, in the in in the filth that this world offers, instead of abiding in Christ We have a prescription for happiness, beloved. First, we avoid the ungodly counsel and we abstain from the path of sinners. Don't be spending our life in that. And we abstain from the place of scorners. He says, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. We're talking about the position of the blessed, somebody that's happy You know, a scorner is the opposite of someone that's happy. A scorner is someone that's bitter, someone whose life has been nothing but disappointment. And they're scornful at everything. You and I, beloved, should not be found in the place where the scorners are found. We're not to be part of this world scene. As Christians there's just some places that you shouldn't go. I think about Peter When he was recognized as part of that band of Christ. And they said, Oh, you you you're a part of that band. He's like, no, I'm not. And they say, oh yeah, yeah. Actually your speech gives you away. So he cursed to change his speech so he could maybe not be part of that recognized as part of that band. But you know, as Christians, there's some things that, some places we shouldn't be going, amen. There's just some things that this world, there's some places where the scorner abides that is Krishna that's just not part of our lives. And we shouldn't be comfortable there. You know Christians don't need to be going to the casinos. I told on myself. One time I was in a casino. And I didn't realize, didn't know. Mary and I we sat down and we ate an amazing meal. And when we got up and we found out that we had eaten at a casino. Uh we did not know. We were this was in uh Canada of all places, um at Niagara Falls there. But uh we it was a big mall and we were in the mall and we asked him in the mall, hey, where's that good place to eat? And they said, Oh, down go down to the end of this thing here. You'll see a big opening on the right, go through there, and the restaurant's right there. We we were in the mall. We went into a big restaurant in the mall. We thought it was like an old country buffet or something. Anyways, when we left we found out where we were. So only time that we've been in a casino and we did enjoy the food, but uh we wouldn't go back. Because casino is not the place for Christians to be. There's a lot of things that are that are for our enjoyment and for our fun in this world that we don't need. to be partaking of the filth, the wickedness of the world. There's just some places, you know, Christian, you shouldn't be part of the bar scene. You shouldn't be comfortable with that. Even restaurants that are more bar than they are restaurant. You know, we went Mary and I went to eat the other day and I don't know where we were just We were we we went to a steakhouse. They wanted to sit us down not at the bar but at a booth that was across from the bar. And I said, is that the only seat you've got in the house? I don't want to sit by all this. And uh I said, if you don't have something else, we'll just eat somewhere else I'm not gonna sit in in a bar and and eat dinner. And they didn't have anything else. So Mariana said, okay, well we'll go somewhere else. We don't we don't have to have a steak dinner and we'll go. I I just not comfortable sitting in that kind of atmosphere. And Christian, we shouldn't be. We shouldn't be. It ought not be normal or commonplace for us to be in that kind of an environment and feel comfortable. And feel like everything's okay. This is normal. No, there ought to be some level of protection, a barrier, guarding yourself and keeping yourself away from that kind of stuff. We shouldn't be part of the bar scene. Now you know there's a bar down here on uh Falls Road Drive by Falls Road all the time and they've redone this bar and even in the middle of the day there's all kinds of cars parked there. And I've never been in there, but not just there. I mean I've never been in any bar and and uh it's a scene that I praise God I don't know anything about As Christians, we shouldn't. We shouldn't. You know, this here this this is gonna really test, this is really gonna push some of you. I don't think Christians ought to be going to the movie house. Oh oh now I went too far. Yeah, I know I went too far now because that's that's just over the top. But you know what, there's too much filth being shown at those places. You say, well we're just going to watch watch Disney. We're just going to watch uh whatever cartoon. Yeah, but everybody that watched you go in there doesn't know that. And I'll tell you what, I enjoy a good movie. There's anybody as much as anybody in here, I'll guarantee you that But there ought to be some level of protection in your life that you sit up and say, hey, because a matter of testimony, because I don't want to be part of the world scene. I'm going to protect myself from that. I'm not going to go to those places. I'm not going to be part of those things. Now, if that's a little much for you, you can just set that aside right now, and the Holy Spirit can work on you over time. You can take that. I know sometimes things that I say, you know, if you really don't like that, you're gonna hold on to that, and that's gonna be the only thing you take out of here this morning. Have I given you some truth thus far? If we've got some truth, let's grab a hold of the truth. Let's take the truth, apply it to our heart and lives. If you want to be happy, it's a promise of God here, blessed is the man, the position of a happy man is one That very clearly here, he abstains from the place of the scorner, he abstains from the path of the sinner, and he avoids the counsel of the ungodly. That's very clear. It ought to be a desire of our heart to not be in those places. It is an example of the believer. We ought to be an example in everything we do in our word and deed and conversation. We see the progression of this worse, this verse. There's first there's that walking in the counsel of the ungodly. This is just carelessness. And then it progresses to where we willfully violate God's commands. And then thirdly We ourselves become part of this scene where we become scorners and and are part of that But beloved, light doesn't mix with darkness, and oil doesn't mix with water, and the Christians should not mix with this world. If we do, we'll be like Lot, who found himself. The Bible says it is righteous soul was vexed day by day. And there are many Christians whose righteous soul is vexed because they're abiding in places they don't need to be And this thing with Lot, it didn't happen in one day. It didn't happen just all of a sudden one day he found out. No, it was a slow process where he pitched his tent towards Sodom. Then he began to go visit those places, and then he began to spend his days there. You know the story. So we see the position of the blessed, and we see, secondly, the practice of the blessed. He says, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. Do you delight in the book? Do you delight in the word of God? You know, delighting in the word of God, delighting in the book uh really comes. From having a relationship with the author. Just like your kids, I think it's neat how kids want their parents to see them. Kids have that relationship and as a child begins to do something, maybe ride a bike, the one thing they want is mom and dad to see, look, look, I'm look, I'm doing it, I'm doing it, look. There's that relationship there, or a child does something they know that would please mom or dad and they want mom and dad to see it, that relationship is there, and that that relationship, friend, causes you to delight in it. A determination to do right. One cannot help but delight in the law of God when you have a right relationship with the author. Do you desire this morning to know God's will above else? To do his will most of all. That's where we'll experience and know true happiness. Jesus said, my meat is to do the will of him that sent me. To please the Father. Well, what's your meat? What's your goal in life? To do God's will? Or to do your will? If we're going to do God's will, we've got to meditate in His Word day and night. Meditate in it. Let His Word change us. Let His Word shape how we think and what we do. We meditate in his word in the day of prosperity, and we meditated in his word in the night of adversity, but always in his word. The Bible says, blessed is the man. You know, some they skip it. They don't ever fit into his word. This Sunday morning after church, you head home and you set down the book and it'll stay there until next Sunday when you pick it up and come back to God's house. Some skim it. They occasionally pick it up and read a verse here or there. Some study it. really dive in and try and gain a knowledge and an understanding. But some are saturated in it. Those that are saturated in his word, can I tell you that it's because of the relationship with the author? That makes the word powerful. I was talking to Andrew at college a couple weeks ago when we were down there to visit him. He's talking about, of course, a lot of things are changing for him in life with his decisions that he's making for life and the direction and where he's going to go and what he's going to do as a freshman in college making these life altering decisions. He's talking about his quiet time with God and the Word of God and he said, Dad, what I've learned is that a lot of times I was just reading the word because it was a duty and I was supposed to be reading it so I'd read it and I didn't get anything out of it. I was just doing what I was supposed to do and I did it because I had to and I wasn't getting anything. He said, But what I've learned is to read it Because I need it. Not because I have to do it, but because I need to do it. And he said, I've found when I approach the scriptures with a need That God meets the need. It's a relationship, not just a duty. You know, when you have a relationship, you really like reading the notes from the author. I came into my office about a week and a half ago and there on my desk, propped up in front of my screen, was a note. Written by my wife. She said this I admire and respect you because you're a good man in so many ways. Today I am thankful for the unselfish way you care for others. Although sometimes wishfully, selfishly, I wish I could have more of that time. I'm thankful that you're a caring pastor. I admire the study and the effort that you put into your sermons to make them practical and applicable. I know it's long hours that you put in. Thank you for following the Holy Spirit And for being a good pastor. I love you. You know, those to me are powerful words. Because of the relationship with the author. Now you know that half of that's not true, but it doesn't matter because she thinks it is. And because she thinks it about me, it's me it's powerful. I hear those words because of the relationship with the author, and it means something to me. When you have a relationship with the author, the word of God means something. You get into it and you read it. Delight thyself in the law of the Lord. You want to be happy? Happy is the man that delights in the law of the Lord, and his law doth he meditate day and night. Night. And beloved, lastly this morning we want to see the promise, the promise to the blessed. He says in verse number three, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Man, what a promise. Do you want whatever you do to prosper? Amen. Yeah, I want to prosper. Do you want whatever you do, do you want to bring forth fruit? That's the Christians we're supposed to be bringing forth fruit. Abide in me and I in you. And you will bring forth fruit. Trees, beloved, trees produce fruit. Love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, meekness, temperance Trees provide shade and comfort and protection. Beloved, God has promised this to you. It's a promise of productivity in your life. It's a promise of fruit bearing. Liberality when riches increase. Humility that's cheered by others. Patience when we endure suffering. Faith that gets us through even the hardest of trials. His leaf also shall not wither. You know, that's you think about a leaf that withers because of a trying time, maybe a lack of water, maybe a storm that comes in, maybe hardship that comes. But God's saying He'll sustain you through that hard time. You're at least not even going to wither, even in the challenge, even in that burden, even in that hard time. Your leaf's not going to wither because you have the presence and power of God Those to whom the will of God is a delight. God will bless. Oh, I know we desire and long to be happy. And God's told us how we can do it. Yes, there's some some negative things. There's some things that we're as Christians supposed to avoid that we ought to try and stay away from. He tells you you'll be happy if you do that. Too many Christians are just trying to live their life the way they want to and looking for that happiness anyway. But it's it's a struggle. It's a challenge. Happiness is the byproduct of just abiding in Christ. Fruit fruit given. The blessing of fruitfulness In the end, you and I will be victors. We'll prosper. We'll prosper for all eternity Between now and then we can know the blessed life. The Bible calls it a more abundant life. A life of joy. A life of happiness. Are you this morning? Willing and able to just follow the Lord. To be in that position of bless blessedness. Avoiding the things we're to avoid. To be in that position where you practice what we're supposed to be practicing, delighting in the Word of God. Diligently studying the word, spending time in the word, if you can and will, then you can experience the promise that He's given this morning to be fruitful. To the eye of faith, the word is sure. But if we perceive That our works are prospered, they're prospered by God. Even when everything in this world seems like it's against you If God is for you, who can be against you