First John. I had planned this evening to uh possibly look at as many as the first six verses. And uh, you know, I kind of introduced these first two last week, but uh we I I I there's some doctrine, there's some good teaching, there's some great thoughts here in these first couple of verses. And so we are going to set right down in these first two verses and really uh spend a little bit of time tonight and uh as we talk about the settled life, the settled life. 1 John chapter 2, verses 1 and 2, he says, My little children, these things have I written unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. And he is a propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And as we begin this chapter, we remember that last week we took the closing thoughts from our study last week and tied it into these verses because really these verses here, the the these things that he's talking about, he says, my little children, these things write I unto you. Those are the things that he has previously said. The things that he already stated. He says, I wrote this down, and here's why I wrote it down, and I'm saying these things That you sin not. And so this is kind of really tied together with what we taught last week, which is why I kind of tied it in last week at the conclusion as we looked at the honest life. last week, but uh there's a lot more here than than just that quick mention. Uh so we want to get into it this week, dig into a little bit, learn a little, maybe reminded of some some truths that we know in our heart. maybe we know in our mind, but just solidify them, nail them down and understand and embrace the doctrine that's taught here as well. So note first of all the term of endearment with which he opens and addresses his audience. He says, My little children. Now some today might look at this and and consider or think about the fact that maybe he is being a little bit mean or or disrespectful. that maybe he is getting on to them for acting like kids when they really should be acting like adults. Uh we've seen Paul uh kind of address some carnal saints that way on occasion and say, listen, uh You know, when you should be accepting meat, it needs that I should give you milk. And you should have grown up a little more than that, but that's not what he's doing here. This literally is a term of endearment, a term of compassion. that he is saying he is referring to them as somebody that he cares for. Paul used the same address in Galatians chapter 4, verse number 19. And what he's saying is, listen, I care for you like a child. I look after you Let's put it this way, I feel responsible for you. Now tonight Megan was holding Was that John Stephanie's child? John Stephanie's child. And I was joking with her, you know, she's like, yeah, I left my kid home so I could help carry somebody else's kid, you know. But even when it's not your child but but you are given responsibility of a child, there all of a sudden you feel that weight. Especially if you're already a mom. Now sometimes younger people might not understand that, but somebody that's already a mom, as soon as you've been given a child, you feel that responsibility. And that's what he John's saying here. I care for you like a child. I feel responsible for you like an adult with a child that there's things that you need to learn, there's some stuff you need to hear, and and I'm writing to you because of this. And so let's see. First of all, the common infirmity that is found here. He says, My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. There's a common infirmity, you understand this is a universal problem. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God Every one that's ever been born was born a sinner, and the fact of the matter is he's writing this to them because it was a problem. It was the motivation of his letter here, one of the reasons for which he wrote that we saw as we introduced the book, that they might not continue in sin. Beloved, although we have been freed from the penalty of sin, if you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, you've been freed from the penalty of sin. Amen. You are not going to have to pay for your sin yourself by spending an eternity in a place called hell. You've been freed from that penalty. You get to be with the Lord in heaven forever, but we have not been freed from the presence of sin. Sin is still present in our lives, and sin still has a much, if we're honest, it has a much greater influence in our life than we wish it did, doesn't it? I mean I'll tell you what, I know talking to Brother Serafin on more than one occasion, man, he's like, if we could just get rid of this old flesh If I could just stop this man, if I just didn't have to battle that, you know, just sick of it, just because this old flesh, it just does not want you to live for God, does it? It just fights against you and and that struggle there, that sin has uh a impact on our lives, and he's saying, Hey It's a universal problem, everybody has it, but don't continue in sin. He makes it abundantly clear. He's earlier in the chapter, or chapter one there, we saw that if a man says he has no sin, he's a liar. We know that we're all sinners. There's actually four lies that are seen here in these in these verses, three of them in chapter one, and then this one, uh, and then there's one in chapter two here, verse number four. But there's a lie concerning fellowship in chapter 1 and verse number 6. There's a lie concerning the practice of sin in chapter 1 and verse number 8. A lie concerning the possibility of sin in 1, verse number 10. And then a lie concerning our obedience in chapter 2 and verse number 4. These are the four lies that are seen. I used to like Dr. McNeely when he was teaching. Now Dave Hunt knows Dr. McNeely and some actually most of the men here should because he came and spoke spoke for one of our men and boys campouts. But he'd be teaching a class And he'd be talking about random things and and he'll say, Okay, Preacher Boys, here's an outline for you. And he would throw out an outline, you know, and and just just off the top of his head or from the notes in his Bible, you know, he would say, here's an outline. So there's an outline for you, the the four lies of uh first John. Then um we see uh that Although sin is a universal problem, it should not have universal control in our lives. Romans chapter 6, verse number 14 says, For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you're not under the law, but under grace. He says, hey, sin should not be what's ruling and reigning in your life. You've been freed from that. The grace of God has forgiven you and given you freedom. I just want to make it abundantly clear tonight that nowhere does God give men permission to sin. Nowhere are we told that sin should be taken lightly. You see, there's uh two ways you could look at this. First of all, somebody might say, well, everybody sins, nothing we can do about it, so oh well. Let's just continue in sin. Everybody's sinning. And secondly, we see, of course, the second half of this we're going to get to in a little bit, the idea that God in his power is able to forgive all sin. Amen? And so the I don't know, would it be the carnal Christian or what might look at this and say, well everybody's sinned and there's nothing we can do about it. And since God has the power to forgive all sin, then why should we worry about it? Let's just live our lives how we want. And some people who like to claim the idea that we live under grace and therefore it doesn't matter how we live, We can do whatever we want because after all, God can forgive all sin. We see here that that's not what God means. It's not what God is saying. He's saying, I wrote this unto you that ye sin not. Right. He introduces that first. He he he lays that groundwork, puts that down, there's no question about it. He says, Listen, you don't want to be involved in this. This is not what a Christian is supposed to be doing. God, beloved, has made provision for victory over sin. Would you look in the book of Romans with me, Romans chapter number five? Romans is a Deep theological book. There's a it's amazing that the God's simple plan of salvation, the Romans Road, is found in this in this book because Romans has some very deep theological things in here. Um but um we're just gonna look here just the idea that God has made provision for the victory over sin in Romans chapter five. Um Let's just look down at verse number nine. He says, much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath. Through him. So, beloved, it's through Jesus Christ, his death, burial, and resurrection, and I'm not going to teach on all that tonight, but through his death. That we're freed from the penalty of sin. He says, here, you're free, you're saved from wrath, the wrath of God, God's judgment, through him, through Jesus Christ. Does that make sense? Okay, now look at verse number 10. He says, For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Okay? Hopefully you're engaging your brain. You're thinking about this. When we were enemies of God, when we were sinners, when we were away from God, we were reconciled to God. We were brought back into fellowship by the death of his son. Then he goes on. He says, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. So what he's saying, beloved, is that by his death we were freed from the penalty of sin. But by Christ's life, we are free from the power of sin in our life. The power that sin has over you, God's plan is for you to be able to be victorious. God's plan is for you to be able to overcome Sin does not have to have control in your life. It doesn't have to have power in your life because God won the battle over sin and death in the grave when he rose. And because if he lives today, he gives us victory today, we have victory over it. God's made provision for victory for us, and it's our, we should be using it. When that woman who was taken in adultery back there, uh well, over in the New Testament, you guys remember the story, right? The woman was taken in adultery. These Pharisees came and said, Oh look, here's this woman. The law says she should be stoned And and you know the story, Jesus kneels down, he begins to write. It's one of the things I want to find out when I get to heaven. What did Jesus write there? Maybe he just started listing sins or something. I don't know what what did he write in the sand, but he began to write in the sand and he says, Hey the I'll tell you what, guys, the one that's without sin, throw the first stone. And the Bible says that and then when he arose, he looked at her and says, Where's thine accusers? There there was nobody there that could throw a stone because they had all sinned. But then do you remember what Jesus told her? Go and sin no more. He said, yeah, you had sinned. These accusers came and all of them wanted to stone you for their sin, but then they realized they're all sinners too. The only one here with the power to forgive you of your sin looks at you and says, You can be forgiven, but he says, Hey, go and sin no more That's God's plan, Christian. We should not continue in sin. And everything in this world and everything in our flesh and everything that Satan can will work to pull us into more sin, but we're to fight against that. 2 Corinthians 10 verse number 5 says, casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. That's what we're supposed to do. To obey him. And we're going to get into that in verses two through or three through six next week But then he goes on in this verse and he says, hey, but when you fail, when you do sin, when sin actually does Win a victory in your life, when you're guilty of a transgression, when you stand condemned, guilty. I remember, and I've told you before, when I was driving without insurance, the story and and I totaled my truck and uh I I had to go to court because I was driving without insurance. I stood before the judge. He said how do you plead? I had to say guilty And then I said, but I plead the mercy of the court. Please give me some mercy. I didn't have anything else I could say. I was guilty, and there's many times, beloved, that will stand guilty before God. And he says here let me let me point this out. This is this is pretty neat. So he says first first of all We're getting to the compassionate intercession. That's the second point. The compassionate intercession. But want you to see, he says, my little children, these things write I unto who? You. So he's like, okay, I'm writing this unto you. That ye sin not. He says, and if any man sin, what does he say there? What's the next word? Well not yet. First word, small. We. We. I think it's pretty amazing here that he includes himself in this section where he says, if any man sin, we. I mean, you're talking about the part of the inner circle. You're talking about somebody that walked and talked with Jesus Christ, somebody that was the beloved disciple. And he says, if anybody sins, just in case it happens, we have an advocate. He includes himself in the group of sinners. He says, if any of you reach a point in your life where the world, the flesh, the devil gets the better of you and you say an unkind word to your mate. If any of you sins, we have an advocate with the Father, so we see the compassionate intercession that is Jesus Christ, our advocate with the Father. Weirsby says, a true Christian is always accepted, even if he's not always acceptable. You see, even when we do sin, even if we're not always acceptable, we have an advocate. And we're always accepted. An advocate with the Father, an advocate is one who pleads a case. It's a legal term. It's a position that Jesus takes up because, beloved, we know that Satan is our accuser, but Christ is our advocate. I was reading this week about one of the most depressing things for men and women on death row. They literally reach a point of despair because after their initial case By and large, there is nobody fighting for them. They're on death row. They've been assigned to, at some point in the future, be put to death. And uh just as a side note, I am for capital punishment. The Bible teaches it. But these men and women that are on death row, which is there's only less than two percent of the people on death row are women, 98% of them are men. But the time between sentencing and the carrying out of the sentence, the average used to be fifteen years. In 2018, it it reached 24 and a half years between sentencing and the carrying out of the sentence. Now this is crazy in a whole another lesson. We're not going to chase that rabbit. But what happens though is that basically once they're on death row, they spin It depended upon the prison they're in anywhere from eighteen to uh you know twenty-one hours a day inside of their their cell Have a couple minutes out where they get to do and then eat and whatever. Um But they reach the despair and the biggest part of the despair, they said, is that there's they know that there's nobody fighting for them They have no advocate. There's nobody arguing their case. Nobody, all the world, society, friends, family, everybody has written them off and given up on them, and they have they've got no hope But beloved, it doesn't matter where you're at or what you've done, you have hope. Because you have an advocate in Jesus Christ who is arguing your case. From the Florida prison, in June 1962, Clarence Earl Gideon wrote a note asking that the United States Supreme Court would review his conviction for a crime he said he did not commit. He added that he simply did not have the means to hire a lawyer and therefore was falsely prosecuted and imprisoned. Don't know why they did it, but the Supreme Court decided to consider it. And this is it was amazing to me as I looked this up because I thought That this was always the case, but it wasn't. Actually, one year later, in a hor in a historic case of Gideon versus Wainwright, the Supreme Court ruled that people who cannot afford the cost of their own defense must be given a public defender. an advocate provided by the state with this decision, Clarence Gideon's case was reheard and he was given an advocate and he was acquitted of all charges and released. Because he had an advocate. So from that time till now, and that's what, of course, I was born, some of you remember a day when you couldn't have an advocate When it wasn't provided for you if you couldn't afford one, you were just on your own. Some of you were here then, but uh I was born a little past that. Hallelujah. So I don't remember those days. I always thought it was always that way in America But that's how it is. Um Beloved, we could never afford him. But Jesus signed up and said, I'll I'll defend him. I'll be I'll be his advocate. What makes him able to be my advocate? Well, if you go back to the story of that woman caught in adultery. He was the only one there who could condemn her because he was the only one without sin. Nobody else could throw a stone because everybody else was as guilty as she. Everyone else there, all of her accusers, were sinners. But Jesus was not. He was, you see in the text here, they he They tell us by what authority he is our advocate. He says we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. The righteous. He is the one that is without sin. You know, beloved, on my best day, I'm still a sinner. But Christ has never known any sin. He is and always has been completely holy. Therefore, he can stand before the Father in my place. And beloved, there is no other righteousness that is sufficient to stand before the Father. Christ is the one who purchased my pardon and cleansed my soul and has become the advocate, my advocate with the Father. And beloved, he doesn't advocate for me because of my virtue. He doesn't advocate for me because of my righteousness or anything that I've done, but he advocates for me on his righteousness. Satan is the accuser, but you and I both know that a lot of times he doesn't have to accuse us. He just has to be a tattletale. He just has to go to the Father and report the truth because we are guilty. He just can say, hey, did you see what Caleb's doing down there? And Christ stands before the Father. And the father will say, well, on what grounds should he be acquitted of these charges? And Christ opens his hands and shows his nail-scarred hands. This is because on this day he trusted me and his sin has been covered by my righteousness. We see a cumulative indebtedness. In verse number two, he says, and He is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. He is now and forever stands as a propitiation for our sins. Now that's a big theological word. Probably a little less familiar for some people. But propitiation means a sacrifice that settles the debt. And this is where I get the title The Settled Life. Because beloved, my debt has been settled. Not by me, but by Jesus Christ, who became the propitiation for my sin. And all of my sin and all the debt that I have because of that which I have done wrong is settled in heaven. I looked up a couple definitions for this word settled. Settled means the satisfying of a claim or demand. The satisfying of a claim or demand. You know what? I have a debt I can't pay. There is a claim. There is a demand that my sin be paid for. And I could choose to pay for it myself by spending an eternity in a place called hell, but God has provided and given me a means through which my debt can be settled The claim that can be met. The satisfying of the claim or demand can be met. Not only does settled mean that, but it also means the act of making stable. Or putting on a permanent basis. I couldn't read that without thinking about Psalms 40, verse 2, and he brought me up also out of a horrible fit. And out of the miry clade he set my feet on a rock and established my goings. That's what it means to be settled Not only has God forgiven us of our sin and paid our sin debt and made a provision for all the sin that we'll ever commit, but he has settled. He's established our goings. He's set our feet on a solid rock and given us a firm foundation. And man, I'll tell you what, in this world of ever-changing and and moving uh spectrum of everything, it's exciting to have something that's settled. Beloved God is just. He is just in every way. Now, God is also love. And we know that that is a defining characteristic of God, that he is love. And some today would like to say that his love overpowers his justice. And that's how he's able to forgive sin, but I want you to understand that's not biblically sound. That definition or description, you know, sounds nice, but that's not biblically sound. Because his love does not overpower his justice, because if that was the case, he could not be just. You can't just say, oh, in this case, I love you, so don't worry about it. No, if there is a claim, if there's a demand, if there's a debt that has to be paid, to be just means it has to be paid, right? So you can't say love overpowers his justice, and he says, Oh, I just love you, so therefore don't worry about it. You can just let it go. No. But what his love does is it provides, it makes provision so that the debt is paid. That's what his love does. So both characteristics of God are met. The debt has to be paid. But his love caused him to send his son to make provision for the debt so that justice could be fulfilled and love could be maintained. That's what it is. Would you look with me in Zechariah? That's a much harder book to find. Uh, towards the end of the Old Testament there. Zechariah chapter number three. I'm going to give you a little bit of typology here as we kind of just see a picture that's drawn for us in Zechariah. When you dare say amen. Alrighty. We're going to give you a little bit of time. I know it's a little less uh we don't turn there as much as uh we do to the book of Romans. So in Zechariah chapter number 3, see in verse number 1 through 5, he says, And he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. And Satan standing at his right hand to resist him. So we have a picture here of a saint of Satan and the Lord. I want you to see what transpires Verse number two, and the Lord said unto Satan, The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan, and even the Lord that hath chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee. Is not this a brand plucked out of the fire? Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and stood before the angel. Now, just for reference sake, there's another place in the Bible where we Hear about filthy rags that we're wearing. Do you remember what that is? That all of your righteousness is as filthy rags. So as a type, as a picture, we see the saint, Joshua, here clothed in rags. clothed in filthy rags, which according to the Bible, when we stand in our own righteousness, that on my best day I'm still a sinner. I'm clothed in what would be pictured as filthy rags. But see what he says here. He's clothed with filthy garments and stood before the angel. And he answered, and he spake unto those that stood before him, saying Take away the filthy garments from him, and unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with a change of raiment. This is what Jesus Christ does for us. We are clothed in His righteousness. All of our righteousness is his filthy rags. In its best day, we're just a sinner saved by grace, just one pile of dirt talking to another pile of dirt But in Jesus Christ, we've been clothed in righteousness, not our righteousness, but his righteousness. Do you see that in the text? So he says there, I have caused thy iniquity to pass from thee, I will clothe thee with change of raiment. And I said, Let them set a fire micre upon his head. So they set a fire mitra. This would be like a crown, put a crown upon his head, and clothed him with garments, and the angel of the Lord stood by. Christ became the sacrifice for me. This Can be made a picture of the Advocate, what Jesus does for you and I, how he stands in our stead. How it's his righteousness that clothes us, not our own righteousness. Now understand, beloved, we go back to the beginning and say, listen, it was opened up with, hey, I wrote this that you sin not So we've not been given permission to sin because we're clothed in God's righteousness either way. We are clothed and before the Father, God's going to forgive us because of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. All my sin that I will ever commit has been dealt with at the cross. It's under the blood. Jesus has forgiven me. You know why I'm saved tonight? Because when I fail to do that which is right, when I sin My advocate stands in my place. Because I'm guilty before the Father. I am still a sinner. But the Advocate stands between us. And it's his blood that covers my sin. I get to be clothed in his righteousness. And not my own. When I'm impatient, I'm clothed in His patience. When I act in selfishness, I'm clothed In his kindness, when I'm covetous, I'm clothed in his righteousness, when I fail to live sacrificially I'm clothed in his sacrifice. That's what the Father sees instead of my sin. Jesus, my advocate. Christ became the satisfaction for me. He settled my debt. All we have to do is go back to chapter 1 and verse number 9. That would be 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sin. He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Just not that hard. In 1818, One out of every six women who gave birth to a child died. The children died, and it was of something that they called childbirth fever. The doctor's daily routine back then started in the dissecting room. where he performed autopsies, and from there he would make his rounds to examine all of the expectant mothers. No one ever thought to wash their hands. At least until one doctor named Igzhein Smelawazi, something like that. I don't know. Just I I'll let you read it later if you want. Uh he began to practice a strict hand washing routine. He was the very first doctor to ever do so. And he begged other physicians to do so. His fatality rate dropped drastically. One out of fifty would pass away. Compared to the average of one out of ten. He tried to declare to them that childbirth fever is caused by the contamination of material that's conveyed into the wound. I have shown you how it can be prevented. I have proven that that is all that it takes, but while we sit here talking, there are women dying. I'm not asking you for anything that is earth-shattering or world-changing. I'm simply asking you to wash your hands and yet virtually no one responded to the call. It's amazing the difference that it would make. But they wouldn't hear them. And beloved God says, if you confess your sins It is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. It's such an easy thing. And if we don't make a habit of doing that, I want you to know that you will give a spiritual infection. Because you don't allow yourself to be cleansed from all that unrighteousness It's not for our sins only, but for the sins of the whole world. You know, there was Story of a little boy who was at church. This is an old country church. You can picture the white, little white country church, the three steps up into there with the steeple and all that. And uh it was just coming into spring and the snow had started to melt outside and the sun was shining and the warmth was in the f a you could feel that sun warm. Even though it was cool, you still that sun felt so good and Church was dismissing, and this little boy desired to go out and play so bad, and he was pulling on dad's hand. Dad let him go, and he says, You can go stand on the steps, enjoy the sun, but don't go out in the yard because It's muddy out there, it's mushy, and you're in your church clothes. And this little boy uh thought, well, um I'll just stand on the steps. So you know he went out, stood on the steps. But that snow called him. It just was calling to him and the sun felt so good. So before long he was tramping through some snow and you know what happened before long he slipped and slid down into the mud. All of his clothes were filthy. Of course he came in crying. And Dad looked at him and He said, what did I tell you? You told me not to go in the snow. You know how they do. Yeah. And he says, now you disobeyed that, didn't you? And he said, yeah. He says, well you deserve. I deserve what did I deserve a spanking. And he says, son, you deserve a spanking. But I'm going to forgive you. I'm not going to give you a spanking. But I want you to sit right here so you don't get mud and dirt all over the church. You sit down right here, but but it's okay, you've been forgiven. And the boy sat down and dad was talking to some other people and after a few minutes he turned and looked back and his son was still crying. He went over to his son and he said, son, why are you still crying? He says, I I've forgiven you. You deserve a spanking, but I'm not going to give you a spanking. I told you you're forgiven. It's all right. He said I know, but but Daddy, I I wanted to give you a big hug, but I'm still all dirty. You see, he had been forgiven, but he hadn't been cleansed. That's what Jesus Christ does for us. He'll wash you. He'll cleanse you. We've just got to go to Him. It's simple. And beloved, it's amazing you see the cumulative indebtedness here because it's not for us only, but for the whole world. All men of all time, from all generations, can know and experience the forgiveness of God. I believe, and maybe contrary to some today, that the love of Christ is far greater motivator for my purity than the fear of punishment. For some feel that if you tell a sinner that there's no possibility That they could ever come into condemnation again, that they've been forgiven, that their sins are under the blood. That there's no amount of sin that can ever bring them back into condemnation. And there's no amount of obedience that could ever make them more acceptable. Because Christ did it all on the cross. If you tell men that, then you're telling them that they have A license to sin. What they're saying, beloved, is the only way to get blood-bought, born-again, child of God to obey and do what God wants is to threaten them. To threaten them with punishment. But can I say nay? It is the full and free grace of Jesus Christ that motivates the dedicated Christian to bring glory to God God in his grace brings his children into obedience through love and gratitude. You know, I don't need a law to tell me if uh John Norman was broken down on the side of the road Tonight on the way home. I don't need a law written to tell me to stop and help 'em. I do it because I love him. Doesn't need the law to tell us to do right. It's the love of Christ that constraineth me. Because of what he's done. Because he's my advocate with the Father. Would you