I would say one of the hardest things for us to really remember and to retain in our minds is scripture. We just work so hard at it and we you you try and m remember and commit those things to memory and then it it seems like where does it go? I had that verse of the month memorized last month. It's only been three weeks. I mean what happened to it? This effort. You know, even the experts In discussion of the human brain, tell us that there's nothing that is ever truly forgotten. Our brain is such a powerful computer It processes and stores information at such speeds and with such quantity that the supercomputers of the world are still trying to find a way to function As the human brain does, with such tiny use of power, yet can process and think of so many different things at one time. And as the experts say, retained. We might not have the ability to recall it, but they say it's all there. It's remembered in our mind. I mean, how many of you have ever been somewhere and A smell or a song is playing. And immediately it takes you back 20, 30 years to an event, to a place, to somebody you remember like it was yesterday. That situation because of that thing. You haven't thought about that in 20 years, and then all of a sudden it's there in the forefront of your mind, just remembering that. Let me just throw this out for all of you young people. That's why it is so vitally important that you are careful what you allow into this memory. Because once it's in there it's too late. Oh I know God can't forgive you and God can't allow you to move on and go forward from there. But you've got something in your mind now that the devil can use as an arsenal against you later on. You've got to guard your mind. Because those things are never truly forgotten. The power of the mind to call to remembrance events and people is one of the most valuable faculties that we possess. I can't imagine the hardship. The pain of a victim of amnesia, losing The memories of their life, losing the relationships that they once cherished. It's truly a tragedy. of almost immeasurable proportion. One of the greatest sources that we have of joy in our life is to be a Able to remember. To think about bygone days. To remember those situations and the little quirky things that our kids have done or that a friend has said or a situation that transpired. Just to think back and to remember on those things. What a joy it is to be able to do that But do you know that's a two-edged sword. It's a two-sided coin. Just as it is one of the greatest blessings that we possess. It is also can be used as one of the greatest burdens that are used, that's used against us That's why our text this evening is Philippians chapter 3, verse number 13. Turn your Bibles there. It's a familiar verse if you've been in church for any length of time. The Apostle Paul admonishing here to believers, he says, brethren I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. And reaching forth to those things which are before. Forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth to those things that are before. Beloved, as we are closing in on the end of 2018, I don't know your life and your situation, but I have to believe that you are probably like me. And there was one thing this past year. There was a couple things that I did not do that I wished I would have done. There were some things that I did do that I knew I shouldn't have done. Let's just be really honest. There's some times this past year where I've just flat out failed my Savior. I look back at those things and they're time there it's a time of discouragement and I look back and say, oh, I messed it up again I knew better and I still didn't do it. I knew better and I still did it. And the Lord, He's just raked me over for it, and I messed it up again Listen, we need to forget those things that are behind. We all, everybody in here, every one of us could get honest before God and we could point to the things that happened in this last year and say, I did mess that up. I did mess that up. I didn't come through right there. I wasn't as faithful as I should have been But let me encourage you as we're closing out this year, you need to forget the failures. Forget the failures. Of this past year, yesterday's failures, and all the day's failures. You know, have you ever known somebody with short-term memory loss They can forget about what happened this morning. I mean they can't remember what they had for a breakfast, but they remember vividly things from 20 years ago. They can just describe it with detail. But the short-term loss is gone, and some of you, you would be willing to forget what happened this week or this year, and you say, I know God's forgiven me of that, and it's okay But you're allowing the devil to pull up into your mind things that happened ten, fifteen, or twenty years ago that God has already forgotten about, and you're allowing the devil to bring those back to you You got short-term memory loss, you can forget that, but you want to hold on to what happened a long time ago. The failures of bygone days. We need to forget them. Guilt is a burden that God never intended for the Christian to bear. There are some burdens that we are supposed to bear. There are some crosses that we're supposed to carry. The burden wasn't a burden of guilt was not one of them. Jesus is there and he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sin. To cleanse you from all unrighteousness. You don't have to carry around that guilt. God wants to take that sin and And put it as far as the east is from the west. He wants to put it in the deepest ocean to remember it against you never, ever anymore. You shouldn't remember it either. The old song, Gone, Gone, Gone, Gone, yes, my sins are gone. Buried in the deepest sea. Yes, that's good enough for me. I shall live eternally, praise God. My sins are gone. Mm-hmm. They're gone. Beloved, if they're not gone, then get them gone. If you got something there that's still there, it's still a burden to you because you know you haven't confessed it and got it right with God, then do that. Get it confessed. Get it right with God. Let God wash you clean. So you can forget about yesterday's failures. Confess it to God and accept his forgiveness. You shouldn't feel that guilt. If if anybody could have felt guilty, it was the Apostle Paul. I mean the Apostle Paul was he he uh would chase around Christians and and Bring them in on trumped up charges and send them to the there ultimately to be tortured and maybe executed and he was persecuting Christians. If anybody could have been carrying around some guilt, it could have been him Turn your Bibles to 1 Timothy. I want you to hear what Paul says about the guilt that he had. 1 Timothy, chapter number 1. Paul knew that he was forgiven. He was forgiven. First Timothy chapter number one, verses twelve He says, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. So Paul talking about himself, and then he goes on in verse number 13. He says, who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious? But I obtained mercy. He says, I was these things, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. Verse number 14, and the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am chief. How be it? For this cause I obtained mercy What is the cause? He said, for this cause I obtained mercy. He says, that in me first, Jesus Christ might show forth all long-suffering. For a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to everlasting life. The Apostle Paul says, Hey, I was a blasphemer, I was a persecutor of Christians But I obtained mercy, and God forgave me, and I can live free from the burden of guilt. Jesus did it for me, and He did it for me as an example for you. Those that would believe after me, he says, so that you could know if God could forgive Paul, God could forgive you. God can forgive you. Listen, I know there's some things in this past year you weren't proud of. And embarking on a new year and having a fresh start and these kind of things, you look at it and say, why? Why should I bother? Because for the Apostle Paul and Jesus Christ encourages us To forget those things that are behind. You can't do anything about what happened yesterday. The failures of the past you cannot change. But you've got to forget those things and move on for God. An exasperated secretary one day begged her boss, she said, boss, we need to destroy all of these files. The storage room is bulging. We've got to get rid of these files. And after months of begging him to get rid of all these files, he said, okay, you can throw them away, but please make copies of them before you do He did not quite understand. And I think a lot of times Christians were like that. God says, it's forgiven. And we pick it up again. God says, I already forgave you that. You say, oh, I know. And we pick it up again. It's forgiven. Don't make a copy of it. Let it go. Forget those things that are behind. I'll tell you what, we need to forget about our handicaps. The Apostle Paul had a thorn in the flesh, yet he continued continued on for God It amazed me as I was in India there at the rehabs, final rehab center, and saw those people that literally for the majority of their life they were left in the corner. They had no hope. Nobody cared for their soul. They thought they had no tomorrow. They thought they had nothing to live for. They had no meaning in life, no purpose. But when they took them and began to train them and began to show them what was possible with the arms that they had or with the ability that they did have, yes, they had a handicap. But one guy was in there and he didn't have any legs, but he could jump up in the wheelchair and he could spin it down and he could get it up on his on the back legs and do a circle. He could hold the wheelie going over tuba force He was cranking it, man. He was going and he was had a big old smile on his face. He said, Look what I can do. And here's what I'm saying, believers, you have no idea What God can do with you if you would quit focusing on that one thing that you say, oh, it's so hard because of this. The one thing in your life you feel is holding you back, it's a handicap. But you're not handicapped. It might be a thorn in the flesh. You might have to live with it. But hey, God can get the glory, and you can do things you never thought were possible. You can go places you never thought you would. If we would stop focusing on those handicaps, when a man learns to continue even after failure, nothing is impossible to him. You put that kind of man in a prison and you'll find you have a John Bunyan. You bury that kind of man in the snow of Valley Forge and you'll find you have a George Washington. You bury that kind of give that kind of a man a life where he's born in abject poverty and you'll produce an Abraham Lincoln. You blind her at a young age and you'll have a Fanny Crosby. You afflict him with asthma so much that he gasps for his life in his father's arms, and you'll have a Theodore Roosevelt. You take away her speech, her hearing, and her sight, and you'll make a Helen Keller. What I'm saying is when we learn to go beyond failure. It's limitless what's possible. Because with God all things are possible. But what I'm trying to admonish you to tonight Because yes, there's some things in this past year you might have failed on. You gotta forget those. I want, secondly, to encourage you and challenge you to forget not just your failures, but forget your success. Oh Pastor, come on. I mean I know I should forget my failure. I've been trying to do that, and I thank you for the encouragement tonight, Pastor. I do need to let go of my failures, but I'm enjoying that success. I I'm not sure I want to let go of that. Well you tell me in the text where it differentiates between success and failure. Forgetting those things which are behind. Right? Is there any place in there where it differentiates and tells us that we're supposed to just forget failure? No. You see, it's human nature to Revel in our success and to sit back and enjoy yesterday's success. You may have had some great victories this past year. You may have taken some steps for God. You may have read through your Bible. You may have gone out soul and you may have reached some loss for Jesus Christ. You may have taken a step in your Sunday school class or in your devotional life and you say, hey, I took these steps for God. Amen. Lord, aren't you happy? We need to forget about our success. And push forward because there's still a tomorrow. The war is not over. We may have won some battles, but the war is not done The apostle Paul could have quit after his success at Ephesus, and we wouldn't have had much of the New Testament. We wouldn't have seen all the churches that he started. We can't look at yesterday's success and live on that. We've got to forget that success because there's more battles to win and more success to have for Christ this coming year. You need to take your trophy and put it on the shelf. You need to hang up your plaque and get going again. It's okay to go to sleep at night. But you gotta set the alarm. Tomorrow's coming. You gotta get out of bed. Amen. You got another day. The sun is rising again. You gotta get up and go again. Your employer doesn't give you the rest of your life off because you completed one job. Your savior hasn't discharged you from service because you did one thing for him. There was a general. General Gordon was leading his forces in the Sudan. He assigned one of his officers the task of capturing this strong fortress after days and days of hard and demanding conflict. The officer galloped into camp, dismounted, saluted the general, and announced, General, I have taken the fort! And the commander, without raising his head, said, Good, go take another. When we stand before God and say, Lord, my commander in chief, I have done as thou hast commanded. He says, Good. Now do this. There's something to be done this coming year. There is some victories to be won this coming year. We can't just say, hey, I did it last year. Year. I had it last year, and I'm okay. We've got to look at this coming year and say there's some victories God wants me to win. There's some steps God wants me to take. There's some measure of victory God would have me have. We've got to look forward. A successful fisherman doesn't quit just because he catches one big fish. The ball team doesn't stop uh playing just because they made it to the final four. The football team doesn't hang up their cleats because they happen to win the Super Bowl one time. Why is it so many Christians feel like, well, I did it for Jesus today. I hope he's happy the rest of my life, I'm going to sit, but no. We're still Christians. We're still on the battlefield. There's still some victories that need to be won. Amen? We've got to go on for God. Forget those failures. Forget the successes. You might have had some of both this past year, but we're closing up on the end of this year. We're about to start on a new one here in just over a week and listen. Get ready to hit the ground running. Let me give you one last thought as we get about to close here. Thus far, we've kind of looked at you and your own life in self-evaluation. What you've done and what you haven't done, maybe. One of the greatest hindrances to Christians Is because they can't forget others' failures. Because somebody else has failed you. You're hindered from being and doing what God wants you to be. We need to forget others. Failures. So somebody did something to you last month, last year, ten years ago, whatever it is. You need to forget it. You need to just forget it. Just let it go. We need to let other people's failures go. Do you keep a list of the resentments that you have? Are you carrying around that burden of somebody else's failure? How long are you going to hold on to that grudge? And some church member offends you Some family member didn't bring the turkey after you asked them to. It was all planned and and they didn't show up with the turkey And you guys haven't had a good relationship since. Well, Pastor, when you say it like that, it's kind of funny and it's not really worth it. But I was really upset. I know. The devil takes the smallest things and he turns them into these big old mountains in your mind, and you think, how in the world could they do that to me? But the devil, I'm not upset at them. The devil takes those things and puts them in their mind and causes them to mull that over. And they start thinking, Pastor doesn't even care about me. If he cared about me, he would know my name. They start thinking all these things and and they mull that over and they keep thinking about it pretty soon they're mad. And it just grows. And I don't know what it is the devil has you mulling over in your mind that you can't let go. But you're hurting yourself and you're hurting what you could do for God. Because you're just mowing it over and letting the devil use that to hinder you. I want to encourage you tonight, forget those things that are behind. Yes, your own failures, your own successes But bless God, so somebody messed up, realize they're just a human and forget it. Hey I don't understand how we can demand perfection from others. But we want everybody to accept all of our inconsistencies and all of our failures and all of our forgetfulness. But bless God, everybody else ought to be perfect and do exactly what I expect. Aren't you glad God doesn't hold us to that standard? When we think about all that God has forgiven us of, how dare we hold something against a brother or sister in Christ? family member or a friend. We need to just give it to God, put it under the blood, forget about it, and say, God, I'm moving forward from Here. Whatever you want for me. I'm forgetting those things that are behind, and I'm going to press forward. I'm going to press forward. This year we want to press forward as Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? The way to forgetfulness is through the path of forgiveness. Beloved, if you've got something you can't forget, maybe you need to come and ask God to forgive you. Know that God has forgiven you. And then you can forget it. Maybe you've had a friend or a family member that's offended you, and you can't forget it because you haven't forgiven them. The path to forgetfulness is through the path. Of forgiveness. Forgive others. Remember all that Christ has forgiven us for. And let's press towards the mark this coming year Lord Jesus, I pray that you'd use this moment of invitation. We thank you for the privilege that is ours to gather in your house and the freedom we have to preach the Word of God in such a magnificent building. So comfortable. Dear God, I pray you would help us with your power to forget the victories, to forget the failures. And to press on this coming year to even greater things for you. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.