Alright, we are in the book of Acts. You can turn your Bibles to the Book of Acts. We began last week talking about the spirit of the church. Uh we are really going to try and um We're going to try and I have this chart that we gave you, our overall schedule, uh basically the outline of the book, uh showing the chapters and all those kind of things. This is the basic organizational chart we're going to have. We're dealing right now with the sphere of the church, chapters one through four, and then we're going to deal with the growth of the church and then the persecution of the church. So we're going to kind of track through this schedule is how we're going to be tackling that, just so you know uh where we're at and what we're looking at. Um that's how we're going to do it. Now I need to get turned there in my Bible to the book of Acts, but you know we began Acts opens up with uh Jesus still here on earth. He's still uh in present and he's walking with the disciples, spending time with them. He's teaching them, he's telling them, hey, I gotta go, but I'm gonna I'm going to send a comforter. And so he's spending some time with them. They're walking with the Savior. And there are many proofs of the resurrection that we go through. And uh but he promises the Holy Spirit, that the Holy Spirit's going to come. And as we're talking here about the spirit of the church, we're talking about what uh is accomplished in the early church in and through the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not just a work of man, it's not just something that people thought would be a great idea. But it is the Spirit of God that's very evident and uh the workings of His uh accomplishments are very real and they're easy to see. And so We see that as we as we opened up last week with him walking with the Savior. Jesus arises. He he goes up into heaven, he ascends uh to the right hand of the Father, and uh then the church begins to wait for the Spirit. They have been Told to go and to wait. They told the Spirit's coming, so they go and they begin to pray. And uh 120 uh members of the church, they they're waiting, they're praying for ten days. They're praying for God to send the Spirit's power and uh they persevere in that and they see God answer the prayer and the Spirit comes. And then the work of the Spirit is very evident. As the work gets underway, they see the miracle at Pentecost where the Spirit is manifest in several ways. We talked about this last week, the idea of them I every man hearing uh in their own tongue and uh God giving them a great multiplication there uh where three thousand souls were added to the church, the spirit outpouring on them and the power that was very evident. The conviction of the Spirit is very present and uh we need the convicting power of the Holy Spirit in our lives even today and it is a work that He has to do. Um more and more the the older I get the more I realize Uh it's not an outline, it's it's the Spirit of God. And uh I work hard and try and build my outlines and make them interesting and uh you know but you know the outline is not going to change anybody's life It is the Spirit of God that changes somebody's life. It is the Word of God. That's where the power is. And that's where the focus needs to be So then we see this morning we're going to pick up here with uh chapter number three is where we got to. Last week, I believe that we s we stopped there. So that is Let's see the top of page number 90 in your notes where the witness of Peter is strong, and we see him begin to witness uh and work. First of all, Peter uh has a commitment to prayer in chapter three and verse number one. Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer being the ninth hour. He commits time to prayer. We say they had an hour of prayer. They had a time that was set aside. It was set hour of prayer was a time to get together and pray. Let me ask you, do you have a time of prayer? Do you have a time each day that you spend in prayer? Do you have a set time and uh a pattern of prayer in your life, you know, if something doesn't have a schedule, it tends to be forgotten. There's always more to do than we can get done, right? I mean there's always more to do. We always have a longer list to accomplish than we can possibly get done. And if there's if there's not a schedule, if there's not a plan, things that aren't planned tend to get, you know, you know how it is Uh you know, you like Bob and I may be talking, we'll be like, hey, let's get together sometime. That's great. But that usually doesn't happen, does it? Because it's like, oh yeah, let's do that. Oh that would be wonderful. And and you know then we see each other and and a few weeks later and then three months later and we're like oh we were gonna get together. Wait, you know, let's do that. Yeah No, we got to say, okay, Tuesday at one o'clock. You gotta schedule it. And then it will happen. And then you make it happen. That's where you need to have a the hour of prayer. They said this was the time for prayer. We're gonna go up and we're gonna spend some time in prayer Peter's power in his witnessing was because of the Holy Spirit, but it's because he was a person of prayer. Listen, our church needs to uh be a church of prayer. We're going to experience the moving of the Holy Spirit and the work of God if we are a people of prayer. I know we pray together on Thursday nights, but we need to be praying as individuals. More than that for sure. We need to have a set time of prayer where we seek God and His power and uh asking Him to work. We see Peter's care is presented here Peter, he begins to pray in their verse number two, he says, And a certain man, uh lame from his mother's womb, was carried, whom they laid daily carried, whom they sorry, I backed up, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple. which is called beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple, who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked an alms. And Peter fastened his eyes upon him with not, look on us. And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them. Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. So we see Peter's care and his concern for others here. He does not have gold that he can give this beggar, uh beggar of alms, but he knows that that's not his actual need anyway, but he has something that's worth more than silver and gold. And what he has, he says, hey, I'm willing to give you what I have And we need to be willing to give what we have. God's not going to ask something of you that you do not have, but he may ask for what you're carrying. You know, Moses talking to the Lord about, well, I can't do that, I can't do that, and and God said, What's in your hand? He said, a staff. He said, Well take that staff and throw it down. And the picture there, God takes what he had already, took what he had in his hand and used it to do a great work. And if we are willing to take what we have God will use what you have. And that means your ability, your skills, you're like, oh, I'm not a very good communicator. That's okay. God will use what you have. God will take your skills, your strength, your ability to work and minister to reach others. Peter's care is presented. There's a legend, I don't know how true it is, but Thomas Aquinas was visiting the Pope. And uh he was being tour to touring the Vatican and seeing all of the wealth that they have, and the Pope was kind of uh showing him, you know, being kind of grandiose and and look at all this and see these golden goblets and all of these things that they've got. And uh the Pope looks at Peter Quintus and says, Hey Uh so you understand, like unlike the first Pope, I can't say silver and gold have I none. And Thomas Aquinas looks at him and he says, Yes, and neither can you say, take up thy bed and walk. Pretty uh strong reproof. Uh but that's the truth is this was done through the power of God. Because God had chosen to empower Peter to do this. We see Peter's communication is powerful in verses 12 through 26. And uh let's just pick up in verse number seven and they took him by the right hand and lifted him up And immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. And he leaping up stood and walked and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God. And all the people saw him walking and praising God, and they knew that it was he which sat at alms in the beautiful gate of the temple, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him And as a lame man was healed, uh held Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them. into the porch that is called Solomon's greatly wondering. A great multitude of people gathered. They saw this miracle and God used that to draw a crowd that Peter could minister to. They were greatly wondering, like, wow, how is it? What happened to this guy? He was lame. Now he's walking and jumping around. And look at look at this. This is amazing. Look at Peter How did Peter do this? But look at Peter's answer in verse number twelve. And Peter saw it. He answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? Or why look ye so earnestly on us as though by our own power or holiness we have made this man to walk Is he beloved Peter gives a good answer here? He says, you're looking at me as though somehow I did this. You need to understand that I didn't do this. It's not by my power, it's not by my holiness, this is not something that I accomplished of myself. And beloved, we need to be careful with God's glory. Be careful about receiving or uh taking what ultimately should be deflected or pointed towards God. When God uses us to do a work, we need to be pointing that, look, it's not by my power, it's not by my strength, it's not by by you know it's not because I'm all that in a bag of chips. No, it's God chose to do this great work And uh it's not my my power. And Peter pointed that out to them that were standing there in amazement. And they could have looked at Peter and thought, wow, look at here's the a new Messiah. Look at the power that he has. But he says, No, no, no, this is not me. It's the one and true God, Jesus of Nazareth, that he said I he is the one that caused this man to take up his bed and walk. Peter continues with powerful communication with this general assembly that's gathered there. And he gives them a great admonition. He he kind of Rebukes them there in verse number 14 and 15. He says, But ye denied the Holy One and the just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you. He said, You rejected Jesus Christ You sent him to the cross, and instead you asked for a murderer to be released. That's what ye did. And ye killed, verse number 15, and killed the Prince of Life whom God hath raised from the dead. Whereof we are witnesses. He says, This is the one that the power came through. The one that you sent to the cross The one whom God raised from the dead, the one whom we are witnesses of that work and of the risen Savior, we're witnesses of that. And uh he admonishes them for what they had done. And we see a assurance that he gives to them and the promise of the possibility of salvation in verse 19. And also in verse number twenty-six, he says, Repent ye therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the time of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord. Down in verse number twenty-six he says, Unto you first God sent it to him. You remember that it that this this part of Acts is dealing with the Jews and the messages going to the Jews. And he says, unto you The Jewish people, having raised up the Son, Jesus, sent him to bless you in turning away every one of you from his iniquities. He says you could have uh accepted him, but you rejected him. However, that message is still there and you could still turn, you could still receive him, you could still be forgiven. However, they reject the warning. We see in chapter 4 that he warns them, he tells them, and that he preaches to them, but they reject the warning, and Peter and John are arrested. They didn't care for what they had to say. In chapter 4, verse number 1. And they spake unto the people, the priest, and the captain of the temple. Now the captain of the temple was second only to the high priest. So the Captain of the Temple had lots of power. This was a very uh political organization. Uh it was a powerful organization in the community. and they could sway a lot of things. They had a lot of a lot of rule. And the captain of the temple here of the Sadducees came upon them. being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in hold unto the next day, for it was now even tide. They they captured them. They thought, well, we'll deal with them tomorrow. And they threw them into a jail. for the night said we're gonna we're just gonna it's it's late we're we're gonna put them in jail we'll we'll deal with them uh tomorrow. Verse number four howbeit many of them which heard the word believed and the number of the men was about five thousand. So we see even in the midst of this hardship that uh the work of God was still expanding. The work of God was still going forward. Peter uh is thrown into jail and yet the work is still expanding. It is grown to at least five thousand men and uh the the the church is still moving forward in a great way. Peter and John were addressed there in verse number 7. And when they had sat them in the midst, they asked, By what power and by what name have ye done this? And we see here the Bible tells us very clearly that Peter was filled with the Holy Ghost. That he is giving an answer, but it's not just his answer. And if you have a habit of walking with the Lord and allowing the Lord to lead and direct you in your life, you will at times Of your own, you you'll see yourself when you're talking to somebody, you'll think, man, where did that come from? I haven't thought of that in years. How did that come back to my mind? Or where did that verse come from? The Holy Spirit gives you utterance. The Holy Spirit brings things to your mind that are needed to minister to the soul of another one when you're submitted and yielded to him. This is what Peter said here. He was filled with the Holy Ghost, and said unto them, Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel, if we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he is made whole Be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole? He says, hey, you could examine us all you want, you can you can look at us and try and interrogate us, but the fact of the matter is is the the the this man who was lame but now can walk that stands before you whole was made whole by Jesus Christ The man whom ye crucified, the one who you said was not the Messiah, the one who was dead but rose again, he is the one that has done this. And boy, they did not like that at all They did not care for that uh answer at all. The Sanhedrin uh stood a stood amazed But they could not deny the resurrection of Christ here and what happened. They could not deny the restoration of this crippled man, that testimony of this crippled man. uh uh when when somebody that was lame is healed. And you know many times the most powerful truth that you can share is the change in your own life. People can't deny the change in your life. When you've changed for real, when you are a different person, people will realize that. And they'll look at that and they'll say, well Uh something's different. They are no longer the angry, you know, bitter person they were. They are they no longer talk the way they used to talk, they no longer act the way they used to act. And you tell them, listen, it's not me. I haven't just turned over an overleaf, a new leaf, but the Holy Spirit of God has done a work in my life, and it's through the power of Jesus Christ that I am a new man. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. And they won't be able to deny that work of God in your heart and in your life if God if you're allowing God to really The Sanhedrin were not happy about this, and they commanded them to abstain from preaching. Verses 17 and 18. Hey, you can't be preaching like this. He says, but that it spread no further among the people, let us straightly threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name. And they called them and commanded them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. So they gathered together and said, What are we going to do about this? And they chose and decided, well, what we'll do is we'll tell them Okay, we're gonna let you guys go, but you can't preach in the name of Jesus anymore. Why is it that that name holds so much power? Why is it people are so afraid of that name, the name of Jesus? Why is it the name of Jesus is the one that's used to mock and make fun and to uh uh you know blaspheme the name of Jesus? People don't cry out and and blaspheme of other names It's because that name has power. There's no other name under heaven given among men whereby uh we are saved. But through the through the name of Jesus. That name of Jesus has power. They commanded them not to preach it. But Peter and John answered and said unto them Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto men, then unto God, judge ye. For we cannot speak the things, cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. He says, Listen, you guys be the judge. You tell me, is it going to be better for me to hearken to the voice of men? And be in obedience to you, or should I hearken to the voice of God? Which is more important? Which should I heed? They wisely Uh they don't just defy them. They don't just say, stick it in your ear. They say, listen, why don't you tell me what would be better? Would it be better for me to listen to you or would it be better for me to listen to God. And they tell them it's right to obey God, of course. We we need to speak to things which we've seen and heard. They said the congregation acknowledges God's power And they see God's plan, the group of of people there, um, they begin to ask God for some things. Uh We'll see in verse number 24 that they acknowledge his sovereignty. And when they had heard this, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, thou art God. Which hath made heaven and earth and sea and all that in them is. They they understood, hey, this is God, this is the creator of the world, this is somebody in control. We need to be yielded to him. They recited the scriptures. Verses 25 through 28 is actually Psalms 2. If you mark in your Bible, you can write next to those two verses there. Psalms 2. It's a quote from uh the book of Psalms, who by this mouth of the servant David has said. Why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain things? They're quoting David from Psalms 2 there. They go back to that. And then they request of God some specific things in Verses 29 through 30, uh asking God for power and for his work to be done. I think it was Warren Wersby that preached a very powerful message on some things that the early church had. And if you uh walk through the book of Acts here and find the word great and use the word just just follow the word great through this book. You'll see several things. In verse number 33, we see two of them. He says, and with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus and great grace. was upon them all. So we see two of them right there that they had great power, they had great grace in the working of the ministry and fulfilling of God's plan. They received the Spirit of God to do this work. And that's what we've been talking about. How this is the spirit of the church. This is what took over. The Spirit led and moved in miraculous ways. When a church is moved by the Spirit of God, it's evident. It's not man's doing, it's God's doing. And that's what we want. We long for and look for the Spirit of God to do his work in our midst. This is the foundation, the beginning of the church that we've looked at. We saw the church was, you know, Christ was there. He ascended up into heaven and he promised the Holy Spirit would come. The Holy Spirit did come. He begins to do his work in chapter two with Pentecost and the great uh many souls saved there. And even as hardship and persecution starts coming, we see the Holy Spirit still empowering them to do a great work. Now, as I bring this to a close here, um I want to just mention that we often think of a New Testament church, and in our mind's eye, we picture the Church of Jerusalem. That's the New Testament church. That's the main church. That's the focus in a lot of what we look at as far as the pattern of the church and how a church functions comes from that. When we move into the next chapters, we're going to see that. But I want you to know and remember, well, let me ask you, do you believe that all churches are different? Every church is a little bit different, right? They're made up of different people. This group and combination of people, the Bible says a church is fitly joined together. God has a plan for every body of believers. And uh what I'm saying is not every church is the same, and we should not, as a church, uh try and emulate or be like any other church. We need to be the body of believers that God calls us to be and to accomplish the work that He calls us to accomplish. And uh that's not to say we can't get good ideas from somebody if we have a friend or somebody we we know that They had this special day and they saw great fruit from it. And you know, we could do something like that and say, hey, let's let's see if God would use that here, these types of things. But what I'm saying is sometimes in our mind's eye we think about this church at Jerusalem, this massive conglomeration, this massive group of people there, that here this church grew by 3,000 and then it reached five thousand and We're going to see another 4,000 added, and then we're going to see we're going to see this church that is growing exponentially, this massive movement of people. And then also we'll see that this church sending out missionaries directly. Not supporting missionaries, that obviously we do that as well, but the church had the privilege to actually send out their own missionaries. Because of the growth of the church, they had people that were prepared and ready and then they sent out missionaries. They had a global reach Um but here's what I'm saying, we've got to be careful that in our mind's eye we don't think, well, unless the church is run in a thousand, they're not doing much. You we need to remember that the vast majority of churches in the New Testament We're not the Church of Jerusalem. The Church of Jerusalem was an exception to the rule. It was a magnificent move of the Spirit of God for a particular time for a particular purpose. And God may still do that today with a group of people because He has a plan for that church and wants them to accomplish a particular thing. But the vast majority of churches in the New Testament were very small groups of believers. Many of the New Testament churches met in somebody's house. That's how small they were. Um and so what I'm just saying is we've got to be careful, especially in this day and age, that we don't look at and think, well, uh unless the church is growing by hundreds every year or uh moving in a particular direction like this or doing what you know I saw this church and they supported uh you know I know a church that supports three hundred and ten missionaries. Okay, that's something that God gave that church to do. Not every church should shoot for the goal of supporting 310 missionaries. That may not be within the capacity of this church. or any other church. You you gotta do what God wants you to do as a church. There are some churches have very strong missions focus. There are some churches that Uh God is gifted. They have a very good uh community type outreach. They're able to reach into the community very well. They're gifted that way. God uses them locally in a really strong manner. You know, there are some churches that are very strong in discipleship and and growing up strong believers that that are doing something for God, that that foundational training. And all of these things should be part of our church, but what I'm saying is we want to be careful that we're not trying to build or shape this church like something we saw online. Or something that you happen to have experienced, you know, you were on vacation and we saw this church, and man, this and this and this, you know, but that's not this church. The people that were there are not here. And every church is a little bit different. And so we as a people, just like every individual is different, you have to be before God who God calls you as an individual to be Well then the church that God puts together is the same way that we have to be what God calls Hunt Valley Baptist Church to be, and we're not necessarily going to be a church like Jerusalem. Now, if God sees fit to do that for this body of believers or any other body of believers, that's God, God's the one that builds the church. He says, I will build my church Right, so God's the one that does that, we just need to be submitted to His will. And uh I just want to encourage you to try not to put uh different churches into our box. Like we we like to fit everything into a particular this is what quantifies a a successful church or a good church or whatever. Uh we want to try and be what God wants us to be. And if a church is honoring and pleasing God, then it's a successful church. Amen? Amen. All right. Now we're going to close there because I know it's a little bit early and we could get into the next section of notes. Uh however, there's no way we'll be able to make a good dent in that, and I don't want to get halfway through it. Uh this the New Testament, the growth of the church, uh covers three chapters. And I think that's a really solid lesson for one Sunday. So we'll deal with that. Not next week. Again, remember next week we won't be having Sunday school. We're going to concentrate on the faith in blue. So all right, let's close in prayer and we'll be discussing