That's not what we're preaching from. That's something extra. I'll tell you about the end of the server. So you can take your Bibles this evening and turn to the book of John. John chapter 10, and I want you to get to John chapter 10. If you could take your finger, stick it there, and go ahead and turn to 2 Peter 1 as well. John chapter 10 and 2 Peter 1. As I begin the sermon this evening, I'm going to start with a parable. A parable that I wrote to start to convey the idea that we're going to be dealing with in the Bible tonight. I'm very excited about this topic. But we've been studying parables, or you've been studying parables in Sunday school recently. Can they tell me what a parable is? You guys are in my class. I'm looking for the adults. They're learning about parables in uh in uh Sunday school. How to define a parable? Somebody back here with a hand raised? Who had it? I can't see 'em. All right, Melissa's got her hand up. An earthly story with a heavenly meaning. So I'm going to share with you an earthly story, and as we get into our message, I believe you'll start to see the heavenly meaning. And as we uh start to develop that, and even as I'm telling the story, I'm sure some of you are going to start to make uh the connections to what we're gonna be dealing with this evening. As we start our story tonight, I want you to imagine two men, and for sake of illustration, we're going to make them brothers. And they go through the normal course of life. They grow up. They are in high school. They come out of high school, they go to college, then they enter their working career. Now, as they're in their working career and the working field, they begin to learn about this thing called retirement. They realize that they just all they do is work. If they all they do is go to work and do what they're supposed to do at work and keep a job, they realize that they're going to be able to one day uh retire. They'll be able to reach this place because the powers that be have a program in place called social insec I mean social security um that they have in place there. And so if you work, you get this, you get to retire. with social insecurity. And so you want to uh keep working uh as long as you're working you're gonna get that. And they learn this and this is exciting for them. They didn't know about this before. As long as they work, they get to uh get to receive this retirement. Supposedly they get this regardless of what they do. One brother takes great joy in this, and he decides to live his working life to the fullest because he knows he has social security when he retires. But the other brother takes a little time and learns a little bit more. He learns that Social Security is not the only thing in retirement He begins to learn about things called IRAs and four hundred one Ks and investments and the value of a paid for home and what a net worth is And as he learns about this, he finds out that the things he will receive in his retirement are directly tied to the way he lives and the sacrifices he makes during his working lifetime. So while one brother spends an entire paycheck on a new car lease, the other brother opens an IRA. While one brother binge watches Netflix The other reads about mutual funds. While one dines at fancy restaurants, the other makes sure he gets his match on his 401k at work. Then the day comes where both of these brothers retire. They both get the social security that was promised to them for being a working adult. But the one brother, that's all he gets. All he gets in retirement is Social Security. The other brother has found out there's a lot more. There was a lot more available to him, and when he gets to that point, he has what you could call an abundant retirement. An abundant retirement because he put in some work, he made some sacrifices, he made some investments. The topic I'm going to be preaching this evening is something that I've never heard dealt with in one message, specifically on this topic I've heard it kind of a reference in other studies that preachers have done, and it's a topic as I said I'm very excited about. I'd only began studying for about two hours on this topic, and I had over five pages of scripture references that that dealt with this topic as I was as I was dealing with it. I came across this thought a few weeks ago while I was studying, and since then I've talked to five other top pastors about this. That's how excited I was about this study And they agreed with me. They'd never looked at it specifically in this light before, but agreed that it was a biblical topic. Tonight I want to preach a message called an abundant eternal life. An abundant eternal life. We understand the idea of abundance. We just came through Thanksgiving. Have you had an abundance on Thanksgiving? There was way more food than than we could eat. We did. Well, my family didn't have anybody over this year, which just the four of us had at our family. And And we sit down and there's food enough for, I think, about forty people there on our table. And that's what we do at Thanksgiving. We provide an abundance. Abundance is the idea of excess and overflow and beyond what is necessary And just as the two men in retirement, one he got social security, we say that's kind of a minimum. That's that's what he what he what he coasted into retirement, but there there was more available And as we start to get into this topic tonight, I w I want to see, is there is there more available in heaven? Is there more available in eternity? Is there an abundant eternal life available to the Christians. We're going to read these two passages, the first being in John chapter 10. So if you have your place there, if you stand with me, we'll be reading verses 7 down through verse number 10. Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door, by me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out and find pasture. The thief cometh not but to f but for to kill, steal, and to kill, and to destroy I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. And if you have your place there in First Peter, first Peter one second Peter I'm sorry. Second Peter one verse number eleven says For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word, what it teaches us. I pray you'd be with us now as we begin this Bible study, Lord, and just begin to peel back the lid a little bit and peek in the curtain of eternity, what you have revealed for us in your word. Uh Lord, and and see what you have in store, what you what you desire for us as Christians to receive and what you've prepared for us there in heaven and in eternity, Lord. I pray we would make the We would see the value of investing in eternity, that we would see, uh Lord, the value of of striving for the rewards that you have laid up for us, Lord, and that we would be less concerned about this present life and more concerned about what we're doing that's going to be impacting our eternal life. I pray you bless the study of your word this evening and ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. I was captured with this thought as I studied and I read this verse just a few weeks ago, the idea of an abundant life. And we're going to talk about that a little bit more as we get into the get into the study, but It just hit me the the as I was reading God's Word and asking questions to myself of the passage, I asked the question, is there an opportunity to have an abundant eternal life. And I believe we're going to answer that question as we study the Word of God together this evening. Now before we begin, I want to address the skeptics. I know this is a new, maybe a new topic you haven't heard before, and maybe something that you haven't, as I said, I've never heard this brought into one message, and whenever I hear something new My guard goes up a little bit because and that's a good thing. We want to make sure that we're testing what we're hearing with the Word of God and with Scriptures. Well we have another group that would uh I know there's none of them Here, uh but this is going out over online, so there's some skeptics have to deal with that are online listening. Nobody in this room would uh would uh would ever disagree uh with anybody. But we have uh we are gonna look gonna be as we're looking at this, I'm gonna be bringing some things up, and we can listen to this message, we can listen to this topic, and people do, from either a spiritual perspective or a fleshly perspective. A fleshly perspective that doesn't want to go the extra mile, that doesn't want to make the sacrifices, that's going to sit in a place of criticism of those who do want to go beyond and be skeptical, and I want to address a few of those things I am, as we preached this night, I am going to be preaching the idea that heaven is going to be better for some than it is for others. I'm going to be preaching tonight that we ought to strive to receive the rewards that God has in store for us. I'm going to be preaching tonight the idea that there'll be some greater in heaven and some that are least. These are terms that Jesus used when talking about his kingdom. And as you as I said already, you can listen to this from a fleshly critical perspective or from a spiritual perspective as you look at the truths of the Word of God with me tonight. First, we are obviously talking about eternal life, and we are talking about heaven. When we step out in eternity out of our mansion and our foot lands on the street of gold, it doesn't really matter that much how big our mansion is compared to the guy next to us. Where we're talking, keeping the perspective in. Heaven is a wonderful place. Heaven is a beautiful place. Nothing on earth can compare with heaven. There's nothing bad or negative about heaven in and of itself But does that mean that it can't be better? That we can't experience it in a more full manner, that we can't receive more for our service in eternity So keeping in mind the perspective of yes, we are talking about heaven. Secondly, I'm not advocating pride or boasting or comparing ourselves amongst ourselves. Say, well what are you saying? When we get to heaven, I'm going to be looking around like, man, I got more roars than so-and-so. I got a bigger mansion than so-and-so. I've got this. That's not right for us to do now, and when we're in heaven and we have no sin, we're not going to be doing it there either. I'm not advocating boasting or pride or or self-exaltation or comparing ourselves among ourselves. In truth, the rewards that we receive bring glory back to God. The more that we do, the more that we receive, the more that we we do and are rewarded for on God's behalf shows and brings glory to God. And even as we talk about this idea of comparison, most of the world wouldn't do this, and anybody that's spiritual at all aren't going to be comparing themselves amongst themselves that w in in manners of I don't feel like I'm better than Brother Joe because my house is bigger than his. We don't look at things that way. If you have a spiritual mind, we don't consider things that way. But I'll tell you I'd rather live in my house than live in his. I don't think I'm better, but I'd rather have my house than his if you don't know he lives in a five hundred square foot house on the top of a mudhill, um uh essentially. So uh but I don't think I'm better because and I'm not comparing myself with him. But there's differences. There's differences that are there. So I'm not advocating pride or boasting. I'm also not advocating, thirdly, spiritual, selfish spiritual ambition. I'm not piling up rewards, or we're not piling up rewards, so that we can be the biggest and the best in heaven. In fact, most selfish, uh self-seeking people do not get the rewards that they are seeking The ones in uh in our secular world, the ones that get the promotions, the ones that get the raises, they're the ones who are serving well, serving others. The biblical truth of the last shall be first and the first shall be last. And he that would be the greatest, let him be the servant of all that place true even in business. Uh that good servants are the ones who are promoted, the ones who seek to to the betterment of the company. not for the betterment of themselves. They're the ones who are rewarded. It's not wrong for us to desire a reward, but a Christian that is serving for a reward with the right heart will be serving with the desire to please God. Just a few weeks ago I took our teens to Indiana while we were there. Um a lot of them competed in different fine arts categories relating to music, preaching, storytelling. They competed in this. And teens from all over the country, there are over 300 teenagers there, competing in these areas. And they were competing to get a reward. Uh there there were trophies that they were giving away. There were scholarships that could be won. As I was reviewing the list to make sure I made it to all of our teens' practices and performances uh when they were happening. I was there with a pastor friend of mine from college and we noticed there was one category that had one entry in it. And we said, man, we should enter. What is it? It's it's instrumental ensemble. You know why you play an instrument? No. I said do you play an instrument? No. I said, Well the only one people competing, that means we get second place no matter what we do Um so if you if I played the spoons and and you can slap your cheeks and we'll do Handel's Messiah and uh and we'll get second place and score a zero uh for doing that. Now we were joking about that obviously and we did not they wouldn't let us enter actually, but they were not that we did not enter uh the contest. But the other group, the only one in the um competition, uh they performed to the best of their abilities. They performed uh to please the Lord, they performed to please the parents, they performed to please their pastor and their music instructor. And if we would have been able to compete, we we you know we both would have been striving for a trophy And uh we had one that was doing their best to receive a trophy, and one that was doing it half-heartedly figuring I'm going to get one anyway. Uh which one had the selfish ambition? The one who was doing their best to seek to please the Lord, or the one who was just in it for what they could get So if you're going to point out a Christian and say, well, they're just serving God to get rewarded for it, that's not a position from a spiritual perspective. Yes, somebody that's going to be serving God is going to be rewarded, but their heart's desire is to please the Lord first. And you compare that with the Christian who is doing nothing for God The Christian who is sitting on the sidelines who said, I got saved, I'm going to heaven, I'm not worrying about anything else. Which one has the selfish ambition God, they're gonna get to heaven and say, God, I want my mansion, I want my crown, I want my street of gold, I want my lakeside view of the um crystal sea, and I didn't do nothing except accept Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior They're going to receive those rewards in heaven, a a measure of reward, but they're getting it without giving anything back to the Lord. And uh we are going to heaven based on the grace of God, but a right heart, not a selfish heart, a right heart is one that's seeking to serve God with the time that they have here in this in the in their life. If perhaps that is the desire of the person to, for some self-advancement, serve God and get recognized, God already gave provision for that He said, if um you're seeking to do something for the praise of men, you've already got your reward. You've lost the one you were going to get in heaven. So if your desire is self-advancement, You're not getting rewards for that anyway. But a Christian who desires to serve God and desires to please God, it's not wrong for God to reward them for that Um but so often people sit on the sidelines and criticize Christians who are going the extra mile for the Lord, who are making the extra sacrifice, who are giving things up, who are taking positions of conviction and they're lying, they'll stand back and criticize But God is pleased with a Christian who is seeking to serve him. Fourthly, another question a skeptic might ask, as I've kind of addressed a little bit already, is why bother? If we're going to go to heaven, if we're going to get a mansion, why should I invest all this in the Lord? And that's a that's a foolish question. for a Christian to ask because of all that God has done for us, what's too much for him to ask of us. Romans 12 verse 2 says, which is your reasonable service. It makes sense. It's reasonable. God's not asking anything unreasonable. He gave all for us, and he only asked us to give some for him. And the more we give for him, the more he's promised to reward. us for it. Hopefully as we're getting through this ill this uh introduction, you're beginning to see the interpretation of the parable that we started our message with. The one brother coasted into his retirement with only what was guaranteed him Just as some Christians are going to coast into heaven with only what is guaranteed. But the other brother saw that the quality of his retirement was directly related to the amount that he was willing to sacrifice during his working life. As we study this topic tonight, I'm going to tell you we're just going to scratch the surface. I'm just going to be giving you truths from the Bible, introducing it to you, kind of giving you a glimpse Giving you a peek, pulling the lid back a little bit, saying, this is possible. This is available to the Christian who wants it, who wants to make the sacrifice, who wants to invest. These things are possible, and I hope as I introduce this, you're not going to walk away as scholars on eternity, but you I hope you walk away with a hunger and a desire to say, God, I want some of that for me. I want some of those rewards for me. We see the example in the parable that Jesus gave of the laborers who are tired at different points of the day and how they all received a reward. It's never too late to start earning your rewards and have you say, Well, I've already missed on so much. Well, there's so much more ahead of you that God can still reward you for if you're willing to make that decision now to start to serve God. My goal this evening is that you'll see what's possible, what's potential for you in heaven and in eternity, and you will leave tonight planning on doing something with that information, with that motivation. So as we begin this evening, we're going to start number one with the finding of eternal life. We can't get into the abundant eternal life or what's in store for the Christian until we deal with How do you get eternal life to start with? How do you become a Christian? And this is where we're going to start in John chapter 10. We see in verse number 10, the thief come not but for to kill, steal, and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have life. And they might have it more eternal or have it more abundantly. And verse 9 says, I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved. So salvation, eternal life, can only be found through Jesus. Eternal life can only be found through Jesus Christ. As we start to look at this, I want to address a couple misconceptions that are there in this world, and you many of you are familiar with this already, but we are not all God's children. We are not all God's children. We are all God's creation. But the ones who have become have have been given the power to become the sons of God are those that believe on the name of Jesus, that have come through Jesus Christ. In this passage we see that he refers to My sheep. My sheep. We see that phrase show up over and over again in these first couple verses of John chapter ten. There's some that belong to God. And if there's some that belong to him, then that means there are others that do not belong to him as far as being His children are being his sheep. Secondly, as we look at the idea of eternal life and getting it through Jesus Christ, just because you're around the sheep doesn't make you one of his Earlier in the chapter, the first couple verses, talk about those that have those that have crept in, those that have found tried to come in another way. There are some that didn't come. through the door. Just because they're in the fold with the sheep doesn't make them one of Jesus' sheep. Just because you're around God's people, just because you're around the things of God doesn't automatically make you a a Christian. Doesn't automatically mean that you have eternal life. Just because you remember this church church does not mean that you're one of his. Just because you have been baptized does not mean you're one of his. Just because you read your Bible and pray does not make you one of his Just because you can talk about God and talk about heaven, talk about church and the Holy Spirit, does not make you one of His. Just because your parents or your family were His does not make you one of His. There's only one way that you can be one of His, and that is to go through Him. There's only one way to become one of his. We see that there were some that tried to sneak in. There were trum some that tried to jump over the wall. There's some uh but there's only one way that we might have eternal life. There's religious programs All around the world that'll give you the program or or or the way to have eternal life, but Jesus says there's only one way is that I am the way, the truth, the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. And if you look at other religions, they're going to give you well, you know what they're This is how you do it. This is the way you get there. This is the way you get to heaven. You have to do this, or you have to do this, or you have to be a part of this group or a part of that group. Jesus says there's only one way. You might look and say, well, they're all so sincere Well, if they're not going through Jesus Christ, then they're sincerely wrong. Because there's only one way to have eternal life, and that is through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. So what does it mean to be one of his? It means that you have come through him. As I said already, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me, and that was said by our Lord Jesus Christ. So, how do you come through Jesus? You come to God as a sinner deserving of hell. You come believing in who Jesus is as Lord and Savior, who died and rose again to pay the price for your sin. You come repenting of your sin, asking forgiveness for your sin, and relying completely on Jesus as the only way for you to be saved. So when you come when you become one of his, you've come through him, you also begin a relationship with him. Look back at verse number three of John chapter ten. John chapter ten, verse number three. It says, To him the porter openeth, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. I want to notice that phrase. He calleth his own sheep by names. There's a special relationship that happens when you become one of the Lords. We see there that he knows your name. Now I know that Jesus is God. And as God, He is omniscient, and that means that He is all-knowing. So God knows who you are. God knows more about you than you know about yourself. God knows who you are, but we see in the Bible when you become one of God's, when you belong to the Lord, there's a special relationship that He has with your name. Because it says here, he calleth his own sheep by name. We also know, according to the book of Revelation, that the moment you get saved, he takes your name and he writes it down. in a book. A book called the Lamb's Book of Life. He writes your name down. We see in heaven that will be given given a new name or a name that is a um uh is he puts on the on a on a white stone. So we have the idea of the name there We also know from Matthew chapter 7 that there were some that's going to come to the Lord and say, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name and in thy name done many wondrous works? Jesus is going to say unto them, Depart from me, ye that work iniquity, I never knew you. There is a relation Although they talked about God, although they talked about the Lord, or they knew about God, there was a relationship that was missing that God did not know them in a personal way because they never accepted Jesus as their Lord and Savior. There's also, as we're talking about, the n the idea of a name or Jesus knowing our name, there's a story in the Bible. It's a true story that that takes place in Luke chapter 16. And it's a story about a rich man and a beggar. But that's not what we call that story, is it? We call that story the rich man and Lazarus. There was a there was a man and he was just a rich man. We don't know who he was. We don't know where he lived. We don't know anything about him. You know there was no relationship with Jesus, but the beggar, he had a name And he had a relationship, and we become one of God's, God knows your name, and God wants to begin a relationship with you. He calls his own sheep by name. Do you have that relationship? Does Jesus know your name? Can you say that you're on a first name relationship with the Lord? Does that relationship Uh is that relationship there. So you come through him, he knows your name, and we see also that there's two things that the sheep do if they belong to him. First we see that they follow him And we also see that they know his voice. This is what happens when you become one of the Lord's, when you belong to him. Jesus came that we ha might have life. So as we start this evening, we're looking at the idea of the finding. Have you found eternal life? We said it doesn't come from anybody else. It comes from your relationship with Jesus Christ. Have you had a moment in time in your life where you've trusted The Lord is your personal Lord and Savior, given your life to Him, repented of your sin. Have you done this? Have you found eternal life? Do you possess it? If you do, we're going to go on and see the next point. If you don't Make sure you get that taken care of today. Today, before, even before the service is out, I encourage you, grab somebody's hand, step out, say, I need to make sure that I know that I have found eternal life. But for those of us that have, that have found eternal life, that we all we have it and that we possessed it, I want to begin to present this idea of the full eternal life. the full eternal life. This verse in John chapter 10 and verse number 10 is where my interest in the study began. It says there, I am come that they might have life and they might have it more abundantly. I've heard many messages on the abundant Christian life. We've heard that expression, the abundant Christian life. And I believe 100% that God wants us to have an abundant Christian life here on this earth. And abundant life is Christians. An abundant spiritual life as we seek to serve God today. You know, if you're say if you are saved today, there's no li reason for you to live live a s spiritual mediocre life. God wants us to have joy unspeakable and full of glory. God wants us to bear fruit thirtyfold, sixtyfold, and a hundredfold in our lives. God wants us to have a peace that passes all understanding. Thinking of the idea of an abundant spiritual or an abundant Christian life Listen to this verse and or these verses in Mark chapter ten, verse twenty nine and thirty. And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, there is no man that hath left house or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake and the gospels, but he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time, houses and brethren, and sisters and mothers and children of the lands with persecutions and in the world to come eternal life. God said even now he wants to restore and bless us a hundredfold for what we give to him. And that's in store for us as Christians, and there is an abundant Christian life available to you. God wants us to have an abundant Christian life. But almost all the references in the Bible discussing life, uh other than physical life, being alive, when he's talking about Jesus as giving us life, we see that he wanted to give us eternal life. John three sixteen, for God still loved the world, the only it gave his one begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him shall not perish but have everlasting life We see eternal life, everlasting life. That's the life that Jesus wanted to give, so why would that not hold true in John 10, verse 10 or 10, where he says, I've come that they might have life and have it more abundantly? When we see Jesus presenting life, he's presenting eternal life. So this uh made me ask the question, can we have an abundant eternal life? I know we can have an abundant Christian life. I know we can have an abundant spiritual life. Is there in store for the Christian an abundant spiritual life? And I believe as I study the Word of God that it will answer with a resounding yes. So as we look at this idea of a full eternal life, is there such a thing, if there is such a thing as abundant eternal life, what would it look like? Now as we get into this, I'm not going to be going into a lot of detail, partly for sake of time. And again, as I said already, I just want to peel back the lid and let you take a peek into the eternity and see what could be yours. Some of the things that we are going to look at will be part of Christ's millennial reign on earth following the tribulation, and others will be for the eternal kingdom of God And some will overlap into both of them. But we'll look, let's go ahead and jump in and see a little bit of what is the Bible describe as a full eternal life. First of all, and this was mentioned this morning that there will be crowns in heaven. There will be crowns in heaven. There are five of these that we will be able to receive. Most know this, most are aware of you know if we serve God, we're going to get a crown And that's uh even in our songs, I want to mention a harp and a crown. The crown is what we're going to see receive as a reward in heaven. But even this thought of a crown kind of prompted the study into the abundant eternal life because I have heard people say, you know, what what's the use of serving God? What's the use of going the extra mile as a Christian if If all we're going to do is get a crown and I'm going to give it back to Jesus anyway. Soon you know maybe a little bit for time there, I'll be embarrassed, and uh but I'm gonna give it away, you're gonna give yours away, and then we're all just gonna be the same for all of eternity So I saw wanted to look at it from that perspective and answer, is that the right answer? Is that the right perspective that you can have there Now, I agree that when we stand before Christ and we have our crowns that we've been rewarded with, nobody's going to notice how many you have on or how many you're missing that you've been rewarded. Because all our focus is going to be on Jesus, as the Lamb of God that was slain before the foundation of the world, who is uh due to receive all honor and glory and power that is rightly his. And he's going to have all of our focus as we stand there before him as Christians receiving our rewards. But there will be two people, I believe, that are going to notice if you're missing your crowns. There will be two people. The first will be yourself. You'll be aware that you're standing there with nothing to present to Christ. You'll be aware that you have nothing that you did for the Lord who did everything for you, and the other person that's going to notice is Jesus Christ Himself. As he looks down. You know, some people he's going to look at, and he's going to be able to say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And there's others who's going to march before him when it comes time to pass out rewards. He's going to have nothing to give and nothing to say. And you'll be aware of it, and Christ will be aware of it if you miss out on the crowns that he has in store for us. So there's five crowns that we can receive as rewards in heaven. The first is a crown of rejoicing. This will be given to soul winners. There is also a crown of righteousness that is given to victorious Christian soldiers and those who are looking for Christ's return. There is a crown of life that is given to those who have given their lives to and for Jesus Christ. There is an uncorrupt an incorruptible crown given to faithful stewards, and there is a crown of glory that is given to pastors. So these five crowns are available for us to receive and to strive for as we seek to serve the Lord. Now there's certain things that will be done with this cr these crowns. First of all, they'll be awarded at the judgment seat of Christ. When we stand before Christ and He's going to judge us based on things that we've done in our body, whether good or bad, he's not going to be judging us based on our sin He'll be judging us based on our service and of our stewardship, and he'll be giving out rewards, and we'll be rewarded with these crowns at this time. So not only are they awarded, we also see that the Christians are going to be wearing these crowns That's in um Revelation chapter four. We see the four and twenty elders with crowns on their head, that they have their crowns in for a time a time and a space in heaven. We will be wearing these crowns that we have been awarded. And then we see later in chapter four of Revelation that we take these crowns and we cast them at the feet of Jesus. And in Revelation, I believe it's twenty-one, we see that when Jesus comes back to earth to set up his millennial kingdom as the as the conquering Lord and the conquering Messiah, we see that he is wearing these crowns. We don't just give them to Jesus. Jesus is going to be wearing them when he comes into battle to conquer the world and set up his millennial kingdom He's going to have these crowns on his head. So that's what takes place with the rewards that we have of crowns. So that's our first uh glimpse into eternity, and one that we're familiar with. We're familiar with the rewards of crowns. But I want to go on and look and see what else is available for us. So besides crowns, there is an abundant entrance possible for the Christian. If you turn back to Second Peter chapter 1. We read this verse as we started, an amazing verse as I began this study that really, really grabbed me. Not only is there uh crowns, there's also an abundant entrance. 2 Peter 1, verse 11 says, For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Now I'm not sure what this means when it talks about an abundant entrance. Is there a red carpet that God's going to roll out? Is there going to be angels with musical instruments playing as these Christians? I don't know. An abundant entrance Jesus says it's possible, or Peter says through the through the Holy Spirit, is says it's possible for the Christian here. I don't know what it is, but the Bible does tell us how we can get it. How do we get this abundant entrance? You see the first two words of verse 11 are for so. That phrase together carries the idea of because of or a cause and effect. So the verses that if you do what the verses before say you'll be able to receive what this verse is about to say. So what does the verses before say this? It's kind of an if-then um type phrase. You see the verses leading up to verse 11. You see a Christian that is assured of his salvation, that is adding to his faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge, temperance, and to temperance patience, and to patience godliness. And to godliness, brotherly kindness and a brotherly kindness, charity, Christian who is adding these things into his the life For so an entrance shall be made abundantly unto him into the everlasting kingdom. It looks to me as if the Christians that are growing spiritually can be rewarded with an abundant entrance into eternity. Again, I can't tell you what all that's going to look like, but I can tell you that's what I desire to have as I seek to please God and serve God with my life Next we see there are crowns that there were that we can earn, there is an abundant entrance to be had, but there are also treasures to be stored in heaven We're familiar with Matthew chapter sixteen, verses nineteen through twenty-one. Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust doth corrupt and where thieves Break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither Roth nor Muth mo Roth Rust doth corrupt. And where thieves bre do not break through nor steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Three times the Bible records Jesus saying, Go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor that thou might have treasure, then thou shalt have treasure in heaven. Hebrews ten verse thirty four says, For ye have compassion had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and enduring substance Now we have here the idea that we can put and we can store and we can lay up for ourselves treasures in heaven. What are these treasures? What are they going to look like? What are we going to do with them? I'm not sure. Maybe there's going to be some way we can spend these treasures in heaven. Maybe there's some way we can honor God. Well definitely there's some way we can honor God or give God glory with these treasures. These treasures are not our crowns, it's separate from the crowns uh that we have. So they I don't know what we're gonna do with them, and I know they're different from our crowns. I also know that God didn't put a limit on how much treasure we can invest. But we do know that how much treasure we invest is directly tied to what we are willing to sacrifice now. How much treasure are you willing to lay up? How much can you? You can lay up as much as you want to. But that's up to you. How much are you willing to sacrifice now? Same as uh if we're going to go back to our illustration of physical retirement, you can have a lot of money in retirement. If you're going to make a lot of sacrifices now. Or you can make no sacrifices now and have a little bit of money when you go to retirement. It's up to you. Now when we come to investing in God's economy, investing treasure in heaven, and we look at the the returns, the the percentage rates and the yields that God promises on our investments, he God uses terms that you're not going to hear at your brokerage office. He uses terms like thirtyfold, sixtyfold, one hundredfold, good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, exceedingly abundantly above all that she can ask or think, or liberally. That's how God talks about our investment and the returns on investments. in heaven. It's gonna be worth it. And and and we're gonna have these treasures in heaven. Again, I don't know what we're gonna do with them, but I want to lay some of them up. I want to lay up some Treasure in heaven. Because when we get to heaven, I don't want to just make it in. I just don't want to make it make it, as the Bible says, yet so as by fire. I want to come with an abundant entrance, as the Bible talks about, laying up treasure in heaven. So we have crowns that we can earn, there is an abundant entrance to be had, there are treasures to be stored, and there are rewards to be had in heaven. First Corinthians three verses eleven through fifteen says, For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, haste, stubble. Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath built thereon, he shall receive a reward. And if any man's work shall be burned He shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. Revelation twenty two, verse twelve says, And behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me to give to every man according as his work shall be. Just second John verse 8 says, Look to yourselves that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. So again, we have rewards. Now that rewards are different than the crowns And the rewards are different than the treasures. And the rewards is different than the abundant entrance to be had there. I'm intrigued, as we see in 2 John, this idea of a full reward. See, 2 John verse 8 says we can receive a full reward. First Corinthians says that we can suffer loss of rewards. Again, this is as we're just kind of scraping the surface. As I picture this the way I see it, you know, God has a reward in store for the Christian. And he said, You can earn a full reward. We can get all the reward that God wants us to have. But First Corinthians says if we waste our life and we only build on our life wood, hay and stubble and it is burned up, we're going to suffer a loss. We're going to lose the rewards that we could have had. The way I picture it is that God has a whole pile of rewards up in heaven with my name on them. I don't know what they are or what they look like or what I'm going to do with them or how God categorizes or organizes them. Maybe there's a reward for each day of my Christian life, whether I yield to the Spirit or yield to my flesh as I serve God. Maybe there's rewards based on categories, on my faithfulness, on my stewardship, on my purity, on my soul winning. I don't know how God's going to divide it. But let's say let's say for illustration that there's a reward for each day. And today, November 25th, there's a reward and God is watching my life and He's going to see, did He yield to the Lord today? Well he was in church and he read his Bible and he studied and he and he preached and he went to uh visit Christine. You know what? Today he walked in the Spirit and he is going to receive this reward and it's going to go into the to-be-awarded pile And then tomorrow, let's say that I don't get a good night's sleep, my neck is hurting from a bad pillow that I was sleeping on. I wake up and I'm cranky and I snap at my wife and I um Um am angry with my children and uh I have a bitter and and uh uh uh bad spirit all day and I don't feel like reading my Bible and I get through the end of the day, you know what's going to happen to that reward That's going to go into the suffering loss pile. And one day I'm going to stand before God and God's going to say, This is what I had in store for you But because of how you lived, this is the rewards that you have lost that you could have had. But I don't want that to be the case when I stand before God. God says in 2 John that I can have a full reward. And it's my heart's desire to have a full reward when I stand before the Lord. And I hope that's the case for you as well. I believe I'll be aware of what I lost when I stand before God. I'll suffer loss for the rewards that God had in store for me. I'm not sure how what it is, how it works, but I don't want to lose any of the rewards that God has prepared for me. And I don't want those rewards for my sake. Just as again, using our illustration from our teenagers going to empowered youth. They competed and they competed to earn a reward and they did as a group earn a reward. And it's sitting back there on the Welcome Center. They got a trophy. place first in a uh in a group ensemble uh singing competition out of a lot of people that were competing there so they competed in that and they won a r uh reward. Now does that reward recognize their eff their effort that they made Absolutely. They're rewarded for their effort. But you notice that that trophy's not in any of their bedrooms. That trophy didn't go home with anybody. That trophy is sitting there in the foyer. Why? Because they won that trophy representing Hunt Valley Baptist Church. They weren't representing themselves, they're representing about the church, and they got the reward, they received the reward, and uh for their effort. But they won it representing our church. And all the rewards that I'm striving to receive will be rewarded to me, but they will be won based on my representation of Christ, and they'll bring glory to him. So we see that there are crowns to earn, there is an abundant entrance to be had, there are treasures to be stored, there are rewards to be had, and there is a place prepared in heaven. John 14, verses 1 through 3, let not your heart be troubled, ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also We have in heaven prepared for us, Christ is preparing for Christians, a home in heaven, a mansion that is there for us. If you get a new translation, if you don't get a King James Bible, you got a new translation, they're going to say, In my father's house are many rooms How much that takes away from the glory of heaven, where my Bible says that in my Father's house are many mansions. These mansions are there for us. Now I believe that these um uh uh we we know from the Bible that everybody will get a reward, and I believe that each of these um mansions will be personal because it says I go to prepare a place for you. And when I have my parents come up and stay with me and I prepare my guest room for my parents to come, I do it a little bit differently than when I'm preparing for my brother to come. or when I prepare for some of the teenagers to come over to the house. The the room is prepared differently based on who it's prepared for. And Jesus knows us and I believe when he says, I'm preparing a place for you That it's for me. And it's not going to be a cookie-cutter model home that's going to be the same all the way down Heaven Boulevard. I believe that God's making a home for me, and I don't know what He's going to stick in my mansion, but I can just see the Lord putting some beautiful wood floors in there that he's making for me. Now in my wife's mansion it's probably going to have uh white gold for the floor. Um but in my mansion I think it's probably going to put some wood floors there. But he's making one for me. And these mansions are there for us. Now I believe that these mansions will be tied to our reward as well. I don't have a specific verse that's going to teach this, so if you're going to disagree with me, that's absolutely fine. But I want you to think with me for just a minute about the character of God. by the character of God. How many of you believe that we serve a creative God? All you have to do is look around. I mean look at the boys that stood up here earlier. We've got a very creative God. Um as uh as we uh seeing God's creation and God's handiwork. And the creativity of the Lord. God doesn't just do things cookie-cutter. God doesn't just do things the same in every way. He likes to manifest his creation, and diversity brings God glory. And I believe that seeing God the handiwork of God in creation leads me to believe that the mansions he's working on in heaven aren't just going to be like row homes. They're not all going to be the same. We're going to see the creativity of God. I think that some will probably be bigger, some will probably be smaller, and they'll have different furnishings in them. See, as we look at the God of the Bible, and as he's preparing these homes, we're seeing his creativity there manifest. God of the Bible is not what we in the what the world today would call fair, meaning equal. Our God is just. He's not equal. Not everybody gets the same thing. We're all going to get heaven. We're all getting imaginations. We're not, but not everybody is given the same ability, the same talent, the same even the in the church, we have a diversity of gifts God does things differently. He is just to all of us. And you take as God is preparing a mansion in heaven for us, you take somebody who does nothing for God with their entire life other than the fact that they came and got saved and they live their life their whole life however they want to, pleasing themselves and serving their flesh, and you have another individual who gave all of their life to God, to serve God, and to please God and to love God Who is God going to spend more time justly preparing their place for them? Preparing the place for them. So this is just again, this is my opinion as I look at it and I understand the character of God But this is consistent with his character as he is a just God and he is a creative God. Now there's so many more things we could look at in relation to the abundant eternal life. We saw that there are crowns to earn, uh there is an abundant entrance to be had, there are treasures to be stored, there's rewards to be had, there's a place prepared. But there's also, according to 1 Corinthians 15, a glorified body to be received in heaven. First, turn with me to 1 Corinthians 15. This is the last one we're going to look at in any any detail or depth. I didn't see this until I began this study, and it's an amazing, amazing thought, amazing truth here as well, of just the abundance that God has in store for us in eternity. And I believe as was said by the Queen of Sheba when she visited Solomon that the half has not been told. There's a whole lot more in store for us than we can even begin to grasp and to understand. When we get to heaven, we'll be receiving a glorified body. Philippians 3, verse 21 says, It shall be fashioned like unto his glorious body, speaking of Jesus Christ. Now this does not mean that we will be all be identical. You'll be recognized as an individual. We'll know who you are when we meet each other in heaven. We don't have to wear name tags. I'll see you. I'll know who you are. I'll recognize you What it does mean is that we're going to have an incorruptible body, just as Jesus is incorruptible. We'll have a glorified body. We'll have an eternal body It does not mean that we will be omnipotent. We will not be all powerful in heaven. And also does not mean that we will be omniscient. We will not be all-knowing in heaven, otherwise we would be God. and uh are gods, and that's the lie of the devil that we will become as God. Uh we have uh an eternal and incorruptible and a glorified body in store for us. But as we look at 1 Corinthians 15, look at down at verse 35 for me. He says, some are going to ask the question, some men will say, how are the dead raised up, and with what body do they come? Thou fool, he answers, that which thou sowest is not quickened except he died. He's going to go into a planting illustration. A seed can't grow, can't become alive again until it dies, and it can't grow until you plant it. In order for it to bring new life, it has to die and it has to Verse thirty-seven, and that which thou sowest, thou sowest not in the body that it shall be, but bear grain or by may it chance of wheat or of some other grain. The thing you put in the ground is not what's coming back up. It's going to be the same type, but you don't plant a kernel of corn and it comes up as a kernel of corn. we would be in trouble if that was the case. No, it comes out a lot different than it went in. It's going to be of the same type, the same nature, but it's going to be much more full, much more abundant, much more in if we could say a glorified So then we see um verses 38 through 41 at the beginning of the verse, we're not going to take time to read it, but we see that God has decided what the new life will look like. And there's a lot of variety. He says there are different types of animals, different types of fowl, and different types of bodies terrestrial, and bodies heavenly. There's a lot of variety there. But then look at verse number 41, the second half of the verse. It says We'll read the whole verse. It says, For there is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars. For one star differeth from another in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead In the resurrection of the believers, there's going to be a variety. It has to be chosen by God. According to this passage here, there'll be that variety. And in that variety, there's going to be differences in glory. Now I don't know specifically what this will mean or what this will look like, but it is tied to the abundance of our eternal life that is available to us The glorified body. There's going to be differences that are there. And I don't know how God chooses what those are going to be or how God's going to decide that variety. But another thing that God has in store for us that we're just getting a peek of in eternity, the abundant life that we can have I'm going to just list for you now a couple of other things the Bible talks about in relation to our eternal life and how it can be considered abundant. Jesus discussed Who would be the greatest and who is going to be the least in the eternal kingdom? He talked about those that were faithful in the least would also be faithful in much, and those who were faithful in the least would also be ruling. in much. He talks about how our stewardship on earth would be directly tied to our authority in his kingdom as we reign with him. We we can look at how there are, according to the Bible, degrees of punishment in hell and how that relates to our degrees of reward that we can have in heaven. We could talk about our seat. We are seated together in heavenly places, and the seat where you sit and which table you're at is very important in biblical times in the level of position and prestige and honor that is being bestowed to an individual. There's a whole section in the Bible on an incorruptible inheritance that's in store for us. I don't know, have I given you a glimpse? Have you seen kind of a little bit of what God says? This is possible. This is available. You can have an abundant. You don't have to just coast into heaven. And I know we say just, and we talked about it at the beginning. You're going to have a human. But there's so much more that God wants us to have. There's so much more that God wants to reward us with, that God wants to honor us with, that's treasure that we can lay up in heaven for us. So thirdly tonight, and we're not going to take time to develop this point, the filling of eternal life. The filling of eternal life. If that full eternal life is there, how do we fill it up? How do I fill my eternal life? There's no way we can take the time to discuss how we're going to fill our eternal life so that it can be abundant, but I will say this, going back to our illustration: the abundance you're going to have in eternity. is directly tied to the sacrifices you're going to be making during your working life. We have a set number of years here on earth, Lord, teach us to number our days. We have some time here. What you do with your time there is going to be reflected when we get to heaven, when we get to eternity. Dr. Bob Jones Sr. said, don't sacrifice the permanent on the altar of the immediate. Don't sacrifice the permanent on the altar of the immediate. There's so many people who are going to get to heaven and see how much they miss. on what God had in store for them because they wanted to fill up their life right now with things of the flesh. Well you take our life and you look at 70, 80, 100 years It's nothing in eternity. Eternity, there's no beginning, there's no end. And we have such a short piece of time here. And people try to pack as much as they can into this hundred years and leave nothing. Or no thought for what we have or what we can have in eternity. As we went through our message this night, we didn't get into a lot of application as far as telling you what you need to do, but the truth is we already know. As I mentioned that, what sacrifices you make now are going to be reflected in eternity, the Holy Spirit has opportunity to work in your heart to point out what do you need to do. What sacrifices do you need to make? What are changes that you need to make? What is wrapping up your life here that's causing you to miss out? over there when we get to eternity. Maybe tonight as we looked at what is in store for the Christian that is willing to sacrifice, God spoke to your heart about a desire to sacrifice. the temporal for the eternal. Maybe tonight God spoke to you about your apathy towards eternal. You just didn't even get thought. Well I don't I didn't even think about heaven. I didn't think I got saved. I thought it was taken care of and I just haven't given any more thought I've been apathetic towards eternity. Maybe tonight God has stirred your heart and said, you know what, I need to be thinking more. I need to be thinking more about it. I don't want to get caught by surprise getting to eternity and not be prepared. Maybe tonight the Lord point out something that is causing you a loss of rewards, something that you have been unwilling to give up. We're going to close now with a with an invitation. The altar will be open. If you'll stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed, However, the Lord may have spoken to you. I just wanted to give you a glimpse and says this is possible. This is available. But it's up to you. And it's up to me. What are we going to do? In order to receive this abundant eternal life that Jesus has in store for you. He said he has come that we might have life. That's the reason he came. He came for us to have eternal life. If you're not sure of your eternal life and you need to talk to somebody about knowing for sure you have eternal life, come up and see me or see many people in this room would be able to take a Bible and show you that But maybe you you may as we see this, Jesus came to give us eternal life, but that's not the end of it. He said, I came so you can have it abundant. An abundant life. An abundant spiritual life, an abundant Christian life, and I believe, as we see from the scriptures tonight, an abundant Eternal life. Whatever God has spoken to your heart about on a close in prayers, the piano is going to begin to play, and then we can come. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word God, we thank you for the truths that we find in it, Lord, and God, how it's so inexhaustible. So many things in the Bible, Lord, that we we never have even seen or thought or considered, Lord, and so much you have in store for us beyond uh God, what we can comprehend. Lord, but it was we saw little pieces tonight of eternity and what we can have there, I pray God, you'd stir our hearts with the desire to say, I want to leave my life. in a way that pleases you, a way that sacrifices for you, God, so that I can receive the reward, so I can have the treasures, so I can have the crowns, Lord, not for my glory. God, but to bring glory back to you that I loved you enough for what you did for me to give my life and service to you. I pray you deal with us now as we have this time of invitation. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.