We've looked at the acceptability of anger, the fact that God does condone anger, that's Fueled by righteous indignation instead of selfish sin. And the very fact is, is God Himself was angry His anger is kindled many times in the Old Testament, the sin of men. The Holy Spirit stirred up the anger of King Saul when he heard of the injustice that was being done to others And the Son of God, Jesus Himself, was angry when men refused the truth due to their hard hearts. We also learned that anger was acceptable, but it should be controlled. No anger should be out of control. If you have a righteous anger, one way you know that it's the right kind of anger. Anger is if it's under control, because if it's not, it's not the right kind of anger. We contrasted man's sinful anger with God's righteous anger and showing that God's righteous indignation It's for correction and motivated by love, where man's sinful anger is unconscious Controlled without patience, fueled by hatred, motivated by malice. It's directed toward people, not sin. Its purpose is for destruction And for revenge, motivated by these selfish reasons. The Christian must control what he gets angry at. Not just whether he gets angry or not, but what he gets angry at, he must control that. And then when anger comes, the anger that's there should be controlled. We dove into the fact that as Christians we should be not we should not be looking for an opportunity to stir up wrath. We should not be looking for Anger, but we should have a natural aversion to anger in our lives, just as we're to avoid the appearance of evil. In the same ways, we are to avoid being anger, being angry. The Christian that is truly desirous to please God will avoid the places and situations that might stir up anger. in his life that might bring him to a point of anger. We know that anger is a work of the flesh, the action of a fool, and sure to lead to failure. This is very caustic to the Christian. Destroys us not just physically, although there is physical ramification. For those that have uncontrolled anger. As we gave the illustration of a child who has no other expression but just to scream, you see them scream. at the point that they they're just out of control with anger. They're screaming and and their veins are popping out on their heads. Sometimes you you think, man, this kid's gonna give himself a heart attack uh because He's just so emotional. It's sinful when men, God's children, choose to cultivate their anger instead of avoiding it. It's a sad day when a child of God feeds and nurtures his angry spirit as if it was a child that he gave birth to, only to discover that they have raised a murderer For it is, in fact, unconfessed and uncontrolled anger will kill you from the inside out. It will destroy every part of your life. As Christians We should get to the place where we cannot have that in our life any longer. We must stand up and say, enough is enough. Take the reins of our life back and stop yielding it to that angry spirit. So how do you deal with anger? There's Really one of three ways that people deal with anger. When we've talked here about uh anger, I know in everybody's mind readily comes Somebody who expresses their anger, or could we say somebody who blows up? You've got that kind of a person who it is their habit to just explode and they just they just blow up and and just everybody in their path during that time gets gets part of it. And and we all understand and recognize that as anger. Many times this type of person is proud of the fact that they know how to express their anger. They say things like, Well, at least I tell you how I feel Like that's somehow supposed to make it better. At least I let you know. You don't have to wonder. Well, might be better if I was wondering. Uh has anybody ever said if you don't have anything nice to say, don't say it at all? You ever heard you ever heard that? So uh you know, you can't just, oh well At least you're not wondering. Well, you can excuse your blow-up that way if you would like, but it doesn't make it right Now, some people blow up, they express their anger, but there's other people that clam up. They suppress their anger This is not healthy. It's not good for a person to suppress their anger and just you say, oh well, I'm controlling it. No, you haven't taken care of it You haven't annihilated it. You've just suppressed it. You've just bottled it up. We're not supposed to do that as God's children. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. That doesn't mean stop throwing a fit when the sun goes down. It means if you have pent-up anger, if you have anger inside, that needs to be dealt with. You don't let that continue on and just carry over from day to day to day You can't suppress it. Don't think you're more spiritual because you can suppress your anger and this guy over here blows up with his anger. You both have anger You both have an anger, angry problem, and I know for for a lot of the church, maybe we've got to the place where we don't blow up anymore, but we are harboring and holding that anger inside. It's still sin. It's still an angry spirit that's not supposed to be there. God has made us emotional people. He's given us joy and love and happiness and sadness. God made us emotional, and it's it's not good for you to squash all of that You know I'm a pretty even keeled person. I'm not super excited and I'm not super depressed either. I I I'm pretty steady But you know it wouldn't hurt us once in a while to express a little bit of joy. It wouldn't hurt us once in a while to let a little bit of our emotion out. You know, sometimes in church I can see it on your faces. The idea of, well, Pastor, just try and move me. Just try and and make me feel something. What's really funny is occasionally when I tell a joke that catches you off guard and you smile or you laugh and you didn't mean to You know, it just happened. It was just a natural expression of of laughter. It's like how how that that wasn't supposed to come out. I wasn't supposed to enjoy church tonight You know, it's like somehow that oh that I I didn't want to actually express anything. You know, it wouldn't hurt us to express some joy and some happiness or or you know, show some of that sometimes. It wouldn't be It would be okay if you even said amen once in a while in church. God spoke to your heart or God stirred you. Now you know I'm not for emotionalism I'm not for this mindset of uh we're just gonna stir it, we're gonna stir it all up and get you going and try and get everybody all stirred up emotionally and for the sake of emotion. But it wouldn't hurt us to crack our heart open once in a while and let the Holy Spirit speak to us and get excited about the things of God. Love God do something in our heart. Have you ever been there where you just couldn't sit side anymore, quiet anymore? Now down down south the camp meetings get a little out of control. You know, they get a little uh they get a little carried away, you know, people jumping up and hey man yelling and waving their hankeys and and and all this and occasionally uh you know somebody will get up and run around the auditorium and come back to their seat you know they're just showing the emotion man they're just letting it go I'm not for all of that, but you know what? I'm not for the other side either. Where we gotta be all dead and man if we accidentally show something in church. We're not spiritual. And oh, I actually spoke in church. Uh-oh. No, we ought to enjoy church and we ought to be able to let it out When you suppress your anger, it leads to an eventual explosion. The expression, blow your top, comes from the Industrial Revolution. when equipment was starting to be run by steam engines and the steam engine would build up pressure and that's how it forced the engine to move, but if they didn't monitor that very closely, it would blow the top. Blow the top off of the machine. That's what happens when we suppress our anger inside eventually We hear, I just couldn't take it anymore. That's because you didn't deal with that anger, you just suppressed the anger. Suppression and controlling is not the same thing. I want you to know that you can be angry and not blow up. Some just blow up Some just stew, but both are sin. What we'd oughta do as Christians is we've got to grow up But grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We shouldn't be blowing up and we shouldn't be claming up. We should be growing Growing up in Christ. Letting Him work in our lives. And in and through His power and through the grace of God, helping us to be able to deal with biblically Getting the biblical answer to the anger that we have in our heart and annihilating it so that it's gone. So we're not Living with it. We've got to annihilate our anger. Fighting rush hour traffic here in the Baltimore-Washington corridor can be quite arduous. Displays of road rage are often seen. One morning a young lady darted across, darted uh in her compact car from a side street into the stream of traffic immediately in front of a driver just a few car lengths ahead, forcing him to brake sharply He avoided hitting her by just a few inches and was obviously very furious. Within seconds, the traffic stopped at the next red light. And she watched him pull up behind her, leap from his car, and stride angrily towards her, clearly intending to give her a royal piece of his mind. Seeing him coming, this very attractive young lady jumped from her car and ran to meet him, a big smile on her face. Before he could say a word, she wrapped her arms around him, embraced him in a hug, and kissed him on the lips. She turned, got back in her car, and drove away, leaving this antagonist standing in the middle of the street, speechless, looking somewhat confused, a little bit embarrassed, but no longer angry. I'm not sure that's how you ought to deal with your anger. But we've got to find a way to get rid of it, a way to annihilate it. We've got to stop it. Let me give you this evening the answer, the biblical answer to anger. Turn to Matthew chapter number five, if you would. Matthew chapter number five, we There's a whole section here given to us by Christ On anger. Matthew chapter number 5, verse number 21, and follow along with me as we read verse 21 through 26. He says, Ye have heard That it was said by them of old time, that thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whosoever shall say to his brother Rakah shall be in danger without judgment. Of the council. But whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and thou rememberest that Thy brother hath aught against thee. Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. Agree with thy adversary quickly while thou art in the way with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge Judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison. Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast paid. The othermost farthing. The answer to anger is given to us in the Word of God, and I'm going to give you a few points this evening. Would you ask God to speak to our hearts? As we begin the message this evening. Lord, we ask you to lead through this message. I pray that your people would yield to your spirit, Lord, that we would respond and I know it's easy to see and to point out anger in other people's lives, but how often that seed of anger is in our own life, and we need to recognize it as the sin it is and deal with it biblically. Lord, I pray you would help us, as your people, to do so. In Jesus' name, amen The answer given to us here for anger is first of all we must confess it as the sin it is. You must confess it as sin. We know that God said, if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Don't excuse it. Don't explain it away. Don't try and justify it in your heart. That's what we do to try and not call it sin, to not say I'm guilty of sin and I've done wrong and I should not have got angry. Hey, I've been preaching on this, and I can tell you in the last few weeks how many times the Holy Spirit has said to me, practice what you preach. Just last week, no, just a few days ago, this is Sunday, just a few days ago I was on my way to church. And do you know how often on Cuba Road somebody's in your lane? Man, that's frustrating. They're in your late. Why do you cut the corner on a street where there's nowhere else to go? As often as I'm up and down this road, that somebody in my lane happens very often. Well, this morning, somebody in a large Ford utility vehicle was in my lane and I slowed down and honked and he got over but not quite far enough and his mirror on his van hit the mirror on the church truck and the mirror on the church truck went And I said, I knew that was gonna happen one of these times because these people I turned around, backed it up and went after the guy. He had stopped because his mirror was busted. He had stopped to try and put his mirror out and get it it lined up and I I got his information. Then he had the the audacity to lie right to me and he says I'm just gonna tell them that I don't know what happened. Well what do you mean you don't know what happened? You were in my I mean you were a full half a vehicle with in my lane And I came to the church and I'm trying to sit down and study, but I'm stewing about this guy running into me. I mean I'm trying to focus, but my mind keeps going, how could he just lie like how could he Where and I mean and I'll put it out of my mind and it would come back up again. And that's just one example, but it's one thing that that over the last few weeks as I've been talking about anger, the Lord showed me in my own heart, hey You even gave the example. If your car broke down it wouldn't bother them. And and here you are, something happened to the church truck. You're all up in and you know worried about it. And whose truck is it? It's God struck. So I have a right to be mad, amen. We try and g explain it away instead of confess it as sin and And I can tell you right now, if you are asking God to reveal this in your heart and wanting to get it right, the Lord will start pointing things in your life, areas where You're letting that creep in. Don't excuse it. God knows about your pain. God knows that you got hurt. But He also knows about the anger that you're letting grow inside of you. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. We need to get it out of our life. God punishes Anger. If we don't deal with it, God punishes anger. Look in verse number 22 there. There's a progression. He said, but I say unto you that Whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whosoever shall say to his brother Raka, that that word rakah means like brother. Brainless. It's a derogatory statement that was well known at the time where you're calling somebody, you know, they were a brick short of a load. They they elevated and grow the top Top is kind of what it was saying in Raqqa. He said, Shall be in danger of the council, but whosoever shall say thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire. He here is pointing out the sin of anger It goes all the way down to say you're in danger of hellfire. What I want you to understand, if you never in your life committed any other sin but the sin of anger, Anger that sin would send you to hell. It's sin. And God God punishes it. We need to confess it as such. You might be able to hide it from the church, but you can't hide it from Christ. So we need to confess to this sin, ask God to forgive us and to get it out of our life. Not only that, we need to correct the savagery Correct the savagery. The Bible says in Ephesians 4. 32, and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even if God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. Just confession of the anger is not sufficient. But we must make right whatever was right. Wrong. Whoever we wronged, whoever had we had ought against, wherever the problem lies, we've got to get it right. We've got to fix the problem. We've got to recognize it as sin and confess it, yes. But if there's something else here that must be dealt with, we've got to deal with that. He says, hey, if you realize that you you you have odd against your brother or or there's a problem, you don't even you can't even worship God, you've got to stop. Go and make that right with thy brother. Then come back. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift before the altar and go thy way first. Be reconciled to thy brother. Then coming off to Legrift. Listen, outside of confession and reconciliation, there is no worship. If you have anger in your heart, if you are, let me make it a more acceptable term because we say, well, I'm not angry. If you are upset with another brother or sister in Christ in God's house, you can't piously come in and sit in a pew And worship God and accomplish what you God wants to accomplish in your heart and life with that being present. That's got to be dealt with. That's got to be taken care of. You've got to be reconciled To your brother. Outside of confession and reconciliation, there is no possibility for worship. Ephesians 4 28 says, Let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him laboreth, working with his hands, that he the thing which is good, that he may have To give to him that needeth. It shouldn't be swept under the rug. It shouldn't just be suppressed. It shouldn't just be hid. You know, anything that you hide after a while, it starts to stink. You've got to deal with it. You've got to take care of it. You confess it. As the sin it is, and then you need to correct it. You've got to pay all that needs to be paid. The restitution might be necessary. Might be something that you have to take care of to fix the problem. You say, Well, I confessed it and I apologized and and that's good. You might have to Make restitution. He said in verse number 26, he says, Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come thence till thou hast paid the uttermost five. And maybe there's not a payment here that we're talking about with regards to financial things, but maybe the payment. is you just need to own up to your sin all the way instead of excusing it. You know, sometimes you come and you have a brother that's offended and And you say, well, I'm sorry that you got mad. That that's not fi that's not uh fixing the problem, okay? You're throwing it on them. You're saying, Oh, I'm sorry that you can't control yourself. I'm sorry that you are so childish. I'm sorry that you that's what you're saying. Maybe you need to own up to it. Maybe that's what he's talking about as far as pain, uh the the the uttermost farthing, pain, pain all of it. Say, oh I I'll take this on me. It's my fault, and I'm sorry, and I'm willing to uh assume all the burden of this, every bit of it, so that we can be reconciled, because that's more important than my pride Most of the time, it is impossible to fix all the damage that's done by anger, but every effort should be made to do so. Agree with thy adversary quickly while thou art in the way with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison. I want you to understand that when you harbor anger in your heart, you're putting yourself into a prison. You're putting yourself into a prison and you're locked up in that until it's taken care of. And we're to do it quickly. While you're in the way with him. Right then, when the opportunity arises, because if you wait, it's too late. And that thing that was small begins to grow, and the prison bars begin to get stronger, and what could have been taken care of with relative ease, it gets worse and worse and worse. You need to confess it is sin and correct the savagery. You also need must be controlled by the Spirit. Herbert Lockyer said that anger is something that as Christians we should control control, however, it is a woof too big to be tamed in our own strength. That we need the Spirit of God to overcome anger. This I say, then, walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. We've already established the fact that anger is an action of the flesh. It's part of the flesh. It's a response to the flesh. And if we're going to overcome it, we've got to walk in the spirit. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. If we're supposed to be like Christ as Christians, can I ask you this evening, are you Are you thankful for the long-suffering hand of God? Every one of us should be. For we know how often We've gone our own way against a loving and caring God. How often we've rejected His will and done what we've wanted, and Praise Him that if we confess our sin, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness, and we can come back to Him. But for His long suffering. He would have killed Caleb Batrell a long time ago. We're supposed to be like Christ. We're supposed to have that spirit, that long suffering Suffering, spirit. And in the flesh, it's impossible to have. In the flesh, we're going to get offended. In the flesh, we're going to have problems. In the flesh, we're going to be short Tempered, but in the spirit will be long suffering You won't be getting upset. So first of all, we're supposed to, if we're going to annihilate anger in our life, the first thing we do is what? Confess it is sin. Secondly we do what? Correct the savagery. The third thing is Be controlled by the Spirits. And lastly, we need to continue your sanctification. You, your sanctification. But grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever. Amen. Listen, we know we're not perfect. But we should be more and more like Christ. We are to be growing. If you have the same problem with your anger that you had fifteen years ago, you're not growing You're not yielding to Christ, you're not letting Him, the Spirit, give you victory in that area of your life. And because it's not a physical sin that we can look at and say, oh, look at that, and point it out. It's a sin of the heart, a spirit. Sometimes those are the hardest to deal with. But they must be dealt with. We've got to continue that process of sanctification, which is the process where God works on our life. A continual process through our life where we yield to Him and allow Him to help us to grow up as a Christian. God's still working on me. So yeah, you confess your anger and you correct it and you walk controlled by the Spirit But you want to get to the place where you stop getting angry, where you stop having to confess so often. You know, none of us like saying sorry. Instead of saying sorry every day, how about you stop kicking her? Instead of coming every day and saying, Oh, I lost my temper again, how about you stop losing your temper? How about you get your anger under control? The Bible says, Be angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place. To the devil. Do you understand in context here? We use this verse, neither give place to the devil in many areas. of our lives. And we've applied it to many things. And you look at it and say, well, if if you've got a problem eating Krispy Kreme donuts, Then don't drive by the Krisper Kreme Donut store on your way to work every day. Drive a different way. Don't give place to the devil to allow him to bring that into your life. But in context, here what this is talking about is anger. And how, when you allow anger into your life, you are giving Satan a foothold. You're giving Satan a little spot in your heart A place to set up shop and begin to work from the inside. You're given a place to the devil when you give over to anger and don't get it right. Neither give place to the devil. Don't let the devil set up shop in your heart According to the AAA Auto Company, the average there is on average fifteen hundred individuals who are injured Or killed every year due to road rage. Sixty-six percent of all traffic fatalities are due to To road rage. On one such occasion, on his way home, a father Unknowingly cut off another driver in a Ford pickup truck. The driver of the Ford followed them aggressively to their home when he pulled into his driveway. The driver of the Ford pulled out a gun and shot through the back of the car, killing his ten-year-old daughter, Summer, who was asleep in the backseat. Mom climbed in the back seat and held her 10-year-old daughter in her arms as she bled out and took her last. Few breaths with her little sister watching Summer Die Summer will never know what it's like to drive a car or know the joy of her first love or get to graduate from high school Her father will never get to walk her down the aisle and give her away and see her grandkids, his grandkids from her. Because some Somebody couldn't control his anger. That man today is in prison for killing Summer. But do you know what? Summer's family's in prison too. A prison of loss. That they'll never get out of Because someone couldn't control their anger And you say, Pastor, my anger's not that bad. I mean I'm not ready to shoot anybody. I'm not ready to drive anybody off the road. What I'm saying is you're only a few steps away from being standing in the wake of your anger and saying, like this man did, I never meant for that to happen You didn't mean to do it. But because you couldn't control your anger, you did. Don't wait till it gets there. Don't wait till the devil who has set up shop in your heart takes you down that road of destruction so far that you're standing there saying, I have No idea how this happened. Well, the anger's small, small enough for you to justify in your mind, small enough for you to explain away and say it's not that big a deal. Confess it is sin. Correct the savage. Get controlled by the Spirit of God. Continue the process of sanctification. So you'll never end up in that place.