All right, you should be in the book of Galatians, chapter number six. We're concluding this book tonight, uh this study. It has taken a little bit longer than I thought it would, but I think we've gone through at a pretty decent uh pace uh and in just about a half a year uh along with the other scheduled events a few things got in the way from periodically, but uh at least we're bringing this to a conclusion. Uh with the last three verses here This is I've entitled these last three verses, The Record of Fervency. The record of fervency in Galatians chapter 6, beginning in verse number 16 through 18, as many And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy upon the Israel of God. And henceforth let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. To the Galatians written from Rome We're going to bring this study to a conclusion as Paul gives us this clear statement of his fervent commitment to God. He has already given us the message of the cross. That message is that Christ is the only way. If there was another way, Christ wouldn't have had to die. And then he expounds on that and he gives us the miracle of the cross. And the miracle of the cross is that each and every one that comes by the way of the cross is given a new life. They have new life in Jesus Christ. And he concludes the letter this evening with this declaration that he bears in his body the marks of the cross. That those marks are present, that his commitment and his fervency to the cause of Christ cannot be questioned, for he has in his body the marks. of his faithfulness and fervency to God. So I would have you see first of all in verse number 16 that the cross delivers mercy The cross delivers mercy. He says, and as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them and mercy and upon the Israel of God. There is mercy here. He gives us this prescription for peace. He said, as many as walk according to this rule. What rule would that be? The rule that he mentions in the previous verse, verse number 15. The rule of the new life. You see, we've been given a new life in Jesus Christ, and those that are willing to walk according to the Jews wanted to go back and talk about the law, the rule of law. But he says, no, wait, those that walk according to this rule, the new life that you have in Jesus Christ, you'll have peace. As I pondered and thought about this today, I thought, man, earlier this week, actually I was done with this before today, but reviewing it here, he says. The idea is that this is a whole new life. I know for us we talk about the idea of a new life in Christ, but I thought, well, in reality, I mean you think about this time period Before this time period, men walked according to the flesh. They did not have the Holy Spirit. They didn't have new life in Jesus Christ. They were either governed by the flesh. Or they were governed by the law. But when Jesus Christ came and he died on the cross, he has offered them a new life Completely new way of living, free from the penalty and the power of sin, but also free from the judgment and the rule of the law. Because they have Jesus Christ. It's a new life, the new life that we have. Peace refers to the Christians' re-relationship, the new relationship we have. Well, this mercy that he talks about here speaks of the removal of our sin. He says, walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy. I'm thankful tonight for God's mercy. Ephesians 2:4 says, But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love, wherein he loved us. The mercy of God. It's through the mercy of God that our sins are forgiven. It's through the mercy of God that the backslider is pardoned and able to come back to God because of his mercy. God doesn't say, oh, you've messed up and cut you off. His mercy is there. If you confess your sins, he's faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Draw nigh unto God, and He'll draw nigh unto you. The moment the wayward sinner is ready to repent and return, Jesus is there. It is his mercy that makes that possible. Because of the cross, we have mercy. The cross delivers mercy. Not only does the cross deliver mercy, but the cross delivers marks. He said, From henceforth let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. Beloved Christ was the first one ever marked by the cross. He was our Savior. He bears those marks in his body. You know that Jesus will be the only one in heaven with a scarred body? The scars that you and I have when we are get to heaven are going to be we've got a new body. But when we gather at the feet of Jesus, there we will see the scars in his feet When Jesus holds out his arms to embrace you, there you'll see the scars in his hands. The price that he paid for your salvation, for your forgiveness. And Paul says, Jesus went to the cross for me. I'll pick up my cross. And bear those marks for him. He was willing to do it. Is that not what he said in Galatians 2. 20? He said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. You know, beloved, everybody bears in their body marks of some sort. There are usually some stories behind the marks that we have on our bodies. You know, some of those marks might have been from a surgery that you had. There are some marks that they would say they're marks to dishonor. You know, they're marks that usually start by somebody saying, I thought it was a good idea at the time. You know, it was that uh I got a few marks like that. You know, or somebody bet me that, you know. Uh so we got some marks and some stories to tell from those times There are some soldiers that bear scars from their time in battle. Those are marks of honor. Sacrifice that they gave and cost that they paid for the freedom of others. You know, there are those that bear marks in their body from their time in the world. Sin leaves a mark. It is the motivation of Satan to destroy It doesn't matter how pretty he paints it or how nice he makes it out to be, Satan's goal is to kill and to destroy. Everything that he brings into our lives, none of it is for your good, it's all for your destruction. And there are those that bear the marks of that in their body. Oh, the drug addict says, I bear in my body the marks of my Lord, drugs, and what it has done to him. The man addicted to alcohol says, I bear in my body the marks of my God, alcohol, who's ruling and controlling my life. I'm giving myself to it. His life is defined by that. Or praise God, maybe if he's gotten victory of it or he's gotten past it, he could look back and he'd say, I I still deal with this, or I still have that because of that time. But every man that has given his life to sin carries the scars in his body Kids, praise the Lord if God's protected you. Praise the Lord if you have a testimony that God has, in his mercy and grace, kept you from A life out in the world and the sin, and you don't have to lay your head on the pillow at night with a with a whole heap of regret on your shoulders for things that you've done. Oh, yes, God's forgiven you, and yes, it's under the blood, but you look back and say, Oh, I wish I would have never done those things. Praise God if He's protected you from those scars. There are those in the room tonight, which is evident by the amens that are being said, who bear in their bodies some marks from time of in this world where Satan had his way, where where Satan left his mark. In the Bible times, it was common for a slave to be marked by his owner. Soldiers down through the ages have often uh bit taken marks. In more recent years, it would be tattoos. They they they marked for the insignia of their of their group or their division or their tank brigade or or whatever it is. They've been marked to show that they belong to that group. The Jews were saying that men should be physically marked. to be marked as a Jew, even if they wanted to be a Christian. This is what the Jews were saying. They were saying, hey, you've got to take the mark in order to be recognized. And Paul says, that mark is foolishness. That mark is nothing. That availeth nothing. It's neither good nor bad. It is not not doesn't help you at all. But can I tell you the marks that do say something? The marks that you bear in your body for holding and carrying your cross for Jesus Christ. He says, no one's going to bother me. He says, From henceforth, let no man trouble me. He said, You can say what you want about me. You can lie about me. You can take what I say and twist it and turn it around. You can do your worst, but it's not going to trouble me. You know why? Because there's a testament that stands every day. The marks that I bear in my body for what I've been through for Jesus Christ cries aloud that I am fervent for him. Paul said, you're not going to trouble me. You know, Christian, we let entirely too much stuff trouble us. We let entirely too much stuff trouble us. It's sometimes My kids are getting older and they're probably really glad because I have a lot less illustration. But you know, just sometimes like like Like kids bickering among themselves over something dumb and you're like, why do you let your brother bother you? It just irritates me. Well, you know, if it didn't bother you, he wouldn't do it. You guys have all had that conversation, right? You just you just ignore him, he wouldn't do it. He gets the kick out of out of making you mad. And you're making uh you're m getting mad and you're making him happy, so he's gonna keep doing it. You know, and that's you know it's not right but that's it's life. Why do you letting it bother you? It's dumb. Why why why do you care if he does that? You know, why do you care if he wears a towel on his head like a girl? Because he looks stupid. He shouldn't do that. That girl's wear the who who cares? He's doing it just to aggravate you. Whatever it is, you know? Whatever it is. And and the thing is, as Christians, sometimes we're like that in a church house. The cause of Christ is too great. And what God has for us to do in this world is too important. And meanwhile, we're letting somebody with a towel on their head bother us. We're letting somebody who comes into church later somebody that Forgot to drop something off or somebody that didn't pick something up or somebody that didn't call you back or whatever it might be. I'm just saying we need to be like Paul and say it's not gonna trouble me. What God's doing in my heart and life is too important. The direction I'm going for Jesus means too much. I've got a fervency and a and a purpose and a goal And these things out here that Satan's trying to bring in to distract me, they're irrelevant. I've got something to do for Jesus. We're letting way too much stuff trouble us. Paul says, not gonna trouble me. I know you've tried. I know you've been talking. I know there's been some letters written around. I know there's some text and there's been some Facebook posts mentioned. I know there's been some some notices put out about me, but you know what? That doesn't trouble me because I have a testament of who I am and it's the marks that I carry in my body that say that I'm a follower of Jesus. The marks that word marks in the scriptures there comes from the Greek word that literally is a stigma. A stigma is a mark of infamy or disgrace. You think stigmatized That is to characterize as disgraceful or to mark with a stigma. This is the the mark that he's describing here. Paul is speaking of this mark, and some say it's a it's a spiritual mark. It's something inside that God left him. But I believe it's a physical mark that's noticeable that people can see. He says, I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ, the marks of the cross. I believe that he's speaking of the scars that were left from his time of service for the Lord. We know his story. He was shipwrecked. multiple times. He was beaten with rods. He was given many stripes. He was stoned. He bore physically in his body marks from his service for the king. And can I tell you, as you and I are fully committed to Christ, we too will bear the marks of our faithfulness to Him. But can I say that all the marks, and maybe even not the most painful marks, are physical? Can I tell you if you're faithful to God and follow God and do what God wants you to do, there's going to be some hurts that are going to come There's gonna be some hurts, maybe from people that you loved or trusted, people you cared about. There's going to be some people that will let you down. There's going to be some attacks. There's going to be something said. And I tell you, maybe some of the most painful marks that you'll bear in your faithfulness and following Christ are going to be things that you bear on the inside. But that's not a cause to give up. That's not a cause to quit or to let down. It's a mo should be a motivation to keep going. You just keep doing what God wants you to do, keep doing what is right. God sees it and God knows. There are no words so eloquent As the faithful suffering of a saint. What I'm saying is that there is no way that you could describe and say that I love you. More powerfully or more eloquently than in just being faithful. You take the man who's sitting beside the bed of his invalid wife And caring for her day after day, with no possible recompense With no reward for his service. You look at that and you say, Man, the love that he has for her It's evident by his actions, by his service, by his faithfulness to her It's a declaration of love that speaks louder than any words any man could ever say. And Paul is saying, I'm faithful and I've been fervent to God, and it's not what I'm saying with my voice that matters. It's the marks that I bear in my body that are testament to the fact that I've been faithful through it all. In every storm and in every hardship and in every attack by the wicked enemy of Christ, I've been faithful. For the weak or the shallow Christian, at the first sign of discomfort, they're out. At the first challenge, at the first trouble that arises, whenever something troubles them That commitment to Christ and that faithfulness to the cause and that love they had for the church all of a sudden is gone. And they're out. It doesn't matter how loud we sing, oh how I love Jesus. If when the enemy attacks, we're not there on the front lines. That's what says you love him. He said, if you love me, keep my commandments. And beloved, if you and I are going to be faithful to God, we're going to have some battle scars. There's gonna be some battle scars that might be skin deep. I remember uh before we left Kansas. We were moving a five-ton air conditioner down around the side of the building, trying to get it up onto a concrete slab, and as usual I was working with some teenage boys. And I'm moving this this five-ton air conditioner, and these boys shoved it, and I had just picked it up. And my finger was underneath it, and it it that air conditioner went down on my finger and across the pavement, across the concrete that we were setting it on. And it it shaved my nail off And do you know that nail still does not grow right? Since that time till this, it still does not grow right. It's got a goofy angle in it that doesn't grow correctly because of that. I bear in my mark study, the mark of my service for God. That's just one small illustration of the small things that might happen as you're serving the Lord. You're here and, you know, who knows? You might get a little shock if you were working on some electricity or or you know you might get involved in something here at BBS and doing setup and and I I got a splinter this week. Oh yeah. You got you get I mean you you do who knows what might happen physically, but also as you're faithful to God, there's also gonna be some things that are gonna come that are gonna hurt And they're gonna be a whole lot deeper than skin deep. A few weeks ago I almost cut the end of my finger off on the paper cutter downstairs. I was explaining it to Lee because he was using it, and I was working faster than the machine. That's the problem. It's a it's a very safe machine. It's two hands. You cannot you have to push both buttons in for the blade to come down So I pushed both buttons and the blades came down and when I let it go the blade goes up. The blade goes up out of the way and there's a big hydraulic stop in the back that pushes the paper down for the blade to chop it Well that hydraulic stop, so the blade goes up, and then the hydraulic stop goes up. Well, I pushed it, they went down, I reached in there to move the the things, and there's holes in that hydraulic stop. And my finger went in the hole and it pulled it up into the blade. Almost cut the end of my finger off. It's looking pretty good. It got it went through the nail. And I got my finger out. I felt it and and I got my finger out and of course it was squirting blood everywhere. I ruined three or four John of Romans and uh you know, little physical injury. But you know that injury is very minor and it's gonna heal up in a week or two. The ones that are hurt are the ones that aren't physical. And you might be here tonight and you're bearing some of that. Maybe you've got some pain from something. Maybe you've got some marks from something that's happened in your life. I implore you to turn it over to Christ. Don't let Satan use that to distract you or destroy your work for God. I'm saying is the Tonight is is the heart of God imprinted on your soul? Are you totally committed to and surrendered to the will of God for your life? You know, you take a football player. He goes out there and he gives it 110%. Halfway through the game, I mean some guy nails him good and and it it gives him a nosebleed and and he keeps playing and then he gets he gets caught underneath some some guy's cleat and it it tears his hand right here, you know, and he's like, oh man, he keeps playing. And he gets tackled and slammed down real good and he sp sprains his shoulder. He gets to the end of the game and he stands on the sideline and he's holding his helmet and he's there and he's excited. He's pleased. He he bears in his body the marks that he gave 110% the whole game out there on the field. to catch or throw or run a piece of pigskin. How committed are we to the cause of Christ? Is there something that's gonna happen that's gonna pull you to the side and you say, well, that's too much. I'm not gonna continue So we see, beloved, that the cross it delivers mercy. Praise God for his mercy. It delivers marks if we're going to be faithful. If we're going to daily pick up our cross and follow Jesus, we too will have marks from it. But we see lastly that the cross delivers grace. In verse number 18, he says, brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you, with your spirit. Amen. He reminds them of their valued relationship. He calls them brethren. Could I tell you tonight we need to be thankful for that relationship? We need to remember that our brothers and sisters in Christ are our friends, our family Even though Paul had to be forthright with them, even though Paul had to speak the truth unto them, even though he had to even at times hearing the letter scold them and say, Why are you doing this? He still acknowledges and recognizes the value of the relationship and he says, listen, I still love you. You're still my brother I still am holding you up in prayer. I am still asking for God's grace and his mercy to be upon you. You're my brother. Could I encourage you tonight to remember that the pastor still loves you even when he tells you the truth? Even when he's sharing with you something that at times you guys say, oh, you were stepping on some toes tonight. You know, when when when I I I enjoy preaching messages about the love of God and about His grace to help us through and uh how God can meet the need and that God has purpose for your life and those things. But sometimes you you you you've got to get down into the nitty gritty. You've got to deal with what's going on in the lives of people. And you know when I preach a message like that, I'm literally sick to my stomach. I don't enjoy it. For most of the rest of the day, I don't feel good just because I preach that It's something that needed to be said. It's truth from the Word of God, but I do not glory in it. I do not have joy in it. I present it with apprehension and hopefully with with love But I want you to know that I want you to remember if you feel ever that this pastor is getting onto you, I want you to know that I love you. That I still love you. Even if you don't do what I present from the Word of God as the truth, what I believe God would have us as people, how we should be living Even if you determine or decide that's not for you, I still love you. I will continue to pray for you. I'll continue. I think sometimes people think, oh, Pastor's mad at me. I'm not mad at you I'm just trying to do the job that God has called me to do and to warn. Warn. God's people. And that's what Paul had to do here to the Galatians. He had to warn them. He had to tell them about this false belief that was permeating the church. And then he acknowledges them. He says, hey, but you're still my brother. You're still my brother. I still love you. And then he closes this. Would you look at Galatians chapter number one? In Galatians chapter number one. He opens this letter to this group of people. And see what he says here in verse number two. Galatians 1 and verse number 2. He says, And all the brethren which are with me, unto the churches of Glacia. Grace be unto you, and peace from the God our Father for our Lord Jesus Christ. He opened his letter with grace. And here in the very concluding verse, he closes it with grace. I'm thankful tonight for the grace of God. The grace of God, of course, is you know, God And his mercy has not given me what I do deserve. But God, in his grace, has given me so much more than I deserve. The work of grace in our heart is far beyond even our own understanding. If we truly could embrace and use the grace of God to live this Christian life, it is God's grace. That is sufficient. It's God's grace that is made perfect in our weakness. It's God's grace that comforts you in your hour of grief. It's God's grace that carries you through It's God's grace that helps you to grow as God wants you to grow into the image of His Son. It's God's grace that allows us to give how God wants us to give. We crossed over uh 700. I think we're approaching almost almost $800 for the over and above offering. Amazing. It is a gift of grace that that allows us to give like that The work of grace in the life of a believer, I think, is something we will not fully understand until we get to heaven. As many times as I've studied on grace or preached on grace, it's still something that the depths of it, I haven't reached or grasped. But I know that I don't deserve heaven tonight, but I'm gonna get to go there someday because of God's grace. I don't deserve peace tonight, but I enjoy his peace daily because of God's grace. I don't deserve his power. or his protection in my daily life or his provision as I have need, but I'm glad that he gives it because of his grace. Between the fickle saints that Paul was addressing And their utter destruction stood a faithful servant of God. He was a servant to them And he was praying for them, praying for their full and abundant Christian life. And he says, Boy, brethren, I pray for you. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. As I bring this to a conclusion tonight, let me ask you, when you get to heaven What marks will you bear from your service for the king? You see, God is not going to be looking for metals hanging around your neck. He's going to be looking for the marks. From your service to the King. Marks that you bear because you picked up your cross each and every day, like his son did for you. Well the slave was branded to show ownership. The soldier is branded to show allegiance There's many criminals that have been branded to show exposure, to mark them as a criminal Like God did to Cain. There have been outcasts who've been marked to show a reproach, like the leper. Or maybe the Jews during the Holocaust are marked as a reproach. There's been many Saints who have been marked to show their consecration to their faith. What marks are you gonna bear? The goal tonight is Are you going to be faithful even though the scars come? Are you going to be faithful even though the attack comes? Even though there's hurt, even though there's trouble. I pray we will be able to, like Paul, say, I've finished my course. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed?