Well, uh the title of tonight's message is The Others Focused Life. The Others Focused Life. I suppose that this time of year is a peculiar time maybe to even preach on such a topic because I think during this season, like no other season during the year, we as a people are really others focused. We we we kind of have that about us. I mean, it's certainly uh as a member of God's family, as a Christian, this time of year, like no other, uh stirs our heart and We look towards others and their needs and the way that we can be a blessing to them. And uh I guess tonight I just want to kind of encourage you in that endeavor that uh this is what God would have us do. He would have us care, some having compassion, making a difference. Looking to the needs of others, this kind of spirit that should be the heart of every Christian. Give you a couple of thoughts from this text. Look in Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 1. Follow along as I read through verse number 5, the verses for this evening's message. He says, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any vows and mercies. Fulfill ye my joy that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also. On the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus Let's pray. Lord, as we come to you this evening, we desire, Lord, to have the mind of Christ. to live and act as a Christian, literally being interpreted Christ-like. I pray God that uh we would be encouraged in this vein during this season to Have compassion on others, to look to the needs of others, to see people where they're at, and to see people's potential, not their problems. To see what an individual can be in and through the power of God, not where they're at today. Help us to truly love those we come into contact with. We'll thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. It is possible to have the right heart And to desire the right thing and yet say the wrong thing. Have you ever been there? I mean Your your motives were right and your your your uh intention was correct. You desired to do the right thing, uh but somehow the wrong thing came out. I recall a story of a uh elder uh an older gentleman in the church and his wife that wanted to encourage some of the younger church members. And so they picked a couple of families and they took them out. And they just wanted to encourage them in their walk with God and they took them out to dinner and So when the opportunity, you know, he just kind of wanted to show how a loving couple handled themselves and this, you know, how they communicate and so on. And when the opportunity arise, the older gentleman Looked over and he said, Pass the honey, honey. Well that was sweet, you know, and and so The uh other one of the other gentlemen there thought, well that was kinda nice, so he was looking for an opportunity and you know he he uh during the the meal progressed and Uh he he saw an opportunity. He saw some sugar. He says, hey, pass the sugar. Sugar. Well, the third couple there, the young lady, she kind of elbowed her her husband. Like you're the only one that hasn't said anything here, you know. Uh come on, what what's going on? And he he's like, What did I do? You know So he was looking for an opportunity. So when he saw it, he took it. He said, pass the tea, bag. That is not what he I mean, you know his heart was in the right place. Not really what he was trying to say or You know, it just came out wrong and so certainly they had conversation later on. But sometimes even the best intentions can come out wrong, endeavors, and we understand that. But beloved, we are together. We make up the family of God. We've been enlisted in the fight. We battle for the Lord. We've been given our marching orders. We are endeavoring to reach the lost for Jesus Christ. We're on this journey of faith together, trying to follow and pursue what God would have for us to accomplish in this life, and we labor together to accomplish this. We are indeed supposed to be thinking and working together. Having a mind, it says there in verse number five, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Well, there's three things that I see, the kind of mind that Jesus had in this text, that I want to encourage us to have as well. First of all, I want you to see that we're to have a like mind. He says in verse number two, Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. I know that in a church, as in any place, there are as many different opinions as there are people present. We're all different. We come from different backgrounds and all from different lives and and in here in our church, even different countries, lots of different places around the world. And uh you know this Admonition to be like-minded is not an effort to steal you into individuality. This is not saying that you can't have a preference as to how you like your eggs cooked It's not talking about whether you're a Ford or a Chevy guy. It's okay if we have some differences of opinion on a vehicle. It's okay, beloved, if there's a preference. Maybe you like tan and somebody else likes brown You say those are the same. No, they're not. Somebody else likes blue or whatever. I'm I'm saying it you you don't have to lose your individual individuality. You're not it's not saying that you uh can't be who you are and who God created you to be, but we are to have one mind When it comes to the things of God. When it comes to this book This is the reason why we talk about membership here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is that you're saved, baptized, and in agreement. with the doctrinal statement of the church. With what we say, hey, the Bible teaches that Jesus was born of a virgin. The Bible teaches that without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins. These are doctrines of the Word of God that are foundational truths, and as God's people, we should be of a like mind on these matters. We're to be of one mind. A like mind. Not our mind. But his verse number five says, Christ's mind. We're to have the mind of Christ. And I'll tell you what, if if we all have the mind of Christ on these things, there there will be no difference. We will be unified together. One should never sacrifice doctrine on the altar of diplomacy. We can sacrifice a lot of other things. I'm a firm believer in pursuing peace. And I believe when possible And there's something that you can change or do differently that you might be able to have peace or be able to to uh meet somebody uh halfway or three-quarters of the way, or maybe you gotta go a hundred percent of the way and they're not gonna move at all If it's not doctrine, then you should be willing to do it. I should be willing to do it. But when it comes to the doctrine of the Word of God, the foundational, fundamental truths that the Bible teaches, we don't sacrifice those. But anything else, we oughta want to want to have a like mind and get along, and it should be okay. The bond that we have in Christ is greater than the differences we may have. From all different walks of life, from different countries, different backgrounds, different upbringings, different types of homes. Yet we can come together and be of a like mind because of the bond we have in Jesus Christ. What an amazing thing Pastor Derek went and preached this morning for a church up in uh Pennsylvania that the pastor was out of town. And whether you're going to Pennsylvania or you're going to India, When you get into a church that believes the Word of God, it's amazing the like-mindedness that you have. Oh, they do things, I tell you what, in India they do things different. They don't have instruments there, a lot of the churches don't, and so they they clap. The whole congregation claps through every song. That's just how they that's how they sing. Nothing wrong with that. It adds life and excitement to the service. Hey, that's great, but it's different than what I'm used to. But you know what? That's okay. I could get in and be involved and I couldn't sing with them because I don't s uh speak Hind Hindi or uh you know any of the other dialects that we were Punjabi, you know, these different languages that We went we were in three different services one day, three different languages, uh in you know all in one day, not in the same place, but in three different services in three different languages. But we could be unified there even in that great difference. There should be a strong brotherly love that we have for one another. You know, the idea, you know, you can mess with me, but don't mess with my brother. There should be that spirit among God's people. A good love for one another. Strength is gained when we stand together. Again, I say unto you, that if two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything, they shall ask, it shall be done for them in my Father which is in heaven. When we are like-minded, when we agree, it's a powerful force for God to accomplish great things for Him. Look back at verse number one, would you? He says, if there be any consolation in Christ, that's any encouragement. He said, if there be any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercies, I mean if you've enjoyed the fellowship, if you've had fellowship with the Spirit, if you've had mercies extended to you, if you've had encouragement by Christ or comfort, if you've endured enjoyed any of these things Then, hey, fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded. We're to be like-minded We're also to have the mind of Christ, we're to be lowly minded. Lowly-minded Verse number three says, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind. Let each esteem others better than themselves It's one of the true truly one of the hardest things to do, to live in a spirit of humility. You know, Christian God hates pride. And this is one of the Christian sins. What I'm saying is, as Christians, we've learned how to get rid of the sins of the flesh. We've learned how to let go of certain things of this world. We've grown to the point where we feel we're doing pretty good, but our pride. That's okay. Somehow we let that get by. But if we're gonna have the mind of Christ, we've got to be be lowly minded. We've got to despise pride in ourselves. Oh, I know we can point it out in others. We can see it in other people. But I'm talking about in ourselves. We ought to see that pride in ourselves and just hate it. Just hate it. Say, why am I so stinking proud for Why? Why am I letting this cause a problem? Why am I letting this pride take control? He says, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Strife literally means contention. And what does the Bible say? Where does contention come from? Pride. Only by pride cometh contention. Vainglory. Vainglory means unfounded pride. Unfounded pride. When I was studying this out, I saw that unfounded pride, and immediately in my mind, a story came to me. when when I was a kid, uh we were having a competition at our school, kind of a sports competition, and um there was a family in our church that had three rather attractive young ladies that were in the family and I wanted to impress them. We were having this this sports competition. And uh so I noticed that they were pulling into the parking lot there at the school and they were gonna watch this competition And so as they I waited, you know, just to get ready and as they were getting out of the car, I kinda Stretching, you know, mm just getting all buff and, you know stretching out um, you know, just Trying to make it look natural but you know, getting as buff as I could. I still remember it to this day because I look back and think they probably were looking at me like, What is that idiot doing? you know I was trying to impress them, you know, this unfounded pride because we had competition and I didn't win anything It would have been better to have not shown myself at all and just won something. That might have been impressive. But oh no, I was out there, you know, trying to look good. Unfounded pride. You know, really all pride is unfounded. It's just vainglory. And we get so puffed up with ourselves that we cannot esteem others better than us. But if we have a lowly mind, we're esteeming others better than ourselves. You know, have you found yourself dominating a conversation? You're not saying it, but you are. What I'm saying is most important here Nobody else comments matter. Right. But humility settles down and is quiet and lets others speak. We're saying this comes true in every part of our life. We're to have a lowly mind. And God gives us a measure of success in one area or another, and we begin to get puffed up. It's something, beloved, that we've got to fight against. If we're going to have the mind of Christ, then we've got to have a lowly mind. True humility thinks of others. This really was the heartbeat of this message, the idea that we're to esteem others better than ourselves. Verse number four says, we're to have a looking mind. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. I'll tell you what, if we just had these things as part of our mind, the mind of Christ, and we looked for others' needs. Instead of our own. If we were less consumed with our goals and ambitions and more with others. Stop thinking so much about what we want and start looking for what others want. First Corinthians 10 24 says, Let no man seek his own, but every man another's wealth. Wow, we don't we don't do that today, do we? We look to establish and seek our own wealth and Someone said this. There are times when you have to change your tune if you want to s keep in harmony. might need to adjust. If we were half as concerned about the things of others as we are about our own selves, We would be well on our way to getting the mind of Christ. But that's not even where God asks us to be. It's not half as concerned. We're supposed to be fully concerned with the needs of others. Helen Keller was deaf and blind. Anne Sullivan taught her to read and through her other senses. At the end of her autobiography, Helen Keller said this: There is joy in self-forgetfulness. So I try to make the light of other people's eyes my sun, the music of other people's ears my symphony, the smile on another's lips. My happiness. That's what these verses are saying. Do you truly get joy about bringing joy to somebody else? Looking on others' needs. If our faith does not touch people with the love of Christ It is selfish. For it's only blessing us. Do you have the mind of Christ tonight Probably would have been a better title. As it developed here, really, it's having the mind of Christ. To be like minded lowly minded and looking mind. Do you have that mind tonight? They'll stand darfy with our heads bowed and her eyes closed.