We're going to be continuing our study this morning on dealing with devices. If you take your Bibles and turn to Psalm 101. Psalm 101 to start with this morning, then we'll be jumping into the book of 1 Corinthians and possibly over to 2 Corinthians as well. Before we get started this morning, they might have any questions they wanted to uh bring up for Sunday school hour this morning. Alright, that's good. We have a lot of uh ground to cover this morning, so we're going to go ahead and jump right into it. Uh if you remember several weeks ago when we started this whole series, I kind of laid out the plan for the study that we're going to be going through and For today, we're supposed to be looking at two principles put together. I was going to try to they were kind of related to one another and was going to try to put them together in one lesson, but as I Began to study. They just kept growing and growing. And I finished part number one and had nine pages of notes. So you know we're not going to get part two in this morning unless I talk a lot faster than you guys have gotten used to over the last couple weeks. I've been giving you a break uh on some of the speed that we've been going through. So we're just going to take one of these this week. We'll go back into the next one uh next week and then we'll have one last week to finish it off uh to wrap this series up. It'll be six weeks. weeks uh studying the what the Bible has to say uh on this topic. Again, as we've discussed, the Bible doesn't specifically address technology. Uh there's nothing in the Bible about Wi-Fi or hotspots or cellular devices or things of that nature. But The Bible has timeless principles. These timeless principles apply to every aspect and every area of our lives, and technology is a big part of that. big part of our lives in the world today. And uh we've just kind of given it, ignored it uh in many people's lives that we've just well it's there, everybody has it. What what do you what are you gonna do? Um it's just just become this ubiquitous technology and we haven't taken a lot of time to step back and say, well What does God have to say about this? Well we know and what we're going to talk about today is the purity principle. We know what God would have to say about the wickedness that's on uh technology and that's available there. But but what about the other things that we've been talking about And so kind of just getting a biblical mindset, a biblical perspective, some principles we can place in our lives and say this is the way that I should live and I should act as a believer when it comes to my relationship with the Technology. And being these timeless principles, they do apply to other areas of our lives as well. I've had several people already comment to me about, yeah, you're talking about this, but it really God really spoke to me about this area of my life as well from the same principle. Uh because these principles don't just to apply it to our use of technology apply in other areas as well. We do have some notes available in the back. If anybody needs those, you can slip up your hands and one of the guys in the back could grab those for you as we get started this morning. So you found your place there in Psalm 101. We're going to be reading verse number three to get started this morning. Bible says there, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave to me. Just a strong statement there made by the psalmist by David saying, I'm not going to do this. This is something that I'm not going to participate in And that should be the mindset of the Christian when it comes to our use of technology and of devices, saying, you know what, I'm going to guard myself from the wickedness that is out there. So for the last several weeks we've been looking at this idea of dealing with devices. We've been giving Bible principles for our relationships with technology. We began several weeks ago by looking at the devil's devices. Not his technology per se, but his devices. What does he use to corrupt Christians? What does he use to keep people from turning to Christ for salvation? How does he offer substitutes for God to this world? And we saw just the things that he does. the goals that he has and the tools that he uses. Uh does anybody remember the three tools that Satan uses to uh tempt uh mankind? Melanie? Those are the three enemies of the Christian. What are the three uh three things that Satan uses to attack? Lust of the flesh? Lust of the eyes and the pride of life. So those are the areas where he brings his attacks against the Christian, and we're going to get into some of those other enemies today and how they play into this as well when it comes to the world and how it's involved in this process. So we saw how the devil tries to use these tools to destroy people's lives through sin. The first principle that we discussed was the power principle. This is the idea that we're not to yield ourselves as servants to anything other than God. We looked at the idea of control when it comes to technology. Do you control your technology or does it control you? Then the week after that we discussed the priority principle. That principle causes us to ask, what has first place in our lives? What is the first thing that we turn to when we have free time? What has first place in our time and our treasure? And that was last week looking at who who gets first place And and we say, well of course God gets first place in our life, but really w what do we turn to? What's the first thing that we go to when we have a need, when we have uh something that we want, when we have a responsibility? When we're feeling sad and need encouragement, when we're looking for joy, where do we go? Where do we go? What is the first thing that we turn to? Where are our priorities placed? I ended last week with kind of giving you this illustration. I went through it quickly, but I want to bring that back up again just to kind of clarify a little bit what we were talking about there. I gave the illustration of a donut. And if you pictured your life as a donut, and uh I guess Sunday school is one we had donuts, you are what you eat, so that works perfect uh for the lesson today. But if you looked at the outering of a donut, you have this these you can divide it into areas, uh maybe bites there that would be just pictures of parts of your life. Every part of your life, whether that is the relationships or the positions that you hold. Today's Father's Day. I'm a father. That's one of one aspect of my life. I'm also a husband. I'm a son I'm a pastor, I'm an employee, I'm a manager, I'm a slave driver with the interns. And so there's a lot of a lot of roles that I fulf I fill. And so that's kind of my outer my outer ring of the donut, if you will. You could also put different types of things that you do in the outer ring as well, such as your hobbies, uh, your job, your interests, your goals, your ambitions. And that's the outside. That's what we see when we see you. Then we have to go to the inside and see what's the driving force And when it comes to the priority principle, who's supposed to have first place? Christ. Christ had the preeminence. So if on the inside, Christ is first, that's going to affect all of the outside If instead of Christ being personally inside, it's me first, if I'm who's first on the inside, that's also going to affect all the outside of the donor as well So we just sometimes we hear a preacher bring up the idea, well put Christ first. And we say, well, in our time, you're supposed to put Christ first. Well, I'm not a pastor. So how am I supposed to give Christ all this time in this first place? Well, you put Christ first in your life. You don't ignore the rest of the circle. Putting Christ first in your life affects the rest of the circle. Just like putting me first affects the rest of the circle Putting me first doesn't mean that I just leave my family. Putting me first changes the way that I act with my family. Putting me first changes my marriage. Putting me first changes the way that I deal with my children. So putting me first, giving myself the freedom, it affects the outside circle. It doesn't ignore the outside circle. So the same is true with Christ. When it comes to putting Christ first, it doesn't mean we ignore the rest of the outside circle. It doesn't mean I quit my job and I I leave my family and I go live in the woods just to put God first. No, putting God first affects the outside of the circle. So when God is first, my marriage is going to look a little bit different When God is first, my relationship with my children is going to work look a little bit different. My relationship with my boss, my my hobbies that I choose, my entertainment choices, putting Christ first affects the outside of the circle. So putting Christ first doesn't mean I leave everything else behind Putting Christ first is giving him first place in every area of my life, in my marriage, in my family, in my job, these things. So hopefully can can kind of give that illustration to help uh understand what we're talking about, putting Christ first. And not getting this idea where well I can't do that because I have other things that I need to do and I'm required to do those things. Well, you can still do your job and put Christ first. You can still have a family and put Christ first. You can still have entertainment and hobby choices and put Christ first. But putting him first affects all those things. So we're talking about the priority principle. Today we're going to be going into the purity principle. So we understand that when it comes to technology, there's a lot of wickedness that is there. I'm sure as I announced the study dealing with devices, that was probably the first thing that came to mind. Oh, we're going to be teaching about the immorality that's available on the internet. Uh and that is part of it. But I I hope to have broadened your perspective a little bit from that to say, you know what, there's actually a lot more than just the immorality that's available that this phone has affects my Christianity. But today we are going to get into that because that is a big part of it. That is a big thing that is harming churches and families and Christians and not just churches, people all over the world are being harmed by the immorality that's available on devices. And it's it's sad when um we'll talk about this more as we get into the the next lesson or two lessons from now when we talk about the protection principle and how we guard ourselves when it comes to our interacting with devices. But The world is noticing this as a problem as well. There was a state just a few weeks ago passed a law, I believe it was Arizona, but I'm not sure. They passed a law that no phone would be allowed to be sold in their state in in the year twenty twenty two, uh unless it had the ability to block inappropriate content on the phone, built into the software. Um because they understand you will you put put put the protection on this app, will they go get another app? But they say if your phone in the if the software itself on the phone can't protect from inappropriate content, your phone's not allowed to be sold in our state. They just passed this law recognizing this is a problem. This is a problem that this immorality is available to to everyone. And their focus is on children, but it harms adults as well. It just is harmful to everyone. So we're going to be looking today at this idea of the purity principle. We started again with this verse, Psalm 101, verse 3. I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave unto me. Hopefully. Uh when we are done with the lesson today, we can say that as well. That I hate the work of them that turn aside. I've set no wicked thing before my eyes. It's not going to cleave to me. Let's open with a word of prayer. We'll ask God to bless our lesson today. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word, Lord, and what it teaches us. Lord, this uh problem that we're going to be talking about today affects many people, uh affects many homes and many people's lives, Lord, just the the wickedness that that's out there and the wicked We need to be on guard for it. Pray you would help us to understand today that that we need to be on guard for the blatant wickedness, but also the subtle wickedness that um Satan uh tries to put in, Lord. He is the he is a deceiver, he he is subtle, Lord And he's looking for anyone that he can devour. And Lord, he'll take incremental steps. He doesn't have to get uh everybody to fall right away to the big sin. Lord, he wants just to s just to sneak in, uh his deception to sneak in his lies into our lives. Lord, pray we would be on guard for these things in our lives. Help us as we study your word this morning. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So as we begin this idea of talking about the purity principle, I want to talk about the purity of the Christian. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. We've gone over this chapter several times in recent weeks and the different studies that we've done. Keep coming back to here. But this again, Corinthians, uh a very carnal church of Corinth that Paul is writing to here and he's dealing with problems that he knew uh was in the church, and part of it was immorality that was in the church. Very blatant. uh immorality that was there and he was writing to discuss that. And he didn't just deal with the blatant immorality that everybody knew about. He goes on to address the uh the other immorality that people were keeping secret. And that is a lot of what he deals with here in um chapter number six. But in verse numbers uh verse number eleven, he says something That's very interesting. He says there, 1 Corinthians 6. 11, and such were some of you. We're going to get back to what the were is talking about in a minute. But he says, such were some of you, but ye are washed. Ye are sanctified, ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of God. We understand that as a Christian, God has given us purity. God has given us a cleanliness from sin. Now he hasn't taken away our sin nature, and we'll talk about that some more in a minute. But when you're saved, God washes away your sin. And God's made you a new creature. And as Christians, we have this purity that God expects us to protect. And so as Christians, we need to be protecting the future purity that God has given us He starts there by saying, such were some of you. What is he talking about there? Well we have to back up to verse number nine to see what he's talking about. Look in verse number nine, it says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom Kingdom of God. Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. So he's addressing their testimony. He said, You look, you there's some of you who were saved out of some awful things You were doing some awful things prior to your salvation. You were corrupt. You were filthy. And you know what? God saved you and He washed you. He made you clean. He says you were these things. And the idea there is that it's in the past. So no longer should you be those things now that God has saved you from them. Everyone who is saved has been saved from sin. Whether you're a five year old church kid or you were a gangbang banger, you were lost in sin. And you were lost in the same sin that was going to take you to the same hell uh and cause you to be judged for all of eternity because you'd say Against God. And we all have a past. We all have something that God has saved us from. Sin was our master. And this church group at Corinth that was being addressed by Paul, he clearly lists out the type of people that they what they used to be This is the way you used to be. But what happened? God saved you. God brought you out of that lifestyle. God brought you away from that sin. And as saved people, we're given a new nature. In 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17, the Bible says, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. As Christians, our past is under the blood. We're going to be having a baptism this morning. What do we say after we baptize? Buried in the likeness of Christ's death and raised to walk. In newness of life. A new life. A different life. Not what you used to be. God has saved you to be something different God cleansed you from that past and He's given you a clean slate to start a new future that is pure. And that purity is a precious thing. Just like a young lady and a young man that are saving themselves for marriage, that purity is a precious thing. It's a gift that they give to one another. Well, as a Christian, God gave you purity as a gift at your salvation. But too often we allow that purity to be corrupted by choosing to go back to what we were. Choosing to go back to the things that God saved us from. Let us not return to the things that God has saved us from. There's plenty of wickedness that ruled our lives prior to our salvation. We should not let it rain in our lives now. In first Peter chapter one, verses fourteen through seven sixteen, the Bible says, As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. But as he that w as he which hath called you is holy, so be holy in all manner of conversations, because it is written, be holy For I am holy. What is he saying here? He says, You're a child of God, just as we sang in the song this morning. You're a child of the king. So what does that mean? What does that look like? He says that means you don't fashion, you don't make yourself Do the things that you did according to the former lust of your ignorance. The things you did before you saved when you were ignorant, you didn't know God. Don't do those anymore. Don't act that way. Don't conform yourself to that image of what you were prior to your salvation. God saved you from that. And what does he want you to do? He doesn't want you just to not go back and do these things He's called you to be holy. He said, be holy as I am holy. He's given us a new goal. He said, don't look like this, look like me Don't go this direction, go towards holiness. And that's what Christ has called us to. He said in 1 Corinthians 6, such were some of you. That's not who you are anymore if you're a Christian. So don't live according to the filth that your flesh desires. Live a pure and a holy life. God has given you this gift of purity. He saved you from sin And he wants you to live a new life, a new life of holiness. So we should live not according to our old nature and its lusts. I remember one time as a young person, I was nine or ten years old. We were having a testimony service at our church. A lot of people just Giving testimony. And several people are giving testimony about what God had saved them from. And giving stuff not detailed stories, but just stories of here's what I was, and here's what God saved me from, and now He's made me a new person And I remember when it was my turn to give a testimony, I I gave mine and I stood up and said, Well, you know, I haven't done all the bad stuff all you guys did. But I was a sinner and God saved me. And uh so gave my testimony. Everybody just like you got a good chuckle out of that testimony. But I remember a few years later as a teenager when my mom challenged me with that testimony. She told me, said, you know, you testified that God saved you before you got to do all that bad stuff. So don't go do all that now. He didn't save you so you could start now doing the stuff he saved you from. So whether God saved you from such were some of you, and you could say, Hey God, I was this and God saved me Or some of you young people that said, Well, I never was that. Well, don't be that now. Don't turn back to those letting sin rule in your body. Whether you're five or whether you were fifty, sin was in charge. And now you've been saved so you can be pure, don't go back to letting sin be in charge. That's going to look differently for a five-year-old than for a 50-year-old. But we can all turn back to letting sin be in charge. We looked in a couple weeks ago at Romans chapter 6 Who are you going to yield yourselves as instruments to obey? Who's going to be your master? God or sin? That goes back to our power principle we talked about. We don't go back to those things. There's a song I taught to young people downstairs written by a friend of mine. It goes like this in the chorus. It says, I'm not what I want to be, I'm not what I'm going to be, but thank God I'm not what I was That's what Paul is talking about here. He says, such were some of you, this is what you were, and God saved you from that. And what did he do? God gave you purity. So don't mess it up. Don't go back to those things that God saved you from. So he says, there such were some of you. But look in verse number 11 again, it says, but ye are washed. But ye are washed. God's given you this purity. God has washed you. God has made you clean. Sin makes you dirty. Not physically dirty, uh some does, but but um just you can tell when you've sinned your soul feels dirty if you're a Christian and that guilt the the Holy Spirit giving you that conviction, you just feel filthy and sometimes not even from sinning, just being out in the world sometimes. And y you're in an environment where I I remember as a teenager sometimes you go uh to to sporting events or something like that and you just feel dirty because it's it it was it's just not a great environment to be in as a Christian. There's a lot of lot of things going on around you that you you're not comfortable with and you just get the filth of this world on you. God says You were this, I've washed you. I've made you clean. I've cleansed you from all that filth that was on you because of your sin. Imagine as you look through this list of the of the people that were there, adulterers, effeminate, fornicators, idolaters, covetous, drunkards, just imagine the weight of sin that was released. And they said, yes, uh I've been clean. I've known purity again for the first time when they turned to God for salvation. God washed you. God made you clean I remember one time when I was a teenager I was working on installing a sprinkler system out in the in a in a uh parking lot and we had to run all the wires for the sprinkler system get the timer plugged in to do the do the sprinkler system. Well that building was an operating warehouse and it had forklifts and exhaust and tires and everything in that place was filthy. And I remember climbing through all these and I'm hugging stuff and grabbing on the insulation and all I came out looking as dark as Anner's suit right there. Um as just outside of my teeth. Uh and uh um my w wherever my clothes stopped. Uh everything else was filthy dirty. Oh and just just just nasty. And uh coming home, uh my mom wouldn't let me come in the house uh looking like that. Um I actually had to start washing outside before I could come in and finish washing because I was going to make her bathtub dirty as far as how filthy I was getting there. You know, getting in there, getting clean, getting a shower, being a wash, you feel so good. And the first thing that you want to do is go back and roll around in the dirt again, right? No. I it just refreshed and I don't want to go back out and if my dad will come in and say, Hey, we're going to go out in the field and we're going to do some work today. So why don't you tell me before I got my shower, right? Because I've been clean. I don't want to go back and get all dirty and filthy again. Remember other times we would do landscaping jobs around several of the lakes that were near where I grew up, some very wealthy people owned homes, a lot of summer homes, and we would do these landscaping projects. And we were we were digging in the dirt, we were planting trees, we were laying side, and you'd get you'd get filthy. And if no one was home and we got all the work done early, our boss would let us go swimming in the lake before we went on back home. I think that was actually so we could But we thought it was a blessing, it was a work it was a work benefit that we got to go. But I remember lots of times we'd go run off the end of the dock and you'd jump in and you would see brown clouds. Where everybody jumped into the water, all the different. As far as you just get just get rinsed off. But you know what we did? Before we went out and jumped in the lake, we made sure all the tools were put back in the truck. We made sure all the stuff was picked up out of the yard because after we got in the water, we got cooled off, we got rinsed off, we didn't want to go back and do any more work. Because we'd been washed. I hope you see the illustration. You're saved. God washed you. Are you going to go back and just roll in that filth again? Are you going back and get that impurity on yourself again? You know what that's a sign of? That's a sign of immaturity. Because that's what my toddlers do. They get washed and go roll in the dirt. They get washed and dump a peanut butter and jelly sandwich on top of their head. They don't mind getting dirty again. Because why? Because they're immature. Because because they're ignorant And as a Christian, if you're allowing yourself to go back to the same filth over and over and over again after God has washed you from it, you're immature. Immature as a Christian. Because God saved you, God cleansed you, not so you could go back and roll in the filth, but so that you could live a new and a clean life. Christian that returns to the same filth is immature and foolish. Proverbs 26, verse 11, God draws a very clear picture of how he views this attitude in Christians. He says, as a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to the folly. Just as a dog would go back and re-eat the same stuff that made him sick. Somebody will go back to the same filth again and again and then come back and say, God, I did it again. Can you wash me again? God will do it. God will clean you up. God will forgive you. And you go right back and you roll in that same stuff that made you just as filthy as you were before because we're foolish and because we're immature. God has he tells them here, he says, you you had this lifestyle, God made you clean. God washed you. Why would you go back? Why would you go back to the impurity that is there? He goes on to say in verse number 11, such were some of you, but ye are washed, ye are sanctified. The word sanctified there means set apart. Given a different position. Moved away from what you were. He put you in a new place When you got saved, God set you apart. This carried the idea of holiness. You've been set apart from sin. You were the slave of sin. God redeemed you, He brought you, and He separated you, He set you apart so you could live a new life, so you could live a holy life, not fashion yourself according to the form of lust of your ignorance, but being holy like He is holy. God set you apart. He separated you from sin. Now we understand we still have that sin nature, but God has called us to a life of holiness. I feel that we often use that excuse of a sin nature to condone our sinful behavior. Well yeah, you know, I'm a I'm just a human. I got a sin nature, so it's just what I'm gonna do. Well that's not what God expects of you. God said, Be holy. He left you with a sin nature, but he said, I want you to be holy. So don't give your use your sin nature as this excuse. Well, I just have to, I just have to do what's wrong because that's just what's in my nature. No, God's given you a new nature You still have the old man, but he said, crucify him with his lust, with his desires, and live with new desires. Live to be holy as I am holy. God has told us to that. We just read that verse, be holy, for I am holy. That verse is repeated seven times in the Bible. God wants you to be holy. God sets you apart so that you could be holy Holy. Not only does it carry the idea of being holy, it also carries the idea of being special, being set apart in a special place. Now, whenever I think of sanctified, I I picture my mom's china dishes that we had growing up. You know, those dishes were sanctified. They were set apart. They were in their own cabinet. You didn't get to use them when you wanted a snack. You didn't get to use them when all the spoons were dirty and you needed some more cereal. You had to go wash the spoon. You couldn't go get one out of the silver in the China cabinet. They were set of heart. They didn't get to use those for common meals. They were not for snacks or because other dishes were dirty. They were in a special cabinet that were only to be used on special occasions. They were sanctified As a Christian, you've been set apart, you've been sanctified, you've been made special by God. So his expectation is that you will not act commonly. Don't be a paper plate when God has called you to be fine China. What does this mean? It means you don't be like everyone else You don't do what everyone else is doing. You don't dress like everyone else. You don't talk like everyone else. You don't have the same priorities as everyone else. You don't have the God has made you special. Don't go back to being common. You know, Jesus prayed for your sanctification in John chapter 17 before he died on the cross John chapter seventeen, the whole chapter is is is Christ's prayer that he made. He prayed for himself, he prayed for his disciples, and he prayed for you. Uh there in the Bible. He said, And for all those that will believe on me because of their testimony. If you believe on God because of the things in this word of God, he was praying for you prior to his death on the cross. And what did he pray? He prayed that we would be sanctified. In verses 14-21, I've given them thy word, and the world hath hated them because they're not of the world. even as I am not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but thou shouldest keep them from evil, for they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I sent them also into the world, and for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they might also be sanctified through the truth. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them which shall believe on me through their word, that they may all be one, as thou Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they may also be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me In this prayer, Jesus pointed out that you're not of this world. You're not supposed to be part of this world system. He pointed out that sanctification is found in the Word of God. It's the Word of God that separates us. And he says that he sanctified himself so that we could be sanctified as well. He set himself apart to do a special job that God had for him in order so that God could set us apart for special jobs as well. Let us live lives that are sanctified through the Word of God. Sanctified lives are pure lives. So he says there you've been washed, ye have been sanctified. He says also that you've been justified. The word justified means to be made righteous. We teach it to children in this way. The word justified means just as if I'd never sinned. At your salvation, God justified you. He did not just remove your sins, he made you righteous. He imparted unto you the righteousness of Christ because he made Christ sin for you. Our sins were put on Christ's account, and his righteousness was put on ours. When I was in high school, we had a beta club that I was part of, and for a fundraiser we got these, they call them gourmet suckers, and we would sell them for a fundraiser. We actually didn't sell very many of them, we just bought them all ourselves. Um and it's because our teacher would let us eat them in class if we bought them uh to raise money for beta club. So we would buy them that way. Now there are two ways you brought bought suckers uh as a beta club member. Nobody just had the money to buy suckers. and it was a it was an odd like 60 cents or something like that. So you didn't have the exact change and the teacher couldn't keep all the change in there. So what she would do is she would let you get sockers and then she would write down how many you got. and let it build up until you had a tally there of a couple dollars and then she'd say, okay, you owe four dollars now, whatever the total came out to. So that was how most people did it. Now my dad taught me to to hate debt. So I would put money on deposit and say, okay, here's $5, tell me when I use that up and I'll give you some more money when I buy buying these suckers, going through class that way. So you can have these two ways of doing it. Now justified is not me seeing so-and-so owes three dollars and say, hey, let me pay their debt. Justified is where I take the IOU that says Jason on it and it says he owes $3. 40, and I take the Derek credit, $5. 50. I crossed off Derek over here, I write Jason, and I crossed off Jason over here and write Derek. That's justified. Not just paying his debt, but I took his place and gave him my credit and took his debt. in my place. That's what Christ did for us. Think of it this way in the spiritual world. Imagine we had two lists. If we had up over here, Derek, and we just listed all of Derek's sin under here. We have laziness, we have pride, we have we have the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. We we have all the things that that I do wrong of my sin nature over here. And over here we have Christ. And under Christ we have that He was holiness, that He was the beloved Son of God, that He was uh without sin, that he was perfect, that he did everything that God wanted him to do. And so justified, we used to think about salvation, we and we go to that idea of wash. We say, okay, God erased this list over here. But justified doesn't do that. Justified takes Derek off right here and puts Christ. And justified takes Christ over here and he puts Derek and I'm given Christ righteousness. That's what Christ did for me when he justified you. So why would we take this list that God's given us and grab something from over here and say, you know what, I want to put that back over here Just for today. I'm feeling bad right now. Why would we turn back to that when God has given us this? That's the purity of the Christian. That's justified. This is what God did for you at salvation. Why would you return to that wickedness and corrupt the righteousness that God has imparted to you? So that's the purity we have as Christians, that gift that Christ gave to us at salvation. And we get to the pu impurity of technology. The impurity of technology. I put three things here to talk about when it comes to impurity of technology. And first of all, we have the world's focus. The world's focus. Who makes ninety-nine point nine percent of the things that we consume electronically? Is it independent Baptists? Is is it Christians in general, Christianity in general? No, it's the world. The world makes the apps, the world makes the games, the world makes the advertisements, the world makes the videos, the world makes uh the the stories, the articles, the Presentations The stuff that we consume electronically is created by the world. When the world makes technology, it makes it from an anti-God worldview. And their worldview is going to come through their materials. By the end of this year I will I will have written four hundred and fifty devotionals that have been sent out to our church. Hopefully by mid-2020 it will all be published and we'll have a three-volume set of books that'll that'll go out and they'll have them all there. You know if you read Those 450 devotionals, you'll get a pretty good idea of what about I think about stuff. Why? Because my worldview is going to come out in the things that I produce And so is it any different when the world produces a movie that their philosophy is going to be in there? Right. What they think about things is going to be in there? Their worldview is promo produced and promoted through their material. Through technology, you're going to get what the world thinks about. History, family, church, God, science, human, humanity, human nature, human sexuality, all these things you're going to get the world what the world wants you to think about it. Coming through your technology. And in all of these areas, the world focuses on things that are contrary to what God has to say about them So when we consume technology, whether it be mu movies, music, news, document documentaries, nature programs, your YouTube feed, the world's training you what to think. They're telling you what you should think about stuff. Well it it's just harmless what was created by the world and what they think is in there. It's just a nature program It's got it was made by the world and what they think is in there. I'm not saying it's wrong to to watch a watch a movie on butterflies, but understand that that was created with the anti-God worldview. Right, right. And that's going to be in there. And so we need to guard ourselves from it, from what the world focuses on. Technology will give you the world's focus. As Christians, we should base our opinions on the Word of God. What does the Bible say about climate change, evolution, government, political issues, fads, workplace relations, job descriptions, living wages, roles within the homes, or addictions? What does God say about it? Do you know? You know what the world thinks about it, because they've told you. And you've consumed their content. What does God think about it? Some of the most dangerous impurity found on technology is in the subtle training of the world's focus. It's harder to identify as wrong The wicked immoral filth that's on the internet, it's easy to say that's wrong. It's harder to notice when your kids are watching a cartoon program and the child rolls their eyes at the parent But that's the world's training your children how parents and children should relate. That's their focus. Just I'm sure many of you heard about it just a few weeks ago, uh the the children's program Blues Clues um which targets an audience of like three to six year olds, had a transgender drag queen saying about how There's families that have two mommies and two daddies and this is wonderful and they love each other and they all get to march in the big parade. Teaching three to five year olds transgender, men's burlesque, and uh and and um so sexual ideology indoctrinating three to five year olds. And it's just a children's program about a cartoon dog Their focus, they slip it into these things. And if you're not watching, they're going to get it into your kids and they're going to get it into you. It's actually already there. And we haven't realized it. The world's focus. So we have the world's focus, we also have the world's filth. There's a lot of filth on technology. This is the obvious wickedness that Christians have no business business being involved with. We all know what it is and we all know this wrong. But many Christians are still falling prey to the filth that's available on devices. You know, we're actually pretty good at making excuses about it. Well, I wasn't looking for it. Uh well I've already seen it before. I've heard it before. I I could handle it. You mean you're spiritual enough to sin? I I skip or I mute the bad parts. Well if you know where they are, to skip or mute them means you've watched them before. Everyone does it. Well that goes back to being sanctified. You're supposed to be different. All the filth and the perversion of this world is available. on this device. Wherever it is. There it is. Right there. Anything the world can come up with as depraved as can be, I can get right here. The feel for this world. We also have the world's following. These devices are great at showing you the next thing that the world is interested in. Almost every section of technology has some sort of trending feature. What is everybody interested in? What should you want? What should you think about? What should you be entertained by? Growing up, my pastor taught me an important principle that he called the majority principle. This simply said that if most people are for it, you should usually do the opposite. If most of the world is interested in something, you should probably shouldn't have anything to do with it. This even goes into broad Christianity, not your local church, but Christianity broadly. If all Christianity is all excited about this new thing Probably not of God because the majority was never right in the Bible. So that was what he taught the majority principle. with the latest trends, the latest styles, the latest personalities. Yet our devices are constantly trying to direct our attention to the things that the world wants us to follow. When was the last time you had an ad for prayer and body Bible study prop up as you were scrolling YouTube? They want to direct. They want to show you, hey, this is what you should be interested in. This is what you should want. And they want to direct our attention. So that's the um the impurity that's available on technology. And then we're going to just close out quickly this evening, or this morning, with the purity principle. We'll talk more time more later in another lesson on how to specifically protect yourself when it comes to the impurities surrounding technology, but I want to make three quick points here. Number one, guard your ears. There are two major ways that our soul is defiled through technology. It starts with the things that come into our ears and into our eyes. So we need to guard our ears. This primarily relates to the world's focus that we're talking about just a minute ago. The things that we hear are instructive to us. It's through our ears that we're educated. Right now, you're being educated. How? Through your ears. I'm making a couple visual demonstrations, but mostly you're hearing and learning. The world knows that. So if they can plug you in and keep you connected, they can teach you. They can educate you What you let come into your ears is teaching you. Our culture and our devices are designed to keep us connected. The world wants an uninterrupted channel into our lives. Music, podcasts, news, programming, they're all designed to catch your ear. Just have it running in the background. I don't know how many homes I've been in and the TV's just running in the background. I've been in homes where they let the TV run 24-7. Well it helps the kids go to sleep. No, because you trained them that they needed to hear this. But We don't have time to go into all of that, but the later it is, the worse stuff's on there. And you're letting it run in your kids' room all night? Letting that just all all go in, straight channel, right there, keeping it plugged in. They can get you to listen, they can shape your character. Here's a good principle when it comes to what you listen to. If you wouldn't listen to it on speaker, don't listen to it on your headphones. If you wouldn't listen to it on speaker, don't listen to it on your headphones. So what should we do? Well, turn it off every once in a while. How much time do you spend in silence? God's commanded us to take time to be still. To be quiet. Don't give the world unfiltered, uninterrupted access to you or your kids. Turn it off and guard your ears Secondly, we need to guard our eyes. Just as our ears are used for education, our eyes are used for entertainment. The lust of the eyes is one of Satan's devices. He wants to control what you look at If you've ever used a movie streaming platform, usually at the very top is what? Recommended for you. Here's what we want you to look at. Here's what we want you to be entertained by. Here's what we want you to And and some of that is built off of things you watched before, but I've seen it that I didn't watch anything like that. But they want you to say, hey, this is what you should look at. This is what you should be interested in. This is what you should you should pay attention to They want to control your eyes. These are all about controlling your eyes. How about the you might also like section? They want to control your eyes. If Satan can get something in front of your eyes, he can get it in your heart. And it can go so quick. You weren't expecting it, and it just came up. There it was. Something to get into your eyes and into your heart. So guard your eyes. And lastly this morning, guard your kids. We've already established that this device that we've talked about here up here, it holds all of the world's filth at your fingertips. It's hard enough as spiritually mature adults to control what we come across, and many parents give these to their children. As young as seven, eight, nine years old. Uninterrupted, unfiltered access to all the world's depravity. Nothing is foolproof. Uh you can put whatever kind of devices you can get around them. You can get around all kind of stuff that's on there But if you can't control what your children are allowed to access on this device, don't give it to them. If you don't know how to shut it down before you give it to them, don't give it to them The excuse that we're too old and don't understand will not hold up when you answer before God for your child's spiritual destruction at the hands of the smartphone. You should as a parent have regular access to every part of your child's device. You should know what every application does and how it works. You should have unchangeable restrictions and time limits put on screen time. If you cannot control the device for them, you should not give it to them. If you need help with that, ask. We'd be glad to help you. See I don't I don't understand how do you how do you lock this out at nighttime after ten o'clock? How do we shut it down? Come and come and ask. We'd be glad to help. But don't let the world raise your kids How much time do your kids learn from you compared to when how much time they learn from this? Because anything they see and anything they hear is educating them And how much are they getting from you and from the Word of God and from their church compared to how much they get right here? Don't let the world raise your kids. The purity principle. God's given us a new life. Let's not go molly it up. Let's not go back to the filth that God saved us from.