We're going to look at verse number 16 all the way down to verse number 20, and then we'll pray and uh we'll ask God to bless and we'll look at some of these points over here and then we'll continue this uh somewhat in the morning service. Alright, I'm going to be preaching, teaching on the Great Commitment. The Great Commitment to the Great Commission. The Great Commitment to the Great Commission. Verse 16, the Bible says, then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Well, let's pray and ask God to bless them. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for this morning. We thank you, God, for the uh uh the opportunity to be in your house, Lord, when we think about the storm uh the snowstorm that happened yesterday, God, and uh how many people were in accidents, Lord, and uh and not even able to ambulate this morning because of that. We just thank you, God, for your grace that we can be here. We thank you, Lord, for clearing the road and clearing the way so that we can come. Pray, Father, you would warm our hearts in the Word of God. The Holy Spirit of God would speak to us, Lord. And Father, I pray that we would make decisions based upon the Word. the the the received word of God. And I thank you, Lord, for Hunt Valley Baptist Church, God, and their love for missions, Lord, how evident it is, Lord, and how uh well received we are as missionaries to them. this great people. I pray, Father, you would be glorified in our midst. We pray that we would lift up Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, to have a great idea of what is that great commission. God and help us to be about that. For we know it's pleasing to you. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Well, the Lord assembled his disciples as he's preparing them for a new mission. I say a new mission because in the context of the book of Matthew, There was the go not in Matthew chapter 10. Verse number 5. You can look at that later, but He told them, go not into the Gentiles, into Samaria, go not. It wasn't time yet. Israel hadn't yet rejected the Messiah And of course, Jesus was rejected, and uh the blindness that happened to Israel in part has then become the the richest of the Gentiles. Jesus died on the cross, and then of course three days and three nights he was under the power of death, but death could not keep its prey. And Jesus resurrected, and of course he ascended into heaven, and now he sits on the right hand of the Father. But before that, he gave us a commission. He gave us something to do. So you see, uh there is first of all I want you to see the place of missions, the place of missions in verse number sixteen. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. And I tell you something, there's always a place for missions. What is that place? It's the local New Testament Biblical Baptist Church. Missions involves the local church It's about promoting the church. It's about planting churches. It's about propagating churches, perpetuating churches. It all has to do with the church. Why? Well, who started the church? Okay, so this church didn't begin with man. It began with where Jesus had appointed them. And I'll tell you something, if you're saved and you're born again, there's a place that Jesus wants to appoint you to. And it's an appointment, please remember, if you can make it to work on time. You can make it to church on time and probably a little earlier so you can really fellowship mingle. And when it's time to leave, you're not the first to leave. Why? Because you just gotta mingle some more and get that fellowship in and Prepare yourself for another week out in the world. This is the place that Jesus appointed. It's the local church. When we see people saved, it's not we are rejoicing, we're thankful when people are saved. But God has a plan and a purpose for everyone he saves. And they find that purpose in the church. Can I tell you something? If you're saved and born again, but you're not part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, for example, here, and you're local to this area here, can I tell you something? God has a plan to use you. And to grow you and for you to contribute your gift to service the service of Jesus Christ and a local New Testament church, like Hunt Valley Baptist Church. This is the place of missions, God's appointed place. And yet we can go through that the entire Bible. There's always a place that God meets with His people. Adam was the garden, Noah was the Ark, Abraham was Mount Moriah, Moses was the tabernacle, and in Caesar King Solomon's time, it was the temple. Every time there's a place that God appoint, is appointed by God to meet with his people. When Jesus came, he said, I will build my church. Alright? I will build my church. So he he's all about the church folks. This is this is very important to him. So the place of missions is the church. Number two, the person of missions. The person of missions. Look at verse number 17. And when they saw him. They worshiped him, but some doubted. Who's the person of missions? Jesus. Okay, let me tell you something. Apart from Jesus Christ, we can do nothing. So I call myself a missionary, but you know really all I am is an ambassador of Jesus I can't save one soul. Did you know that? You can't save one soul. The church can't save one individual. But we know who can. And our task as his representatives is to tell people about Jesus. Link them, connect them to Jesus. That's it. That's our job. He is the person of missions. He's the one who came to heal the brokenhearted. He's the one who came to set the captives free. He's the one who came to give sight to the blind, not us. I mean, we can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth us So the person of mission is Jesus. Notice what it says there. And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. Now wait a minute. It's just that way. Sometimes you come to church to worship him. Sometimes you come to church with your doubts. But can I tell you something? Jesus didn't reject Thomas because Thomas doubted him. You know what Jesus did to doubting Thomas? Now he looked down at Thomas, we're like, man, look at Thomas, he's struggling. He even missed the Sunday night before You know what Jesus did to doubting Thomas when he came to church the following Sunday? He met with him personally. You know why? Because Jesus is the great shepherd. And a shepherd never scatters the flock. You need to pray for your under-shepherd. He's got a lot of things he knows about that he can't tell you by nature of his office. And so when at times you can't understand him, it's not because he doesn't speak English. He's just being the shepherd. And you've got to trust him. But some came with their doubts, and Jesus didn't scatter them, and he met with him personally, and I love it how Jesus ministered to Thomas personally. Came right up to him and said, Touch me. Touch me here. Touch me here. Showed him his wounds that he suffered for Thomas. And if Thomas was the only one around, he still would have died for him. Oh, have you ever had your soul restored by the shepherd? You know the psalm, right? He restoreth my soul. To be restored, broken at times, but then put back to usefulness. The person that can do that is Jesus. The only one. The one who can save. The one who can sanctify. The power of missions is verse 18. Then Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Now the word power here, there are several words of power in the New Testament. One has to do with ability. You know, I have the power to pick up that Bible over there and move it over here. That's ability, that's skill. There's another word where we get the idea of dynamite, you know, dunamis blowing stuff up. This is when God answers prayer in a way that only God can. Uh have you ever had God answer your prayer? I mean significant. You didn't maybe you didn't share it, maybe you didn't want to tell people, but when God answered, you knew it was Him. That's called dunamis. That's called power. I mean, when a person comes to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and they turn from sin and take Jesus' Savior, that's a demonstration of God's power because only God can change people. Changes the entire human condition at the point of salvation. That's dunamis. That's not the word here. The word here is exusia. Exusia. What that means is authority. Authority. Now you guys know that if a scrani police officer now if a scranny police officer uh stops traffic. It doesn't matter how scrawny he is. He wears a badge. That badge represents his Authority. And when the scrawny police officer says, stop, you better stop. Or then you can explain yourself to another authority. But he has delegated authority. Well, this is what Jesus was saying here. All authority, all power is given unto me. Now, didn't he have all authority before? I mean, he was the eternally begotten Son of God. This is Jesus, the second person of the triune Godhead. This is God the Son, co-equal with the Father. Three person and one God. This is the eternal, the eternal Son of God. Of course he had power. But you know the difference is this time he was born of a virgin. He entered into time and space. He was born of a virgin and he died on the cross. I mean, this is God dying on the cross for sinners. Bearing the wrath of God upon him, forsaken of God. That never happened before, that'll never happen again. And then of course he resurrects from the grave the first fruit of the resurrection. So everybody else that was resurrected prior to Christ is really resuscitated. Or revived. The first resurrection was Jesus Christ. He was raised from the dead, never to die again. And so now as the mediator, he was given all authority, all power as the mediator, as the God man. And here's the thing. He authorized the church to perform ministry work. So remember the place of missions is the New Testament church. Guess what? There's not any other organization on earth that has been given authority to go and witness And to win souls and to baptize them and to assimilate them into the local New Testament church. That is listen, we're authorized. When the local government told us you can't have religious services We'd rather obey God than man. I mean after a while, I understand the first couple months we were like just wondering what was going on here, you know. We were looking for bodies on the streets, right? But when uh you know after a couple of months people were going back to work, stores were opening, you can go to the mall. Well listen, if you can go to work and go to the mall, you can go to church. Amen. So anyhow, uh we've been authorized. I don't go to the local government unit and ask for permission to knock on doors and invite people to church. I don't go asking them permission if I can distribute handout literatures and gospel tracts. I don't go to them and tell them, can I preach in the street corner and talk to people about Jesus? I just get on the street corner and preach the Lord I just do it! And they say, well where's your mask and where's the shield? I said I have it here and I have it here. Just like everybody else. All you gotta do is hang drywall Then you'll know the masks don't stop a virus Sixty uh it does work about sixty percent of the time, supposedly. But it makes you feel good. Wear it, amen. You know, I I don't see a problem. We actually our people wear face masks. Uh we had our anniversary service, five year anniversary service last night Thank God. It was a packed house. It was good. God is good. One family missed out, uh, but everybody else was there. Five year anniversary. What a what a wonderful thing. And would they all wear masks? And uh, you know what, we'll do what we need to do to gather together and done matter. As long as we're together, that's what's the important thing. But we're authorized, man. We don't go to the government for accreditation. We don't tell them to validate our work. We do it under the authority of Christ. Number four, the program of missions. The program of missions. Verse 19. Go ye therefore teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son. Son of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. There are four verbs in the program of missions. These four verbs, there's go, there's teach, there's baptize, there's teach, these four verbs compose the program of missions. Of the four verbs, there is one that bear the weight of what we call the command. In grammar school, we say imperative. So of the four verbs, there's only one imperative. And this is something significant because it's scripture. You need to know this. What is that one command? It is not goal. I know, surprise. But you need to know this. Because if you don't know this, then you don't know what the goal is Of the four verbs, teach all nations is the command. That bears the weight of the imperative. Teach all nations. So now wait a minute. Hang on, because there's an exemption to the rule of grammar here. The participle go is elevated to a command Because you can't teach all nations if you don't go. And so, yes, it's not an imperative grammatically speaking, but contextually it is elevated to a command. Duh Duh You know in camp I can't wait for Mount Zion camp because we got duh rules Like anyway, I'm not going there. We got all these rules for camp, and I even have a song for that. I summarized it in a song. We'll have to up w anyway. The command is teach all nations. Oh my. We are to teach all nations. That's a tall order, friend. Teach all nations. Now the the three others are participles, and they basically tell you how to teach all nations. Go is important. You can't teach all nations without going. I'm sorry, folks, but staying at home, doing nothing for the Lord will never get the Great Commission accomplished. It'll never get done if you don't go. It'll never get accomplished if you stay at Hunt Valley. I know you send us as your missionaries and we love you. We are your missionaries. But could it be there's somebody here? That's gotta go. Could it be that God wants to send somebody from here? Whether to plant a church in the USA, which by the way, what a mission field. We need more churches here. More churches like Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Oh man, come on. Somebody's got to reach into other areas. Somebody's got to go. Somebody needs to be sent to teach all nations. Then there's baptizing. You know, when we see people saved, it's not good enough to see them saved. I know salvation is is the beginning. It's the starting point. I mean you haven't lived yet if you're not saved. Life begins at salvation. But that's not the end. God wants to bring that saved soul under the discipline and lordship of Jesus Christ. He's got a plan and a purpose to assimilate that soul into a New Testament assembly so they can be used by God. And I tell you something, if you're not a serving member in a local New Testament church You haven't enrolled. And all those good works, they won't be rewarded You'll be rewarded. Now, good works are not the basis of salvation, but they are the extent of your rewards in heaven You're not going to be rewarded if you don't run the race following the rules. No one wins with uh of not following the rules Then there's baptizing them, then there's teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I commanded you. What a curriculum. What a curriculum. Teaching them to observe all things. And you can go all the way back to Deuteronomy. And the Bible says, diminish not aught from it, that ye may observe to do all things. That sounds just like Jehovah in the Old Testament. Sounds just like Jesus in the New Testament. You know why? Because he is Jehovah. He is God in the flesh. And what he said in the Old Testament still stands true in the New Testament. And by the way, the word is still written and it's still preserved. We have it in our King you have a King James Bible with you? Then you do you have all the words of God? Are you missing anything? No. Not if you have the book, the King James Bible. But teaching them to observe all things. If you don't have a preserved word, how do you know that you have all things? How do you know you're keeping all things if you diminish off from the Word of God? Or if you add to the Word of God? See, you can't take from this, you can't add to it. You just have to receive it. And there are things in the scriptures that are hard to be understood, no doubt. But then how do you receive it? You receive it by faith. You believe and take it. Look, I can't explain the Trinity. I can't explain how Jesus is God-man. But I sure receive it by faith, believing that God, my creator, my sovereign, my Lord, knows more about me than I do myself. And him and he revealed himself in the pages of scripture. And by the way, when we come to church, we come to church to be taught all things. You know why people come to church today? To be entertained. That's not part of the commission. He didn't tell us to uh uh entertain them in everything. What a shame that I don't mean this bad, but youth pastors feel like they have to clown around before they can get to the Word of God. How much emphasis do they teach young people the Word of God when all you meet with them is once you know, I mean compare the hours in front of this and compare the hours in front of a video game, for example. And by the way, video games ain't the same. I mean I like video games But they chatting now. Hello? They're chatting to somebody you don't know. They're sending pictures as they're playing games. And the hours that are poured into that, compare that to the hours. Oh, the one hour. Oh, the forty hours Oh, the thirty minutes, because all the preliminaries have to be done. Folks, we were given a program. We're to follow that program. That's evangelize, baptize, and catechise. That'll help you memorize. Alright. The promise of missions, verse number 20. The promise of missions, verse number 20. Second part says Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, here's his promise. And lo, I am with you always. What a promise. The promise of the presence of Christ. So pastor, as you pastor the work, Christ is with you. He's with your family. Workers, as you work for the Lord, He is with you. Bus captain, soul winner, as you knock on doors, invite people to church, just remember He's with you. When you crack the Word of God open and you try to counsel somebody, try to show them the truth of Scripture, you're not doing it alone. You've got the presence of Christ working with you. He's with you always. You understand there's not a person in the world who can make that promise. I am with you always. I mean if we learn anything during the pandemic times, isn't it unfortunate that some people died alone? Told they couldn't see their loved ones. But if that person knows Jesus as their Lord and Savior, God said, I will never leave you, and I'll never forsake you. Oh, the promise of his presence. We can do this Great Commission because He's with us. Apart from that, we're just doing something. But with His presence, we can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth us. Last but not the least, the perpetuity of mission. So in the very end there it says, even unto the end of the world. Amen. And I asked you a question: how faithful does God want us to be about this great commission? When do we graduate? You know, I mean you got young people studying, you know, pretty soon they'll be graduating and then they'll be be going into college. Some will go into college. Some will go into vocations and some will go into other things. But but when do we graduate from church? I mean, let's say the pastor has gone through the entire book and preached, you know, every verse. Do we then wrap it up and say we're good? No? I believe when God plants a church, He wants that church to be faithful until He comes back. Now there are thirty or some odd almost forty churches in the New Testament that I could see. And uh let me ask you a question. Where are they at today? Where are they at today? They're to be faithful till he comes back. Has he come back? Not yet. Well he's on his way, amen. He's going to snatch us away before the seven-year lockdown. You talk about lockdown? There's one coming. Seven years They're not going to be scanning for temperature checks like they do with them in the Philippines. Every corner had somebody checking the temperature because we got Yayos who go out of the house with the temperature. No thanks to them. But pretty soon they'll be checking for something else. This is a dry run And you don't want to be in that seven-year lockdown. When is that going to happen? We don't know. But can I tell you, biblically, scripturally speaking, it's ready to take place. Ready to take place at any moment. When all the born-again saved people of this earth is gonna be Jesus is gonna come in the clouds and he's gonna be like a magnet. And everyone who's saved, whether they're alive or dead, actually the dead will rise up first and meet him in the air. And then we will join them. He's like that great magnet. But you know a magnet only attracts metal. It doesn't attract anything else. And so when that rapture takes place, everyone who's saved and born again, I'm talking about the bride. Everyone who's there is saved and born again. Those that are left, seven years lacked. down. I'd hate for that to be some of you. I'd hate for it to be any of you. Sitting in the church, you're in church but you're not in Christ. You gonna you're gonna come to church. You're gonna come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church one day, open them doors and and enjoy the the I call the Cadillac Church. I just love I love your church building by the way. It's just excellent. What a worthy, worthy expression of Christ. And if that is a representation of what's in here, That's where it matters, you see. That's how it ought to be. Oh my. But uh one day you I told the folks in the Philippines the same thing. You'll be knocking on the door, you'll be looking where's where's everybody at? Where's everybody at? I told him you can take the piano. Because you don't need it. You can take the chairs and the pews. You can have the building. It's yours Because uh he already took away all those who are born again and saved. Doesn't mean you can't get saved. You can But you're gonna have to go through seven years. By the way, can I get into a little bit of eschatology? Do I have a bit I just I got a few more minutes. quick. That when that tribulation period hits, it's gonna be so bad you won't even know what time and date and year it's gonna be It's going to rattle everything. Technology will be taken away a whole. Now we got nomophobia going on. Do you know that? That nomophobia entered the vocabulary a couple years ago. It's that fear of not having your phone. Well, imagine the rapture when you reach for your phone to get that update and that phone has no signal. I'm telling wars are now started because of Facebook shut down. Talk to Myanmar. I ain't lying. All I'm saying is it's not going to be good if you're not in Christ. Please don't wait. But the point I'm making of the perpetuity of missions is this God wants us to be faithful until He comes back. And but by the looks of this world, I I think he's be he can come back anytime. He can come back anytime. Then we hang it up. This is what I'm talking about. There's a glory to these earthly days. That the eternal days we'll never know. And that's the beauty and glory of serving Jesus Christ right here and right now. We'll be rewarded for that. Could you imagine going to heaven, walking up to John the Baptist? Like, hey John, what happened to you? Oh, I got my head cut off. I was preaching against adultery. Oh, is that right? Yeah, what about you? COVID Hey, let's stay faithful until Jesus comes back. Amen? Then it's gonna be worth it all. I I was so happy to show slides Friday night, but that that's just what we could see. I mean one of these days it's gonna be around the throne room of God with every nation. In every tongue, every tribe, and boy, wouldn't you want to have a part in that? Well the way to change that future is to change today