Amen. Well, do you do the she have our no We'll let him get up there. We'll let it switch because I want you to be able to say our verse of the month uh and we will Psalm seventy seven verses eleven and twelve. So they've got it up there? No. No? Alright, let's put up Psalm 77, 11, and 12. Alright? Let's uh say that verse together. Psalm 77, 11, and 12. I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember thy wonders of old. I will meditate also of all thy work and talk of thy doings. Psalm 77, 11 and 12 So you want to be working on that verse, uh we'll give you opportunity to say it uh probably next Sunday, uh certainly next Sunday evening in In our anniversary service, that'll be a good time, looking for a wonderful time with anniversary Sunday. Invite somebody out, bring somebody with you for for that day, for some enjoyable time together and fellowship. Sunday evening service uh in the tent. Well, we have been looking at the uh Ten Commandments and I was listening to a uh preacher this last week and And now you tell me what's wrong with this statement, okay? Now you can't go out to your neighbors and just go get something. He's got something in his yard that you like, and you go to that, go into his yard and And you just take something from him and take it to your house, you can't do that because you'll be breaking the third commandment and God doesn't want you to be stealing Okay, what's wrong with that? That's not the third commandment. Right. Now it is there is a commandment thou shalt not steal. But uh it's not the third one. Now I'm not jumping on the the i individual that I heard preaching because I know preaching a lot of times it's hard to You mean you're trying to think and trying to get all this stuff. You've got it right in your notes and sometimes it was just the wrong thing comes out, you know, because you're just trying to keep it moving and your mind Mine's going faster than your tongue can, and that kind of stuff. So that surely was just an oversight. But it hit me right away. I'm like, three. No, uh that shall not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. So uh thou shalt not steal. Which was that? Eight. That's right, number eight. So let's run through those to help uh everybody here uh get those. Number one is thou shalt have No other bows before me. Number two, thou shalt not set up to thee any graven image. You take two fingers and one bows down to the other as Then uh number three, three up, put it to your lips. Okay, number four, four fingers put them together like a steeple. Number five. Number six Thou shalt not kill. Number seven, which we're dealing with today, thou shalt not commit adultery. Take these two fingers, put them lay, lay that, lay them down together in this hand. reminds you very vividly, thou shalt not commit adultery. Uh then we talked about number eight already, taking a five and a three and grab the three and like pull it away. Thou shalt not what? Steal steal. And uh number nine. Thou shalt not bear false witness. I promise to tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth. Okay, don't bear false witness. And then number 10, 10 altogether, reach out and grab, pull it towards you. Thou shalt not covet. Very easy to uh remember those. Even if you can't recite them, you can remember the action and it'll come back to you what it what it represents. So uh keeping those in front of your mind. This morning we're going to be dealing with number seven. just happens to be in the course of uh how we've been looking at these, but this morning is thou shalt not commit adultery. And I'll tell you what, this is uh a uh Commandment that we need as a people, as a nation, uh today. The last command that we looked at was thou shalt not kill. Uh number six, thou shalt not kill. And that was dealing with the sanctity of life and the preciousness of life and valuing that at all cost and and uh not taking life even as a matter of convenience or uh uh you know know when somebody stops being a benefit to society, etc. Well, this one is dealing with the sanctity of marriage and the preciousness of this institution that God gave us in marriage. And in this promiscuous and sexually driven society that we have today, this commandment is one that as a people as a nation, even in our churches, need to take a long, hard look at and really evaluate what it is telling us to do Obedience to this command protects the marriage. It'll protect the marriage uh that that you have. Um what are the I mean so many marriages today uh are lost. And that relationship is lost. And I know that we always, you know, the proverbial grass is greener on the other side of the fence. Um, but do you know that you're that You're still gonna have problems. There's still gonna be bills. There's still gonna be things that you don't agree on, uh etc. And uh is not greener on the other side of the fence, but obedience to this command will protect the marriage relationship. That is, by the way, supposed to be between male and female. female. Uh it will preserve the heart of the children. Um it's amazing. You know, on on Thursday night of this week I dealt with talked about defining Moments in our lives, things that happen that are that define us. Something in our life takes place and that has shaped who we are today. And you talk about a defining moment. So many people this is one of the things in their life that they would look at and and it just defines who they've become because their mom and dad uh you know dad had an affair or mom had an affair And then they ended up breaking up and and the the mess that it creates for those that are in that relationship. So obedience to this will protect the heart of the children. Um obedience to this will also prevent the collapse. of a society. We're living in a day today when morals and even outright perversion is no longer in the shadow. But is accepted in the light of day. We're living in a time when uh sensuality is sought after. People go after it, even even in the church. Desire to be sensual in their dress, in their activities. In the presentation of themselves and in what they look at. The entertainment industry today lifts up all types of wickedness. It lifts it up. It promotes it. And it is through the craft of storytelling, they're very gifted storytellers. And they use their craft of storytelling to make relationships that are wicked and wrong seem to be appealing to They make them out to be something that anybody would want, that anybody would desire and should. Much like Uh the different shows that are available today, many, many shows today have adultery or fornication as part of the plot. But there are over 10 programs on television today that their entire plot is based on an adulterous relationship. That is the storyline behind the film or the show, like the show Scandal. And I quote one of the reviews. The review of this show Scandal is a show that makes you root for the other woman. Why why why would they want a show that makes you root for the other woman? They lay it out so people watching that Think, well, that guy ought to go do that. I mean, he look at his wife. She she's a jerk or she's this or that. And it makes you root for the other woman, for the relationship that shouldn't be Yet that's what it puts into the heart of those that watch it. And what does that do to those that want to end up going that direction? There's also a program that one year ago last month was put onto television in March of 2016. Called the Seven Year Switch. The Seven Year Switch based on Marilyn Monroe's movie, The Seven Year Itch. That after about seven years you kind of get a little bit itchy for for something else in your marriage. Well the seven year switch Is a show that they take a group of couples who have been married seven years that are a little discontent in their relationship, and they give them A complete stranger to go live with for two weeks. And they live in a wicked and adulterous relationship for two weeks. All of this on film. The network said in, I have a quote here, these people are at crossroads in their relationships And they bravely put their marriage on the line by shacking up with a complete stranger for two weeks. They will be guided through this process by a relationship expert. A relationship expert that doesn't have enough brains in his head to understand that this is the worst possible thing that could happen to a couple or to a relationship. is not somebody you want to be getting advice from. This relationship expert's going to guide them through this process. At the end of the two weeks of this adulterous relationship, during the time which they the relationship expert guides them in how to invest in each other, how to give themselves to this complete stranger, how to share their life with them. They film this and then they show their mate and they show their mate the videos of each other and what things that they're participating in. Then at the end of two weeks they decide whether they want to just call it quits and get divorced or whether they decided that they uh want to go back to their mate. What kind of a perverse society believes that that is acceptable? That that is something that should be endorsed. I mean, how far down the line do we have to get where we think Not only is it not a sin against God or a sin against my mate, it's just okay, we're just going to try this for two weeks. We're so far gone from biblical principles that we as a church and as a nation need to get back to. And that starts with having an understanding of the commands that God has given us. So let me first give you, I've got three points for you. First of all, is the sacred alliance. This sacred alliance that we have made with our mate, this marriage relationship between a man and a woman, was a relationship that was founded by an institution. instituted by God. This is not just a man-made relationship, not just something that uh uh we thought, oh hey, this should be good. Let's just let's let's let's start this thing called a marriage and and we'll get together and start and have a family and and we'll do this and hey that'll be good for us as a society. And so since we came up with it We could decide, oh, we don't like that idea, let's do something else. No. This is one of the three institutions that were formed by God, the family, the church, and the government. And this is something that from the very beginning, God planned for people to be a part of. and to hold in value and in trust. Matthew 19, verse number 4 and 6 says, And he answered, and he said unto them, Have ye not read? That they, that he, which made them in the beginning, made them male and female. And he said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. This was God's plan. God puts them together. God joins them together. God, by his command, gives the implication here that marriage is something that is good and something that should be participated in. I know there are those who uh think, well, bless God, I'm never going to get married, I'm going to go do my own thing and and I'm going to and listen, there are some people that maybe God's will for them is for them to be single. And that's fine. But I don't think it's a matter of wanting to do God's will for most people that have that kind of spirit. Most of the time it's a matter of they don't want the burden of a family. They want to be able to go out and work, or they want to be able to go travel, or they want to be able to invest their life in what they want, instead of in a wife and children, or instead of a husband and kid. And something the the marriage relationship is is something precious and valuable. And although there are many, many people in the world today who deal with the struggle of having a a marriage, it doesn't have to be that way. Marriage and a relationship with your wife can be the closest thing to heaven, this side of heaven. And what a joy it is to have that kind of a relationship. And that's what God wants. And it is possible to have if we follow biblical principle. And in our lives. If if we just did one thing, the Bible says esteeming other better than yourself. If all you did in your home was esteem your mate better than yourself, There's hundreds of other principles that could be instituted in the home which would help you have a happy marriage. But if that's all you did, you could have a happy marriage. And it would be perpetual. Because when you express that kind of love, what is it that causes us to love Christ? We love him because what? He first loved us. It is the love of Christ that constrains us, that move motivates us, that pulls us to do for him. Well, when your mate is loving you like that You can't help but love them back. You say, man, I'm such a sorry husband. I'm such a bum. I mean, look at how she's loving me and taking care of me and doing so much for me. I I I need to get I need to be a better husband. I need to be a better man and and you try and be a better man and you try and be a better husband. And then she sees that effort that you're doing for her, esteeming her better than you. And then She's like, wow, look at how he's doing all this for me. Look at how he's putting me first. Look at how he's loving me. Man, I want to do better for him. And it's perpetually growing instead of the other way where many relationships are getting worse and worse. And that's what God wants for you. This is a precious relationship. The Bible says a man that findeth a wife findeth a good thing. And I say amen. Paul wrote, Let every man have his own wife and let every woman have her own husband. Jesus supported the institute of marriage by his presence. In the New Testament, several times we see him at a marriage. One day we're going to be at a marriage supper. The institution of marriage is is supported strongly in the scriptures and it's something That we should value and see as precious. And adultery is the immoral act of physical relationships outside of the bounds of marriage. Now, adultery specifically is dealing with that, the physical relationship, but I believe there are measures of adultery that can be enacted as well that that don't embrace the physical. And we may dig into this a little bit more later, but uh you know you can essentially commit emotional adultery. You see, because your your mate should be the person that you confide in. Your mate should be the one that uh when you have a burden or you are are are just heavy and you you just don't know what to do and you need somebody to talk to. Your mate should be that somebody. Because you're one flesh. Because they're the person that cares for you. Because you're the person that loves them. But sometimes in the marriage relationship a person will go and at work sit down with another person. man or another woman, the opposite gender. Now there's nothing wrong with me getting with Joe and and sitting down and we pray together and I share my heart and I'm carrying this burden and Joe and I are going to pray through this. But there'd be something wrong with me sitting down with Kim and doing that. If I'm gonna sit down with a lady and share my heart like that, cry together, it needs to be my wife. And if you find yourself confiding in somebody of the opposite gender that way, that's not right You're one flesh. You're supposed to be going to them. You're giving yourself completely to them. And when you give yourself emotionally to somebody else, you have betrayed your mate. Now we we might dig into that a little more later, but marriage is a sacred trust and it goes beyond just the physical relationship. You give yourselves completely to your mate, even though you may not consummate a re f a relationship in a physical way with somebody else, you can do it in an emotional way. In a way where you give your heart and compassion and care. and and efforts towards somebody else and that is just as much of a betrayal uh it's a measure of betrayal. Uh against your mate. So you've got to guard against that. But so let's look at this, the sinful adultery. Do we have a sacred alliance that we know is given to us by God? It's a trust that God wants we know that marriage is valuable, but there is a sinful adultery that we should not participate in, that we shouldn't be a part of. This sin, first of all, is a sin against Christ We know that uh ultimately all sin is is a sin against God. He's the one that that set it up. He's the one that formed uh the laws that that govern what we live by and what we guide by and what We know will help us have a happy home. So first and foremost, it's a sin against God. Like the psalmist David, he said, against thee. only have I sinned. Even though there are other people that he sinned against, and there's other people that beared the the the the hurt from it. There's even people that were killed from it. There's people that died because of it, because of David's sin. Yet David, when he came before God, he says, God, I first and foremost and against thee and thee. Only have I sinned. We first of all, when we when we partake in this uh uh act of adultery, we sin against Christ, but we also sin against our companion. We sinned against our companion, the one that we vowed to. You know, when you get married, you stand at the altar and you say your marriage vows A lot of people today want to rewrite the traditional vows because they don't want them to say certain things. They want to leave out portions of that vow that they would leave them an open door or a way out. I can tell you right now that they're just planning for failure. That's like uh um years ago I read about you can you can rent your wedding wedding ring. In uh California you can rent rent a wedding ring. Well why? You're not planning to keep it, right? You're not planning for it to last that long. Just rent it and then you can return it. That's that's along the same lines. If you're not willing and and ready to at that marriage altar make a vow that's for life, then what you're doing is you're saying, hey, I'm gonna try this out until I don't like it. How sad to get into a relationship that's that shallow. It ought to be real. It ought to be powerful. Your companion is the one that you sin against. The Bible says it's better not to bow a vow than to vow it and break it. And at the marriage altar we vow a vow. You sin against your companion. Many in the world today brag about their sexual exploits. This is not something that we should be bragging about. This is not something that should be it ought to be something we're ashamed about, that we're embarrassed about. But especially men, and it's getting more prevalent with the with the women as well. But men talking about their sexual escapades and what they did when they were away from home or not with their family. Let me just say if you're doing that, you're not a man. You're not a man. Because a man does what's right. If you aren't man enough to say no to that fleshly desire and give in to that and betray the trust of your wife and your children, And then you want to stand up with other men and act like you're tough because you were able to go out and play around on the side? How foolish is that That's somebody that's weak, that's like a child who can't say no to what he desires. A man says, I might want that, but I know it's wrong, so I'm gonna say no to it. And he can stand up and with a little measure of pride in Jesus Christ giving him the strength, say, I said no, I did right. When I wanted to, or when I was pulled away, or when I desired to, I was able to reject it and walk away from it. He has something that he could say, praise be unto God, for that. But yet many in the world today they praise themselves for giving in to that wickedness and want to talk about it and flaunt it. And that's certainly not what God wants for you and the same thing. I You got married and became one flesh. Genesis two twenty-four tells us. When you got married, you're you're one flesh. What God is joined together, let no man put asunder The physical relationship inside of marriage, when you understand it correctly, is based on giving yourself to your mate. You're giving yourself to your mate. 100%. It's not like the world in most things today presented. as I'm getting satisfied for my needs. That's not what it is. It's giving yourself 100% And when you give yourself 100% to your mate and your mate gives themselves to you 100%, that is when the satisfaction and fulfillment comes in a real in a physical way In a relationship. But many men and many ladies today are conditioned by the television to think that that physical relationship is about personal satisfaction. And they're not getting it, and they think, oh, I'm gonna go somewhere else to try and get that personal satisfaction. The Bible says that the eyes of man are never satisfied. But when your desire and goal is to give your mate all the joy and satisfaction that they can have, then you have satisfaction and joy. It has to be looked at in a biblical principle, in a biblical way. And adultery is a betrayal in such magnitude because now you're giving yourself to someone else instead of To your mate. You have betrayed that trust. You have told your mate in the most cruel and brutal way that they are not good enough. And even by God's grace and with his strength, you're able to put this back together That is a message that you've left with them. And they will have to have the power of God and the strength of God to overcome in the years to come. Because you have told them loud and clear they weren't good enough for you. It's a hard road to come back from. So what we've got to do is we've got to guard against it. Not only do you hurt do you sin against Christ and do you hurt your uh companion, but as we mentioned in the beginning, you you obviously you hurt your children. an amazing uh damage amount of damage is done to children who bear through these situations. And they have to live with that all their days. And they don't understand why. I thought you loved mommy. I thought you loved daddy They don't understand why. The children are hurt. Not only that, your church is hurt. Your church is hurt. When we as Christians go out and do the things that we know we're not supposed to do, many times there's people, family, friends in the church that are hurt by this. Sometimes they even lose their faith. You know, the more influential you are in the church, the greater damage you do to the cause of Christ. when you mess up. And that's why you have a greater condemnation, the scripture says, as being a leader Because people look at you and they say, wow, if anybody in the church is going to mess up, it would never be him. It would never be her And you ought to realize that weight that you carry. And I obviously am knocking at my own door right now. The responsibility that somebody in leadership has to keep that trust for the people that see him. And I'm not the only one in here that people look up to. You'd be shocked who's looking up to you You. All through this room. And I'm not just talking about kids, I'm talking about other men, other adults, other ladies that look up to you and they say, Wow, she's got it together. Wow, uh he's doing an amazing job. Look at his face. Look at look at him. And you're letting the devil entertain these thoughts in your mind, they're going to take you down a path that could destroy that. Come back from it. Don't let the devil do that to you. The church many times is hurt. In 1 Corinthians 12, verse number 26, the Bible says, And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it. And one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. You see, when a family is touched by something as painful as this, the entire church feels that, hurts with them. And so you need to be sure not to go down this past path. Not only is the Christ sinned against and your your companion and And the church and your children, but civilization itself. You say, wow, this is getting really broad. This is proven over test of time That a civilization, a society, a group of people will not stand when they begin to embrace on a national level immorality. You can look down through the history of time and every nation that ever was that that became this great and powerful nation, they reached a level of success. They began to uh flourish and prosper, and then they began to embrace this type of thing, and you'll see that they are no no no more. It does affect even civilization. A professor from Harvard University in his book entitled The American Sex Revolution Says, and I quote, unless there is a change in America, we are doomed for the ash heap. This is a secular university, a secular professor. Not standing behind a pulpit. He's ta he he has written a book. He said, Unless there is a change in America, we are doomed for the ash heap. No civilization No nation, no empire has ever survived an obsession with sexual impurity. This disease is eating the heart of America It's eating the heart of America. And there ought to be some Christians who at the very least stand for God and for their family. And and say, I'm not going to be a part of that. I'm not going to embrace it. I'm going to stand against it. And by God's grace, do all I can to make sure that I live a pure and clear. Clean life. Anything that threatens the family unit threatens society. For without the family, there is no stability. Without the family, men and women tend to live for themselves. You see, without the family, I'm I'm I've got nobody I really have to care for, and I can just do what I want. So I've got no stability. Oh, I can just move to a new neighborhood or move to another city or I can just change jobs. I don't have to have that consistency in my life. Well that consistency and stability was what makes a society stable. And when people aren't aren't married and they don't have that consistency and stability, society starts to get more wobbly. Changing jobs, moving all over the country, doing whatever is most convenient or the most fun. The root deception in an adulterous relationship will destroy the marriage. You see, the root of it is deception The adulterer is always thinking about the other individual. The adulterer is also thinking about ways to deceive their mate. This deception alone, even if the mate never finds out, this deception alone will destroy a marriage relationship Because your heart and your mind and your effort is thinking about the other person, and your heart and your mind and your effort are finding ways of deceiving The one that is supposed to have the most trust of you, of anybody in this world. Just that deception alone will destroy your relationship. Nowhere in the scriptures are we given permission to partake in adultery, even if our mate says it's okay. There are numerous relationships today, and I got about five minutes and I gotta be done. There are numerous relationships today where they have an understanding. Oh yeah, we're married, but uh, you know, um he's free to do what he wants. She's free to do what he wants Not according to this. Your mate may say, well, why don't you go ahead? Just go experiment. You ought to say, how can I do this great wickedness against God? Because God never said that that was acceptable. That that was that that was okay. Even though society embraces it, even though uh people that think or call themselves free thinkers and oh hey, we're We're this is okay, God doesn't say that it's okay. Commit adultery. It is resounding loud and clear the message of live, pure, and clean lives. It is the opposite side of the coin. There is the command here, don't commit adultery. But the obvious implication is live pure and clean. As Christians, that ought to be our goal. That ought to be our desire. That ought to be what we want to do. We ought to want to live pure And clean lives. So this is something that we need to do. You say, oh, well, Pastor, we haven't committed adultery, but how pure is your mind? How clean is your life Well, the last point is the safe action. The safe action. What can you do? What can you do to help you And I have about six pages of notes on this point. So we're not going to cover this today. The safe action. We may, because we're not going to have Sunday school next week. I may cover this tonight in tonight's service. We'll have to see. I'm not positive on that. But the safe action. We ought to live what a desire to live pure and clean. Lives. So you go away with something this morning and realize we're living in a perverse society, and it's going to take an on-purpose spirit to say, I'm going to live pure and clean, because it honors and pleases God. Even in a perverse society. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today. We thank you for your commands, and Lord, I pray that you would help us to live pure and clean. Help us, Lord, not to uh think like this world and get to the place where we start to think, oh, it's not that bad or it's it's okay. Lord, it's it's wicked, it's vile. It's wrong. It hurts and destroys so many people. And God, I pray that you'd put a hedge around those, your people, the people of Hunt Valley Baptist. And that you'd protect him from the attacks of the devil, that you would give us pure and clean minds for you. Lord, would you go with us now as we go into the morning service, as we celebrate your glorious resurrection? Be with each and every heart here today, Lord. I pray that they would be encouraged and strengthened in the fact that you are a risen Savior. Thank you so much, Lord, for coming and dying and for raising from the dead. the dead for being a savior that's with us in every hour and every need. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you.