Okay, it is time to get into the Word of God. We will have our prayer time, of course, at the conclusion of our service here, the preaching time, we'll Take a little bit, look at the prayer requests that were mentioned over the last week, and uh then spend some time in prayer for those. But you can turn your Bibles tonight to the uh book of Galatians. And we want to, we are in chapter number three. We've been going verse by verse down through this book in our study of the book of Galatians and learning what Paul has for the Church of Galatia, but also for us. The title of tonight's study, the verses that we are going to be looking at, is uh Galatians chapter 3 and verses 6 through fifteen. Hopefully we'll get all of those in. Uh but the title is The Fruit of Faith. The fruit of faith. Now I'm a very hands-on kind of guy. You guys know that I'm I'm very practical. I'm you know I I think um and look at and listen to uh things. This is on and unmuted according to this. Is this this working? It's on, just might be down a little bit. You can adjust that accordingly. But uh I uh tend to I'm just very down to earth and simple and I I I tend to think better in practical terms. I mean like you know even math problems like if I talking about fractions I see a tape measure in my head You know, I see the I can see how to think through that. And uh, you know, when I was working on drywall, uh, you know, one guy I was working with I was training and we were hanging drywall and we were hanging these cathedral ceilings that came they call it a witch's hat, but it comes to a point and you're bringing all of these all of these drywall pieces to a point and he's like, man, you really gotta know your geography. And I said, you mean geometry? But no, you don't have to know geometry. You just gotta know how to find the angle. And uh you don't have to know I mean there's ways to do it through geometry. I don't have any idea how to do that. I just know how to put a straight uh string line on there and measure off of the string and find my angle, and that's all you gotta do. I'm just very practical hands-on and That's the way I think, and I know some of you think that way. What I'm saying is that for me, it's most helpful to have an example to look at. Well, Paul knew just what example the Jews needed to understand the truth that he was trying to get across to them. And he gives to them the most powerful testimony of faith found in the Old Testament that would impact them. Greatly. The Old Testament scriptures testify to the fact that the Jewish nations uh held the Jewish nation held a very special place in the heart of God and in God's overall plan. That is for sure. And we're studying that as we're right now getting into this section in the Old Testament survey in Sunday school. But there's no question about that. But the individual that Jewish nation or the Jewish people would look at as the founder of their nation is Abraham. He was the one to whom the Son of Promise was given. And he would be right up there as you think about a Jewish person and people that they would revere or that they would really respect or, hey, listen, if Abraham said it, we believe it, you know, and he right up there with David or Solomon. I mean, right up there with Moses, whom the God gave the law to for the people. I mean he Abraham, the founder of of God's chosen people, they certainly would have respected him. And so we see, first of all, in verse number six, and I didn't read all these because we're going to read them as we go through, but we're beginning here in verse number six. We see the figure of Abraham, this illustration, this example that he gives to teach the fruit of faith. He said, even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. So this figure and example of Abraham includes verses 6 through 9, and we're going to break this up into some different portions. But we see, first of all, the faith of a servant. Now it wasn't wrong for them to look at and respect Abraham. God had certainly given him a very special place and appointed him with very important tasks. But see, beloved, the Jewish people were basing their belief on their experience. Looking for that experience. They were believing because they had an experience or something that they could hold on to instead of looking at the scripture. And establishing their belief off what the Bible said. And so they were establishing what they were going to believe or what they were going to do off of the experience that they had. So he gives them the example of this faithful servant. Even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. Beloved, he is quoting from Genesis chapter 15 and verse number 6. Can I read that for you? Genesis 15, 6 says, and he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. Now, beloved, these are three very important and very powerful words that are found in Genesis 15. 6 for the very first time on the pages of Scripture These words, and so I think it behooves us to maybe look at briefly or understand what it is that he's saying when he says that he believed. He had faith. That word believe from the text, the original word, it is the same root word that we get the word faith from. Believed. He had faith in God. Can I tell you tonight that you can believe God? If God said it, you can take it to the bank. If God told you to do it, you can trust him. If God's leading that way, you can count on it. Beloved, it's okay. We can trust him. He is worthy of our faith Beloved, it doesn't say that Abraham pleased God. It doesn't say that Abraham appeased God. It says that he believed God. And that pleased God. He believed God. Beloved, we need to believe God. Take God at His Word. We have His Word, His written Word right here. We don't need to base our belief or establish our Christianity on an experience that we have out here somewhere. We have a more sure word, the written word of God. This is where our belief comes from He see this faithful servant, he believed God. The fact of his faith was there, he believed. The finality of his faith is seen in that word accounted unto him. That is an accounting word, a word based in accounting that comes from a ledger and the idea of a debt marked on this side, and it was on the other side, there was something paid for, something bought, something uh accounted to, it was placed on the other side of the ledger against the debt that was on this side of the ledger. Beloved, we all stood guilty. We all had a debt that we couldn't pay, but Jesus Christ came and it was accounted to or placed on us what Jesus did. There are several places. There's three things in the Word of God where we see this word accounted, which is also means to impute, or it was imputed unto. We see three things in the Word of God that deals with this idea of imputation of something. We see, first of all, that the sin of Adam was imputed to all men. We know that, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned So that every man after Adam has that sin nature that is part of their life. You can't get around it, can't get away from it. It's something that you're born with, everyone, for all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. The sin of Adam was imputed to all men. The sin of man was imputed unto Christ. When Christ went to the cross, beloved, the Bible says in Isaiah 53:6, All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way. The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. That is literally what imputed means. It means to lay on, to to put on, to set against the debt. He laid on him the iniquity of us all. 1 Peter 2. 24 says, who his own self bear our sins In his body on the tree. Jesus Christ took our sins, the sin of all mankind he took upon him on that tree. But then, beloved, we see that the righteousness of Christ is imputed to the believer. The righteousness of Christ is imputed, given to the person that believes. That's good news. It ought to thrill you and please you. Romans 4, verse number 6 says, even as David also described the blessedness of the man, unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works. He said, Blessed is the man whom God has imputed given, bestowed righteousness without any works. It's a righteousness that comes from God that we cannot achieve or attain on our own It's an imputed righteousness. Romans 4. 11. And I would encourage you some other time to go back and read Romans 4, because Romans 4 is really a It talks about Abraham, the person of our text here, and describes very clearly and just uh this topic that we're discussing tonight and I've debated breaking Romans 4 apart and looking into that, but it was going to be way too long of a study, so we're going to stick to the text we're in this evening. But Romans 4. 11 says, And he received the sign of circumcision. Okay, that would be talking about Abraham. who was given the sign of circumcision in Genesis chapter 17, he says, a seal of the righteousness of faith. So that was a seal of the righteousness of faith, but listen to what he says, which he had yet been uncircumcised. Now, if you if you're following along in the study that we've done this far, you remember that the problem in Galatia is there were people that were coming and saying, hey, in order for you to truly have a relationship with God In order for you to truly experience all God wants for you, you have to become like the Jew, you have to get circumcised. But in Romans chapter 4, 11, he says, nope, that's not. Abraham received The seal of righteousness, which he had, yet being uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all them that believed, though they be not circumcised. That righteousness might be imputed unto them also. I hope that's clear. Because he believed. So here's the question, beloved Righteousness was put onto his account. The fruit of faith that we're looking at tonight, the fruit of faith, your faith, is righteousness. A right standing before God is not something that I earned because I turned over a new leaf or I changed my actions or I started to do something new. It was something that was imputed unto me because of what Jesus Christ did. What condition did Abraham have to meet in order to have a right standing before God? Was it circumcision? No. He had to believe. That's what was required. All the way back there in the Old Testament, and there is Long been a debate as to whether uh some people would wrongly state that, well, after the cross, we're no longer under the law for justification. That's a false statement altogether because nobody has ever been under the law for justification. The law has never justified anybody And we're going to look at that a little bit further as we see in our text tonight, but I want you to know that the condition that Abraham had to meet in order to be righteous, the fruit of his faith, was righteousness. And that's because he believed on God. We see here that the uh first of all Under this point, I have several points, but the first number verse number six here is the faith of a servant, and then I want you to see the family of the saved in verse number seven. The family of the saved. See what he says here? He says in verse number seven, Know ye therefore That they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham So he's talking here about the children of Abraham, the family that Abraham has because of his faith. You have to differentiate between that natural born Jew who was the physical lineage or people of the Jewish family and those whom Christ is talking about. And Paul is discussing here those who were spiritually born into the family of God, who are the children of Abraham, as it says here, by faith. This really would be a continuation of the fruit. We know in Paul's other teachings, like we're getting into Missions Conference, that Everyone that is saved across the world as we endeavor and give towards missions and pray for these works around the world, those decisions, the Bible says is fruit added to your account. Because you were invested in and helping to bring that fruit about. And that's what he's discussing here, this family of the saved. Abraham was the father of all Jewish nations physically, but he also was a father of all who believed in God. He was declaring to them to be a true descendant of Abraham, which is what the Jewish people really wanted. But to be a true descendant of Abraham was more than just flesh and blood. Now here's where a lot of people lose it because they would look at uh the flesh and blood as the primary relationship. But that's not to be our primary relationship. And he says here that it's more than just flesh and blood, but it is faith. To be a true descendant of Abraham, it takes faith. Can I read for you an exchange between Jesus Christ and some Jews from John 8? From John chapter 8 and verse 38 to 44. If you want to look at it, so you can follow along, that's fine. I'll give you a second. But John chapter 8, verses 38 to 44. This is such a powerful, it illustrates so clearly what I just said, that to be a true descendant of Abraham It was more important to have a spiritual relationship than the physical relationship and being being born into a Jewish family. See what Christ says. John 8 38. He says, and I speak That which I have seen with my father, and ye do that which ye have seen with your father. They answered and they said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. Now, in the context, in light of what we're talking about, what do you think the works of Abraham are? Faith. Belief, right? He says, you would do the works of Abraham. Verse number 40, he says, but now ye seek to kill me. A man that had told ye the truth, which I have heard of God This did not Abraham. Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication We have no one Father, even God. Jesus saith unto them, If God were your father, you would love me. For I proceed forth and came from God. Neither came I of myself, but he sent me. Verse 43, why do you not understand my speech? Even because ye cannot hear my word. Ye are of your father, the devil. And the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and he abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it I mean that's some powerful words by Christ. They said, wait a minute, we're Jews. Abraham's our father. He says, no, the devil's your father. To be a true descendant of Abraham, you would do what Abraham did, and that is to believe the Word of God. To follow God. But you're not doing that. You're going to kill me. You don't have enough faith to even believe the prophets that told you that I was coming, to hear the words of my Father. I didn't come of myself. I came of my father. And they wouldn't hear it. He said, that's because you're not of your father Abraham. You're of your father the devil. The law, beloved, is not how you secure the blessings that were given to Abraham, but by faith. You say they longed for and sought after that spiritual heritage, that spiritual blessing that was given And yet they thought they had it just because they were born into the family. So I I'm not going to chase this rabbit, but you understand that your faith does not come just because you're born in a Christian home. Your relationship with God and your security or your home in heaven is not secure just because you were born in a home that names the name of Christ. It's a personal relationship. It is something, it's that spiritual relationship that supersedes the physical one. This physical relationships are here just for now. They don't last for an eternity, but that spiritual one lasts forever. Abraham's spiritual children are those who came by faith. And then verses eight and nine, together we see the foreseen of Scripture. And before you knock me for that word, I want you to know it's in the text. Okay? That comes right from the Bible. Okay? You're like, foreseeing, Pastor, that's not a word. Well, it's from the Bible. He says in verse number eight there, he says, and the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith. Preached before the gospel. So before the gospel, what is the gospel in a nutshell? What would you say it is? Okay, so before the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ ever came, he says here that he preached the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. Just as in verse number seven Verse number seven eliminates the natural-born Jew from being or from receiving the blessing of the Abrahamic covenant. Verses eight and nine here teaches us that the non-Jew can be brought into that special relationship. That inheritance through faith. Now the Jews were not excluded. Anybody can come, but specifically, he says here, now you remember that the Jewish people called other nations heathen. That is what they called them. That's what they referred to them. The Gentiles would be considered heathen because they weren't part of the Jewish nation. And he says here, and the scriptures foreseeing that God would justify the heathen. That's what he says there. Through faith. So God knowing that that was going to happen, the scriptures testified of what God was going to do. And again, quoting from the Old Testament. The promise was given to Abraham. Paul is teaching us that this promise was to include all nations, not just the Hebrew nation. He said to all nations, now that's the a quote directly from uh Genesis chapter 15, I think it's one through three, where the original um Promise to Abraham was made. So he's quoting that. Tells him that's all the nations were going to be blessed. Verse 9 very clearly lays the truth bare, states it plainly. That the blessings of Abraham are there. He says, so then they which be of faith, if you have faith, you are blessed with faithful Abraham. Or you could say in the same way that faithful Abraham as a descriptive term of the person faithful Abraham was. You're blessed with him the same way. Now I know how when we read that in our minds because of our modern language we think of that like Oh, you're going to be blessed to have uh you know Greg come to your house later. You're blessed with his presence. I mean you would say like that. But what he's talking about is you're blessed in the same way as Abraham was blessed The verse that I read to you earlier might even make more sense now that we've gone through this in Romans 4. 11. He says, and he received the sign of circumcision. a seal of the righteousness of the faith, which he had yet been uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all them that believed the father of all them that believed, not just the Jewish nations, but because he was to be the person through whom all nations would be blessed Ultimately in the fulfillment of the delivering of the Messiah, which would come through the Jewish nations, but all men were going to be blessed. So we see in verses 10 through 12 the failure of the law. So he he lays it out here. The giving them first the example of the figure of Abraham to teach the truth, and then he digs into it and talks to them about, listen, this law that you're holding on to so much There's a real failure here. There's a real flaw that's present in verse number 10. He says, for as many as are of the works of the law are, Of the law are under the curse. For it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. So beloved, there is the flaw of the law is that the law just curses you. The law puts upon you, it bestows upon you a curse. The blessing of Abraham was never to be had by the keeping of the law. That was never the plan. They received, Abraham received his blessing through faith over 400 years before the law was ever given. So the law was not part of that blessing, and we should not be looking at it as part of ours. Those who would be truly blessed. He states here, those that would try, sorry, to be blessed by keeping the law would only succeed in cursing themselves. Why is that? Because it's an impossible task. I mean you can endeavor to do it, you can strive to try and attain it. I think about a child who lives under an oppressive parent. Whether it be mother or father, many times it's the father who simply cannot be made happy. The child who desires to please dad and It doesn't matter what he does, it's never enough. It's never good enough. And you know how children brought up in that type of atmosphere, how uh bitter and angry they get and and finally they wash their hands of it and they run away from dad because it's it's n you can't make them happy no matter what I do. And I think about, if we were literally trying to earn our way to heaven by keeping the law, we would be in that state because we could never keep it perfectly. And so we would just be under the curse. The curse of the law is that it's just going to always be weighing on you because you know that you can't attain it. No man can keep the law in a perfect way. We are always, the Bible says, for all have sinned and come, what's the word? Short. We've come short. I think about the law as this huge massive edifice. There was a rock wall at Waco Tanks in El Paso, Texas that was you could actually see them from our house, but they were thirteen miles away. But El Paso is flat and very clear. And you could just thirteen miles away you could see these w these these rocks protruding out of the ground. And you could go there and one face of this was four hundred feet. 400 feet vertical cliff that you could climb if you knew how to do it. When I was a kid I didn't climb that face, I climbed the other ones, uh much smaller and much easier. But I wished I lived there in my twenties. I might have tried to climb that one then. Probably not now. But I I look at that idea of that vertical face and thinking about somebody trying to climb the the the the wall of the law And no matter how hard they try, they always are going to come short. They can never quite reach the top until they, by faith, let go of the wall and grab a hold of grace. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And they grab a hold of grace, and then without any effort of themselves, they are pulled up. To the top, and their feet are set on a rock. Not because they were able to attain it, not because they were able to climb there, but because of the grace of Jesus Christ. What a truth Where did Paul get this idea that they were under the curse? We're not going to turn there, but if you wanted to see it later, you could look at Deuteronomy chapter number 27. Almost every verse in Deuteronomy chapter 27 starts with, cursed be he that. Cursed be he that. And it walks through the law, and this was a recounting of the truth of the law, and saying, listen, if you can't keep this, you're cursed. Cursed be he that kept it ends in verse number 26 and says, Cursed be he that confirmeth not all the words of Allah to do them. And all the people shall say, Amen. Well, it doesn't matter how long the chain is, if one link breaks, you're fallen. And that's the curse of the law. Nobody can keep it perfectly. You may be a really, really, really, really, really good person. But you're not perfect. We come short of the glory of God, and if I've broken the law in one point, I have broken it in all. And therefore I am guilty of transgressing the law, and I need Jesus Christ. This is what he's talking about. He says, hey, that's why you're under that curse. That's why you're under that weight of the law. Because it is only through Jesus Christ that that can be removed. So he tells us about the flaw in the law in that regard, and then he he changes it and he gives us the focus of the law in verse number 11. The focus in the law is our condemnation. He says, but that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God. I mean, you can't say it any clearer than that. No man is justified by the law in the sight of God. It is evident, for the just shall live by faith. No man is justified by the law. No man, beloved, let me say this, who ever lived is justified by the law. Now I don't know maybe you guys know this in your heart and mind, but for a lot of years, even all the way up into Bible college, I kind of thought that there was a different Way of salvation. You know, they had in the Old Testament they had the ceremonial law and they had all the sacrifices and they had to do those to cover their sin and all that. And in my mind, that was their way of salvation. But that's not true. The Bible is very clear. No man was ever justified by the law. Not in past history or in future history or presently. It is only through Jesus Christ. It's through belief, faith. That's what he says. That's so clearly taught there with Abraham. It is justification. Justification was never meant to be attained by the keeping of the law. The law was simply designed to show men where and why they are condemned. You know, just like when you're uh traveling down the road and you see those signs that say photo enforced speed limit You you're like, wait, uh where is that white car that looks like a box? Yeah, I know they're hiding it behind the Portageon. They're they're disguising it somewhere. Uh nowhere to look for it. And you you you're like you know the law and so you double check and look well okay I gotta be going under fifty-five here in the in the construction zone or whatever. And so the law is established to show you where you've transgressed. That's what the law was supposed to do. And then in verse number 12, we see the fate of those who strive to follow the law. He says in verse number 12, and the law is not of faith, saying there's no correlation here, the law is not of faith, but the man that doeth them shall live in them. Basically, to put it bluntly, he's saying, listen, if you're going to strive to attain or get your righteousness by the keeping of the law, That's what you're going to get. You're going to get the results that you get from trying to keep the law. We've already established that you can't keep it. There's no way you can in and of yourself. But if that's what you're gonna do, that's what you're gonna get. The results that come by keeping the law, which is you're gonna come short of perfection. The failure of the law is so blatantly obvious it cannot save, it cannot, and never has justified. It makes you wonder how anyone could ever feel that that was sufficient. I mean, every one of us know our own hearts There is nobody that knows how wretched we are more than us. And how is it anybody could think that they had attained their own perfection? Paul says if you refuse to come by faith and you choose to live by the law, then you're going to get that result. That is your fate. But then we see in verses 13 and 14, we see the fulfillment by Christ. We know that Christ came to fulfill the law. He says in verse number 13, we see the finished work of Christ in verse number 13. He says, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree. Beloved, where the law failed, Christ fulfilled. What a sad thing it would be to tell people you cannot now and never will be able to earn your way to heaven or to forgiveness through the law without telling them. Where to put their faith. The means of justification. And so that's what Paul is doing. He's saying, listen, the law is going to fail you. There's no way of justification by that. But Jesus Christ came to fulfill the law, and in him Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law. That's where you can put your faith. Christ redeemed us. Redeemed, beloved, means to be delivered from bondage. Delivered from the penalty From the possession of another by the payment of the equivalent To overhear I have this large debt that there's no way that I can pay. If I strive to keep the law every single day of my life And even if I could from here on out, I still have all the stuff that I've done in the past. I've got a debt that there's no way I can pay. But Christ redeemed me. He paid my debt by paying making an equivalent sacrifice that covered that sin. He removed us from the curse of the law. He was made a curse for us. He took our place. He paid our debt. As I thought about this today, I thought about how he took the curse upon us, how Christ took our condemnation on himself. And I thought, what about a, what if somebody stood before us here today and walked in and Um I don't know who's supposed to protect me now. Maybe it's Galena. It was supposed to be it was it was supposed to be Pastor Derek. When Pastor Derek left, it was supposed to be Brother Hunt. Now Brother Hunt left. I guess I'm on my own. Yeah, that's all right. And uh brother Hunt was Brother Hunt was still here and he was tasked with, you know, saving my life. And a sh a shooter came in here and he had a had a gun pointed at me. And Brother Hunt jumped in front of the bullet for me so that I could escape free. That's what Jesus Christ did for us. He took our condemnation, all of our debt, all of our sin, all of what we could never earn or pay on ourselves, he took that upon him so that we could be set free. Again, using the Old Testament. Paul loves doing that because you know these guys, that's to them. And sometimes you'll meet people, especially if y you talk to Brother Sasser, and uh you know you can't really witness to the Jewish people using the New Testament. You have to go back to the Old Testament. And obviously Brother Sasser giving his life to reaching the Jewish people is very gifted at using the Old Testament to show them the gospel. And that's what Paul does. He quotes here the Old Testament, Deuteronomy 21, verse number 23, where it says there that cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. He's quoting that to them and saying that Jesus was cursed for you and for me. He finished the work in verse number 14. I want you to see the fortune attained through Christ. That spiritual blessing that the Jews longed for, that they sought so fervently, is in fact acquired through Christ. Look what it says. That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ. That we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Very clearly teaching and showing That blessing of Abraham, that promise of the Spirit, the thing that they longed for was attained not through the law, but through Jesus Christ. The fortune that's given to us, the blessing of the Spirit, the abundant Christian life. All that is there for us in and this spiritual life that we have is given to us through. Faith in Jesus Christ. So, in conclusion this evening, I say why? Why has there been such a debate over this issue? From the days of Paul until today, it is because beloved Satan strives to blind the minds of men And one of the most effective ways is to get people caught up in rites and rituals that deliver no salvation. They can feel religious but fall short of righteousness Because righteousness is not attained in and of ourselves, it is imputed from Jesus Christ. Just this week I was talking to Brother Jim Carbo. He has really enjoyed the discipleship. He has learned amazing. It's just amazing for me to see how he is thinking biblically. How he is seeing the Word of God and looking at life through the scriptures. He was telling me how he was on a Catholic website and on the website they actually put on there, what do you tell people if somebody asks you if you have been saved? So on the Catholic website they are preparing them and said, hey, what do you tell people if they they come to you and say, have you been saved? And uh they say, he he he Jim says to me, it said on there, tell them, yes, you're saved through baptism. You see, they're using the terminology, but they're teaching falsehood That is the exact same principle that was going on here in Galatians, where they were saying, yes, you can be saved through circumcision. Through baptism. Through whatever you whatever you would like, and it was just exciting for me to see how Jim saw the falsehood of that. And understood, and he went on and taught me, showed me some other things that he had learned and how he was looking and viewing things through the truth of the scriptures. I was so thrilled and excited about that with him, but beloved, I want you to know that righteousness is literally to be clothed right. Now all through the scriptures we see this idea of being clothed From Adam and Eve, in the very beginning, there when Adam and Eve were in the garden and they took of the fruit and they had the knowledge of good and evil, and they realized that they were naked. And they went and they tried to clothe themselves. But God said, wait a minute, no, that is not sufficient. You cannot clothe yourselves, and he showed them what they needed to do to get to be clothed, and all through the scriptures we could give you other passages that teach this, but ultimately we know that the Bible says that all our righteousness are as Filthy rags. So all man's righteous endeavors that we do all by ourselves are but filthy rags. There are people that will stand one day at that great white throne judgment and they'll stand there holding in their arms piles of filthy rags, hoping that we'll get them through the gates. And God will say to them, Depart from me, I never knew you. Because our righteousness is not something we attain through the adherence to the law. But it is something that is imputed unto us, given to us freely by believing in Jesus Christ. What a powerful truth that we learn this evening. But that righteousness that we have, the fruit of faith. What is the fruit of faith? Righteousness that we get imputed unto us because of Jesus. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed