Amen. Turn to first John chapter number three. First John chapter number three. We are in the middle of a study on the book of First John, and we're going to move right into Second and third John cover these small books. Uh it's been enjoyable for me a fun uh look into these uh very applicable passages of scripture. I guess all scripture is applicable, amen. It's all profitable uh for us. Uh glad to have each of you here tonight. Uh uh I I uh do not feel uh good, which is why I'm staying on the platform. Uh and I just cut through the crowd and you know, I did wear a mask, whether that helps or not, I don't know, but just to get up here I just don't want anybody else to get sick. uh but I couldn't stay home tonight. Uh needed to be here to speak. But I I know I won't be able to do justice to this these section of verses that we're talking about here probably even when I was functioning at full capacity, uh, let alone this evening where I'm uh not quite there. Uh but the just the the implications and and the power of what's available to us in these verses is phenomenal. Um I told you uh last week Um help me out what was the lesson last week? Titled last Sundays or last Thursday nights we did the first Is the we w the first few verses of this, uh verses one, two, and three of this chapter were was it the satisfied life? The privileged life, yes, the privileged life, thank you. Yes, because it's a great privilege to know that we're loved by God, to a great privilege to to have uh this life that God has given us and w and what a what a privilege that is. But that in and of itself, beloved, it behooves us uh to look and to live the purified life. Which is what we're going to look at this evening. Would you look at 1 John chapter number 3? And we're going to read verses 3 through verse number 9, and then we're going to dig into these. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. Whosoever committeth sin transgresses also the law, for sin is a transgression of the law. And ye know that He was manifest to take away our sins, and in Him is no sin. Whosoever abideth in Him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither know him. Little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. He that committeth sin is of the devil, for the devil sinneth from the beginning For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. Whoso is born of God doth not commit sin. For his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin, but he is born of God. What an amazing thing to see this demand put on the believer's life. to live a purified life. Now let me ask you, do you believe that once you're saved, you're always saved? Amen. What a privilege to know that our sins have been forgiven, that we are eternally secure. And that should be a great motivation for us, beloved, to follow Him, to obey Him, to be what He wants us to be, to live a purified life. We know that fear is a great motivator, but a greater motivator, the greatest motivator, is love. And that's the love that Christ had for us should be the greatest motivator for us as Christians. It is the love of Christ that constraineth us. To live and to do and to be what God wants us to be. For when we love someone, we'll want to please them. God is righteous, God is holy, God is pure. There is no sin in him at all. Therefore, every person that loves God or that has experienced the love of God and knows that God loves them. would desire to be righteous, would desire to be pure, would desire to be holy. Not that you always are in every particular situation, for we know we are but men We still have this old flesh that we live with and deal with, but it should be a desire of our heart to live the purified life. So I want to give you several points this evening as we walk through these verses. First of all, verse number three, I want you to see the process of sanctification. He says, even every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. That process of sanctification, you purify yourself even as he is pure. This is that Your situation, your practice, the way that you live, you are continually working To have it line up with what you are positionally in Christ. You know that his righteousness was imputed unto you? That God's righteousness, Jesus Christ, His holiness, His righteousness was imputed unto us. We didn't earn that. We were made pure Because of what Christ did. But it's upon us to look at that and say, okay, yes, I've been made pure in Christ. Positionally I am pure, I'm washed, I'm cleansed. Amen. But now I must live a life that lines up with what I am. The very sad fact is, and and we'll see in this text here tonight What is stated as an impossible fact is some who would claim Christ would claim to be purified and yet want to live a life of sin. And John says that's really those don't go together. It's not really possible for that to happen. Not that you don't sin, and we're going to deal with that some because it gets pretty clear in the text here. uh some some what you would call problematic passages but we should be striving to live a purified life that process Through which we become sanctified, we become what God wants us to be. If someone was to talk about you, if someone was to give your describe you. If they met some random person and they said, Oh, tell me about Aaron Glober. Tell me about Lauren Morgan. I wonder if they were really completely honest with what they knew and understood about you. Wonder what their description of you would be. What is the primary thing in their life or in your life that would come to their mind? Would they think of you as a person that is holy and fully committed to Christ? If somebody said, Well, tell me about Lauren and they would say, Well, I don't know everything, but I can tell you she loves God. Or I I'm not sure about all of us. What what would be the primary thing that would come through for anybody that knows you as your personality, your character? But we should be Living lives that are pure, that if somebody was to describe us, we'd say, oh, they're not perfect, but their desire is to be perfect. They want to be holy, they want to live right Or would they say, oh, he's a good guy, but you know, he's a little worldly One of the young men that my daughter was interested in. If I had to tell you and if I had to be honest, I'd I'd have to say that that initially I said, you know what? That boy's worldly. That's not the kind of boy I want for my daughter. There's a problem here. Because what I saw as a primary focus of his life was not the pursuit of Christ and the pursuit of holiness. It was the pursuit of things. The pursuit of ambition to be something in this world instead of be something for Christ. But I wonder about us. Saints are expected to purify themselves, to keep their hearts clean 2 Corinthians 7. 1 says, Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and the spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. Amen? That's what we should be doing. So we want you to see, secondly, here the presence of sin. the fact that there is sin present. He says in verse number four, whosoever committed sin transgresses also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. I'm sorry, Gus, I forgot to send you my notes. Mm-hmm. I just ri just hit me right now. I never and he normally would have those on the screens for you guys and I just forgot all about sending them to him. Um They were done by three o'clock, but I didn't didn't get them to. So Alright, the presence of sin we see here first of all, verse number four is that whosoever committed sin transgresseth also the law, for sin is the transgression of the law. Now I don't need to spend a lot of time here. But just to remind you as God's people that uh we're all sinners. That sin does exist. Uh Romans three twenty-three says All have sinned, right? We know that. We know that Romans 5. 12, wherefore is by one man sinned into the world and death by sin, so death passed upon all men for All have sinned. We know that that is a fact that all men have sinned. And he tells us here this is a defining verse, a a verse that gives to us a description of what sin is. Somebody says, Well, what is sin? Well he says it right here. He says, Whosoever committed sin transgresses the law also, for sin is what does it say? Transgression of the law. So sin is a transgression of the law. It is mind-boggling in today's world where they try and remove all absolutes. They want to say there is no absolute, there is no definite anything, and when you do that, beloved, there is no law to transgress. Everybody can do that which is right in their own eyes. But the ends of that are the way of death. And we need to have an established, unchanging law, the law of God. And and the the problem is when we start taking the law of God and say, well, I don't really like that verse, or I don't like that law, or I don't like how how that applies to today's world, or that doesn't really apply to me. Then we're removing the law and living life unto ourselves and becoming a transgressor of the law. You know, just because I haven't been convicted about it doesn't mean it ain't sin. Just because I feel like it's okay, well, it's fine with me if I get drunk. I don't have I I I don't have a problem with it. Now it's the problem with things recorded and going over the internet and all that. I'm like I shouldn't have said that. I'm on medicine right now, okay. Um no, it's not fine if you do that. Um what I'm saying is you could pick something and say, hey, it's okay with me if I do this, but just because I feel okay with it doesn't necessarily make it right or wrong, is what does the law say? What does the law say? You could be driving your car down Shawan Road and going 90, and the officer pulls you over and you say, Well, that's how fast I wanted to drive. Well that doesn't matter. The speed limit says forty five. You know ignorance doesn't change the law either. You could say, Well, I didn't know it was forty-five. Oh well. Still forty five. You still transgress the law. That means you're still guilty, right? That's what he says here. Sin is. The fact of the matter is is all have sinned. And he's telling us here what sin is. In Sunday school one Sunday there was a teacher asking her eager class to describe sin. What is sin? And one little boy raised his hand and he says, It's all the stuff that I want to do Kids to be honest, man. I'll just tell ya. Basically his mom's been telling him no, like everything. No, you can't do that. No, no. Everything, you know That may be true. But if we're going to live a purified life, we have to give up the things we want to do and live in line with God's law. I know you've heard the description of sin as missing the mark. And that is a a biblical definition for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God was where that definition comes from. We miss the mark. We've come short of God's glory. We come short of God's perfection. But if if we if we leave it just like that, I think maybe even in our mind we kind of soften what should be a great blow to us. We think about, oh, I just fell a little short. But you understand sin is what put Christ on the cross. Sin is what was the cause that he had to come. Sin is what separated us from God. Sin is that thing that we should despise and hate. We've got to be careful that we don't just relabel it and call it a shortcoming, or we call it a failure, or we call it a flaw of nature, or maybe just a bad decision that I made. But we need to acknowledge it as sin if we've transgressed the law. At the very root of things We've come short of God's glory and His nature. It's not only the things That we do, but we it's what we are. We as individuals are short. We come short. We cannot in and of ourselves reach or be perfect because he is perfect. And so, thirdly, we see the purpose of the Savior, the purpose of the Savior. These are a couple very powerful verses. Now, they weren't put in order in I believe an infallible book. So they're in our they're in the order they're in for a reason, but it's actually we see the purpose of the Savior in verse five and also verse eight. Um so I put them together and we'll come back and look next at verses six and seven. But in verse five we see And ye know that he was manifest, what does it say? To take away our sins. And in him is no sin. So we see the purpose of the Savior was to take away sin. And then we see in verse number 8 here, he says, That committeth sin, he that committeth sin is of the devil, for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifest. that he might destroy the works of the devil. So we see this twofold purpose given to us here, that the Savior came was to take away sin. and to destroy the works of the devil. What an exciting truth given to us here. You might write down in the margin of your Bible John 8. 44 next to verse number 8 there. John 8. 44 would be a great reference to have with that verse, and that you guys know our year of your father the devil. And the lust of your father ye do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abodeth not in truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar, and the father of it That is what Satan did, and Christ came to destroy the works of Satan. He wants you to know two things here. He says in verse number five, and ye know That he was manifest. Ye know. There's some things that we should know. It ought to be settled in our hearts and minds to know that Christ came to take away our sin. And that he came to destroy the works of Satan. It doesn't get any clearer than this. The act of removing our sin, in the act of removing our sin, he has won the victory over Satan. Now, we know that the devil is the source of all sin. He says here from the beginning That word from the beginning, or just feel those descriptive words there, describes or talks about how we know Satan was the first one to sin And we have that verse that I read a few minutes ago about uh that wherefore as by one man sin entered the world, and so death passed upon all men for all have sinned, that one man, of course, was Adam, and we we have come from Adam, so we're all sinners, right? I'm not saying anything you guys don't know, right? Okay, so but who sinned before Adam? The devil. All sin comes from Satan. That was he was the one that rebelled against God initially. He is the one that brought this upon man. He is the source from the very beginning. And can I tell you tonight that God came for the purpose to take away our sin, but he also came with the power to do so. With the power to do so. He wanted to destroy the works of the devil. Satan's power to separate us from God is cut off. Satan would do all he can to keep us separated from God and God wanted to be reunited with his creation. God uh by design and his plan, we are made in the image of God. We are beings that he desires to have. fellowship with. And so as his creatures that are fearfully and wonderfully made in his image, he wanted to have fellowship with us, and Satan came in and caused us to be separated from God, but God sent Christ, and Christ made a way that we could be restored to fellowship with Him. Satan's power to enslave men in the bondage of the Shame of sin has been cut off. Satan's power to pull men down into that place called hell has been cut off. Because of what Christ did. You and I can walk in purity because we have the victory given to us by Christ. In Colossians 2. 15 he says, and having spoiled the principalities and the powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. Christ. Gave victory, triumphed over them. He made a show of it I remember sometimes when I was a young man, my older brothers, you know, I would be in some type of a scuffle with them or something. And it was comical. Because I was so small. I'm still the smallest one, which is I'm a little bitter about, but Um, you know, my whole life my uh I had bigger feet than him. But and my grandpa always told me, Well you've got bigger feet than him, you're gonna be taller than him and I was looking for the day. But It didn't happen. Dave is six one and Daniel's six three and I'm only five ten. And when we're younger that was pretty big difference. But what I'm saying is sometimes uh I would try and get them But it was almost like a joke. Like, you know, they just kinda like they could just play with me and I would be giving it all that I could, you know. And it just just so upset at them and and they would just be playing with me, you know, which made it worse. And I I think about Christ and his power over Satan like that. Satan may be given it all that he has and he's so frustrated and irritated in his principalities and powers and rulers of darkness and they're They're swarming around trying to do everything they can to destroy the work of Christ. And and Christ is like, what are you? Amen. Don't don't bother these folks. But they don't have time for that. I've given them victory. We praise the Lord for that. The purpose of Christ came, the purpose of the Savior. Then I want you to see the priority of the saint. In verses six and seven, we're going to back up and take those verses in the middle now. The priority of the saint, we say, Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither know him. Little children, let no man deceive you. He that doth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. Just as we have been delivered, we are now under a duty to sin not. Our priority, beloved, is no longer as somebody in the world the pursuit of pleasure The pursuit of self-gratification, but it is to be the pursuit of purity. We are to be striving after and desirous to live a pure and holy life for God Living clean each and every day. He was made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The fact that sin is what took him to the cross, sin is what caused him to suffer, should be enough motivation for us to do all we can to avoid sin. Have you ever have you ever known anybody that had a loved one that died from a drug overdose? You see they are very much uh uh uh can I say the term death on drugs? They are adamant. There is nothing funny about drugs. There is nothing that they would ever laugh about when you talk about uh you know, the participation of or involvement in any type of illicit drugs that are out there in the world today and anything that they can do and any influence that they can have and anybody that they could get to get away from drugs. They're all about it. It's so very, very serious to them. Why? Because they know that it took their mom to the grave They know that it killed their own mother, and so they they they they stand against it and and gladly and loudly, well beloved our Savior was taken to the cross because of sin. And yet we we laugh with the world about the foolishness. We don't think about how serious it is The sin. What he's describing or talking about here for us is a pattern of life. He gives us a contrast here between those that abide. And sin not, and between those that sin and do not know him Both of these are more than a one-time action. Both of these are not simply a statement, but it is a pattern of life that he's describing. It is a way of living. It is possible for us to live pure and holy lives because we are called to abide in Him. If we abide in Him, we can be victorious. Now, he is not advocating sinless perfection, which we're going to dive into a little deeper as we get to verse number nine here. But we see the provision to sin less. Not to live sinless, but to sin less. Verse number 9. He said, Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. Now I did a whole bunch of reading about these Greek scholars and I tried to get my mind wrapped around it. I'm sorry, I just couldn't I don't know if it's because I'm sick or because they were just getting too deep for me. But you know, they were trying to talk about all the different tenses of these verbs and where these verbs meant this and where those verbs meant this and the reason See this is a problematic passage for people Because this is a verse that people use to say, hey, we should be living sinless. We should be living without sin. It's very clear. Look at what it says. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. Matter of fact, he says he cannot sin. That means if you've been purified by Christ, you can't sin. Well, here's the thing, beloved. If there's a passage of Scripture that you look at That looks like it may contradict something else. It doesn't contradict what you need is more clarity. You need to understand better what it's talking about. And I mean John just told us back in chapter one and verse number eight, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. And then we know that verse really well, 1 John 1:9. If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We get into chapter 2, in chapter 2, in that passage where I talked about the satisfied life. He said, if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. He says, hey, when you sin, you've got to advocate with the Father. So he just dealt with all this stuff about, as Christians, there's going to come some sin in your life. But then he says, here, you cannot sin. What's going on? How is that possible? I won't this is where I spent the large majority of my study time, but uh it won't be the large majority of my message. We're almost done. Um John is not saying that it is impossible for the believer to sin. You know what I believe he's saying is that it's possible For the believer not to. You see, God has given a way of escape. And in no situation are we doomed to failure. We know that in every temptation God has provided a way of escape. We know that greater is He is in you than He is in the world. We know that God's expectation is that we live holy lives, pure lives. And he would desire that we do so. I don't want you to know that this verse does not teach That sin was perfection, as some would say He said here, one of the reasons is is for his seed remaineth in him. There are two thoughts to consider when Considering this thought here about the seed, first is that the very seed of God has been left in you. From the seed of Abraham and the new to in the New Testament family, Scripture speaks to us of the seed of man. We know the seed of man is what uh produces life, brings forth human life. And so by application, the very Spirit of God, the seed of God, rested in the heart of man, is God's presence in you. God was manifest and we are to live like it. I have a message that I wrote many years ago. I haven't preached it since probably 2000 and three uh I think I preached it uh I wrote it for a group of school parents when I was the principal and I was talking about raising our children uh for God and the title of the message is Is There Not a King in thee? And uh The prophet in the Old Testament asked the children of Israel He says, why are you guys so torn down? Why are you so disheartened? Why do you not have no hope? Why do you lament? Why do you cry? And he said, is there not a king in thee? And the entire premise of the message, I'm not going to preach it tonight, but the idea is, listen, if we as parents and we as teachers could see the king and the queen that's in that little child. We could raise them to be what God wants them to be. Is there not a king in thee? Each one of the young lives. But see, what about us? You know, there's some things that just aren't befitting. For a king to do. There's just some conversation that you would look at and say, well a king just wouldn't talk that way. A qu a a queen just wouldn't act so base. A queen would not would not display her life like that. No, there's just some things that aren't befitting a a king or a queen. And so you look at this and you say, well, the very seed of God, that that presence of God in your heart Should be something that's in there that says, hey, this isn't befitting the king that's inside of me. So I've got to live in such a way that it lines up with and it honors the king that is in me Because there is a king in you and I. There was one young college-age boy who was often heckled by his friends for not partaking of the lower pleasures that they often sought him to do. When they asked him why he would never go with them on their outings, he said, someday something very fine is going to come my way, and I must be clean. and prepared for it. You see these other young boys, oh, they would love to marry that fine, beautiful, uh, proper young lady. But they wanted to go live like they weren't going to have her. This young boy said, Hey, one day she's gonna come by. And I'm gonna be ready. I'm gonna be the kind of man that she wants to be with. We need to live like the Christians that God wants us to be. But one noteworthy application I found from another commentator It did not even cross my mind. I initially even reading this passage from this the first application it gave you here is what stuck in my heart and mind and that's what I thought all I thought of until I got to this one thought that was shared and I said, wow, that's powerful. And that is this, that the seed could very well be the Word of God. The seed that dwells in you. In 1 Peter 1. 23, he says, being born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God. which liveth and abideth forever. You could argue that they're one and the same, because you know in the beginning was the word. That they both dwell there, right? Because He is the Word manifest. But the power that the Word of God can have in your heart and life It brings a whole new meaning to uh hiding God's word in our heart that I might not sin against thee. Because that seed is planted there, the power of the Word of God that can bring forth fruit in our lives. And help us to live clean, purified lives. Not perfect, but pure You know, the Apostle Paul He said three things about himself. It was a progression. You guys help me out because these are things just come to my mind. I have a problem. So he he said, I'm the chiefest of sinners. He said he said two other things about himself about the fact that he was a sinner. You remember what they are? Now I'm gonna have to look 'em up. Um but what I'm saying is that the Apostle Paul Obviously, arguably, one of the greatest Christians that ever lived said, I'm the cheapest of sinners. So we're gonna we're gonna have some sin in our life. But that shouldn't be the pattern. That should be the exception. That should be what We are so frustrated that Satan tricked us up again, that Satan uh beguiled us, allowed us to be tempted, and we we fell, and we come back to God and say, Lord, I'm sorry. Forgive me. Because if we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin. And we get back on track and we get headed the right direction. That should be the pattern of our lives. The purified life. That's what is Christians, what we should have. There's lots of people in the world today and Christians is large. That want to say this really this kind of old-fashioned teaching is not applicable for today. You don't have to live that way. We're under grace, you can do whatever you want. The Bible says, uh what, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid.