Well this morning you take your Bibles and turn to Mark chapter four. Mark chapter number four. We have been studying this idea of rightly dividing the word. And this lesson today is kind of going to be the end of what I've told you how the lessons are kind of building on one another. We've been building on the idea of we took the two testaments And looked at the division there. We looked at the five covenants, and then we saw the dispensations, and we saw Jew, Gentile, and Church, and how these divisions kind of all layered on top of one another. This is going to be the kind of the last layer. It's not the end of the series because there's a lot more divisions we're going to study, but we're kind of going to go a little more topically after after this lesson. We might be taking a break uh to go visit another idea and then come back to this series. I do like to spend about eight weeks on a series, take a break and come back to something. But this will kind of be the end of the culmination of those ideas building on one another. That's the idea of the two kingdoms. We're rightly dividing between the two kingdoms. If you look at Mark chapter 4, verse number 11, there the Bible says, And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God. But unto them that are without all these things are done. in parables. You see, they're the mystery of the kingdom of God. Let's go ahead and open a word of prayer and we'll get into our study this morning. Lord, we love you. We thank you for the time we have to be in your house today. Pray that the thoughts that we have this morning would come across clearly, that it would be helpful in our study and understanding of the Word of God in each of our personal lives as we We study your word together, Lord, to have a good, solid biblical foundation, understanding uh truth and being able to identify error, Lord. I pray you bless this thought this morning. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. As always, we do have notes available on the back table. Those are there. They also should be available on the website if anybody's home streaming right underneath that. And just for your information when these sermons go up on sermon audio if you ever want to go back and listen to them. The notes are linked to the sermons as well. There's a place to look at a PDF on the sermon. So you can go if you're wanting to go back and listen to it later, maybe listen to it in slow motion or something. You can find the notes right there available on the website. Those go up with the sermon. So we're looking this morning at the idea of the two kingdoms in the Bible. Now there are more than just two kingdoms in the Bible. You have kingdoms discussed like the kingdom of Babylon, or you have the The kingdom of Israel and these different kingdoms. But specifically there's two kingdoms where God directly rules over them, and those are the kingdom of God and the kingdom of heaven. I believe that our study today is going to be one of the most important and biblically helpful messages in this series. When I first heard this idea really taught well, I heard it about five years ago by a preacher in Alabama who was listening to some sermons online. His name was Lee Cadenhead. He's not a pastor there anymore. He's a missionary now. And I did get a lot of my material today from his from his uh messages and some of the study that he did. Obviously put put it all together in my own way, but I I'm not Nothing's new, uh original. Um we're studying the Word of God together, but um it was real really helpful to me in my understanding, and it's really helpful in our understanding to understand the difference between these two kingdoms. Making this proper division. The improper division of these two kingdoms has produced a lot of false doctrine. This improper division motivated the crusades. Not understanding the difference between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of heaven motivated the crusades. The improper division drives the ecumenical church movement. This improper vision drives the prosperity gospel message. This improper division is used to teach a work salvation. This improper division adds to the false doctrine of covenant theology. This improper division is behind the social gospel movement. This improper division drives the kingdom now or the kingdom-building theology. All of these false doctrines and false gospels, they are false doctrines and false gospels, and all of them are influenced by a failure to rightly divide the word in the matter of these two kingdoms. Notice in our verse there was the reference there to the mystery of the kingdom of God. Now going back to Pastor's series on mysteries, they might remember what a mystery is in the Bible. It's not a novel written by um written about the Hardy Boys or something. What's a mystery in the Bible? Anyone remember? Pastor remembers. Pastor, what was a mystery in the Bible? Alright, a truth that was hidden in the Old Testament that was brought to light in the New Testament. And so the mystery of the kingdom of God was something that was not fully understood in the Old Testament. There there were there were glimpses of it, there were truths about it, but it wasn't fully revealed until you get to the New Testament. And there are many mysteries. I won't ask you if you remember any of them, but there are many mysteries. Pastor took some time to study those. But one that is mentioned here in our text verse is the mystery of the kingdom of God. What Jesus is teaching here is that there is an aspect related to God's kingdom that was not revealed in the Old Testament. When you look at the companion passage for this one, um in Matthew chapter 13, you see there that Jesus said because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. In this context, Jesus is also pointing to the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. There are truths about the kingdom of heaven that were hidden in the Old Testament and that are revealed in the New Testament. Now, this might make some ask, and some do, say this is, well, if you have Jesus talking in the same setting, in the same context, about mysteries and In one place he calls it mystery of heaven, in one place he calls it mystery of God, doesn't that mean it's the same thing? Is a good question to ask We'll be getting around to that in the lesson, but first of all, foundationally, do we believe that the Holy Spirit is the author of the Bible? We do. 2 Peter 1, verse 21 says, For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. If the Holy Spirit wanted the Bible to say heaven in place both places, Kingdom of Heaven, he could have made the Bible say Kingdom of Heaven in both places. If he wanted it to say Kingdom of God in both places, he could have made it say Kingdom of God in both places. There are no accidents or inconsistencies in the Bible. Now when it says, well what what about this? Jesus here was talking about King of Heaven and And this guy said he was talking about the kingdom of God, so so isn't that an inconsistency? Well, there's a verse that can answer a lot of this when it comes to the gospels and Well Jesus is saying this here, but he says it different over here. How is that consistent? John gives us a reason for this that will explain many of these supposed discrepancies in John 21, 25 He says there, and there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written, every one, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen. He said, if we wrote down everything Jesus did, the world couldn't hold all the books. So John wrote down a little bit of what Jesus did, and Matthew wrote down a little bit of what Jesus did, and Mark wrote down what Jesus did. And if Mark said that Jesus said the kingdom of God, and Matthew said that Jesus said the kingdom of heaven Deus could have said both. They just didn't say it write down every word that Jesus said everywhere that he went. So that can that's one area where it can clear up. Like, well, what about this and this is a little bit different? Well Yes, there are different men writing, Holy Spirit's guiding them as they write, but we understand that there's a lot more that just did than is just written down in the Bible for us, and John lays that out. So we're looking today at this idea of the two kingdoms. First of all, in your notes, we have the idea of the kingdom theme in the Bible. The kingdom theme in the Bible. The Bible deals a lot with the idea of a kingdom. There are many purposes and themes to the Bible, but one that is extremely common is the kingdom. Yes, the Bible shows us how to be saved. If you ask somebody, what's the purpose of the Bible? What's the theme of the Bible? That might come up, yes, the the salvation i is part of it. It shows us how to be saved. It show it reveals God to man But overall, the Bible is God's record of his involvement with man. Well you see from the beginning, God creating man. You see God having a relationship with man, you see God judging man, you see God interacting with man, that's the overall theme of the Bible. Now this is where we're going to go through some review. Who was the primary recipient of the majority of the Bible? Who was most of the Bible written directly to? What people group I heard a lot of Jews Jews, Hebrews, Israelites, they got a lot of names, don't they? The Israelites were the primary serbians. Remember two weeks ago we had our lesson on Jew Gentile Church Gentile primarily was written to in Genesis 1 through 11. Jew primarily written through to in Genesis 12 through the middle of the Gospels. And then you have the New Testament written primarily to the church after after the Gospels. But the majority of the Bible is written to the nation of Israel. Remember our lesson, all of the Bible is written for you, but not all of the Bible is written to you. There's things throughout the Bible that are important for us to learn, but w there's there's places where God's speaking to a people group specifically, and much of the Old Testament was written specifically to the nation of Israel. That's again why this study is so important It's natural for us as Christians to look for Christian application for ourselves throughout all of the Bible. And that's good. That's what we should be doing when we're reading our devotions. What can I learn from this? What can I gain? What can I understand from this But we can easily get ourselves in trouble when we ignore the context and the interpretation of the passages that we're applying. And we start claiming things that aren't ours from different parts of the Bible. That's something we have to guard ourselves from, understanding Who is this written to? What's the context? Yes, there's things I can learn, but when God promised Abraham a baby when he's 100 years old, That doesn't mean that my great-grandpa is going to be a father again. I need to understand where where who is the recipient? Who is the this passage being written to? We see that the majority of the Bible was written to primarily the Jewish people, and the involvement of God with the nation of Israel centered around his covenants that he made with them. This is all the way back, our lesson on the covenants. When God is dealing with the nation of Israel, he's dealing with them through his covenant relationships with them. And the covenants of God with Israel centered around an earthly promise related to a land and a kingdom. So it should make sense that the majority of the Bible, the big theme, is a kingdom because the majority of the Bible is God speaking to his people about his covenant relationship with them that is going to be established and come to pass in an earthly kingdom that God is going to set up with them. So the Bible has a lot to say about kingdoms. When it comes to kingdoms in the Bible, just as a theme, there are about five times more prophecies in the Old Testament concerning Christ's second coming. when he's going to set up his millennial kingdom than there are related to his first coming, when he brought about his uh birth, death, burial, resurrection, uh, and the the crucifixion, all that. There's a lot more references to him coming to be a king than to him coming to be a suffering Messiah. Not saying that one's more important than the other. The Bible just talks about one a lot more than the other. There are 3,273 mention of the words king, kings, kingdom, or kingdoms in the Bible in over 2,500 different verses. So a lot of references to this idea of kingdoms. Four of the books of the Bible are titled, Related to Kings, 1st and 2nd Kings and 1st and 2nd Chronicles, the Chronicles of the Kings, just a funny side note. The first time I remember as a young person reading through the Bible as a whole. I tried several times when I was younger and I was probably around nine or ten the first time I really I'm gonna stick with it and I'm gonna get through the whole Bible and I remember reading the book of first Kings for the first time. And I get really engrossed in a story of of of one of these kings and the things that they were doing. And the Bible would cut you off in the story and say, Now the rest of the Acts of the King of So and So are they not written in the Chronicles of the the Kings of Judah. Like, wait a minute. I gotta finish the story. Where's this Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? Turn the page. Oh, Chronicles. There it is. I found it. I was very very traumatized that they cut the story off on me like that. But yes, the Chronicles of the Kings. It's a record of kings. Several Bible books were written by kings, several prophecies were directed to kings. When we come to the Gospels, however, the Gospels talk about two different kingdoms, and these are related to the rule of God. These are the kingdom of heaven. and the kingdom of God. Now, there are many people and many commentarians that will write about this and not differentiate between the two. They'll say the two are synonymous with one another. One reason for this is that there are some passages that teach the that treat these two kingdoms very similarly. There are actually 13 places where the terms kingdom of heaven and kingdom of God overlap in their usage. One of these we looked at already in our passage here about the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, mysteries of the kingdom of God, and two different gospels. They're treated very similarly. Another is in Matthew 19 verse 14 and Luke 16 verse 18, where to enter both kingdoms, the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God, you must have childlike faith. While these terms do overlap in some places, there are many other places where they're treated differently from one another. Some of the reasons that these overlap, and we'll look at this a little bit more as we talk about how these kingdoms uh will come to pass and how they function in relation to one another. is that they do share many similarities. They will also coexist on earth for a time, and they will be joined into one kingdom in eternity. So there are some similarities. There are some time frames where they overlap. So the Bible does deal with them similarly in some situations, but differently in others. So that's why some people don't say there's a difference between the two But however, while many people do not differentiate between the two kingdoms, God does. God describes them differently. God uses the terms in different ways, and that's what we're going to try to understand this morning in our study. First of all, we can see their use in Scripture. The term kingdom of heaven is used 33 times in the Bible, and it's used exclusively in the book of Matthew. Now, this is important because Matthew's gospel was written primarily to a Jewish audience. And we see the different gospels, they present Jesus in a different way. In Matthew, Jesus is presented as a king In Mark, Jesus is presented as a servant. In Luke, Jesus is presented as the Son of Man. And in John, Jesus is presented as the Son of Man. So Matthew, presenting Jesus as a king to a Jewish audience, deals with the kingdom of heaven. He's the only one that deals with the kingdom of heaven And we'll see the kingdom of heaven relates to the Jewish promises and covenants related to an earthly kingdom. And that's why that is presented that way in the book of Matthew. So it's used exclusively, that term is used exclusively in Matthew. We also see not only how they're used in the Bible, the Kingdom of God, I left that out. The Kingdom of God is used 70 times in the New Testament, including the book of Matthew. Matthew uses both terms. But Matthew is the only gospel that uses the term the kingdom of heaven. We can also see how they're different, is that they're different words. This is obvious, but it's important to note. God and heaven are different words. You write them down, you spell them differently. They're different Greek words. They're different things. They're not the same thing. We already asked the question, but if God wanted to use one word, he could have, but he chose to use two words. And this comes to play even in the book of Matthew Some people point to the fact that Matthew is the only one to use the term kingdom of heaven, so that's probably just his preferred way of describing what everyone else called the kingdom of God. But Matthew also uses the term kingdom of God, and he used it when quoting Jesus. Matthew quotes Jesus saying the kingdom of heaven, and Matthew quotes Jesus saying the kingdom of God. Let's look at that. Matthew chapter 4. Just a little bit over in your Bible. Matthew chapter 4. We see a reference in verse number 17. From that time, Jesus began to preach and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. So Matthew quotes Jesus as saying, the kingdom of heaven. Let's go to Matthew chapter 6. Very familiar verse, Matthew 6, verse number 33. Again, Matthew quoting Jesus, but seek ye first the kingdom of God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. So kingdom of heaven wasn't just Matthew's way of describing the kingdom of God, because he used both terms as well. We see these different words. They also, these words have different meanings. God and heaven are not the same thing. God resides in heaven. Heaven doesn't reside in God. God is eternal. Heaven was created. God is the spirit, the heavens are physical. The heavens declare the glory of God, God does not declare the glory of the heavens This distinction or division is established in the very first verse of the Bible. Genesis 1. 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens. and the earth. God created them. They're separate things. So to say it's the same thing, kingdom of heaven, kingdom of God, they're two different words describing two different things. They refer to things that are, and we look at them, they're used in the Bible, they refer to things that are essentially different in their nature. The kingdom of heaven relates to things that are physical. Matthew chapter 11, we're just a couple pages away. Why don't we look at that as well? Matthew eleven, verse number twelve From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and violence taketh it by force. There's there is something that could be could be grabbed, it's something physical, something that can be grabbed onto, something that can be taken by force. There's a very physical nature to the kingdom of heaven described there, and there's other place in the Bible as well. That's just one example But when we go to the kingdom of God, the kingdom of God relates to things that are spiritual. Look at Luke chapter 17. Luke chapter 17. This is the foundation of this whole idea of rightly dividing between these two kingdoms. The kingdom of heaven is physical, the kingdom of God is spiritual. Luke 17. Some extra workout this morning. Turn your pages. All right, Luke chapter 17, verses 20 and 21. And when he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come, he answereth them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. Neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, for behold, the kingdom of God is within you. The kingdom of God is in its nature spiritual. It's not something that you can, oh, there it is. Oh, it's over there. Oh, I can see it coming where the kingdom of heaven, he said, you could take it by force. It's been taken over by force. It's had violence done against it. Kingdom of God is not something you can see, not something that you can point out. So that's the essential difference between the two. Kingdom of heaven is physical, kingdom of God is spiritual. The kingdom of heaven is a literal, physical, visible kingdom that is on planet Earth. And the kingdom of God is a spiritual kingdom. So let's that's kind of the difference between the two. Let's go into these two kingdoms a little bit and see what the Bible has to say about them. First of all, the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God is presented 70 times in ten different New Testament books. We saw already, but it is a spiritual kingdom. In First Corinthians fifteen, verse number fifty, the Bible says, Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Neither doth corruption inherit in corruption. It is a spiritual kingdom. It's not of flesh and blood. It's not flesh and blood going to receive a kingdom. Uh as as as Humans in our human flesh, we're not receiving and setting up and establishing the kingdom of God. Because it's not something flesh and blood is accomplishing. It's a spiritual kingdom. And as a spiritual kingdom, its citizens receive spiritual benefits. Romans 14, verse number 17, for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. Righteousness, peace, joy in the Holy Ghost, that is the rewards or the benefits of the kingdom of heaven. Not meet and drink. I told you that a failure to delineate between these two motivates the prosperity gospel. You get saved, you get into God's kingdom, God has all these rewards for you. He wants you to have a big house, he wants you to have a lot of money The kingdom of God doesn't have physical. Now there's physical benefits. God blesses us with things, but that's not the primary benefits or blessings of being in the kingdom of God. They're spiritual. Spiritual things. Peace. Joy, righteousness, as it's described in these verse that we have through the Holy Ghost, not meat and not drink. Ephesians 1, verse number 3, Bless Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all Spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. We have spiritual blessings that we receive for being part of a spiritual kingdom. It's not a matter of getting physical blessings through our spiritual citizenship. So the spirit it is a spiritual kingdom. Its citizens receive spiritual benefits. It is presently a universal, invisible kingdom. This is where the false doctrine of the universal church arises Instead of failing to divide between the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God, the universal church or the Catholic Church, Catholic means universal, the universal church fails to divide between the kingdom of God and the church of God. The kingdom of God and the church of God are different It's not the same thing. Kingdom of God, spiritual kingdom, church is a local assembly of visible believers. It's a very tangible thing. We're here at it. You're sitting in a chair. in a building that's part of our church where is the assembly now we know that's not the building is the church but it is the assembly of believers that gets together, it's a visible thing. It's a local thing. And so another improper division between kingdom of God and the church of God. Church of God is part of the kingdom of God, but they're not the same thing. And so that's where another improper division takes place. It is made up, this universal invisible kingdom is made up of all believers, both past, present, and future. Luke chapter 13, verse 28 says, There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, yet ye yet, when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out. So who's part of the kingdom of God? Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, all the prophets. Those guys aren't part of the church, but they're part of the kingdom of God. Because all believers through history and all believers currently and anybody who's saved in the future will become part of the kingdom of God. The church is part of the kingdom of God, and at present the churches are the only physical representation of this kingdom on earth. So this kingdom is a spiritual kingdom or a spiritual benefit. It's a universal invisible kingdom made up of all believers, past, present, and those who will be saved in the future. Its coming is not visibly observable, and right now it is established in the hearts of men. We already looked at Luke 17, where he told the Pharisees the kingdom of God. Cometh not with observation, lo they neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there, for behold, the kingdom of God is within you. The kingdom of God is in you. It's it's you're you're saved, you're in the kingdom of God. That's where it dwells presently in the hearts of men. The only way for someone to enter the kingdom of God is through the new birth. John chapter three, verses three through five. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith unto unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Somebody becomes a citizen of the kingdom of God through the new birth. The only saved people are part of the kingdom of God. And we'll talk about it as we get into the kingdom of heaven, but this is the difference. There will be unsaved people that are part of the kingdom of heaven. And so this is where some of that misunderstanding, I'm getting ahead of myself, but some of the misunderstanding about this idea of a of a of a work salvation from some of the parables talking about people in the in the kingdom of heaven and there's the wheat and the tares growing at the same time and they're going to be separated and that's that's the physical kingdom on earth where saved people and lost people will both be in the physical kingdom on earth during the millennial reign of Christ And at the end of that, Satan's going to be turned loose and he's going to get a bunch of the lost people together. They're going to try to overthrow Jesus' throne there in his physical kingdom on earth. So that's some of these references and how people get confused by saying it's the same thing. Oh, the kingdom of God, all the safe people have tares in them? Lost people are mixed in the kingdom of the thing. No, the kingdom of God is separate. It's a spiritual kingdom. So that's the kingdom of God. Spiritual kingdom. Primary thing to remember. Kingdom of God is a spiritual kingdom. Now let's look at the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of heaven is only presented in the Gospel of Matthew. I told you already that he uses the term 33 times. He also uses the phrase kingdom of God five times. The kingdom of heaven is physical and earthly in nature. We saw that already in a verse in Matthew about it being taken by force, and it will be established by force. When Jesus comes back to earth and destroys the armies of the world and physically by violence sets up his kingdom here on earth, it is a physical kingdom. The kingdom of heaven refers to the literal earthly kingdom that will be set up by Jesus in the future. This is a fulfillment of the prophecies related to the Messiah as a king. It will be a fulfillment of the covenants that God established with the nation of Israel. The Jews of Jesus' day rejected him as the Messiah because he was not here at that time to set up an earthly kingdom. They didn't want him. They wanted a king right now. They wanted a king. They wanted a kingdom. They wanted those promises fulfilled, and they rejected Jesus. As a result. The kingdom of heaven was preached and presented by John the Baptist, Jesus, and the disciples in the book of Matthew. That's where we have these references. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. uh the kingdom of heaven being preached to the Jewish people. This brings up the question, why was the kingdom of heaven preached when it would not be here on earth for several thousands more years? I don't have all the answers, but I can give you a few reasons First of all, the Messiah had to be rejected by the Jews. So something had to be offered in order for it to be rejected. And so Jesus offered himself the kingdom of heaven as a hand, and the Jews told him, No, we don't want you. And the Messiah was rejected, and that was a fulfillment of prophecy. The gospel of the kingdom is going to be preached in the tribulation by the 144,000. that will be marked. We looked at this in our study on the end times. They'll be preaching the gospel of the kingdom. Matthew 24 verse 14 says, and this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. The 444,000 during the tribulation are going to be preaching the same message that Jesus did. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. And at the end of the tribulation, the kingdom of heaven is going to come to earth. Jesus preached the gospel of the kingdom, so this gospel would be in the Word of God. And the 144,000 are going to take the book of Matthew and preach the gospel of the kingdom. Now, is the gospel of the kingdom, uh, of the kingdom, is that another gospel? No. The message of the gospel of the kingdom is twofold. Repent from sin and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the same gospel we preach. Repent from sin and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. So the kingdom of heaven preached by the disciples, it will be preached again in the tribulation, and then the kingdom of heaven will come at the end of the tribulation. It was offered by Jesus, it was rejected by the Jews, it will become, it will be established in the future. And its coming will be visible. Remember the kingdom of heaven, or sorry, the kingdom of God. Comes not with observation. Kingdom of heaven, it will be visible. Revelation 1:7. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see them, see him, and they also which pierced him and all the kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him, even so. Amen. The kingdom of heaven is going to be seen when it's established here on earth. Its coming is visible. Kingdom of God's coming was not without observation. So real quickly, these last few minutes that we have, we still have a good bit of time, but we have the history and future of the kingdoms kind of I've got a point here, just kind of describing how this has been at play throughout history. See, the kingdom of heaven, God's kingdom, God's rule over mankind, over the earth was established at creation, and man was given authority. Man was given dominion over this earthly kingdom that was given to Adam. However, Adam sinned. And when he sinned, he turned his authority over to Satan. And that's when Satan became the prince and the power of the air, the God of this world. Satan rules over the kingdoms of men. And that's where the rule is at currently. However, God promised the restoration of this kingdom to the Jewish people when he made his covenant with Abraham, reaffirmed it with Isaac, Jacob, the Abrahamic covenant. God through Abraham established the people through which he would rule the world again. God used Moses to establish the laws by which his people and his kingdom would operate. God used Joshua to claim the land from which his kingdom would be ruled. Through David, God gave Israel a king and a throne through which the Messiah would rule David's going to one day rule from Jerusalem again with Jesus. And that's the fulfillment of the Davidic covenant we talked about several weeks ago. The fulfillment there. The kingdom, the throne established. Through the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus describes the standards of the kingdom of heaven. The Jews rejected Jesus' offer of the kingdom. This is interesting. Satan offered Jesus the kingdom if he'd avoid the cross. You could have all the kings. Satan was the God of this world. He said, you can have all these kingdoms. If you just bow down and worship me, let's skip the cross. Let's skip the bruising of the serpent's head that's talked about back there in Genesis. Let's leave that part out. You can just have the kingdom right now. Just Submit to me, then I'll still be king, but you'll be king too. You can have the kingdom now. You can have it without going to the cross. That was offered to Jesus by Satan Then we go to the cross, and the kingdom of God was established in the hearts of men. Kingdom of God, the spiritual kingdom. After the tribulation, the kingdom of heaven will be established on earth. And then after the millennial kingdom, those who are saved within the kingdom of heaven will continue into eternity with the rest of those who are in the kingdom of God. So the kingdom of heaven on earth, like I said already, is going to have people that are saved and lost in it. But at the end of the millennial kingdom, the people of earth rise up against Jesus' rule, led by Satan, that is destroyed. Heaven and earth is destroyed. Great white throne, judgment, new heaven, new earth, everybody that was saved in the kingdom of heaven. goes into eternity with those that are in the kingdom of God and those two kingdoms merge into one kingdom forever to be with the Lord. So we say there's some overlap during the millennial kingdom, kingdom of God is here on earth with the kingdom of heaven. So there's some things that overlap or will take place at the same time. And eventually both of them will exist forever. Both of them are ruled by God. So there are similarities between the two, but there are differences, and it keys in on this idea of a spiritual kingdom and a physical kingdom. And when we have people who are preaching and teaching that we as Christians need to build Christ's kingdom here on earth, and we're going to do that through humanitarian means and just get get the world so good that we're ready for Jesus to come back. That's that's wrong. That's not understanding the difference between spiritual and physical. This we're not gonna make this world good enough for Jesus to come back. This world's gonna get so bad that Jesus has to come back. And he's gonna he's gonna fix it all. And that's when he sets up his physical kingdom. We promote the kingdom of God by preaching the gospel so people can be born again and enter into the kingdom of God. A spiritual Kingdom not a physical kingdom. We don't go take over the the uh the promised land like was done through the crusades or attempted through the crusades We don't compel people by force to be saved. That was something that was done in history as well, trying to use violence to promote the kingdom of God. Well, that's not that's an improper division. That's not rightly dividing. So how do we get to rightly divide the two kingdoms? The kingdom of God only has citizens that are saved. The kingdom of heaven will contain both saved and lost. This is going to really help you in your understanding of things, especially in the parables, where that just doesn't seem biblical what Jesus is teaching there. As you read it, well, it's an understanding that he's not talking about those who are saved. He's talking about those who will be in the kingdom. the physical kingdom here on earth in some of those parables. The kingdom of heaven is spiritual and it has spiritual blessings. The kingdom of heaven, sorry, the kingdom of God is spiritual with spiritual blessings. The king We do not build Christ's kingdom on earth. That will be established by Him in the future. We tell people how they can be saved so that they can be in the kingdom of God. The church is part of the kingdom of God, but there are many more people in the kingdom of God than just who are part of God's church. So there's some differences there that we need to understand. And again, very foundational, and I'll tell you, this is one of the most helpful studies to me that I've ever done or ever heard taught on rightly dividing, making these proper divisions and saying, oh, that's that goes over here As opposed to over here, you mix these up, you can get yourself all off base and have a lot of wrong doctrine if you don't understand the things that God's laid out in Scripture. Spiritual kingdom, spiritual people, spiritual blessings. That's what we're part of. Nation of Israel is promised a physical kingdom with physical blessings in a physical land with a physical throne and a physical kingdom. We'll be part of that. We're going to enjoy part of that as well, rule and reign with Christ for a thousand years. But as promises made to Israel, promises made to the church, we've seen that overlap throughout this whole series of people confusing the two And here's another area where there's a lot of confusion between this as people study and people teach, but a very foundational understanding to rightly divide. Again, that idea, cutting something straight. We want to build a proper theology. Uh we're going to go down to Belize here in a week and we're going to build a building and if we make all of our cuts cuts crooked, uh it's not going to be a very good building. Uh we want to cut things straight. The same is true when it comes through the Word of God. Rightly divide. Put things in the proper place to understand what God's talking about. And that'll help us understand our approach to the Word of God and our study. and our application and what we do as believers and what we're trying to accomplish when it comes to what God wants us to do. Kingdom of God, spiritual. Kingdom of Heaven physical. Hopefully that is uh that came across clearly and that will help you in your understanding of the Word of God. Let's close it