I'm excited about the thought this evening. Turn your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter number 4. 1 Peter chapter number 4. As you can tell The devotional reading through the book of Peter kind of stirred my heart a little bit, challenged me in a few areas. I actually had several thoughts that I wanted to preach or that I could preach. As we walk through these books that have that have been a challenge to me, but settled on the thought that we had this morning. Um that course gleaned from others pointing out the fact that that word precious is found many times in in the book of Peter and I enjoyed that study But tonight I want to talk to you, I want to preach to you about the sobering end. About the sobering end. In 1 Peter chapter number 4, let's just begin reading in verse number 1 and follow along as we'll read the first ten verses. of this chapter. For as much then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind, for he that hath suffered in the flesh, hath ceased from sin, that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles When we walked in lasciviousness, lust, excessive excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you. Who shall give an account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead? For this cause we For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. But the end of all things is at hand. Be therefore sober and watch unto prayer. And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves For charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another. as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. We see in verse number seven, the text verse From which I have drawn the title, The Sobering End. He says, But the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Now, beloved, whether you are currently under the pressure of a trial, or whether you're at this present time enjoying the peace of a calm sea. We must all be ready for when the end comes. It's going to come. Many times a trial will cause us to look up. A challenge will cause us to pause and to consider our end of life or the day when we're with Christ. Often when we have calm seas and things are going well and life is cruising along okay, we forget about the fact that the end draweth nigh. Christ is coming again. This is a fundamental truth that we as Baptists have held dear. That Jesus Christ, who died for our sins, ascended unto the right hand of the Father, and he's coming again. We don't know the day or the hour. We can't begin to try and deduce that time. We know that it is unknown, but we are convinced, we believe, that the rapture is imminent. The church will be lifted out of here. By the way, let me remind you that it is before the tribulation. We are pre-tribulationalists. Now I did not say it was before you would endure some tribulation. It's before the tribulation, the great tribulation, but you and I, of course, know we might have to endure some tribulation. The Bible's clear on that. John 16, 33 tells us these things have I spoken unto you, that in me you might have peace, but in the world ye shall have tribulation. It's pretty clear that's going to be. Romans 5, verse number 3 says, and not only so, but we glory in tribulation also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience. Romans 8 verse 35 says, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecutions or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? No, we know that nothing is going to separate us from the love of Christ. Amen. Not even the tribulations, and sometimes when we're going through tribulations, we feel like we we've been separated, but if you have that faith that we were talking about this morning, that faith carries you through that time of tribulation. And you know that God's love is there and he's with you regardless. Romans 12. 12 says, rejoice in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer So although we might have to endure some tribulation between now and the time that the rapture takes place or our days are done, We do believe that before the great tribulation, before God's wrath is poured out on this earth, before this world, we as a church will be lifted out of here. Amen. And beloved, let me say that as this world wax worse and worse, the abuse and persecution of Christians is going to increase. It's happened in a very evident way. Moti is here tonight and in his home country, Christians are being persecuted. Christians are being tortured, they're beaten, being being beaten, imprisoned unjustly, many of them enduring great tribulation. And don't think that we, because we've lived in this country of America and have thus far really gone unscathed as God's people. But as this world waxes worse and worse, it's going to come to our shores. And we're going to need a strong faith in God to help us through that day. But we're glad 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verse number 4 says, Who comforteth us in all our tribulation? He'll comfort us. Even if we have to or if we are going through great tribulation. We're going to endure persecution from this world. But we will be taken out of it before God's wrath is poured out upon it. Now I'm not teaching tonight on the tribulation or on pre-tribulation doctrine. But I'm just wanting to remind you of the fact that the end draweth nigh. It's coming like a thief in the night. No man knows the day or the hour. James chapter 5 verse number 8 says, Be ye also patient, establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Do you believe that tonight? The coming of the Lord draweth nigh. We have that as a promise from the Word of God, and our scope and uh understanding of time is limited and We don't know exactly the day or hour or the time when the Lord's going to come, but I want to remind you that he is coming again. This is a true statement And if we would live in light of the fact that the end draweth nigh, we would live differently. I believe with all my heart tonight that if anybody in this room was told You have one week to live. COVID has stricken your lungs. COVID has uh debilitated your ability to absorb oxygen, and there's nothing else we can do. You've got One week to live, I guarantee you that you and I would maximize and capitalize on the one week we had left. Why? Because our mind would be registering the fact that the end was close. But sadly, we live our life day by day by day with no thought of the end. And what happens, so many people are so concerned about life that they don't take time to live it. But there are far more people, beloved, who are so intent on living life to its fullest. That they completely ignore the fact that the end draweth nigh. Those who are living with no thought of tomorrow will come to a very sobering end. But those who live soberly will come to a very joyous end So, my challenge to you this evening is we consider the thought about the sobering end. Is your end going to be that way, one that caught you off guard? Caught you as a thief in the night? Caught you when you weren't ready or prepared? Or are you going to live in such a way Thinking about and keeping the end in view, living soberly so that at the end you can have a joyous end. If that's going to be you, first of all, I want you to see that indeed we are going to be living soberly. He says here, but the end, in verse number seven, but the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober. Sober. There's a command here For you and I to live sober, to be sober-minded, that is to use your mind in a calm and strategic way. Beloved, there's far too much carefree quesarasra foolishness going on. There's too many young people today who have Just decided they don't want to grow up. They don't want to become an adult. They don't want to have responsibility. They just want to live as a child in a carefree world and just have fun and they're 20, 25, 30, 35, 40 year olds uh people still living with their mom or dad and and have no responsibility of their own and and and they just have determined they're just gonna live live life and and not worry about things but we are supposed to grow up, friend. We're supposed to live soberly. There's supposed to be not everything is supposed to be fun and games. Not everything has to be entertainment. Not everything has to entertain you and keep you engaged We are to be sober-minded. 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 4 through 8 says, Be ye brethren. Who are not in darkness, that the day should overtake you as a thief. He says, see you're not in darkness. You shouldn't be found as the day that the Lord, the day the Lord comes back shouldn't take you as a thief in the night. It shouldn't be it shouldn't overtake you like that because we're supposed to be looking for him. We're supposed to be watching for him. We're supposed to be ready for him. We're supposed I mean when he comes knocking, we ought to be, hey, he's here, all right, we're ready. You weren't caught off guard. He says, Ye are all the children of light and the children of the day. We're not of the night, nor of darkness. Therefore, let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch. And be sober. Again, that mindset of the Christian is to be one of a sober mind. There is a problem. When everything has to be a joke, when everything has to be funny, we are to be sober-minded people. The weight and responsibility of our life and the facts of eternity ought to bring us to soberness. It ought to bring us to a point of considering and thinking about the things that are of utmost importance. He goes on in verse number 7, he says, For they that sleep in the night and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet, the hope of salvation Again, beloved, we're to be sober-minded so that the day does not overtake you as a thief, that you're ready. You're not going to be caught with your hands in your pocket, as it were. You're not going to be caught off guard. You're going to be ready for the day, the end that draweth nigh We see this challenge over and over again in the Word of God. We see that a bishop is to be sober. In 1 Timothy, even their wives are told to be sober. We see that the Bible tells us in Titus 2. 2 that aged men are to be sober. Sober-minded. Aged men are to be sober-minded. There's to be a level of maturity that marks an aged man. He's sober-minded Life is not a joke to him. There's some things that are more important. There's some things that he's thought through and There's some weighty issues of life and some matters of utmost importance that keep him sober-minded. Young men here I'll let you determine whether you were an aged man or a young man. But young man, don't think that you got off the hook. Titus chapter two, verse number four says That they may teach the young women to be sober Titus 2 verse number 6 says, likewise, young men likewise exhort to be sober-minded. So the young men and young ladies are told to be sober-minded. This is something that as I began studying, I saw it over and over and over again, and I thought this is something that's important. And really, in today's world, it is something that we've let go of. We really have grabbed a hold of the entertainment world and we've grabbed a hold of the the everything is funny and we're going to turn it all into a joke and Let's not really sit down and think about the weighty matters of life and the things that are of utmost importance Let's just have fun But where to be sober-minded and beloved, you're going to come to a sobering end unless you determine today, now to live soberly. Not only is there a command to be sober, but there's a cause to be sober. There's a cause to be sober, beloved, because we live in a hostile environment. Consider this. If you were in a in on a battlefield My boys and I just watched a true story about a battlefield and a reenactment of what took place And as you watch that, I mean you talk about sobering. I mean just just sitting there in in the trench. And your friend, you know, right next to you stands up to go over the ridge and his head is shot, he sees he's dead, he's gone. All of your buddies as you're climbing over the edge of this ridge to try and advance on the enemy, half of them are shot down. You finally make it to the next the next little uh hole in the ground or crouch or or a little swell so that you might shelter you from the bullets that are coming nonstop. I mean you talk about being sober. You you're gonna be sober. You're gonna be thinking about some things. This is not gonna be a time of jokes and fun. You're going to be sober-minded because you're in a hostile environment. Well, beloved, we're in a hostile environment. Christians should learn what is what is worth living for. He says here in verses 3 and 4 he talks about how the Gentiles lived, how the world lives in liciviousness and lust. Excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, abominable idolatries, wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess. They think it's strange that you're not involved in that. It says here that that they're gonna speak evil of you, speaking evil of you We're in a hostile environment. The world doesn't like it. Do you know why they don't like it? Because when you live right, it shines light on their sin. And they don't like that being shined on them. They would much rather you agree with them and laugh at their dirty jokes and be a part of their filthy conversations and They would much rather feel comfortable alone, hey, we're all buddies, but when you say, Well, no, I'm not going to listen to that, all of a sudden they're like, Oh, what are you? Too good for us Oh yeah, Mr. G he's got religion and he can't joke with the rest of us. He's too good for us. But the reason they're saying that is because in their heart they feel guilty for that filthy mouth they have. And they're gonna speak evil of you, they're gonna persecute you. We've got to be sober-minded because we're in a hostile environment. You've got to be careful what we do and where we go and how we communicate and and what we open ourselves up to and that we don't give place to the devil. We have an adversary that's ever present and ever against us in this hostile environment. That's why 1 Peter 5. 8 says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary the devil is a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom you may devour. You've got to be sober, Christian. We're going to reach the end and have a joyous end. Instead of a sobering end, we're going to be sober now. Not only are we going to be sober now, but we see here that we're going to be praying now. He says, But the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. You know what's amazing is this word watch here actually means sober. It literally means sober. This same word was translated four times in the New Testament. as watch. I'm sorry, four times as sober and two other times as watch. So it literally means to be sober, to be Engage with your mind as you pray. Watch that your prayers are not foolish or careless. Watch that your prayers are persistent and continual. Watch that we pray without ceasing Maybe, beloved, it's not about what our prayer does for us, but what our prayer does for someone else We need to watch that our prayers are in line with the Lord's will. You see, we've been given a new life in Christ. And this new life has, as part of it, some challenges that we're facing here on earth. Therefore, we've got to be sober. Therefore, we've got to be praying. In Galatians 2. 20, Paul gives an analogy of the Christian life. He says, I am crucified with Christ. That's the executed life. We know that we're supposed to dial it daily. Paul approaching his day daily, I'm crucified with Christ, the executed life. He said, nevertheless, I live, yet not I live, but Christ liveth in me. That's the exchanged life. We're not living ourselves Jesus Christ is living through us. It's his power that gives us victory in this life. It's his strength. It's not us that they see. It's Christ that they see. As we live day by day, as a Christian should, we have an exchanged life. I've given my life, I've crucified my life, I've executed it for him, and exchanged it for Christ Himself in letting him live through me. He says, and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God. That's the empowered life. Empowered by God. Empowered to live in this hostile environment. If you don't want to come to a sobering end that you're going to live soberly today. You're going to live prayerfully today. Not only that, you're going to live lovingly today. He says in verse number 8, and above all things, Have fervent charity among yourselves. For charity shall cover the multitude of sins, using hospitality one to another without grudging Beloved, what he's saying here is that the Lord's coming back. The end is at hand. We really don't have time for your foolish grudge. We really don't have time for you to hold on to that. Charity, he's saying you're going to love in and through the power of God in such a way that love covers a multitude of sins. You're not going to hold on to that. You're going to let it go because the end draweth nigh. There's not much time left. This last week on YouTube, I watched a video of a of a documentary about an airplane crash. Happened sometime in the mid-80s. These people were there, they were in the plane, and something happened, the plane malfunctioned, the plane was going down Everybody realized it. They were told to brace for impact. They said we're going to we're going to crash. They had a few minutes where the engines were gone and they were just gliding It was actually 20 minutes. The pilot kept the plane in the air without power. Gliding, trying to make it to some place where they could get some aid. But during that 20 minutes, do you know that they were interviewing this thing happened somewhere between 30 and 40 years ago. Many of those people that were on that flight, every one of them lived. But many of them that were on that flight were still alive today and they were interviewing them. And as they were talking about the feeling that they could still feel after 30 or 40 years of the fact that they were going to die. And many of them were writing notes to their loved ones. They're they they're filling out their wills saying, you know, this and this, I gotta do d this is important to me. Some were apologizing to their children, some writing notes Just taking the few minutes that they have left. Why? Because in their mind they thought the end was right here, right now. There wasn't any time left. And all of a sudden they said, You know what? All that animosity I had in my heart, all that anger and bitterness I held in my heart, all that hatred or anger that I had all this time doesn't really matter. I'm dying and I've got to let 'em know that I love 'em. that I care about them and that stuff that happened between us doesn't matter. It doesn't matter in Christian what the God is saying to you and I is there's no time Because the end draweth nigh for Christians to hold on to a foolish grudge. There's some silly thing that somebody said to you, or somebody forgot to do for you, or some ex- Expression they didn't say for you, or whatever it is, Christian. We don't have time to hold on to that stuff. There's a loss and a dying world going to hell out there, and the church is busy messing around with p foolish grudge. The foolish grudge. He says, have fervent charity God's love is to be so powerful in our life that it spills out onto those around us. Anytime you and I lose our patience with others, we've lost the love of God. When you're not maintaining that fervent charity, you've lost the love of God. That word fervent there means literally without ceasing. It's amazing how we can become so passive and patient with somebody we just met And yet with those that we call dear friends, with those that we care about, maybe even our own family members We've lost all patience. Where is the love of God? Where is that love that covers a multitude? Of sins. Yes, they sinned against you. I understand. But love covers sin. And it's the love of Christ that covers all of your filthy sin, too. And mine. And how dare I take somebody else's sin and hold that against them and carry that grudge? The Bible says there's not enough time left for us to carry that stuff. We've got to let it go. We should be able to have hospitality with anyone. He says, use hospitality one to another. Not holding grudge, just being friendly, just being kind, just opening your doors and your heart to others, being hospitable. Living, like you don't know a stranger, that the love that God has for every single man shines through you Here, the real life is expressed in love. Love from God towards others. Not only are we going to be sober and are we going to be praying and are we going to be loving? But he says in verse number 10 there, he says you're going to be busy. There's not much time left. You better get busy. He says in verse 10, as every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another. As good sewers of the manifold grace of God. God in His grace has bestowed a gift upon you. And we've just taken I think it was what thirteen weeks, ten weeks, and looked at the gifts. And in those studies each person was able to at least seduce or to at least narrow down The gifts that you have. I wonder if you've given any thought to that and think about that. Listen, this is a gift that God gave me. This is a gift that I am to be stewarding. The gift of God that I'm responsible for And he says here, let him so minister the same one to another. Are you using the gift? We don't have a lot of time left, folks The end draweth nigh. What if I came to the pulpit tonight and told Hunt Valley Baptist Church that it's been the joy of my life to serve here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church? church, but tonight's gonna be my last service. I'm stepping down and walking away. I believe the Lord's called me to go do some other things. I just don't want to disrupt the church. I don't want to cause any problems. So I'm stepping down and as of tonight, Mary and I are gonna be we're gonna be gone. Our family's gonna be hitting the road, we're gonna be going whatever Man, the end of our relationship of this bond we have as a church family. Tonight there would be a lot of tears shed A lot of folks would say, well, I'd kind of gotten irritated at Pastor, but I guess I can let that go. You know, I I appreciate what he did while he was here. There'd be a lot of handshakes, a lot of hugs, a lot of goodbyes. We'd be hanging out here for several hours probably. Why? Because it's the last night. Because time is short. You see, that's how we're supposed to be living, friend. In light of the fact that the end draws nigh. Our opportunity to minister and to use our talents and skills for God is coming to a close. We don't have an infinite amount of time. To do what God wants us to do. And whether it's our time individually that is coming to a close, or maybe God is going to come again here and break the eastern sky, and the end of all things is nigh. It's at hand, this verse says. But we've got to live in light of that fact. There's not much time to do what God wants us to do. Like Christ, who said, I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day, the night cometh when no man can work. Beloved God has entrusted you and I with a talent He's given us some treasure, and he's given us a very limited amount of time to use them for him. Not not too much. much just a limited amount. And when he returns, he wants to find what you've done with what he's given you. You think about those servants whom the owner gifted with pounds, said, I'm going to a far country. And he gave the one ten pounds, and he said unto him, When he returned, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Because thou hast been faithful in a very little, I have given thee authority over ten cities. So you're going to be like that kind of a servant, the good and faithful servant with what God's given you, the ta the talent and the treasure God has given you? With the time you have? Are you going to be like the one that said, Hey, Lord, I knew that thou wast an astute man, and that thou uh gatest from where thou hast not sown? The rest of that story that goes on, he says, Hey, you're gonna I I know that you're gonna have all this benefit. And so I took and and I the one thing you gave me, I kept it safe for you, Lord. I got that one thing. But see, God expects us to come back with more than he gave us. And we've only got a little while to do that. I enjoy investing. It's fun seeing your investment grow. It's not so fun seeing it go the other way, but it's fun seeing it grow When it starts going the other way, I say maybe it's time to pull it out of that company and take it and stick it into this company that's growing. And God's no different. If you aren't using what God has given you, He's gonna take it away. And give it to somebody that will. The question of the night is what are you doing with the life that God has given you? Are you living at ease in Zion? Or are you pressing on the upward way, new heights, gaining every day? I'm afraid that most Christians Haven't gained any new heights in a very long time. A beloved Christ is coming back. The end of all things is at hand. If we're going to gain any new heights for God, we've got to do it. We've got to do it now. Before Li Inn comes