Turn your Bibles to the book of Romans, the book of Romans, chapter number one. A familiar passage of scripture? Uh And actually, uh I think it was Brother John uh Smith that talked about this passage of scripture on Sunday evening when he brought his uh brief channel challenge and dealing with specifically talking about the power of the gospel. So in Romans chapter number one and And look with me if you would at verse number 14 as we read 14 through 17. He says, I am debtor, both to the Greek and to the barbarian, both to the wise and to the unwise. So as much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are in Romas so. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God Unto salvation, to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek, for therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith. As it is written, the just shall live by faith. This evening I want to bring you a message that I've entitled The Winning Witness The winning witness. The fact of the matter is that it is the call of God on every believer's life to lift high the cross. We are supposed to let your light so shine before men. That's our job. We're called as Christians. God left us here on our earth for a reason. It wasn't to take up space. It wasn't just to enjoy our life, to just, I mean, God wants us to have an abundant life, and He is not upset or bothered that you enjoy life. But understand that the purpose or reason that God left you here is not just so that you would have a great time in your remaining days. The fact is that he has tarried his coming because he's not willing that any should perish. He wants the whole world to come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and has left us here as Christians With the task and the job of reaching the lost. Christ talking to the Church of Philadelphia said, Behold, I have set before thee an open door And no man can shut it. As I'm thinking about that this afternoon, I'm like, I want God to give us an open door. I want God to open the door for us as we go out door knocking to the hearts of men that we have opportunity to witness to. I want God to open the door for us as a church to continue to reach and impact more and more people. This afternoon I was reading a book on church growth and you know methods and tools and ways of seeing a church grow, and I want to see God do that at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I believe that God is still in the saving business. I believe there's people here in Baltimore that are still looking for a uh good church that they can grow and be fed spiritually in. I believe they're out there. We've just got to find them and somehow get them to come and be a part of this church. I believe that's done through the act of witness of God's people. Through the power of God influencing lives. Yes, I want to be able to build a building out on Shawan Road. But we don't need a building on Shawan Road to build the church. If we as a people think having a building on Shawan Road is what's going to make the difference, there's something wrong with us. As I look at it and I say, if God can't get people to come here to this place, to this location, if God can't, if if God can't use us, To build a church here, where we're at, a change of location isn't going to fix it. And as your pastor, I believe everything rises and falls on leadership, and I'm I'm look at that for myself, and I ask God, Am I the one that's holding this up? Am I keeping your hand of blessing? What is it, God, that would keep people from attending? Or why, God, would somebody come and come through the doors of the church one time but then not come back? What are we doing wrong? What method do we need? What tool do we need? How much more prayer do we need? How much harder can we work? What else is left, God, that we need as a church to see you do something here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church? I'm convinced that to move out to Shawan Road is not the answer. Though I want to see that happen and I believe one day God's going to make that become a reality That's not what makes the difference of whether this church is going to grow or not. That what's going to make the difference is God's power, God's blessing. If this matter of being a witness is a call on every Christian's life, and it is indeed as important as we believe it is. Then how do we win at this thing of witnessing? Ah Leonard Ravenhill in his book, Why Revival Tarries, said that Isaiah's vision could be summed up as woe, a word of confession. Lo, a word of cleansing, and go a word of commissioning The vision that God had given Isaiah. Lo, a word of cleansing. I believe if we're going to see God's blessing at our church, we've got to be a clean church We've got to take care of things here in God's house. And go. Commission to go. If we're going to reach the world, it starts with those nearest. The Institute of American Church Growth asked over 10,000 people this question. What is responsible for you coming to Christ or coming to a church that they were attending? From 10,000 Christians that were actively attending church asked, what is it that brought you to church or what is it that brought you to Christ? 3% said that they had a special need. Three percent said they just walked in. Six percent said they liked the preacher. One percent said I just happened to visit Five percent said I was looking for Bible classes. 5 percent said I attended a revival meeting 3% said I was looking for programs. 79% said a friend or relative invited me It's not our programs. It's not the Bible studies It's not all the external things. These are all tools and methods, but 79% said a friend. Or relative invited me. If we're going to reach the world, and yes, we just had our missions conference, and man, we were stirred for worldwide missions and and an endeavor to reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is awesome. And I praise God for the vision we have as a church to be able to do that. But do you know that it starts right here at home in our hearts? It starts right here with us being a bold witness for Jesus Christ and asking and inviting those whom we come in contact with. To come and be a part of what God's doing at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. 79% said somebody they knew talked to them. Somebody that would call them friend or somebody that called them a relative. It's not just a matter of God's going to send people through the door. You know what, we go door-knocking and we knock on doors and praise God for the fruit that we have seen, and there's been people that have come. By God's grace, Armando and his wife will continue to come and grow and be a part of our church. They will reach directly through the door knocking this year. I am praying. I'm sticking my neck out here. I'm praying that God will give us five family units from door knocking. I see Armando as the first one. Armando and his wife, and that's the first one. So I'm praying God will give us four more before the end of the year with the 15,000 doors that we're knocking on But do you understand that all of that is we're fulfilling the Great Commission, we're supposed to do it. But do you know the biggest impact that you have is inside of your area of influence? Is with the people that call you friend? With the people that might be a neighbor, that might be somebody that you're close to or have contact with. The message of this survey is that if people are going to get saved and churches are going to grow, the primary method is individuals talking to individuals. So the greatest potential for the growth of Hunt Valley Baptist Church lies with the people in this room. Each of us daily have contact with someone who needs the gospel of Jesus Christ. Sometimes several some ones We have different people that we see or that we can develop a relationship with, that we might present them the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The problem is that we have become mass-oriented instead of individual oriented. We think of the revival service and we think of great uh you know the the Anniversary Sunday and the great big day, and all the people gather together, and Pastor preaches a dynamic message on the salvation of Jesus Christ, and people come and flood down the aisle. Well, praise the Lord for when that happens. But Jesus Christ stopped and talked to the woman at the well. He was individual oriented. Yes, there was times he preached to the multitudes, but he also had compassion on the one. Let me give you a couple of thoughts here if we are going to win at witnessing. If we're going to win at witnessing, first of all, we need to promote the command. And I'm not going to stay long here, but you know that we have a command given to us by God. There's no doubt. There's nothing I I I'm not positive who this individual is, but Robert Spencer said this. There's nothing in the world or the church except the disobedience of the church that will stop the evangelized evangelization of There is nothing in the world or the church except the disobedience of the church that will stop the evangelization of the world. You see, the gates of hell are not going to prevail against it. There is nothing that's going to stop it except for our disobedience. We know we have a command to go. In a conscious history of the Christian world and missions, Herbert Cain said this. Some timid souls are afraid that we are about to witness the demise of the missionary enterprise. But such is not the case. The Lord of the harvest has promised to be with every missionary until the end of the age. Dictators come and go, kingdoms rise and fall, civilizations wax and wane, but the world mission of the church will continue until the end of age in spite of all human history. Problems will doubtless increase, difficulties will doubtless abound, cost will doubtless soar, but missions will go on, for the mandate will never be rescinded Until we're in heaven. The mission's going to go on. We have that commission. That command has been given to us. And although yes there's problems, and although people are hard today, and I know it's you know people are not as responsive and and people don't like you knocking on their doors today, their people aren't as open as and as friendly as they used to be 25 years ago. But you know what? I went knocking doors when I was a kid in El Paso, Texas, in the late 80s, and quite frankly, it was very similar to the way it is today. It was, you know, I didn't have doors open to me then. I had people slam the doors. I had people say, what are you doing here? That's been that many years ago, and I remember it being very similar today. I didn't like it any more then than I do now But the command and the commission is still there, amen? That's what we've been told to do. So if we're we know that there's a command, we've got to promote that in our mind and bring it to the forefront and say, Listen, God's told us to do this. told us to be a witness. He said to get out, to go, to give the gospel. We need to keep that in the forefront of our mind and we need to pray for a concern. Pray for a concern. That which we need You know, Matthew 9, 36 to 38 says, But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep, having no shepherd. Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plentious, but the labors are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with command with compassion. That's what stirred his heart. We need a true concern for those that we meet day by day, for their eternal soul. Jim Elliott once said this. We don't need a call to get involved in missions. We need a good, swift kick in the pants. That's what Jim Elliott said. He said it's not it's not you don't need a revelation from God and you don't need uh you know like lights from heaven and a vision in the middle of the night. You just need somebody to kick you in the seat of the pants and say, get get with it. You need to get get doing it. This is a command God's already given us. And if we had a concern, a real health heartfelt concern for the lost It would move us. Here's what I know. Our missions conference was a great conference. Many people here in our church were moved in a great way to help Brother Steve. I mean there was people ready to I mean Pastor we gotta help him Pastor we gotta uh we need to give money to the to the his his hospital fund. We need to help him right away. He's got this I mean, our hearts were touched And that motivated many people, some directly outside a missions conference or their annual missions giving, whatever it is, they said, hey, I'm writing a check right now to give directly to him, to his, to his hospital. They were moved. And what I'm saying is when we have a heartfelt concern for the lost, those we come in contact with, it will move us to action. It will move us to action. We must live in a way that shows people that we really care. Yes, doctrine is good. Organization is necessary. Methods are needed. But it is our love for God and each other that God will use to draw men to Himself inside of our church. There's way too much uh you know bickering and and arguing and discussions and uh in churches today for the world to see anything different inside the church than they see outside the church. What is John 13, 35? By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if you have love one for another. You see, we're too consumed and worried about things of our own instead of coming together as a church in in love and in harmony and and Serving one another, loving one another, having the joy of the Lord and our daily walk with God day by day, and for the world to see anything different The truth is God knows the condition of your heart. And God knows the condition of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You see the passage that I started with Of Christ talking to the Church of Philadelphia, he says, and to the angel of the Church of Philadelphia in Revelation chapter 3. Right, these things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth, and shutth, and no man openeth. He said, I know thy works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it. For thou hast little strength. Do you ever feel like you've got little strength? You just feel like, man, I just I don't have the energy for this Man, pastors talking about all this stuff for anniversary Sunday that needs to be done, and we got all this stuff that's got to be done, and we got that that's got to be done, and I don't have the strength for all of that God says, you've got little strength, but you've kept my word and hast not denied my name. And God said to him, In thy little strength I've opened a door for you. Do you understand that God is an investor? God is an investor, and He's a wiser investor than you and I. You know, if you had uh I'm just gonna take it out of the realm of money for sake of time. We can talk about money. I know you're gonna give your money to somebody that's gonna give you a good return. Well, let's talk about the church. If God looks down from heaven and he's looking at a church, and on one hand he's got this church that's all consumed with themselves that uh is is arguing about things and somebody's upset about that and somebody didn't like this and and they're discussing these things back and forth and And ever at the close of every service, there's, you know, a visitor could come through the door and people wouldn't even know and nobody would talk to them. And then down the road there's a church. where the people are expressing their love for God and they're showing the joy of the Lord on their face and they're showing love one to another and somebody comes through the door, the number one concern on the hearts of people there is Does this young man or young lady know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior? And they welcome them into the church and they make them feel comfortable so they can hear the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Where do you think God's going to send the next hungry soul that he has? That's why it's vitally important as a church we keep our spirit right It's not just our own self and how we think or what we feel about it and whatever, but it affects the whole. And as a congregation, we want to see God bless. We want to see God do great things here. Then we've got to be a church that's ready for God to do that. It is vitally important that we have biblical love one for another. Let me just throw this out. You should make it a point to know each member and visitor by name As a church active, your Thursday night crowd, I mean this would be the core of the church, right? I mean, I know there's some twenty five, twenty, twenty-five adults downstairs working with the young people, so they they need to hear this too. But listen You should know everybody that comes on a regular basis, whether they're a visitor or a church member by name. That means on next Sunday you look around the auditorium. If there's anybody that you don't know their name, you need to walk up to them and say, Hello. I'm Caleb. Don't say I'm Caleb, say your name. And say I'm sorry, I know I should know your name, but I just can't remember. And then write it down. And then check yourself. You know, use it several times throughout the day. Go up to him and say, Man, you know, Jack, it was great to finally connect with you today. And you say, Man, but we've been going to church together. I've seen them for a long time. I know. That's sad. We as a church need to build an environment where people are welcomed and people are loved. You say, well Pastor, that's your job to love them. It is my job, and I should love them. But the scripture was talking to Christians. Yet you love one another. Some of you when I when I uh some months ago when I asked you to pray for Doreen because her father was in the hospital You were like, who's Doreen? Who's Tom? That shouldn't be. They've been coming to church here a long time. It's not like they're visitors from last week. You need to make an effort to know people that come to church here. There was somebody that hasn't been to church here in about six months that uh used to come just for Sunday school. He would come just for Sunday school. He hasn't been here in at least six months, maybe ten months. Because in Sunday school, I talked about how important it is for you to be in Sunday morning and Sunday night. Thursday night church, that Sunday school is not just enough for Christianity. And he never came back. He's been coming here for Sunday school for years. But you know what? If I said his name, I bet a lot of you wouldn't know who he is. I almost thought well I'll ask you how many of you know his name and who I'm talking about, but I don't want to do that because I I told you he quit church. But I somebody asked me about that specifically and I told them who it was and they're like, who who is that? But he's been in Sunday school every Sunday for for the last couple years. Adult Sunday school. Now Greg's downstairs with the kids. I would understand Greg not knowing him Because he's not up here. Sometimes Pastor Gut Pastor Derek comes up and he introduces himself to a visitor, says, Hey, good to have you this morning. And the visitor's like, Well, I've been coming for a month. He said, Oh I'm sorry, I'm downstairs with the kids and I don't get to get up here and meet the adults a lot and and so just this morning I was able to. So that happens to Pastor Derrick quite frequently because he's downstairs and I understand that, but listen We're here in the auditorium. We need to engage with people. Not just the pastor, not just the guy sitting at the welcome desk. All of us. If we want people to come and find this as their church home. You know m I don't remember the statistic, maybe brother I just forgot his name. He's going to beat Montana. Dustin Beck. Maybe he knows, but I I think it's like 90% people decide whether they're going to come back to a church before they ever hear the message. It's it's immediate. It's from the welcoming of the people, from the greeting, from the communication, from the start of the service, long before they ever hear the pastor. It oughta be. You need to get out, talk to people, greet people. Uh it would help if you introduced them to someone else. If you come up and say, you know, hey, uh Brother Beck, it's great to meet you tonight. Did you get a chance to meet Lisa? That gives you two things. It introduced you, it gives you something to say to them. And it gives them an introduction to somebody else. Another thing would be good is you could say, did you get a chance to meet the pastor? Oh, let me take you to him and let me let me introduce you to him. And then that helps me. It also would help me if you would write their name down and give it to me. Because you know I'm gonna forget. I got Brother Beck's name right here somewhere. Here it is right here. Because you know I'll forget, introduce them to someone, introduce them to Pastor. We need to have a spirit of expectation that visitors are going to come through the door and then know how to act when they get here. Let me give you the last one and we'll be brief. You need to prepare for a connection. Prepare for a connection. You see, um You you need to get ready to connect with people. Figure out who it is that you would want to connect with that that God would uh talk to your heart about reaching with the God You could start by making a list. Make a list of those you come into contact with that you could invite to church or that you could reach with the gospel, present the gospel to. A list gives you focus. I would encourage you to keep it small. Maybe five to seven people. I mean we could build a list and you know the banker and the baker the banker's brother and and his third uncle and And it gets so big and you'll get discouraged and you'll forget to pray for 'em and and all that. So just a short list of family, friends, coworkers, neighbors, general acquaintances, five to seven people you can pray for on a regular basis that you want to get the gospel to You want to pray for them, pray for their salvation, pray for an opportunity to be a witness to them, and God will open the door. That also makes you sensitive to that If you're praying for an opportunity witness to them, and then you happen to both be at the mailbox at the same time, well, hello, and then the Holy Spirit will be pricking you saying, I This is the ordained appointment. I put them here right now for you and you you'll be saying in your mind, no, I don't think this is the right time. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna bring it up right now. And and but when you're praying, God will start God will use that to stir your heart and you'll be ready to be a witness. Pray for a time to connect with them. When you're praying, it's going to keep you sensitive to the opportunities that God's going to bring And then demonstrate your love for them. Do you know demonstrate? That word means to prove. Prove your love. We know the saying. People don't care how much you know until they know how much you care. And the fact is, is that the greatest area of influence is going to be with people that know that we care enough about them To talk to them, to share with them, to meet their needs, to influence them. And a lot of times the investment that you're giving people is not going to bring a return. You know you want you want it to? We're plowing with a purpose. We're plowing with a purpose. We don't plant seeds for no reason. We're plowing with a purpose. And sometimes it seems like it didn't bring any fruit. But here's here's what you know. What you did was obedient to God. God was pleased, and God's going to bless you for it. And he might bring fruit on the next one, but you just keep on. And sometimes the people that you invest the most time in don't work out. What I'm saying is you stop and help somebody on the side of the road and they have a flat tire and you haul them a hundred miles to their home or you take them and you pay to get the tire fixed and you come back and you say, Listen They want to pay you and you say no no no I don't want to get paid but listen if you could just come and visit my church and your heart and mind you say I give all that up just so I could get them to come and hear the gospel and then they don't show up. And you go like, Lord, I should have taken the money. Really? Yeah, I know how the devil works. But sometimes it's not going to bring fruit. But you just keep on going. Demonstrate your love and God will bless. We know we gotta have a plan to reach them. We gotta plan for missions and worldwide missions. We got a plan as a church here where we have outreach. We go Saturdays and go soul winning. But do you have a plan to reach the individuals in your life? The individuals that you come into contact with? with that you have influence over that you could bring. You know, every individual that comes to the church brings with them a whole nother scope of influence. That each person, each new visitor, with them comes a whole new group of people that can be reached by their influence. And that is what builds a church. For the honor and glory of God. Listen, it's not about getting people in here. It's about seeing people saved and lives changed and investing in people's lives for the honor and glory of God. glory of God. Let me close this in prayer. We'll be and we'll be close the service here. Then we're going to have our prayer time. Brother Lee's going to come and Lord, we thank you for tonight. We thank you, God, for uh your word. And uh this Lord in in many ways just a practical message, uh hopefully to motivate us as a church with regard to the to reaching those that we come into direct contact with. Don't let those opportunities slip by. Don't miss those chances to present the gospel, to give a track, to invite somebody, Lord. I pray that you would use us as a church. Lord, we'll thank you for it. Fast is in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.