Turn your Bibles to Romans chapter number 12. Romans chapter number 12. I want to speak to you this evening of a message that I've entitled a transformed life. transformed life. If I was to ask you this evening, what do you think is the key to success as a Christian? I imagine off the top of your head many people would have an answer of some kind and they would vary in degrees and in depth throughout the auditorium. Everybody would have something to say, but What is the key to Christian success? What is the key to really experiencing and having the blessing of God in our life? You're there's gonna be some reverberation, as it were, from this morning's message, a little bit of carryover in the focus of the thought Because it's central to God's blessing and central to being a Christian. I believe every child of God really desires in his heart to experience Blessing from God. We desire to have that true, amazing, powerful blessing on our life, the power to witness to others. The power to uh you know the wisdom to know how to handle and deal with situations The blessing of meeting needs and seeing God work in our daily life as individuals. The joy of being able to be an encouragement unto somebody else through the power of God. I'm talking about the unmitigated, unrestricted blessing of God on our lives. I mean, I think that we'd all desire that. As we read the stories in the scripture, we read of men and women who experienced great blessing. They experienced God's hand on them in a powerful way. And we can't help but long to be in that position. We can't help but long to see God do that in our hearts and to see God work with us that way, to see God move in our life in such a powerful and meaningful way. Do you desire to be able to have prayers answered like George Mueller I think even as we read the stories, not necessarily in the pages of Scripture, but of men and women of bygone days who experienced God's blessing and they saw great things happen. You know, you you read their stories or you hear tell of what God did in and through them, and you say, boy, wouldn't that be amazing? Wouldn't that be awesome to see God do that in my life. I would in would like to say tonight to you that it's possible, for we serve the same God. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob is the God that we serve. He has the same power to help as he did in any story in the pages of Scripture. He has the power to enable and to empower us as he did for any man or woman of bygone days. God can and wants to do it for us If that's the case, then why does it seem as though God's church has no power at all? Why is it as if Christians are not experiencing the blessings of God? We're not seeing God move, we're not seeing God's power in our midst. Why is that the case? When we serve the same God, he still has the same ability, he still can move in a great way, and I believe that he desires to. Then why is it that God's people aren't experiencing it? I believe it's because men today don't want to be transformed. You see, they want the form of godliness Without being transformed. They want the form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof. Instead of allowing our lives to be transformed, so many Christians today allow their lives to be conformed. To the world. Just like when you at Christmas time take those little molds, you're gonna make some sugar cookies and You push out a little reindeer and you know you maybe at Valentine's Day you make some hearts. You take that and you just make whatever shape you want to out of it The sad thing is, beloved, is for most Christians, we're allowing our hearts and minds to be shaped by culture Instead of allowing it to be shaped by Christ, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. We need to be transformed that we might have a form of godliness and know the full power thereof instead of being conformed. To this world. And beloved, let me encourage you, or let me just state that the fact of the matter is, is by and large Christians today are far more conformed to the world than they are transformed by God. We need to be transformed, made new, not shaped by culture, but shaped in and through the power of Jesus Christ. Some years ago, many years ago now, there was a musician in London, and he noted that all of the errand boys that were running around the city Doing their job as Aaron, Aaron boys, they would come into his shop, and it seemed like every one of them whistled out of tune. He thought, what is it with these boys? They all whistle out of tune. And he began talking to some people about it. They all had this problem. Well, one day one of his friends and he were walking down the street and they heard the bells of Westminster And realize that these bells were slightly out of tune The bells of Westminster, something had happened, a storm had struck, something had twisted them, somehow the bells were no longer ringing true. And unconsciously these boys began to whistle. The same tune. They didn't even realize they were whistling out of tune before. They were whistling what they had heard over and over and over again. So it is, beloved, that we tend to copy the people that we associate with, that which you're having a steady diet of. We borrow from them our thoughts and our philosophies. It is the programs that you watch and the news that you hear and the books that you read and the friends that you have that Before long, unconsciously, you find that you're whistling that tune. When what we need, dearly beloved, is to be shaped and molded by the power of the Word of God through Jesus Christ. That we will be in tune with him. Not in tune with this world. Not in tune with the modern philosophy. Not in tune with the current trend or current ideas or the current culture. This world is changing rapidly. And if you aren't careful, Christian, you will in your mind unconsciously start to buy into The world's philosophy. The world's thought processes. You'll begin to think: oh, that sounds okay. That sounds reasonable. That sounds correct. And you'll be whistling the world's tune and not even realize it. Right, that's right. Because of what you've been listening to So much. Our text verse for this evening, Romans chapter twelve, verses one and two Familiar scriptures. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that ye presents your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. That ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Beloved, if you want to be transformed You've got to have your mind renewed, not conformed to the world Sometimes the ideas in this book don't make sense from a worldly standpoint. From a fleshly standpoint or from uh a modern culture standpoint But that doesn't mean that these are wrong. That means culture needs to change. As God's people, we need to have a transformed mind. If we're going to have a transformed life Beloved, a transformed life starts with a transformed mind. First of all, we need to surrender to Him We need to surrender to him. The abundant Christian life is not experienced outside of complete and total surrender. And this is something, beloved, that has to take place over and over and over again in our lives. It's not something we come down and we put it all on the altar, and I would venture to say every single person in this room. except for maybe the youngest ones in the back. Maybe little Matt Jr. and Alyssa maybe haven't got there yet. But I'd venture to say just about everybody else in here has at one time or another said, God, I give it all to you I want you to have it all. Lord, I don't want to hold anything back. I want to surrender it to you. Lord, I'm giving it to you right now. But the problem is, is we're human. We've got this old flesh and we walk out of the church and where we gave it all to God on the altar, we we go outside and on Monday or Tuesday or Wednesday we decide to pick it up again. Instead of leaving it there, instead of letting it go, and so we have to once again come to grips in our heart and say, Oh God, forgive me for holding this again. I want you to have control of it Lord, I surrender it to you, and we've got to do this over and over and over again in our lives. There's defining moments, moments where we come to the end of ourselves and We say, ultimately, Lord, it's all you and I surrender it. But when we do that, that's not the end. That's the beginning of the surrender. And we've got to continue to allow God to lead and control our lives. The joy of us of salvation is experienced because we're saved by the blood of the Lamb, but the joy of the Lord is not experienced outside of surroundings. Surrender. You've all heard it. He's not Lord at all if he's not Lord of all. I know we've all heard it. And we say it. But is he really Lord of all in our lives? Are we surrendered to the point that when the Holy Spirit comes to us and says, This is not what I want you to do, that we say, okay, Lord. I'll let go of that. Boy, you sure need to be reading your Bible. Yes, Lord, forgive me for missing my Bible reading this morning. I'll pick it up. I'll read tonight before I go to bed. Now I'll read tomorrow morning. Lord, forgive me for that We say it because it sounds good. He's not Lord at all if he's not Lord of all. But is he really Lord of all in our lives? If he's going to fill us, we've got to be empty. The Holy Spirit can't have control of us unless we are completely empty. We have the swimming pool over there at the church parsonage and there's a DE filter, a diatomaceous earth filter. And that filter is 42 cubic square feet of square inches of uh filter space, and it's a sealed system. And when I turn the filter on It begins to pump water out of the pool to push into the filter. And then it's got to go through all of the filter medium inside and then come out to go back to the pool. If I want to take full advantage of the filter, which I just cleaned out there's a relief valve on the top. that I have to open and let all the air out. Otherwise as the water comes in it builds up pressure. The whole top half of the filter is not even being used. We say, well, it's empty. No, it's full of air. And I gotta let all that air out in order for the water to be able to fill completely And when water starts coming out of the top relief valve, spraying water, then I can close that, and then the system is functioning completely and every part of it's being used Too many Christians we've got the the pump on, but we haven't let all the air out. There's too much of ourselves or too much of our own desire or too much of what we want. in the place of letting God have his way. I think most of you probably have heard the story of D. Al Moody with And there was the pulpit committee searching for somebody to come and preach. They wanted a man to come and preach this citywide campaign. One of the men got up and said, let's have D. L. Moody do it. And one of the younger men stood up a little bit perturbed. And he said, Why does everybody want D. L. Moody to come? What does he have a monopoly on the Holy Spirit? And one of the older, much wiser men stood and says, no, he doesn't have a monopoly on the That's what we need to do, beloved. Let the Holy Spirit have control of our lives, let the Holy Spirit fill us, let our own ambitions and desires go, surrender completely to God. Paul, the author of our text, stands as amazing example of somebody who lived a transformed life. A transformed life. Isn't it amazing when we see God do things. I mean I was thinking tonight when the glovers stood up here and sang that special. I mean, did you do you remember what kind of rotten sinners they were when they first came to church? I mean it's just amazing to see what God did. And and that's the thing, is we see God working in lives and transforming us and making us and molding us into what He wants us to be to be. We're all just dirty vessels. But God cleans us and He's able to use us when we surrender and yield to Him. Paul was a persecutor, and he went to a promoter of the things of Jesus Christ, a transformed life because of what Jesus did. God used Paul in so many mighty ways. I don't think he used Paul because Paul was exceptionally educated, although we know Paul was. God had uniquely prepared Paul for what he had called him to do. And God has uniquely prepared you For what God wants you to do. You say, I'm not Paul, I know, neither am I. But I don't have to be Paul because I'm not called to fulfill and do what Paul was called to do, but God has something for me to do and He has uniquely prepared me to do it And when I fe when I'm feeling weak and anemic and feel like I can't do this job that God wants me to do, I can look back and remember that God put me in this place and God has enabled me to do it and it was of His plan and organization. So if there's something lacking, it's not because God hasn't got me ready, it's because my faith is not strong enough Beloved, God's prepared you for whatever God wants you to do. We've just got to be surrendered and yielded and willing and ready to do it. The Apostle Paul put it all on the altar. But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. We got so many things in this life we look at as gain. I got this going for me, I got this going for me, I got this going for me, I got this positive, I got this positive. Paul said none None of that matters. Christ is the only thing that matters. Christ is the only thing that matters. We've got to be surrendered. Surrendered to him. Surrender to him. Whatever his plan is, whatever he wants us to do, put it all on the altar. He gave up his ambitions and his attitudes and surrendered to God. You know, for most Christians, I'd say especially most Christians in churches like ours, it's not the outward sins that we have a problem with. Bless God, we've got those licked. It's the sins of the heart. What other people can't see. we have a problem with that we haven't yet been willing to give up and submit to him. Paul gave it all. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. If we are going to extra The true blessing of God, if we're going to have a transformed life, we've got to be surrendered to Him. Not only that, we've got to stop sinful habits. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 22 and 24, you know Ephesians 4 is the change chapter in the Word of God, the chapter that gives a compare and contrast and a list of things. that you're supposed to quit and some things that you're supposed to start and that brings about change in your life. If you were looking to experience change and bring some change in your life Read Ephesians chapter number four and see what God says to do there. But look down at verse number 22 through 24, he says, that you put off concerning the former conversation the old man which is corrupt. According to the deceitfulness of lust, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Renewed in the spirit of your mind. That you put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. To be renewed in our mind, we've got to put off the former man Put off the corrupt man. Put off the things that are sinful habits. You've got something in your life you cannot expect to experience The great blessing of God, the transforming power of God, if we've got that thing in our life that we're unwilling to give up. Can I tell on myself? This is bad when I do this because just like today my my kids were commenting about They were like, Dad. Well one of the you see I didn't tell the rest of the story. One of the problems for me working at Walmart is when I was a teenager, I unknowingly to my father and my family I got attracted to and started listening to the world's music. And I had given a lot of time to listening to the world's music. And I knew all those songs. The first few chords would come on and I could start singing them. And if I was going to get that stuff out of my head and get victory over that, I had to be in a different environment. If I hadn't come if I didn't have that background, I probably could have worked there and been okay. But I had that background, that was there, that that stuff was all in my mind. You see, I wanted God to do something real in my heart, and I knew that as a young man, when I was the Boys' age, I would come down to the altar and I literally literally would pray, God, I'll give you everything except this music God, I'll give it all to you. But this music I enjoy, and it's not that bad. I like listening to this. And I held on to that music. And every time I would get so overly convicted, and I wanted God to do something in my life real and powerful, and I would come down to the altar and I'd say, God, I'll give it all to you, I'll surrender, I'll go wherever you want me to go. Except his music. Because I had that thing in my heart, that little spot where Satan had a grab, he had a hold of me. And I want you to know that I listened to the world's music all the way. As a freshman in college, I drove all the way onto campus. I listened to that music all the way there. I pulled in the parking lot and I stopped my car at the entrance of Fairhaven Baptist College and I turned the music off. And I said, God, I will give it up for one year. I'll give you my life for one year. I'll get locked, stock, and barrel. I'll surrender myself. I'm not holding anything back. Amuse me music, everything. I want to give it all to you, God. If there's anything in my life, I'm I'm yielding it to you because God, I need to know if you're real. I need to know if you're powerful, because it had been so long since God had talked to me It had been so long since God had been real to me. Why? Because years earlier I said, God, I'm not giving this up. And God would convict me, and I would say, God, I'm not giving this up. So I pulled onto campus and I said, God, I'll give it all. There's nothing I'm holding back. This sinful habit, I'm yielding it to you. And then I went to work for Walmart and I'm listening to it all day. I'm saying, God, I can't be listening to this all day and not be drawn to it. And so God led me to step away from that. And God miraculously took care of me, and I gave you the rest of that story today. But what I'm saying is we've got maybe some sinful habits in our life that we need to let go. If we want to experience true transforming power of God, we've got to say, okay, Lord, I'll let it go. Paul understood understood the corrupt man, that deceitful and desperately wicked man. He said in Romans 7, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of this death? So who's going to deliver me from this man? The Apostle Paul, so wretched man that I am, the battle over sin is won and lost in the mind. The Bible says in Proverbs 23, verse number 7, For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. We want to experience a transformed life we've got to have be transformed how? By the renewing of your mind The renewing of your mind. What you think about, what you spend time listening to The books you read, the shows you watch, the music you listen to, the programs we see, all of that affects our mind. If you have any hope of being able to think spiritually, you've got to put off the sinful habits. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse number 5 says not that we have sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of God. ourselves but our sufficiency is of God. Our sufficiency is of God. We need God to work in our lives. That means we need to be Surrender to Him, and we need to quit our sinful habits, and we need to start scriptural habits. Do what God God wants us to do. I praise God that you're here in church tonight and that there are many of you as our church family listening. And watching the service faithfully. At home, stopping and taking time to be in church. That's a good habit. That's a spiritual habit, and that's a good habit to have Wirsby said this. He said conversion is a crisis that leads to a process. Through Christ, once and for all, we have been given a new position in his new creation But day by day we must by faith appropriate what He has given us. The Word of God renews the mind. As we surrender it all to Him. The word of God renews the mind. It starts with the scriptures Can I ask you how you doing on your Bible reading? As a church, we're reading one chapter a day. We're in Psalms right now. Most of them are like less than ten verses. Most of them are really ch short. How are you doing on that? Have you been reading the Word of God? Have you been faithfully reading that? Have you been faithfully getting your mind in the scriptures? That's how our mind is renewed. Ephesians 5. 26, that he may sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word. I know I'm just like anybody else here, and I know that sometimes you pick up the book and you read it and you say, man, I didn't get anything out of that But you did. You don't know what you got. Just like when you listen to something that the world is putting out, you don't know what you got. But if you listen to that long enough, you're going to start whistling that tune. And if you listen to this long enough, you'll start whistling this tune. This is what we need to be whistling as God's people. We need to be in tune with the Word of God, and we've got to get in it to do that. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. The Word of God is a living, powerful document, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing dividing asunder of soul and spirit. Get in the word. The old man's weak. But the new man is supposed to be renewed daily How do you live a transformed life? By the renewing of your mind. 2 Corinthians 4. 16, for which cause we faint not. But though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. This world gets heavy sometimes. The weight of what's going on around us and the news and all this, we're bombarded with all this stuff, and sometimes this outward man just feels So dirty, or it feels so heavy, so burdened down with the cares and this stress of life and all of that. And sometimes we feel so so overwhelmed with it all. But we can be renewed. The inward man can be renewed. And it doesn't happen because you you you sit and hmmm and it starting to try and meditate or think or or hum some tune, it happens in and through the power of God To be renewed from the inside. To give you that strength. You feel so heavy and so weighted down and you get renewed, and the burdens don't seem so heavy. The weight of it all doesn't seem so burdensome. You you think well it's gonna be all things are gonna be all right. You see in this passage of scripture that law of replacement. It's not enough just to stop what we're doing. We must Start doing what God wants us to do. You've got to stop the sinful habits. You need to start some spiritual habits. Put off the old man and put on the new man. Do what God wants you to do. You're never going to be rid. Of the sinful habits until you start putting in some spiritual habits. You're never going to rid your mind of sinful thoughts. By focusing on how important it is to get rid of it. What you need to do is replace it With spiritual thoughts. Put off the old man and put on the new. That great prayer warrior, George Mueller, put it this way. When he was asked the secret to his success as a Christian, George Mueller said this there was a day when I died. Utterly died. Died to George Mueller. His opinions, preferences Taste and will, died to the world and its approval or its censorship, died even to the approval or blame even of my brethren and my friends. And it is since then that I have studied only to show myself approved unto God. Wow. Not worried about what anybody else approves or disapproves of. That's how we can experience a transformed life. They have every head bowed and every eye closed. Ask the pianist to come for a moment of invitation. Would to God we could have some funeral services today Some of God's people would completely and utterly die to self. We would allow our wants, desires, and ambitions To be put on the altar. Die to these things. Some of us needed to die to the attitudes and Discouragement and defeat that we've dealt with. Give it all to God as God speaks to you.