Dr. Chuck Cofte, who has gone home to be with the Lord, I believe, but he was a soldier. In Vietnam. And uh he was out on patrol one morning, and uh as he was telling myself and uh uh some other young college guys guys describing this day. He said they were out on patrol that morning and they're making their way through the bush and He said before they knew it, I mean they didn't even realize it, they were completely surrounded by the Viet Cong. He said, actually, they were so close and so had had infiltrated their group. He said, the first one I saw was seven inches from my face. He said at that time I pulled my knife out and he pulled his knife and he said this knife is $450 of the highest grade steel manufactured in the USA It was handed to me by my wife as I prepared to go off and be sent to Vietnam. And she hands it to me and she says, come home to me. Come home. He said that morning, that first soldier, that first Viet Cong soldier that was seven inches from his face, he said, I took out three Vietcong soldiers before I took my first step. He said, when the the the the battle was so close, he said, when it's that tight and and you're overrun, he said, it becomes every man for himself. It becomes just find a way to get to safety. You just you you're you're not like, hey guys the mill they're over there. He said, no, they were everywhere. And everybody was just trying to find a way to get out of the gunfire. He says him and a partner took off one particular direction as they were running to try and find a place of cover, he was shot through the leg. He's running and they find a place of cover and they hike and, you know, they they Throughout the day, they're slowly making their way, what they believe is back towards the American lines. They did not realize they were going away from the American lines. They were going further into Viet Cong territory. They found a little village that had been abandoned and they needed to rest and his leg of course was getting worse. He had been shot in the leg and he was losing blood and They decided, and I don't exactly understand how it worked, but he said we were in this village, but we didn't know if it was going to remain empty, and so we climbed up into the eve of a little hut. And tried to take a break and get some rest. He said we both fell asleep, and uh, when we fell asleep, we were awoken later that evening By Viet Cong soldiers who had moved in and taken up occupancy in this village they were in. For five days he and his partner stayed in the eve of that building. He said in the middle of the night their bodies racked with pain from being up in that Eve and unable to move. He says we climbed out of the Eve and stood down. He says, I literally was standing in a room with Viet Cong soldiers all over. He said, I just needed to stand for a moment or two. He said, I just stood up and just in that room full of Viet Cong soldiers who were sleeping. And then, knowing that there was no escape, I climbed back up into the eve and hid. On the fifth day in the afternoon he heard distinctive gunfire. And he said that uh when you're in a battle zone, your ears become tuned. You know exactly what rifle is being shot. He says we recognized American gunfire and knew that the Americans were advancing on this camp. And he goes on and g tells the story of how he was rescued and of course brought back, but I tell that story because of this, beloved. When soldiers are engaged in hand-to-hand combat, it is a brutal confrontation It's one thing to deal with the enemy from a distance. It's one thing to take somebody out with a gunfire or a or a sniper rifle or you're some where a ways, but when you are up Close and personal. When you they are right there in your face. That is a type of combat that's on another level. Well, beloved, the Bible describes our battle with Satan. And all of his cohorts as hand-to-hand combat. We see here in our text verses in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10, 11, and 12 He says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not. That word wrestling there comes from the Greek word, which literally means hand-to-hand combat. We wrestle not. We're not in hand-to-hand combat with flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. I want to speak to you for just a couple of minutes tonight, and we won't be long, but I want to remind you about the necessity for the child of God to put on the armor of God. Because we are in hand-to-cam hand-to-hand combat. With a powerful enemy. First of all, we're just going to look verse by verse. We're looking like we do a verse-by-verse study, these three verses this evening. I want you to see our encouragement is found in verse number ten. He says, Finally, brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. The encouragement is that we would be strong in the Lord, that we would be strengthened with his power, not our own power. We are to be strong. Paul found that his greatest strength really was being familiar with his own weakness. He understanding where he was weak and needing the strength of the Lord to help him to combat the enemy. In 2 Corinthians 12, verse number 9, he said, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Beloved, as long as we feel like we've got the world by the tail and we're under in got this under control and we're doing just fine and dandy and don't need any help, we we're not relying or resting in the strength of God. He says to be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might, not in our own might. Beloved, this is not something that we can do. We are no match for this adversary. If we're going to try and face this adversary on our own, we're doomed to failure. Our intelligence community today plays a vital role in securing victory for our troops. Unless we know who the enemy is, and we know where the enemy is, and we know what the enemy's strengths and weaknesses are, where their vulnerabilities are. The intelligence community works hard to get our soldiers as well prepared to go into battle as they can. The more that you and I know about Satan, the more equipped we will be to face him in battle. He is not called a lion or a dragon for nothing. He is a powerful adversary. None of us want to go up against him in our own strength. We need that resolve that comes from good spiritual preparation. Having put on the whole armor of God We need to rely completely on him and his omnipotence. It is the power of God. It is his might. The Lord here is speaking to would-be warriors. Christians who want to stand up and be counted as a soldier of Jesus Christ, he's saying, Hey, I need you to enlist, but if you're going to enlist, you've got to remember to put on the armor of God before he describes the principalities and the powers and and and gives to us a picture of the enemy we're facing. He says, hey, before you go into this battle, you've got to have your armor on. Paul spoke about the many adversaries that were waiting for him in Ephesus. He seems to describe or talk about two different things because on one hand he says, hey. Here's a uh an effectual door that's been opened unto me. And then at the same time he says, There are many adversaries. You know, beloved, the place that contains the greatest opportunities. Many times is going to at the same time have the greatest opposition. You see, many people look at the open door mentality as, well, this door is open because there's no opposition. This door's been opened, and so this must be God's will. I mean, this is just smooth sailing. It's a good road. And so this, you know, the Lord. But you understand that many times the greatest opportunities have the greatest opposition? That's how Satan works when a church or a people or a Christian is moving forward for God. They become a target and Satan's going to do all he can to disrupt them. I I know uh you guys have to have seen uh Caitlin Clark, the uh new she's supposed to change uh you know what is it, W N B A? Uh she she's sh I mean she's fun to watch. She's got skills, I can tell you that. I wouldn't want to play against her. Uh but you know the what's amazing is you got this person with all this skill And what happens? The opponents are double teaming her. The opponents are sticking with her like glue from one end of the court to the other. They're not giving her any breathing room Why? Because she's the one that's going to put the ball through the hoop. She's the one that's going to get the job done. There's other people on the court that they leave alone. I I was watching Kaitlin Clark the other day and I mean you talk about a mic drop moment. There was a defender on the other team And they threw the ball to her and Caitlyn Caitlin was gonna go defend her and she's like uh she's like you can you can have the ball. I ain't worried about you and the commentators they just went ballistic on that. They were like, Oh my goodness, she's like not even worth bothering to cover like Oh, you can have the ball, go ahead. I'm gonna wait and get it when you when you brick, you know. And that's the thing is when you're not doing anything for God, Satan's gonna leave you alone. When you're not moving forward and you're not uh you're not charging the gates of hell and standing strong for Jesus Christ, then Satan's not worried about it But he says, if you're going to be a soldier, you need to have the power of God. You need to rely on his strength. The opposition is going to be there because of the opportunities. When we're doing something for God, Satan is going to try and stop you. You know, I don't think that God moves preachers every 18 months. I think the average tenure for an assistant like 18 months, the average tenure for a pastor is three years. I don't think God's moving pastors every three years. I think what happens is that they get there and that there's some adversaries. There's some problems, there's some things that are hard, and they get into the battle and they say, man, this is a little bit too much heat for me. This is a little bit too hard for me. I I'm not sure I really w I didn't really mean I wanted to sign up for this. And so they say, well, I'm checking out And they leave another church without a pastor and go down the road. The number of churches, good churches with good people in them around the country that don't have pastors is astronomical. It's one of the reasons Pastor Derek ended up taking a church instead of starting one. We for years were planning to send him out and he was going to start a church. But there's so many churches that were were just small and struggling that didn't have pastors. He says, Well, why go out and start a church? Here's a small group of people that don't have a pastor and they need somebody to lead them and so I can do that and uh individually God calls you to do what you're supposed to do, so you have to yield and do what God wants, but that's how God led Pastor Derrick because there's so many that don't have pastors today. What I'm saying is that there's battles that we get into and sometimes we think, man, the battle's too hot. I'm just going to check out. No, we need the power of God to stand You see, beloved, a church without any trouble is a church that probably stops moving forward for God. It's a church that God has written Ichabod above the door and the glory of the Lord has departed. So a church that's moving forward for God is going to have opposition. They're going to have some struggles. They're going to have some battles. There's going to be some things that aren't really that you really enjoy or like. Why? Because Satan's going to attack. But we need to be strong in the Lord. So we see in verse number 10 our encouragement there. We see in verse number 11 the exhortation. To put on the protection against the pest. He says in verse number 11, put on The what's the next word? Whole armor of God. I don't know, but possibly next week I'll be dealing with the Second aspect of this where we're describing and talking about the different levels of armor that God expects us to put on. I'm not going to get that far tonight, but he says put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. There's a protection that God has planned for you. There's a complete armor that we're supposed to have. When you go into battle, you've got to have it on Brother Sasser was talking about his ministry right now in Israel, and it's so exciting to see what God is using him to accomplish. how God is opening doors for him to be able to minister to people and to reach people because of this. But it the Israeli forces called up, I think, 300,000 uh Israelis to come back and they did not have three hundred thousand rifles. They didn't have three hundred thousand helmets or boots or Kevlar vest or gloves. He said, there's guys going into battle wearing their tennis shoes and their gym clothes because they don't have any equipment at all. You'll have a whole platoon of guys and none of them have even guns to go into battle with. Because they don't have the they didn't have enough stuff to try and put all of these people back on the battlefield. And so for Brother Sasser being able to say, hey We're going to put some stuff together and they they they have gloves and on the gloves they have uh a little QR code that they can scan and it says these gloves were provided. by Baptist churches in America that stand with Israel. And uh everything they give has that QR code on there and it has the gospel presentation. That's the reason we stand with Israel and it explains that to lead lead them to Jesus Christ. But he'll go up to a whole platoon of guys and say, hey, would you guys like some some uh Gloves, but uh what's the technical term? What do they call 'em like uh any anybody help me? The gloves that they would use for battle or for military Tactical, tactical gloves. Would you guys like some tactical gloves? Wow Oh why why are you doing that? Oh man, that's amazing. They need some protection to go into battle. They've been able to give some Kevilar vests to some guys and some helmets to some guys and they're so grateful uh in his last update and I hope I'm not stealing an update from Brother Taylor, but his last update he was talking about how one of the soldiers lying in the hospital was attacked and he said, uh the reason I'm alive today is because of the armor that was provided by Baptist churches in America I want to say thank you to uh you for helping to protect me, but Christian, we need the armor of God. If we're going into the battle against Satan, why would we think we could go into that battle without the armor that we're supposed to have on We need to put that protection on. Listen, Satan is subtle. He may mount a frontal attack. He's called a dragon. He's called a lion. He come to devour us. We know that. But you know the Bible describes him as an angel of light? He also may come in a means of deception He may be a blasphemer that we recognize, but he also may come as a believer. I remember one of the disciples standing before Jesus. And Jesus looked at him and said, Get thee behind me, Satan. Why? Because Satan was coming in that form, coming before him, trying to tempt him to keep him from going to the cross. And he said, get thee behind me, Satan. No, because Satan could come in any form. He may show up as an obvious heretic, but he also may be a smooth-talking, charismatic preacher. Good thing I'm not smooth talking, amen. Martin Luther said, when you look for the devil, don't forget to check out the pulpit. We need to be aware of Satan and we need to have our protection on because he is a pest. He is our enemy. He's the wiles of the devil. That word wilds is a deceptive method is what that means. The methods that he would come and try and attack us with Boy, his wiles there are subtle. He's not only active in the realm of false doctrine, but false worship. It's heartbreaking today what some groups are selling as worship. What these people get together and they're calling it church. So far from the truth, so far from what God would want or have them to do. But Satan is at work in governments. He's in work in the media that influences our lives. in the fashion industry that we're drawn to emulate or be a part of, in higher education In lower education, his wiles are at work in every part of this whole world. His demonic deceptions. Are causing people to embrace the falsehoods of gender fluidity And homosexuality and same-sex marriage and all of these things, the wiles of the devil, this whole uh woke movement Trickery of Satan, deception of Satan, causing people to believe things that are not so. Satan comes and tempts the believer, and Tries to get you to doubt the love of God for you. Tries to get you to doubt the concern and care that your Savior has for you. So that you won't trust him through the next struggle Satan comes and tries to get you at odds with a brother or sister in Christ, so you won't have that strength of the family of God in the next battle. It's subtle things, it's little things. Satan is coming in on every side to try and do a work to disrupt it. Start it's a very small thing. Hey, he's not gonna come in with an atomic bomb to start with. He knows you're gonna recognize that and say, oh wait, that's an atomic bomb. No, he's gonna be very subtle. He's gonna work his way up. Disrupting plans and changing things This idea of wilds, the methods, it's the concept of a predatory animal. just slowly seeking looking for a place to attack Satan's schemes are built upon stealth and deception. That's why God said, be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil. As a roaring lion walketh about seeking who he may devour. Got to be sober. Gotta be vigilant. We need to put on the protection, the whole armor of God, defend against this pest. And we see in verse number 12 our engagement. The engagement in the battle. He says, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Beloved, this is no ordinary warfare. We need to be reminded and remember that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. We like having an enemy. We like having something that we can look at, something that we can tangibly get a hold of, somebody we can physically be mad at. We like having the enemy. He's reminding us here, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Can I tell you that the enemy is not now and never has been your brother or sister in Christ? The enemy is not your husband or your wife. The enemy is not the tenant at the gas station or the Verizon worker on the phone. The enemy is not the guy at the grocery store or the bank teller. The they are not the enemy. They're they're blinded. Maybe they're acting foolishly, maybe they're being stupid, but Satan is using them if for nothing else to just get you all riled up and ruin your day and get you in the flesh, so the rest of the day you're walking in the flesh instead of walking in the spirit. And you're letting Satan have the victory because you stopped focusing on who the enemy is and started focusing against flesh and blood. And we have got to remember that, otherwise you're going to be spend your life mad at people. Because the enemy is going to come in and try and do all he can to disrupt and discourage and hurt you through people. But the people are not the enemy. Satan's the enemy. We need to say, get thee behind me, Satan, and love people. Our warfare here is against flesh and not flesh and blood, but against principalities. Against powers. That word against is used five times here. It is a something, it's it's something you're gonna face. You're gonna be up against it. It's a warfare. It's not a who. It's not flesh and blood. Its powers, its rulers of darkness, spiritual wickedness It's it's an it. It's these things that are being pushed in upon us. Occult warfare is becoming more and more prevalent in society today. More and more things dealing with this type of stuff. I would encourage you to be to, I would caution you to not try and dig. We need to know what the enemy is doing. We need to know about his methods, but you don't want to spend your life studying his methods You don't want to know more about what Satan's doing than about what God's doing. You wanna you wanna the Bible tells us to be wise concerning God and and simple concerning evil. We don't need to be knowing every single thing that's going on in the world today, all of the wickedness that's available and all of that kind of stuff. We don't need to know about all that. We need to know about God. Trust God, put on his whole armor so that we can stand against the wiles of the devil. But he describes here some of the demonic presence You know, Satan's so subtle, at the same time that he's increasing his demonic activity, he's trying to convince society to not believe that he exists. That, oh, he he's not really there. It's just a cartoon. But we are against principalities, that's rulers over certain regions of this world, this demonic control that is i that is evident and sometimes you wonder how can somebody do a particular thing and and and it just seems so like just so far out there well there's demonic influences Maybe demonic oppression. Satan is abusing them at the very least. Against powers That is those that would be in control of the values that people have, the culture, the materialism, the fashion industry, the the finance industry, these powers that be that are out there against rulers of darkness of this world. That's rulers that are being used of Satan to control and manipulate others. I think about our our modern media today and how it's used to manipulate people, how it's used to even Christians the media is used to change and manipulate your thinking to where we're not thinking biblically, we're thinking in line with culture that's that's so prevalent and pushed on us so much That's a ruler of darkness of this world. We've got to be aware of that. It's teachers that are being used, professors that are being used. Just this week, somebody shared with me an article about a mom who was shocked to find her child reading a explicit book in the library. And she took it to the city council and said, you know, I can't believe this is in the library. Why is this in the library? And she began to read this book, which was perfectly acceptable for her. you know, primary age child, kindergarten or first grade age child to read to themselves, but when she began to read it in a city council meeting They stopped her and said that is too graphic and explicit to be read here. There might be children watching this live broadcast. And she said, well then why is this book in the library? And the city council voted to leave it in the library. They try to get it removed, and I want you to know that's happening all over our country. There are people that have been set up in power that Satan is is leading and ultimately trying to accomplish his will in this world and putting things like this in libraries for little kids to read And they want to describe it as personal freedom and freedom of expression, and we can't take that away from children. Listen, things in that book are explicit enough. That when I was a kid, it would have been on the top shelf covered by a board and you would have had to been 18 to get a hold of it. But today the world has Satan has messed up the world's thinking so much That they think it's the right for a little child to read and be exposed to that kind of filth. This is what we're dealing with. The rulers of darkness of this world against spiritual wickedness in high places. This is perhaps some spiritual forces at work where Satan is using his evil influence to control or manipulate blasphemers. doctrines of devils, the furtherance of cult movements that are drawing people away from God I don't want to be offensive. I know there's some in here that come from a Catholic background. But I heard this week a Catholic which priest, they call them pastors now. And you know why they do that? To remove the delineation. Between us and them. Oh, yeah, we have a pastor. Our church is the same as yours. Oh, we have a Bible. Our church is the same as yours. Uh they use some of the terminology uh like getting saved. They're using that. They're they're re it used to be when I was a kid, if you talk to somebody Catholic about salvation, they hadn't heard that before. They had never they never knew what that was They use that terminology, but they mean it completely differently. And here's what I'm telling you. I I listened, I heard it with my own ears, this priest tell The members that were listening to people, he says, listen, if you're not in the Catholic Church, you're going to hell. He said, because you're not receiving the Eucharist. In the passage of scripture where it says that that God is in you and you are in God, you see they believe in transubstantiation. They believe that when they take of Holy Communion, that it they actually convert the wafer to the body of Christ and the wine to the blood of Christ, that it is actually physically the body and blood of Christ. And so when you partake of that, you now have Christ in you. And that, he says, if you're not doing that, you're not going to heaven. You don't have Christ in you. That is so far from the teaching of the Word of God, it's it's not it's not funny. Beloved, you get Christ in you when you accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. You put your faith and trust in Him. The Bible says at the moment of Salvation when you confess the fact that you're a sinner and ask Jesus to forgive you, that he comes and dwells in your heart. He is with you all the time. You do not need to partake of Holy Communion to get Him inside of you He is there in your heart and it's it's not something that we do, it's something that he did. And this is what he this is what We're talking about here when he says, hey, you've got these spiritual wickedness in high places. You've got people that are being used to persuade or uh to trick the masses of people of this world. into a false hope of heaven, a false hope of forgiveness. They believe and think they're okay Because they're performing a ritual. But they have never established a relationship by putting their faith and trust in Christ. They think they're safe. They think they're okay, but they're not. So we see here, beloved In these three verses, how important the armor of God is for us. The encouragement to To resolve to be strong, not in our might, but in his power. The exhortation to put on the whole armor of God. That's the only way we're going to stand against the trickeries and the wiles of the devil. The engagement, the battle we're in, we need to remember, is not against flesh and blood. It's not against the guy down the road from you or somebody else. It is against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness in high places. These things are what we're fighting against. What are we to do against such formidable opponents? Do we turn and run? No, we stand in the power of his might. We're to be clothed in his power and put on the armor That when we engage in hand-to-hand combat, when we wrestle against these things, we do it with his strength. Without supernatural help, we will become casualties of this war. But God's plan is for us to have victory. And we can do it with his power. A Christian who is not struggling against the world has stopped fighting. You've either fallen into compromise or complacency. Christian, you ever get tired of the battle? You ever just get tired of the struggle? I look forward when we get to heaven. And there'll be no more struggle. There'll be no more no more battle. You you won't have to wake up tomorrow morning and strap on the armor of God and and physically and spiritually prepare to go into this whole world uh and into battle against principalities and powers Rulers of darkness. We we you won't have to. But until then, we need to be sober and be vigilant. We need to resist. The tendency today is to resign. But we need to resist in the power of his might. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?