We're going to look at a passage of scripture there in the book of Ecclesiastes, chapter number eleven, and then a familiar passage, which is uh from a different standpoint but kind of dealing with the same topic or same idea if you would look in Matthew chapter number six. Matthew chapter number six. So you got Ecclesiastes chapter number eleven And Matthew chapter number six. Two passages of scripture dealing with uh investment of our time, our money, our talents, our treasures, what we have, and uh, you know, doing what God wants us to do with it And that's what we're going to be dealing with tonight. We want to ask God to speak to our hearts. We want to ask the Lord to lead through the message and hopefully stir us as we are embarking upon the week of missions conference. Again, looking at our faith promise as a church, as individuals, what God would have us do with that portion of our income. As we study that and look at it, I want to ask God to speak to our hearts. So you should be in Ecclesiastes 11. We'll read that first, and then Matthew chapter number 6. Let me open in a word of prayer. Then we'll read the text and get into the message. Tonight. Lord, we come to you and I ask you, Lord, that you would give me clarity of thought, that you would help me to sufficiently preach these passages of Scripture. That those under the sound of my voice tonight would not just hear me, but they would hear the message of the Word of God. That Lord, it would drive home into the heart of each individual. That you would stir us, that you would move us to new measures of faith, as we preached about this morning, and trust in you. And Lord, we would invest in things of eternal value and not just things of this world. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. It was great to meet uh Tierra and Dante. Good to have you here with us tonight. Hope you enjoyed the service. And uh hope you feel welcome. We we call it Hunt Valley Hospitality, and I hope you've experienced that here at our church. In Ecclesiastes chapter number eleven, verses one through six, the Word of God tells us Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Give a portion to seven, and also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. And if the tree fall toward the south or toward the north in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. He that observeth the wind shall not sow. He that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. As thou knowest not what is in the right of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb, or how that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God. who maketh all. In the morning sow thy seed, in the evening withhold not thy hand, for thou knowest not whither shall prosper Either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. Now turn over, if you would, into the book of Matthew. We're going to tie these passages of Scripture together and teach from both passages on this idea of the right investment in Matthew chapter number six, verse number nineteen through twenty-four. He says, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and whether thieves do not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, the whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, the whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness. No man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other, you cannot serve God in mammon. I want to talk to you tonight about the perfect investment. How many of you know that the perfect investment When we're talking about this world, is the one you want to stay away from. If anybody comes to you and says, this is the perfect investment, this is a sure thing, this is a done deal, you're gonna you just turn and walk away. I mean you just run because there is no sure thing in this world, is there? I can tell you what, we had one time this investment that was like unbelievable Listen, we hey if you invest in this company, what you've got to do is uh you've got to take your money, put it into this company, you you open uh uh an IBC An international business corporation. You incorporate, you have your papers, you do all of this, you invest in this company, you'll get between 25 and 35 percent every year. Wow. How is this possible? They explained how it's possible. It was a huge Ponzi scheme. And we even had the the problem was is they actually they they narrowed in on churches. They went to churches and promoted this. There was pastors that were friends of ours that told us about it. And this one pastor, he invested a little bit of money, and he actually flew over to the other country. And took his money out and said, hey, I've been over there twice and got the money back. I'm way above what I already invested. And it was just a Ponzi scheme that was running. So my two brothers And myself and my dad, we all invested. I was a young pastor, assistant pastor, making twelve thousand a year And uh we scrape together. Now listen, you never borrow to invest. Just write it down. You never borrow to invest. Anyone that knows anything will tell you that. We didn't borrow to invest. We scraped together. We didn't have any debt. God will take care of you. Amen. But we scraped together every last single dime and penny we could scratch together and we invested three thousand dollars, make making twelve thousand dollars a year. Well, we got a notice from the U. S. government about four months later. We understand you invested in this illegal corporation. And might have been taken for we're like, what? We were expecting to be getting our first notice of what we're going to be getting back here soon. Anything that's a sure thing, anything that's too good to be true, probably is. Just turn around and walk away. We don't look to this world for for that type of investment. But what we're talking about tonight is not that. What we're talking about here is investing in God's economy. Not their latest get rich scheme, not the fastest gross stock in America, not the new tech company, but a guarantee from God concerning your investments. You see, God gives us two actually let's back up. God gives us We could start right there. It all comes from God. Whatever we have, I was talking to Brother John Smith. Where is John Smith? There he is. He's not sitting in his seat, brother. Man, you're back sliding. Oh, you're probably our security guard tonight, right? You're watching the back. Brother I was talking to Brother John Smith today and he says, Man, I got that pneumonia And I got to a place where I couldn't breathe, and I just I couldn't I couldn't take a breath and I just I went to the hospital and I didn't even know if I was going to make it and he says right now every time I can breathe in it's like a gift from God Every breath I take is just, wow. Thank you, Lord, for the ability to breathe. The ability to breathe is a gift from God. The hours that we have, the days that we have, the strength that we have, whatever it might be, some a little stronger than others, some feeling the infirmity of age Some just lazy, I mean some but whatever the strength capacity may be, it's all a gift from God. And then the ability to earn. And God gives to us financial means at different capacities for everybody in here. Everybody's at a different level. Everybody's earning Th what they are where they're at. My kids wish they were earning something. I've never believed in uh allowance, Aven. They gotta get a job. They want some money Everybody's earning something. And that's a gift from God too. It all comes from God. But what I want you to understand is God gives every one of us Two things, two commodities in which we can choose to do what we want with. God's not going to make you. You get to choose to do what you want with the two commodities God has given you. Time and treasure. You get to expend and use those in any way which you see fit. You can waste them on trivial pursuits, or you can invest them in God's economy. You make the choice. It's up to you. You get to decide, and each and every one of us decide on a daily basis what we're going to do, where we are going to invest. are commodities that God has given to us. So first of all, I want you to see when we're talking about making the right investment, first of all, I want you to understand that it's a decision. to invest. When Mary and I lost that $3,000, we contemplated that for days and days. We looked at it for a while. We checked it out. We called other pastors and said, hey, what do you think? Is this a good thing? we do it we we got all we got all sold on it and ultimately we decided we made the decision to take the money from where it was and to send it over there hey it's a decision to invest Last month, was it last month? Time slime, we had a verse, and if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Did I get it right? That's last month's verse. What I'm saying is there's a choice. That voy verse presents a choice. We get to decide and to choose to do what we want with the investment, with the commodities that God has given us. It starts by you and I making a conscious decision to do with what God has given us, what we believe God wants us to, or what we in ourselves want to do with it. You know, how could we not invest in God's economy? You see, we trust God for salvation. We came to him and we recognized he's an almighty God and He came and He died on the cross for us. We celebrate that at Easter, it's coming coming up, and uh the fact that he died and then he rose again. And he did that for us. And we go to him and we trust him for our salvation, recognizing and realizing we're a sinner in in need of a savior, and we could never earn or give or pay or sacrifice our way into heaven on ourselves. And they're by ourselves and there's no need to? Because Jesus did it for us. All we've got to do is accept his payment The payment that He gave for us freely. We reach out and we accept it by whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And we recognize that and we do it. Trust Jesus. And He paid that for us. He did it all. We trust Him as our Lord and Savior. How could we not trust Him with the commodities? that he's given us. How could we not trust him with our time and with our treasure? Somehow we think with our limited knowledge That what we do with our time or our treasure is going to yield better results. God has told us how to make it work. God has given us the pattern. And yet we, in our limited knowledge, in our finite mind, believe that we have deduced a better plan. God tells us if we invest time in His Word, we will have good success. It's promise from God. He says in Joshua 1. 8, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous And then thou shalt have good success. It's a promise from God Almighty. Meditate in this book Spend some time reading this book. Learn and observe to do the ways of this book. And you will be prosperous and you will be successful. A promise from God Almighty, you will have good success. God has given us that promise, but we decide, oh No, I don't have time for God's word today. I'm gonna make the conscious choice to go mow the grass instead. I'm going to make the choice not to invest in what God has given me, promised me, will give me a sure return. I'm going to take my time and invest it. in going to McDonald's. Whatever it might be. We make a choice every morning. Every day. When we get up. And I am as guilty as any other person in this room of knowing the promise of this book, that what it would do for me, and what it would give me, and how it would sustain me, and how it would help me, and how important it is For me to be in it, and I've left it on the shelf and gone about my day. I made the choice to walk away from God. And pursue my own way. We're talking about investing in God's economy. It comes, first of all, with the decision to make that choice. We can choose to invest in this world. We can choose to invest in this life, become consumed with the things of this world. Our mind gets caught up. with the passions of this world and the pleasures of this world and with the things that we enjoy doing and we could go around the room here and talk about what those might be and uh mention some of your uh addictions And some of my passions, the things that we might enjoy. We could walk through the room and list those out, but you know what they are, the things that you give your time to The things where they consume you, they consume your thoughts. You're thinking about those things all the time, or you're consumed with those pursuits that are of this world. I'm not just talking tonight about financial things. Yes, we are dealing with money, but I'm not just talking about money, I'm talking about our time as well. What is it that eats up our days? What is it that's more important than the things of God? What is it that's going to give you more of a return for your investment of time than being in God's house, than serving the Lord with your time? But how many Christians make up their mind to stay home and watch something on TV instead of being God's house? They pursue the pleasures of this world, the emptiness, the vain, the hollow, the thought, something that's not going to last for more than just a couple of minutes. And they sacrifice something that would be an investment in all of eternity. Do you understand for the next week as we gather here on Wednesday nights, we're not just talking about an hour of our time. We're not just talking about giving up an hour and oh I'll sacrifice my Wednesday night to come to church and to be there. I'll do it Because that's what I need to do. We're not just talking about an hour. We're talking about eternity for hundreds, maybe thousands of people around the world that can have the gospel of Jesus Christ because our church has a heart for missions and wants to see them reached. It's not just an hour on Wednesday or on Thursday. We're talking about God doing something in our heart that would get a hold of us and change us, and that effect could last for weeks and months and even years down the road. But so many times Christians look at it and they say, Oh, I'm going to make a choice. I'm not going to give my hour on Wednesday night to God. Because I need to go get the car washed. How hollow is that? How empty is that? You're gonna have to get the car washed again yet tomorrow. Or the next day. Don't don't worry about it, Chair. We all have kids. I got five of my own. It's not a problem. We'll just we'll just keep going. You know We went out to the conference and I thought it'd be really good for us to get the van washed before we go to the conference. I asked Pastor Derek, can you get the van washed and ready? You know, that way it'd be a good representation of the church. You know what happened. We got the van washed and we drove through a s salt and and snowstorm all the way there. Of course that van was filthy. That was useless. So many things that we pursue in this world, that's about the length of the value of what we get out of it. But when we come to God's house, when we spend time in God's Word, when we encourage the brothers and sisters in Christ, when we spend a little bit of time time in prayer when we offer a witness to somebody that we come in contact with we are doing something that lasts for eternity. For eternity. Not just one day, one hour, or a few minutes, but for eternity. The decision to invest One's life becomes consumed with one of two things, either consumed with the things of this world or consumed With the things of God. We need to be looking towards that day, investing in that day. Colossians 3:1 and 2 says, if ye then being risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Which Christ sitteth on the right hand of God, set your affection on things above, not on things on this earth. Are your affections on things above? is your heart turns toward things above. You and I we have to decide to do it. We have to just decide to do it. You know if you wait for the right conditions to start to invest in God's commodities. T to use your commodities to invest in God's in You know what I'm trying to say. If you wait for the right conditions, they'll never come. You see in Ecclesiastes, our text there in Ecclesiastes, he says in verse number four, he says, He that observeth the wind shall not sow. He that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. He's saying if you're if you're looking for things to be just right, if you're looking at the wind and saying, Oh I'm not sure, you know, maybe when my financial situation gets a little more arranged and and I feel a little more comfortable with where I'm at. Maybe next year I'll invest in God's economy. Maybe when things get a little bit better, I'll be able to take a dollar a week and give it to missions. But right now I can't do that If you wait till everything looks just right, the wind's always going to be blowing. The storm is always going to be turning. The sun's always going to be coming up or going down. I'm saying the situation God knew that the guy that looks at the winds is never going to reap The guy that watches the clouds is never going to reap. Why? Because he's saying, Oh, it might rain, I better not go do that. Brother Greg, how many days if you watch the clouds would you not get to paint? If you said if you said, Oh, it might rain tomorrow, I can't go No, some days you just gotta go. And you get out there and you get you might get a whole day in. It was supposed to rain all day, but you just went. And that's what you gotta do You just gotta trust God, have faith, like we preached about this morning, and say, okay, God, I can trust you for this. And it might not be that much because you're just starting out. You might be a small amount, but say, God, I can trust my faith to do this for you, and you do it. And you see God come through in a miraculous way. You can't wait until the conditions are perfect. You just got to make the decision to do it. Then it starts with a decision, and then it moves to the dispensing of investing. There came a time where Mary and I Said goodbye to the $3,000. And I'm still bitter about it. I got swindled, but I learned something. I learned something. If it's too good to be true, it's too good to be true. That thing, two two principles. If it's too good to be true, it probably is. And the second thing is, if it's not available tomorrow, it's not available today. Any salesman ever tells you you have to sign this today, this deal is only available today, walk away. If it's only available today, then it's not available today. It's there's something they're not telling you you're being taken. That's that is worth your price of admission right there. And you got that free. Those two principles have saved me many times since then. But there came a time where we had to get the money out of the bank and we had to write the check and actually send off the money. We had to make the investment. As we talked about this morning, faith without works is dead. There comes a time where we've got to step out. We've got to take the opportunity. The opportunity to sing comes. The opportunity to invest your time, the opportunity to serve, the opportunity to participate, the opportunity to help, the opportunity to be part of something that lasts for eternity, and we say, ah, maybe next time. We want to, but we keep pushing it off down the road. Some point we've got to say, now's the time. I'm going to invest now. I'm going to I'm going to choose to give my time now and take that step. In this life, when you gain, you save. The idea of you take money and you You save it all up and you stick it into an investment account or a IRA and it starts to starts to get some growth in it. It starts to uh you know mature a little bit and gets a little bit more money and then that grows a little bit. It's it's accumulation. But in God's economy, you gain when you give. In God's economy you gain when you give, and we don't understand that sometimes, but the Bible says give, and it shall be given unto you. Good measure pressed down, shaken together, and running over shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that you meet. With all that shall be measured to you again. This is God's plan, the never-ending cycle of invest. And reward. Invest and reward. Now you remember at the beginning of this message we talked about that it all comes from God, right? I don't have any money. Lord. Pastor Derek, do you have any money? I'm gonna take some of his money. He's gonna he's gonna be a blessing to me. He's gonna give me some money. Oh, just a couple maybe three. So he's going to give me three dollars. God's giving me three dollars. You see, in the world's economy, we go Thank you, Lord. But in God's economy, God says, you know, there's three people you can help with that. There's this need at church that you could help with that, and we say, Man, Lord, you gave this to me to be a blessing to me. And I've been enjoying it. And we're looking at it and we s slowly give, say, okay, Lord, I'll be a blessing. I'm gonna be a blessing to these three guys up here. I'm a blessing to them to say, okay Lord, I did what you want me to do. Thank you so much. God's present give and it shall be given unto you. unto you. All the while while we are yielding to God and giving, God is preparing somebody else to give to us. Good measure, pressed down, and running over. He didn't give me three dollars. He gave me twelve dollars. Man, I made twelve bucks. That's pretty good return on my investment. Especially since the beginning of it wasn't mine to start with So I'm going to be a blessing to Bob. Brother Bob, here's a here's a dollar for you. And I yield to God and I say, Man, Lord wants me to be a blessing down at the church house. There's somebody there that has a need. Hey, wait, you have a job. So I go and I give. In God's economy, you give. And it shall be given to you. And all the while, you got any more? Hey, when he runs out, I'm gonna work my way around Me and the guys on the front got a back. We're gonna empty the auditorium tonight. You understand what I'm saying? You see how it works? It's all God's to start with. We take and honor God with our substance. And I know I use finances to talk about that, but we're talking about time as well. The time that God gives us. And we say, God, this is my time. I've only got this much time. I can't give you any more of this time, or I can't sacrifice that time, Lord. I don't want to give that up. I can't be involved in that ministry because that means I would have to give up It's all God's to start with. He's given us every breath we take. And so we take it and we give it out. And then God makes the ninety percent go further than The hundred percent. And he has people there to give back to you. Listen, how many of you here that have been given for a lot of years would testify by an uplift hand and say you can't outgive back God. You can't outgive God. You give and God gives back to you. And sometimes I mean it's amazing because I I Dr. Vogelman used to always say, You give to God, and he'll give back to you so much you'll be embarrassed. And sometimes I'm embarrassed. I'm like, man, God has been so good to us. Well I I like look at what God gave me here and God gave me here and I I feel like somehow I gotta explain away God's blessings because I shouldn't be this well off. I shouldn't be this I shouldn't be doing this good as a pastor. And you guys as a church are very, very good to me. But ultimately I know it all comes from God. And God bless us when we give to Him. When you give your commodities to the Lord, He takes that and blesses someone else with it. And then He He blesses you again. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes again, he says, to cast your bread upon the waters. Your bread is your provision. In the Bible times, a man's bread was his just about his daily wage. It was his means of I mean if we go back to the Old Testament, uh they were to go out day by day and gather the bread they needed that day. And so your means of taking care of yourself, cast your bread upon the waters. The idea of casting is to fling. To fling without care. Have you ever been by the water and fed some birds? You just throw out all that bread and the birds come down and You cast it out without care, and you don't worry about it. There's no concern about what's going to happen to it or whatever. You take the bread and and you cast it out. And it'll come to you after many days. This is to be our attitude when giving to God, with our time or our money, is to be freely or to give freely. We're to give liberally. We're to give without looking for return. Just give it to God. Just Pass it out. Just give it to God. Cast it. Sometimes it may feel like you're casting it out, like it might be a waste, like you're just throwing it away, like what did that do for me? But we're not supposed to be looking for return. But you have a promise from God that you'll see it again after many days. It might not be tomorrow. You might say, man, I gave away all that money and I've been waiting, Lord. You got the wrong spirit. We're supposed to cast it out without care, but we can believe and trust the promise that it will come again. Maybe after many days, but it will come again. The time we give to God will come back to us. The money we give to God will come back to us. You might not see the return right away, but it will come. We are to invest many times in many ways, not just in a few. Look at verse number two in Ecclesiastes if you're there. He says, give a portion to seven and also to eight. Give a portion to seven and also to eight. You see, seven is the number of completion. And eight is the number of new beginnings. I think what God is teaching us here is that when you think that you've done your part, When you think that, oh, I've done what I should do, oh I've reached my I've I've served my time, I've given my days, I've sacrificed enough in this area, I've accomplished that. When you reach the number of completion He says, begin again. Start over. Begin again. There's more to do. There's more to accomplish. Don't excuse yourself from what God wants you to do today. Because of what you did yesterday. Because of what you've accomplished in the past. Say, well, God, what do you want me to do today? Not only do we make the decision to invest and then actually dispense to give out the investment, but we get the joy of seeing the delivery. of the investment. This is a God-given guarantee to you and I. This is not the purpose or the motivation Like we do when we invest in our Roth IRA. We do it because we're expecting a certain amount of return. We invest and give to God, but God has given us a sure promise. Listen, uh God's stock market has never had uh a bearish market. It's never had a bullish market. God's market is always up. God's market's always doing good. He's never running short. And he's given you a promise that you will reap. He said in Proverbs chapter three. Verse number 9 and 10, he says, Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of all thine increase. So shall thy so shall thy barns be filled with plenty. And thy presses shall burst out with new wine. Hey, honor God with your substance and with the first fruits of thy increase. And you're going to be so blessed you won't know what to do with it. Now I'm not a prosperity gospel preacher, and I'm not preaching that you're going to you're going to get your Mercedes that you've been wanting. And I just joke about the Mercedes. I kids are like, Dad, if if somebody gave you a Mercedes would you take it? I said, I probably would just sell it. I says I don't want the maintenance on that thing. I don't want to get that taken care of. I'll I'll drive a Toyota. That's good enough for me. But just joking about it. But you might not get that. I I'm not saying that, hey, if you have faith and trust God, he's gonna give you a million dollar mansion. But with the measure that you meet, it will be met to you again. Good measure, pressed down, running over. What did he say there? Thy barn shall be filled with plenty. With plenty. Do we have plenty? God's been so good to us. God has blessed us so much. In Proverbs 8, verses 17 through 21, he says, I love them that love me, and those that seek me early shall find me. Riches and honor are with me, yea, durable riches and righteousness. My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold And my revenue than choice silver, I lead in the way of righteousness in the midst of the paths of judgment, that I may cause those that love me to inherit substance And I will fill their treasures. Proverbs 8, 17 through 21. Read it later. Read it. Proverbs 8, 17 through 21. God's blessing on those that put him first. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. It's my light verse. One I try and live. The focus tonight I want you to see and understand. is we've got two commodities that we choose each and every day how we want to spend. We can spend them pursuing things of this world, or we can spend them pursuing things I'm not trying to guilt or pressure anybody into doing anything with their finances, but I'm not trying to put pressure on you to surrender to serve in some ministry or to give up your time to come out here to be a part of work party or sing in the choir or teaching a class or serve as an usher or whatever the needs might be at the church. I'm trying to get you to say, God, I'll do what you want me to do. with my time. Because all of it was a gift from you. And I don't look at it as giving anything up, but investing it in something that is a guaranteed return. Return that will last for eternity, not just for today. You see, in the world's economy, we're supposed to get heap and store. But in God's economy we give, help, and serve. Let's decide to give it all to Him. Let's decide to be a channel of blessing for others. Let's enjoy the return that is guaranteed to us by God.