Turn your Bibles this morning to Genesis chapter number sixteen. Elmer Towns, in his book titled The Father's Names describes a trip that he took to Mount Rushmore. He was so excited about seeing this iconic feature of American history and had seen it many times in pictures, but he was had a meeting that was in that region and it was following the evening service that he asked one of the local uh people there, he says, Hey, would you mind driving me up to Mount Rushmore? I've always wanted to see it in person. And uh of course his driver said, sure, I'll I'll take you. So they they waited at the close of the evening meeting. They got in the car and they drove up to Mount Rushmore to behold the uh sight there What they did not know is that the lights, the powerful lights that light up Mount Rushmore that you've seen in so many pictures and videos, they turn those off every night at 11 o'clock. And they showed up at 1110. To make matters worse, a impending thunderstorm had completely blocked out the moon. The clouds were covering there was no moonlight. It basically was just this huge black dark mountain in front of them. They could see absolutely nothing. They're standing in the blackness, and out of the blackness there came a great blessing. For that impending thunderstorm brought with it lightning. It hadn't started to rain yet, but the lightning striked, and the entire sky lit up, and for just a moment he was able to make out the image that he was looking at. And the storm as it approached and got worse, lightning continued to strike and the face continued to be illuminated. More and more of the image that he was beholding, looking at that mountain, started to come into view because of these flashes of light that were sent from heaven. And he writes and talks about the fact that he pondered in his heart and in his mind how the blackness of this world many times hides from us God. Who we would love to be able to see and who we would love to be able to know. But he said the names of God that appear for us on the pages of Scripture are like a bolt of lightning. They flash bright and they allow us to behold a little more of who it is we're looking at A little more of this God that we desire and wish to know, and as we stand back and we look, we see the name on the page of Scripture and we begin to understand, and a little more of that image is revealed to us. And that's why we have been looking at the names of God that we might better understand and know who it is that we are worshiping There are primary names for God, such as Elohim, which we began to look at in that Elohim begins root word L which is the foundation which literally means God or or the name Jehovah which we haven't gotten to but You know that throughout the pages of Scripture, many times there are character traits or attributes that are connected to those names, those root, those foundational names. And it becomes a compound name which has further or greater meaning, such as last week when we looked at LO uh what did we look at last week? El Elion. Yes, we looked at El Elion. That compound name of God. Or you guys know the name Jehovah Rapha. Or Jehovah Jireh, this compound name, Jehovah Jireh, meaning my God shall provide And so these names that are compound or put together, they elaborate on that individual or the person of God. This morning we want to see the name El Roy. Elroy. We're going to see that in the pages of the story that takes place in Genesis chapter 16. This is an unusual story, especially an unusual story to behold the name of God. For this story reads more like a modern soap opera. Than a Bible illustration given to us. First of all, I want you to see that there is a uh The directions of an aging skeptic. In Genesis chapter 16, beginning in verse 1, We're going to read through this story and elaborate on it. We'll see first of all here, verses 1 through 3 says, now Sarai, Abram's wife, bear him no children. And she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold, now the Lord hath restrained me from bearing. I pray thee, go in unto my maid. It may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai. And Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar, her maid, an Egyptian. after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan and gave her to her husband, Abram, to be his wife. So we have This aging skeptic who comes up with a plan. She gives some disturbs. She gives some instruction, some explanation to her husband. You know, she says, well, God's not given me children yet. I'm old. Sarai is about 75 years old at this point. I don't know too many 75-year-olds that are expecting children or have any hope of expecting children And God had promised them that they would have a son, that they would have a child, and from that child their name and their seed would multiply like the seeds of the sand. Like the grains of sand. They they knew that this was going to be, now if you read a few chapters earlier, uh Abram thought Maybe there's another solution, God. Obviously we're getting old. You haven't given us any children yet. And he he goes to God and he says, What about Eliezer, my servant Eliezer? Maybe It would be a means or capacity of you giving me a son through Eliezer, because he's a young man, and God tells him very clearly in that passage of Scripture, God says, no. That is not what I've provided. He says, ye shall have seed of your own vows. He says, this child is going to come from you. That is my plan. That's what's going to happen So I don't know what caused them to doubt. I don't know what caused them to try and provide or bring their own solution, but Uh, you know, sometimes when we're looking at life from our point of view, uh it's hard to have faith. Amen. Sometimes it's hard to look at it and say, boy Yes, I know that God said this is the way it works, but it doesn't make any sense for me to tithe when I have a bill that I have to pay It doesn't make any sense for me to discipline my children if I do that. I'm I'm sure that they're gonna rise up and hate me. I mean, why would a child love a parent uh but the Bible says they'll rise up and call them blessed So you look at things sometimes from the world's point of view, from our standpoint, and you say, boy, this doesn't make a whole lot of sense, but let's just find our own solution. So the proposition made by Sarah in answer to the problem that they were old That they didn't have any children yet. She says, Hey, why don't you take my handmaid? You can take her unto yourself to be your wife and You can go and lie with her, and thereby God would give us a son. Now they had brought this handmaid up out of Egypt. Sarah presents this plan. I want you to know that it was normal. It was a custom. It was something that happened culturally. relatively uh consistently. It was not something unusual maybe for that time period, uh, but it was normal in you know for This to take place. But it wants you to know just because something is acceptable in society doesn't mean it's acceptable to God. Just because society says, well, this is okay, doesn't mean that God says it's okay. And this is something that she shouldn't have done for sure. Why Abram went along with this, we don't know, but he does. He goes in unto her. And you know what's amazing is they have a child. You know, from our standpoint, from the human standpoint, we would look at that and say, look at God provided. Not only did God, not only did we have a child, but God gave them a man-child. This is exactly what God said he would do. Boy, we sure helped the Lord out on this one. We did it. Look at look at and and oh boy, God is so good. Look at God provided a child. I can see them Uh using those phrases, and you know a lot of times uh we do that as well when we work something out ourselves, when we've made something happen, and then we want to you know, essentially blame it on God. We want to say God did this when it was really our plan. It's what we made happen. It's what we caused to come to fruition. I can see them very excited about this, but I want you to see as we read verses 4 through 6 the distress of an abused servant. The distress of an abused servant. And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived, and when she saw that she had conceived, Her mistress was despised in her eyes. So you have Hagar here that is observing her mistress, her master, her boss, Sarai. And Hagar is she is now carrying a child. And she looks at her master and it begins to despise her and say, Oh look, I have a child and she doesn't. Look at how God has blessed me, and what and they're just going to treat me like a servant. I've provided more to this home than she has. That bitterness begins to rise in her heart. And Sarah said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee. I have given my maid unto thy bosom. And when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. The Lord judge between me and thee. But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand. Do to her as it pleaseth thee And Sarai dealt hardly with her. When she had done that, we see that Hagar, she fled from her face. She fled, she ran. You see, this servant that was abused Now is got anger and bitterness in her heart, and then Sarah is all full of jealousy. And she's looking at her and saying, Man, she's got a child that I should have had. Again, we see a situation that was created by her. And now she goes to her husband and says, boy, she even says, I did this, I sent her unto you, but look at the mess that we're dealing with now. A lot of times the messages that we're dealing with are of our own making. But this was not Hagar's fault We see she's mistreated and she's dealt harshly. She was very hard on Hagar, and and I can imagine how uh Sarah made Hagar's life even more miserable. Just continue to abuse her and distress her and cause great problems for her, and yet, so she decides: well, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm just gonna run away. I'm gonna flee from her presence. Abram, of course, he says, well, it's your handmaid, do whatever you want. So Sarah begins to take out all her jealousy and anger Against Hagar. Hagar's distress is so great that she goes on the run. This is where we start to get to the heart of the story. Where we see Elroy come into the picture. I want you to see thirdly here the determination of an active savior. Look at verse number seven. And the angel of the Lord found her. You know, beloved, a lot of times our response to a situation is to flee. But God's response is to find. God goes and looks for you from all the way from back, from Adam and Eve in the garden until You today sitting here in church, I want you to know God is looking for you. Regardless of what happened, regardless of what mess you've made, regardless how far You've tried to flee from the presence of the Lord, can I tell you that God wants to find you? This We talked about in Sunday school when the pages of the Old Testament, when you see that phrase, and the angel of the Lord. This is a Christophany. This is a Christ being revealed to us in the pages of the Old Testament. The angel of the Lord is Christ coming and revealing himself to her. And he finds her by a fountain of water in the wilderness. by the fountain in the way to Shur. And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence comest thou, and whither wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai. And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Return to thy mistress, and submit thyself under her hand. You see, she was on the run. She was running from the situation that was bad and had gotten worse. Have you ever felt like running? You've been in a bad situation, whether it was of your own creating or something that was imposed upon you. It had gotten bad. You see, beloved, nobody had consulted Hagar in this whole situation. Hagar had been abused, misused, and mistreated, and now the jealousy of Sarai comes and makes things even worse. She's on the run, but God found her. At a time when Abram and Sarai had left God out of their plans, God did not leave them. He says he'll never leave you nor forsake you. It's a blessed thing to ponder and consider even when you have left God out, God is still there. This is the first time in the pages of Scripture that we see the phrase, the angel of the Lord. We see this Christophane Christ being made visible unto us in the pages of the Old Testament. And she stopped by this water, this place, this well, a fountain of water to be refreshed. But you know, the things that this world has is only temporary. She stopped to be refreshed at this fountain of water, but what she found was the fountain of life. And friend, this world will not satisfy and what's here will not meet your need. But you can if you come to Jesus. Meet him and he'll meet your need. God tells her you need to return. He gives her a command. He says, Go back and submit to her. That seems awful harsh and awful hard. But he says, I want you to go, but then he also says, I'm going to comfort you. You're going to survive. Go back and submit, and I'll be with you. How does Hagar feel about this direction that she was given? I want you to see the deliverance of a God who sees. In verse 13, we see, and she called the name of the Lord that spake unto her. Thou God, that is L, E-L, L, the foundational name for God, says, God seest me. Elroy. Elroy. That is Elroy. You put those two together and you get Elroy, and it is God that sees. He is the God that sees all. And she, Hagar, in the midst of her turmoil, in the midst of running from the face of her mistress who had mistreated her and abused her and she felt she was all alone and she had nowhere to go, the angel of the Lord appeared and said, Whence comest thou? and Whither are thou gonna goest? Where what where are you gonna go? You got nowhere to go, Hagar, and she was all alone. And what she saw there when the angel of the Lord appeared unto her, she says, God sees me In the midst of this trouble, in the midst of this pain, in the midst when I thought there was nobody else, I come to the realization that Elroy, God that seest all God sees me. Can I tell you this morning that God sees you? God sees what you're going through. God sees what you're ignoring. God sees how you're being mistreated by family or by friends. or by neighbors or by coworkers. God sees what you're enduring as you're going through this life. And many times you feel that nobody knows what you're going through, but God sees you because He is Elroy. God that sees. He sees all If we consider or think about Elohim, the great mighty creator Think about that as a personality character trait of him. El Elion. Be considered his position. He is high and lifted up He is the utmost. He is the highest. There's nobody higher than him. El Elion, God, the highest. The God of gods, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. Well, Elroy would be his perception, his ability to see and to know what each and every one of us are enduring. She came to understand that even though she was alone, God saw. He saw everything that she was enduring. I saw this last week new technology that they're putting into baseball games. Which allow them to do a type of an instant replay in slow motion. It tracks in 3D space the path of the ball And the batter can challenge the ump. The umpire calls it a strike, and the batter can say, I challenge that. He believes us not. And they are able to, with technology, track the ball in 3D space and they can look at it from several different views. and they can see how how this ball came and it just just outside the line of of the uh batter's box. And they can prove without question that yep, that was not a strike. You know, the ump sometimes gets it wrong. The God is like that technology that can see it from every angle. God is an umpire that's never going to get it wrong. He is a God that sees and don't don't Wonder or fear or forget that God has a personal interest in you But God who sees all, I know sometimes you may think, oh, well, surely he's looking out for and and and watching Brother Fuchs or he's he's surely paying attention to and and and caring for the young, you know. Uh maybe he's considering or somebody, maybe Lee, I mean he's really important guy. God's watching him. No, if you're a child of God, God is watching you. God loves you and God has a personal interest in you. God saw Hagar exactly where she was and she was running. From the presence of her mistress, but God found her there by the fountain and appeared unto her. Do you know that he also had a precise intent? He had a plan for her. He says, Hagar, I want you to go back. I want you to go back and submit yourself to your mistress. Can I tell you that God has a precise intent for you? God has a plan for you. God doesn't just see you and say, boy, I see and I know what's happening. God sees exactly what's going on. in your life and he says he has a plan, there's an intent, there's a purpose for what you're enduring, there's a purpose for the direction that you're headed, there's a purpose for what you're going through. And the God, Elroy, who sees it all, knows exactly where you're at and knows where you need to be one year, two years, three years from now. We can't see the beginning from the end, but he can He sees the whole tapestry of time and he understands where you right now are in this window. I was speaking to somebody this week on the phone who was discouraged who is downhearted, who is beaten up by the circumstances of life. And I told him, I said, this too shall pass. And I said, what you must do What you have to do is be sure that you respond in a biblical way because one year from now, two years from now, three years from now You want to be able to look back at this time when this is long past and it's just a memory. You want to have a memory of having responded and honored God You want to be able to have a clear conscience in every step you took through this challenging circumstance. You didn't get in the flesh and respond like you want to. You didn't get mad and attack other people You walked in the spirit and responded correctly. And I said, listen, God sees where you are right now. You talk to him and let him guide you one step at a time. And Christian, God sees you. And he will help you through whatever it is you're enduring. Know that he has a precise intent for you If you'll pray and talk to him, he'll give you direction. He'll tell you what you should do. He'll tell you where you should go. He'll tell you what it is that you need, the decision that you need to make. She met Elroy, the God who sees, the God who cares. You know you can endure a lot when you know the why. When you know that God has a plan. And it's not a meaningless trial. It's not a meaningless endeavor. There's a purpose, no matter what's going on in your life or what this world has dealt you. It's never okay to do wrong. It's never okay. Two wrongs have never made a right You want to respond and react correctly. You can't, you're not responsible for what other people do to you, but you are responsible for your actions and for how you respond It's not okay to have the wrong actions. It's not okay to have the wrong attitude. Uh-oh. That's one we don't like to talk about that much. Because it's internal. We can kind of hide that rotten attitude. You can say, well, I was mistreated, so I'm justified to have this rotten attitude. Nope, it's not right. Two wrongs never make a right. Not right to have wrong actions, and we would say, oh, that's correct. Well it's not right to have a wrong attitude either. We need to ask the Lord to help us with that. Because, beloved, we need to remember As much as it brings us encouragement to think about and consider the fact that God sees, it also ought to stand as a warning. to us to remember that God sees. He doesn't just see how you are mistreated, he doesn't just see the struggle you're going through. He doesn't just see and care about the the the battle that you're facing he also sees how you respond he also sees what you do would you turn to Psalms 139 with me as I bring this to a conclusion this morning But the psalmist describes for us God Elroy, the God who sees, in great detail. We see that God's vision is perfect. It is without error. He says in Psalms 139, beginning, he says, the Psalm of David, O Lord, thou hast searched me and know me. Thou knowest my down sitting and my uprising, thou understandest thou Thou understandest my thoughts afar off, thou encompass my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways For there is not a word in my tongue, but O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high, I cannot attain unto you. God's knowledge of you is perfect. He sees everything from the beginning to the end. He sees even every word that's in your mouth. Before you say it, God sees it. God knows. God sees it all. I want you to see not only is his sight of us perfect, but it is persistent. He's not going to give up. He cares for you, and as much as we love it that he'll never leave us, forsake us, we also need to know that he continues to see and to behold. Oh, you might try like Hagar to run down, to run away, to flee from the presence of your mistress, or to even like Jonah, who desired to flee from the presence of God. Who ran down to torches, who ran went down into the belly of the ship, all to flee from the presence of God, but you know he can't. We can't, can he? Look at verse number seven. Psalms 139, verse number 7. He says, Whither shall I go from thy spirit? And whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there, and if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand leave me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me, yea, the darkness hideth not from thee. But the night shineth as the day, the darkness and the light are both alike to thee He's saying, boy, I can't even go hiding all. I can find the darkest cave and in the deepest hole, and it doesn't matter because it's just like daylight to you. God sees it all. That's who Elroy is. It's a perfect scene. He sees everything, but it's also persistent. You're not going to be able to run from it. You're not going to be able to flee from it. No matter where you go in this world or what you're doing, God sees it. And beloved, that should be precious to you. We see in verses 16 and 7, thine eyes did see my substance. Yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great is the sum of them! To think about God, the creator of the universe, that He is thinking about you He is pondering you. He has a plan for you. His thoughts are about you. And he sees you and he knows what you're going through and he's watching you. It's also protective. He sees you because he wants to protect you. Like a parent who is watching the you know these mothers with eyes in the back of their heads, you know, see the children and the the the children are going towards something that would harm them. The children are heading into a dangerous situation and And somehow moms are they have that that sixth sense and they they just they they are able to capture that or pull the child back from that. God sees you. We see in verses 19 through 22, surely thou wilt slay the wicked. O God. Depart from me, therefore, ye bloody men, for they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain. Do I not hate them, O Lord, that hate thee? Am I not I grieved with those that rise up against thee? I hate them with a perfect hatred. I count them mine enemies. You see, it's perfective. God sees you and he says, boy, surely thou wilt slay the wicked. God, you're going to. put a hedge about me, we see in the life of Job that we're studying on Thursday night how God protected him. And Satan comes and says, well obviously Job's following you because you've protected him. Beloved, God's protecting you. He sees, he's watching, and we have no idea, beloved, how close you've come to a fatal accident in your car. And yet God in his mercy has held that light for three seconds longer. So that maniac driver would pass through that intersection. Had that light changed a second earlier, you would have been there and that car would have broadsided you. We don't know this side of heaven how many times the protecting hand of God has protected you from terrible heartache or hardship or trial. And even in our lives, sometimes we see great burdens and we think, man, this is terrible. But if we could see what it is that God was protecting us from By giving us this burden, we would look and say, man, God is so good. It's a protection, that sight of God seeing us. We understand that He sees it all. He knows where you are. He knows what you're facing. He knows what's in your heart, and he knows how you're going to respond. Let me ask you this morning, how will you respond to pondering and thinking about the fact that God sees it all. Oh, there's great joy that God is there and he sees like Hagar in this great time of turmoil, knowing that God is with her But also there's an understanding that knowing that God is with us all the time and He sees it all, how should we respond? If you're in Psalms 139, would you look at verses 23 and 24? The psalmist has a two-fold response here to Elroy, the God who sees He says, first of all, search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thought. He says, God, I know you see it all. You see the beginning from the end. God, I want to be right with you. I don't want there to be anything between me and the Savior. I don't want to be harboring any sin in my heart. I don't want to be harboring any anger or bitterness or jealousy or the wrong attitude. Lord, would you please search me? Would you search me and show me what it is that that I need to change in my life, Lord, so that I can be right with thee Oh, but secondly, he says, Will you shepherd me? He says in verse number 24, And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me. In the way of everlasting. Lead me in the way of everlasting. God, I know you see it all. Would you search me? God, you see the beginning from the end. Would you shepherd me? Would you show me the way to go? Could you keep me from making an error? Could you keep me from stumbling and falling down a pit that in my own foolishness I would fall into if I was just leading myself and going my own way? Lord, would you shepherd me? Would you show me I understand you see it all? And so I'm asking you, Lord, search me, know me, see if there be any wicked way in me. And then God, would you please shepherd me? I can't help but think about the times that I've been out with Bob and Carol. And being blind, he's relied upon me, a very poor guide dog to try and help him. More than once I forgot about him. Left him standing in the restaurant and I'm walking towards the door. I'm like, where's Bob? I'm like, oh yeah. He's there waiting for his guide dog who's leaving without him And I can just we ought to be like that with God. Okay, Lord, show me where to go. Keep me from stumbling and falling over these little things. Keep me from making a mess out of this situation right here. Lord, would you shepherd me Would you just show me? Because you are Elroy, the God who sees it all. And just like Bob grabs a hold of my elbow and lets me guide him around some chairs and out through a restaurant that he hasn't been in yet. And he's not able to see the things that I'm guiding him around. Can I tell you that there's a lot of things that you won't be able to see that guys God's protecting you from? That God's guiding you around. That God is helping you If you would just grab a hold of his arm and say, God, would you shepherd me? Would you shepherd me? Because you are Elroy. The God who sees. Just stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed.