Of the hardest things I was noticing as we're continuing on is these lessons don't have any page numbers. And as we're getting further along, it's gonna get harder and harder to like, oh here's where you should be. It would be much easier if there's a number and you could say you're on page thirty-seven today. or whatever. So we'll look at that for future lessons, maybe just add numbers or something. Uh but as we continue, uh Ms. Debbie is going to help uh keep the lesson straight and if you're missing a lesson or you need some papers from previous lessons uh as we continue by the time we get done you're gonna have close to I think 90 pages in your book and uh so It's going to get even more confusing with the different classes in different places in the series. And so she's going to kind of oversee and help us make sure that all of those are kept straight. So after the general pass out, if you like on a day that we pass out lessons to everybody, if you say, oh, I didn't get that lesson, I wasn't here that day or whatever, you can see Ms. Debbie and she will Make sure you have what you need. There is the next lesson is available on the table in the uh by the donuts over there, uh, which we're not going to get to today, so you don't you don't need it uh we're dealing with the lure of the world. But you should have in your books here, you should have uh putting your life in order uh the the outline Beginning here with the introduction, I'm just going to read through these answers just so that you have them. The Apostle Paul is an example of a victorious Christian. Um in there he says, I have fought a good fight, uh you must blank how to experience victory over the world. What's that answer right there? Anybody got it? Learn. You must learn, all right? You must learn how to experience victory over the world. Brother, that's a little hot. Um we need to adjust that. It driving me nuts Alright, you must have an awareness. I'll speak a little louder, but you know, I can get the mic a little closer too if we need to. You must have an awareness of the battle on a daily basis. You must recognize your need for God's help. You must Use the weapons provided by God. You must develop a warfare mentality. You must be persistent when the battle is Severe, hard, difficult. Alright. Then moving on, next page. God's plan is found in the Bible and revealed by the Holy Spirit. Victory cannot be achieved through the flesh. Disobedience in any manner leads to failure. We see that. So under point number three, are you keeping the faith? We have the just shall live by faith. Hebrews 1038. Believers are called to a life of obedience to the Savior. Christians are commanded to be steadfast. We are stewards of the gospel and we need to keep it and preach it. We must resist every temptation. uh to quit or to compromise these things we don't want to do. Then we looked at this example's uh we've got five questions that demand to answer, bottom of the next page. Uh y are you adorned in a white wedding garment? Okay, that's How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? Will you be ashamed at his coming Is your life a living sacrifice acceptable unto God? And have you looked back? I was going to teach you guys that song. I forgot that. We need to do that. No man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. No man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. That's the song that goes with that verse. Now I taught it to you. Alright, Joshua purposed in his heart to serve the Lord. Daniel purposed in his heart not to defile himself. Then the battle primarily involves three influences. We have Satan, the flesh, and the world, and we began last week looking at the lure of the world, the attraction of the world. Uh there are some people that need to be avoided as we're talking about or looking at the things that we are really should should get out of our lives. We begin here with the people. We've got uh sinful, profane, vulgar, scorners, fools. These things are in Psalms chapter 1. Then we have some wrong friends that need to be avoided. There's different lists of type of people that we need to avoid, places we need to avoid. philosophies we need to avoid. I'm going to talk about these things. And we're picking up today underneath things. That's where we're going to start getting into the lesson today. I think we finished last week looking, I just briefly mentioned the example of Aiken And uh of course Aiken lost it all for a little bit of gold and some garments. And uh so that's where we're gonna pick up today. I need to get these notes back to Miranda. Uh so uh I had to borrow hers 'cause mine are A little difficult to walk through like that just real fast. So all right, you want to hand that to her. Thank you. Just to try and bring everybody up to speed, if anybody you know, was in or out or missed a Sunday and didn't have the answers for those those blanks, I wanted you to be able to have that. So picking up this morning now We are going to finish this lesson this morning and then we'll get into the next one next week. We're not going to get into that, but the next one is available. So we're going to conclude all of this. Let me look at So the next one is the lust of the flesh. That is available on the table back there. If you want to get it, stick it in your book either today or first thing next Sunday morning. That's where we're going to get into next week All right, beginning here this morning, just we we touched on these things, but do you understand that just because something is available does not mean that it's good for me? Or just because something is a that I can do doesn't mean that I should do it. What we're talking about is the idea of putting your life in order. And so if we're going to put our life in order as believers There's got to be some priorities there. There's got to be some things that we take out of our lives that we don't let dominate our lives. And we mentioned the people that Psalms 1, the principles are there. Why are some why are there some people, some wrong friends? that we've got to be careful uh not to be spending too much time with. It's not that you don't ever have contact with people that don't believe exactly like you. But it's that's not who you're spending all of your time with. That's not who you're you're you know calling for counsel. That's not who you're you're just you know inviting over every Friday night. Yeah, you invite 'em over with the goal and effort to reach them. With spend a little time with them to try and let you let you and the Word of God influence their life. But you know if you're spending all of your time with them, they're going to influence you And so you gotta be around people that are gonna influence you for right. And then you go out here for a minute and you spend a little bit of time with this person and you know just to try and to encourage them. But if you want to stay on the straight and narrow you gotta why? Because evil communication corrupts good manners. That's what that's Bible. That's what the Bible says. So there's some people we need to avoid. There's some places we need to avoid. There's just some places as Christians we shouldn't be going. We talked about these the clubs, bars, casinos, rock concerts, chat rooms, dance parties, these types of things. Uh you know, you you you can go to these places. I mean you're an adult You can choose to do what you want to do, but you can't choose to do those things and be a strong Christian. That's just a fact. They they just don't go together. Um you know I could choose to eat chocolate cake for breakfast every day if I want to. No, I can't choose to do that and be healthy. That's just the facts. I mean I can choose to eat cake every day if I w that's what I want to do, but I can't do that and be healthy. And so that's what we're saying. There's some things that that you can choose to do them. There's some things in the world and I know this kind of teaching of separation from the world and being careful where you go is not real uh prevalent or popular uh but The fact of the matter is, is you can't do those things and go those places if you want to be a strong Christian. So you sacrifice having your life in order, that is, in order that's pleasing to God. So that you can do some things that you want to do, but if you want to be in order with the Lord and His plan, then you've got to avoid these places. Christians are not supposed to be comfortable in Egypt. We know that's the case. There's some worldly philosophies that need to be avoided We need to push back against these worldly principles and philosophies that that impact our lives. We're going to be talking more about those Then we're beginning here today. We looked at some things, mentioned Aiken who lost it all. You know, things have too big of a hold on us, Christian, as b uh just that's the fact. Things really get a hold on us and and uh we desire those things But it's only the pure in heart that experiences revival. And so as Christians, we've got to reach down into our heart and we've got to systematically Pull from there those things that don't belong there. Whether that's friends that we shouldn't be with, whether that's things that have a hold of us, whether that's philosophies, worldly philosophies or ideas that that maybe we've held to But they don't line up with the Bible. So we've got to pull those things from those. And so we see here there is in your book a little kind of a grayed-out section that has some statements, you're warned not to love the world. And the first John two fifteen is there. And uh that verse we know we're covering that on Thursday night. And he says, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him This we're we're warned not to love the world. You know, we're talking about worldly philosophies that infiltrate our mind. One of those worldly philosophies is the idea that love is an uncontrolled emotion. That's not true. You know, people talk about, oh, I fell in love. And oh, I fell out of love. I just don't love my wife anymore. I just don't love my my husband anymore. You know, love is a choice. You choose to love. And he says here, love not the world. So he's saying you have to make the conscious choice. Not to love the world, but to love God. And he says, if you love the world, the love of the Father is not in him And that that's very clear. So it's a choice that we make. It's not this idea that it's something we have no control over. That oh you just I I just fell in love and and I I have no it's just an emotion that just happened, and if that emotion leaves, then I don't love her anymore. No, it's a choice. You choose to love. I'm glad that God chose to love me. And he gave himself for me. Too many Christians are fighting to keep their corner of the world instead of fighting against the world that put their Savior on the cross. We're fighting to hold on to our little, I can do this and be right with God, I can do this and don't don't preach against my sin. Don't preach against what I do. You can't, who are you to tell me They're fighting to hold on to their section of the world and what they want to do, and you can't say that's wrong. Instead of fighting against the world for the Savior that they say they love. That's the difference. You can't serve God in mammon. It's very clear, Luke 16, 13, no servant can't serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. He can't serve God in mammon. Lust and pride is all the world has to offer. There's another blank for you there. Lust and pride is all the world has to offer. And it's very short-lived. Satan, we know, is the ruler of this world, Ephesians 6. 12, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness in this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. We know Satan is the ruler of this world. The cares of this world rob us of being fruitful. Mark 419. The cares of this world rob us from being fruitful. And Mark 419 says, And the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches and the lust of other things entering in choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. So that the cares of this world, they rob us from being fruitful, they keep us from being able to accomplish and do what God wants us to do when we're living for this world and the things of this world. The world will take you away from God just as it did to Demas. You know, Demas had left me having loved this present world. Right? There was that love for the present world, and Paul says, hey, he just left. He took off, why? Because there's a love for the world that was greater than his love for God. One of the greatest heartbreaks. Uh uh as believers that we see as people that come to God, they maybe start to grow, they are seeking after the Lord, they're pursuing him, but then They're they drift away. They're they're pulled away. The love for the world takes them right out of out of church and and they're no longer doing what God wants them to do. Um sorry I skipped over the gods of today just talking about those things that are mentioned right there. Uh entertainment, education, employment. You you understand those are gods today. They're set up and established and and we know that from a worldly philosophy, worldly mindset, we know that those are the gods that the world serves But how many of us are Christians are tied into that? That we lean towards that? We shouldn't lean towards it, but we do. You know, a parent that would allow his child to miss church for t ball. Okay. What's more important? God or T ball I mean, T ball is a kid's game. There's nothing wrong with T ball. No, nothing sinful about it. It can help them build some coordination and have some friends. That's great. But why in the world would a person that call himself a Christian Take their entire family and miss church, miss God's house, to go out to a park and play a game. Why? Because their God is not God, their God is entertainment. Their God is their hobby. Does your life revolve around your hobbies? Or does your hobbies revolve around your life? The gods of today, entertainment. I wonder uh you know we I get a lot of questions about this book, which is great. It's my job, right? But uh uh sometimes people ask some very simple, very basic type questions about the book. But I wonder how much they know about all of the actors that are alive today. How much do they know about the latest movie that was just released or the the sequel of whatever that just came out or you know what I'm talking about the the entertainment of today. What are our gods and education. Education's a big one today. The world is preoccupied with it. It's holds such an important place in people's lives. Man, you gotta get an education. At the sacrifice of pleasing God. You gotta have an education. This isn't most important. You gotta get that, and then you can decide what you want to do. But you gotta get education It it becomes a God, it becomes a priority above all else. And then we move from in education to employment. Employment's needed. We've got to pay our bills, we know that. But when employment supersedes our relationship with God, when that becomes the priority. You know, people will leave a good church for a position at a place of employment that has a few more dollars an hour. And now they're not in a good church. What was the priority in their life? Their priority was not keeping a straight, consistent walk with God. Their priority was employment. Earning enough money so they could have enough of this world's goods. The employment, the gods of today. But we've got to put God first. And we see this comparative here that the comparison between Lot, who was a compromiser, and Daniel, who is consistent. Lot, who was a compromiser, and Daniel, who was consistent. Um Lot let this world's pull take him to places he thought he would never go. I mean you read the story of Lot and it's shocking. to consider and think about how Lot wa the things that he did, ultimately it was the pull of the world, the desire for those well-watered plains. But he never thought in you know if he would have when Abraham said, Hey There's some contention between my fla herdsmen and your herdsmen and and there's a little bit of problem here. Why don't why don't you choose what you want and and uh you go your way and then I'll go mine and that way we can still be friends but w listen this working together every day is not working out. And uh Lot, you do what you want to do and I'll do the other. If Lot could have looked down the road and seen when his daughters Were abused by wicked men, and seen the day when he was pulled out of Sodom and his wife looked back and was turned into a pillar of salt. If he could have seen that day How many of you think he would have made a different choice? But he thought, oh, it's not that bad. I mean it's just, I mean, hey, this looks like the better option. It's a few more dollars an hour It's a little bit entertaining. It's enjoyable to watch. It's really not that bad. And yet you see where it ended up. So we have the contrast between these two men. Daniel stood. He stood consistent for God. He stood alone sometimes, but he wasn't alone because God was with him. Daniel did that which was right. You know, beloved, it's counted of a steward that a man be found faithful. Daniel said, I'm not going to defile myself with the keen's meat. He said, I'm not going to discontinue my prayer time, even if it means I have to go to the lion's den. Daniel stood. Dare to be a Daniel. Dare to just do what's right. Dare to just be consistent as a Christian. To be consistent. Not up today and down tomorrow. Not, oh, I'm going to read 75 chapters of the Word of God today. I'm on fire and I'm going to do this and I'm going to be a witness and I'm going to go do that. And then for two and a half weeks uh y you don't ever crack your Bible. Somebody talks to you about God and you're like, I don't know. Uh no, I don't even know what I was so excited about. So up and down and up and down. But be consistent. It's counter steward that a man be found faithful. How vital and how important it is. And this is this is one of the areas where it's pretty easy to see that people are growing in their spiritual life. Because they start to have some consistency about them. Somebody not too long ago asked me about serving and helping in the church I said, that would be great. We'd love to have you. But the first thing is I've got to see some consistency. I said, you're here for a week and then you're gone for two or three weeks? You're here for a service and then you're and you're here for two or three services and then you're then you're out for five services. So I can't put you in any ministry or have you involved in any place of responsibility. When you can't even get to church. You've got to have some consistency. You've got to be present. You've got to be uh faithful. And church attendance is just the bare bare minimum. That's just the beginning So we need to have some consistency in our life. We see Daniel was consistent. Not faithful today and then wandering tomorrow. Listen, you're struggling to be faithful. It's understandable. We're all just human. We're all just sinners saved by grace. We need some help. We need some help from God. But you might need some help from a fellow friend, too. You know what? We need we need to get off of our pious horses and take our halos off and get honest with our brothers and sisters in Christ and get some help when we need help. What I'm saying is too many times people are too prideful to go to a brother or a sister and say, listen, I'm struggling in this area spiritually. Because we want to put on airs that we have everything figured out and that we're all this and a bag of chips and and everything is all good and we've got the world by the tail and we've got uh you know the coattails of God and we've got things we're we're handling it all just great. Yeah, but that pride is going to take you to the place where ultimately one day people here will see your life destroyed and a mess and they'll be like, what happened? We thought he was doing so good. But you didn't seek for any help. We've got to get to the place where we get off of that. Pride and get honest, at least with some close dear friends that are willing to pray with us, that are willing to help us, that are willing to to walk through the valley with us. Not that you need to stand up in front of the church and tell the whole church that you're struggling with this or that, but you ought to have some people here in God's house that you're close enough to that you can say, listen, I need some prayer, I need some accountability, I need some help Because God wants us to be consistent and sometimes the battle is great and we need somebody to walk alongside with us Lot had some faulty thinking. Bob Jones said at the end of every tragically ended life is a long process of faulty thinking. Okay At the end of every tragically ended life is the process of long f long process of faulty thinking And so we've got to correct our thinking. You know, Lot thought that his family could live godly by the world's standards. So he went to the world. Oh, we can just live in the world, be part of the world. I can stand in the gate with everybody else. I can do all of these things, and I can do it and still be godly. But they had a tragically ended life because he had faulty thinking. You know, sometimes The old saying, you can't lay down with dogs and and uh without getting the fleas. You know, we need to be reminded of that. You know, you can't run with a skunk and smell like a rose. That's just the fact of the matter. As Christians we can't do that. We've gotta we've gotta watch the people we're hanging around, the places that we're going. The things that we allow into our lives. So the a key verse here to fight the world is whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Even our faith. It's faith, faith in God that gives us the strength to overcome the world. You know, faith really is just doing what you know is right to do. Having an exercise and a display of faith is just doing what you know you're supposed to do. Living by faith is doing what God says. God says get baptized, okay. Faith says, okay, and you go get baptized. God says, forsake not the assembly of yourselves together, as the manner of some is. Oh, aren't we supposed to be in God's house or should be together with God's people? Okay. And Faith says, I'm going to do that. You learn in the Word of God things that God says, and faith says, oh, that's what God expects, that's what God would like, that's what I want to do, and faith obeys and does it. You know, sometimes as a parent we tell our give our kids jobs or we tell them to do something and they may say why and you know the answer well because I said so. And they just have to trust that you know and that there's a reason. I remember when I first started painting cars for Greg, uh, you know, he would walk through the process of painting the cars And I'm very intuitive, I'm very I mean I I work with my hands, I understand these things, uh, but you know, sometimes I would ask him maybe probing or deep deeper questions because I want to understand the process. I want to understand why and what does this accomplish or whatever And and more than once he would basically because that's what's supposed to happen, or he would say, just do it because I said, you know, and and I would say, well, why do we have to do it this way? And that I I was in an effort to try and learn and fully understand and I think he might have thought I was questioning like his direction as far as here's how you do it. And uh he would say, because that's the way it's supposed to be done. He was saying, just trust me, I've been doing this for thirty years. I know how to paint a car. And I said, Well I don't I don't I don't doubt that. I'm just trying to learn how to paint the car myself. And so he was teaching me and showing me the process. There was a reason why it had to be done in this order. There was a reason why these things had to be. He said, just have faith, just trust that I know what I'm talking about and I'm telling you what you need to do. But sometimes we might not understand everything behind the reason why that God says do this or do that. But faith says, okay, God, I trust that you know, and so I'm going to do it. You know, my job as a pastor is to lead, feed, and protect the flock. That's my job. And I'm going to do all I can to strive to keep the world out of the church. But I'm also gonna try to give you biblical principles, give you advice. I mean I don't run your home. I can't Choose what you're going to do, but I'll try and lay out some guidance that you maybe can keep the world out of your life and keep the world out of your home so that you are honoring and pleasing God A wise men will hear and increase in knowledge, the Bible says, but fools will pass on and be destroyed. These principles are things we've got to look at. So we see a list of things given to us. If you have your Bibles and you would like to turn to 2 Timothy 3, these are not this verse is not in your notes there, but in 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 1 through 5, he gives us this long list of things that are prevalent in the world and these last days. He says in 2 Timothy chapter 3, verse 1 through 5, this know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truth breakers. False accusers and incontinent, fierce, despisers of those things that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. And he says, from such turn away. So he has a listing of here and kind of describes or gives some definitions of what these things are. And then the next page there, he has a list of the last days, present culture, and influence on me. So what this is here is is a place for you to go through and say, okay, lovers of their own selves. And he just chooses something and throws it in there and says, okay. An example of this in today's world would be Hollywood mentality, the lovers of their own selves. But how does this influence me? How do this does this impact my life? You see coveters, covetousness, uh boasters, proud, unthankful, this welfare mentality. This is not Is not talking about all people who have received any aid. It's talking about a mentality that people have, whether they receive aid or not. It is the mentality that the world owes me. It is the mentality that doesn't matter what I've earned, you need to pay for me. You know, uh I want to teach so bad on some biblical principles. I just heard this week uh about a new program. that if you have done correctly and are uh paying your bills on time If you have a good credit score and you have enough money to put a down payment on your house, you are going to have to pay an extra 1. 7% to help people who don't have good credit, who don't have any money, to be able to buy a house. That can equal as much as twenty to thirty thousand dollars by the time you finish your home That you're going to be paying. You say it's only 1%. It's only 30 bucks, 40 bucks, 50 bucks a month. Over 30 years. That's twenty to forty thousand dollars that you're gonna pay because other people can't pay their bills. That is the welfare mentality. That is socialism, and that is not biblical. It's not biblical. You don't take from the person that has and give to the person that doesn't. God rewards those who are working Those who are earning, those who are accomplishing, and you say, oh, uh you ought to help somebody else. That isn't that Christian to help somebody else? Uh if I would like to do that and I want to give somebody $10,000, yes, that's Christian. Right. But for you to steal it out of my wallet is not Christian. And that welfare mentality is prevalent in our world today. But you know what? It also comes into the church What's the church doing for me? Well nobody did this for me at church. Well how come nobody did that for me? Nobody thought of me. Nobody provided this for me. How does it influence our thinking? We gotta be careful. We gotta be careful about that. Unholiness, the entire entertainment industry, we want to see unholiness that's prevalent there without natural affection. We know uh that's very easily described and seen in Romans uh that homosexual lifestyle, uh abortion, uh truce breakers Uh he's got trial lawyers here. I don't know if he's saying that trial lawyers are truce breakers or that we need trial lawyers because people break their truces. I I'm not sure if what he's saying there exactly. Uh I didn't write this, but uh Uh the I think the both probably could be true. Um but the fact of the matter is is people don't keep their word today. And uh that is one of the big problems with the the next one here, but it's false accusers. You think about the the frivolous lawsuits that are levied on people and uh the liability that's out there because you know the ambulance chaser mentality, the frivolous lawsuits like, oh, you're owed money because of an accident. And uh, you know, it it's it's one thing when a company does wrong on purpose and somebody gets hurt. It's another thing when it's just it's an accident. Accidents happen. And but in today's world you can sue anybody for anything. And uh you go to war go to the uh and you know who's making all the money is the lawyers, they're the ones getting rich off of it. But uh fears uh savage like, you know, the gangs is uh the example that he's given there. Um, you know, just Friday night I don't know if they've caught him yet, but there was somebody who drove through a street in DC randomly just shooting people, shot seven people, uh, and went a couple blocks away and shot a twelve year old girl. Uh last I heard they were all in uh stable condition. They actually were taken to the hospital and looks like everybody's gonna survive. But what in the world? Why would somebody do that? Just that, just go shoot people. It's just a crazy world we live in today. Hetty, it's high-minded, uh, you know, lovers of pleasure, having a form of godliness. So then the plan here is for you to go through and think about these things over the next week if you haven't already. You've had these in your notes now for several weeks, but you can look at that and say, how does this affect influence me? How does it impact me? And uh Then we see the example here of these three things, these three areas that we're battling. 1 John 2. 16, they're listed in the example all the way back in the book of Genesis. is shown where the lust of the flesh. We see that she saw the food, that it was good, uh the lust of the eyes, that it was pleasant to uh the eyes, a tree to behold, it was nice, and in the pride of life a desire to make one wise. And these things work together, the pride of life, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, these things all work together. They feed off each other. It's this rotating and and uh you know kind of uh growing thing if we aren't careful. So we see the desire of the eyes is satisfied with merely viewing and contemplating. So viewing and contemplating is the answer that you have there. The desire of the eyes is satisfied with merely viewing and contemplating. The lust of the eyes The Bible says the eyes of man are never satisfied. Uh you know, just to look and eyes are wandering to and fro. We live in a very visually driven society today, uh with the advent of so many uh the technology to broadcast and and show so many things and uh we are visually stimulated. We know that the eye affects the heart. And so if we have any hope of controlling the flesh, and we have any hope of controlling the pride of life, we've got to control the eye gate. You've got to control that. The desire of the flesh that that seeks physical gratification, that no longer just looking is sufficient. You know, some some people say, well, uh I'm just window shopping. I'm just looking. It's okay if I look as long as I don't touch. No, it's not okay. You you you can't Look because that is the process through which the lust of the eyes leads to the desire of the flesh and the physical gratification is sought. And we know lust within it when it hath conceived bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. We don't want to be down here where Lot was and his wife turned into a pillar of salt. No, we don't want to be there. Well, if we don't want to be there, we gotta go all the way back here when Lot made the choice to go towards the well watered plains. It didn't look that bad. It was okay. I mean, hey, it's just some nice grassy fields. Uh and so we're looking at these things in the world and saying they're not really that bad. I mean after all he's a pretty good guy. He just cusses all the time. You know, I I I like him, but he talks about things that are that are not right. You know, we we're good friends, but you these little things you think, oh, it's just small, but if we don't get it out of our life, you know where it leads. That's what he's talking about there, the physical gratification, then the pride of life. The pride of life takes credit for God's works and God's acts. The pride of life. You know, this mentality that I pulled myself up by own bootstraps, that I made myself who I am, I can do and be anything and and and I got the I earned the education that I needed and I earned the position that I have and I am all of what I am because I am, you know Uh I think of um Brother Bishop As a success successful pastor and all that. And uh wasn't it spinal meningitis that he got? Everybody knows Dr. Bishop. Um just like that. Spinal meningitis hit him. Two weeks later he woke up. He was like a babbling baby. He had to learn everything. He had to learn to feed himself. He had to learn to talk. He had to learn to write. You know, he never did he never did get back to to normal. Never did was able to drive a car again. They let him drive a scooter and so he would drive a scooter around about kill himself all you know, many times on his little scooter. Um But was turned into basically a baby, a grown man. You see, we're one sickness away. From not being able to function. And yet we want to say that we're in control. That we are who we are because of what we've done. Pride takes credit for what God. is doing in our life. His happiness and goals are are most important to him. Somebody that's letting the pride of of life consume them. I deserve this. It's all about me. uh is the attitude of this person. It's pride that hinders you from accepting your personal limitations and those of your family. It is pride that causes you to make poor decisions. uh for your family, for your finances, for your life, for your future. A very large part of this world, he concludes with this, a large part of this world lives for little more than worldly indulgence. You know, I I think about the entire, you talk about worldly philosophies that kind of infiltrate the church sometimes, the entire, I thank God it's Friday, mentality Basically, I'm just living so that I can have a break, so that I can go out and enjoy myself. I'm doing what I gotta do so that I can go do what I want to do. It's all about my enjoyment. It's all about me having a good time. Um, you know, this is one of the big problems with with parents that are raising kids. Today a lot of parents don't want the responsibility of raising children. They were a gift from God and we're supposed to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. It is a big responsibility. It takes an enormous amount of effort and time. We've got to give our time to that. A lot of parents want to live for themselves and kids become a burden instead of doing their job and training and and guiding and educating their children. They they let the state teach them, they let other people take care of them. And they're they they basically have a hands-off mentality with their children and that's not what God expects. They live for little more than worldly indulgence, and that's not how we're supposed to be. Um in a few weeks we're going to be talking about how to overcome the world. But for now it's a matter of realizing that we are in this battle and we've got to know that it's there and be aware of it. Let's close