You can take your Bibles and turn to the book of Proverbs, chapter 4, as well as Matthew chapter 15. Proverbs chapter 4 and Matthew chapter 15 for us to begin this morning. I told you that I was going to be looking at some resources to make available to you over the last week and a half. I've read these three books that I believe will be a help to you, obviously, when we recommend something. Um there always comes with the uh well almost always comes with the caveat that we always need to be discerning um as we read, so not everything that everyone says and and these books do I agree with even And two of them that I'll show you are are they don't use the King James in the book, but they have some good principles in there that we can understand. So as you read, keep your Bible handy so you can read uh along the actual text of scripture as you go through the book there. Um the first one is one that has to do with the idea of pornography. This one's called pay per view, the double cost of pornography. This is put publ put out by Sword of the Lord. So this one is King James a lot closer to to um uh our strife as far as uh biblical interpretation and things, but um some good principles in there for how damaging uh that sin can be. And then this is one um It's called Twelve Ways That Your Phone Is Changing You. Kind of gets into a lot of what we've been dealing with in this series of of things that we're not aware of but that we live differently because of our phone. I'll put these books on the back table um after Sunday school if you'd want to uh look at those. This one again does not use the King James It's got a forward in it by John Piper. We don't agree with John Piper. And so some of the people that he references or or looks at we don't agree with. So don't go from this book and say, oh, he mentions this book. Let me go read that one too. There's just some good thoughts in this book that would be challenging to you, and obviously we're reading with discretion as far as that goes. But a lot of kind of It's not really a biblical. It's more of a here's here's things in your life that are different because of technology and we need to be aware as Christians that our technology is changing us And then this one it has to do with families. It's called the TechWise Family, putting technology in its proper place within the home, and really good principles from toddlers to teenagers and even for married couples. looking at technology kind of like we've been doing with biblical principles and say, no, is this really need to be this part much of a part of our life and how it affects us those uh there. So if you'd like any more information uh about those, I'm gonna set them on the back back table. But has some good principles in it. We'd like to see more people, more Christians, biblical Christians writing books, so we can have recommended sources from from people that we don't have to have as much discernment, but always we need to be reading with the with discernment as Christians whenever we're looking at materials. So I'll make those available after class on the back table there. As Pastor mentioned, this is the last week of the series that we're going to be teaching on dealing with devices. We've been looking at the this idea for the past uh couple months uh up and on with the different people we've had in. I appreciate the feedback that I've gotten uh over the last few weeks in regard to this series. I've had I've heard people give me testimonies of having less screen time, of having deleted their certain apps on their phone, of of having lost weight and taking a serious reevaluation of priorities. uh in their life. I I appreciate that and it's enjoyable for me to hear that the Word of God is having its effect in the lives of God's people. By way of review, we began this series by looking at the idea of dealing with devices from 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verse number eleven, where we're warned as Christians not to be ignorant of Satan's devices, or he will get an advantage over us. We looked at what Satan desires and the devices that he uses to accomplish those desires. And we just need to be aware, like Satan's his goal is to get an advantage. We don't want to give an advantage to the enemy, so we need to be aware of what he's trying to do and how he tries to do it And we continue this series in the second lesson by looking at the power principle from 1 Corinthians 6, verse number 12. We saw that even things that are not immoral can get power over a Christian in a way that will become immoral. We're not to yield ourselves to any master other than God. So much of our lives get out of balance as Christians when our desires or our devices begin to control us instead of us controlling them. I was reading a book, one of these books this week, and the author made a point concerning phones when he was asked the question, should I get rid of my smartphone and get a dumb phone? Uh he responded by saying, well, that ultimately the problem is not with the device, it's with the heart. Um if you have uh an addiction problem to your phone, it's not going to matter what phone you have, you have a heart problem that you He goes on to say though, but if your phone is controlling you, go ahead and swap it out for dumb phone, and that'll help. But understand that it starts with the heart. That's where our problem originates. Who is in control? Is it easier for God to get your attention or for your phone to get your attention? So in the third week, in the third lesson, we looked at the priority principle. This is found in Colossians chapter 1. Verse number 18, and it asks the question, what has first place in your life? We know that according to the Bible, Jesus should have first place uh in our lives. But does he? Is Christ at the center of your life and does your relationship with him affect every part of your life? Or does pleasing yourself have first place affecting every area of your life, including your relationship with technology? So that's the priority principle. In the fourth lesson, we dealt with the purity principle found in Psalm 101, verse 3. In this lesson, we discussed the gift of purity that was given to us as Christians in the moment of our salvation. When it comes to our relationship with technology, does it protect or pollute that purity that was given to us by God? And last week we discussed the presentation principle from Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. In this lesson, we looked at the way a Christian should be presenting themselves to the world. Our ultimate responsibility is to present represent Christ to the world. Unfortunately, all people see through our device usually is us. Are we pointing others to Christ through our devices, or are we pointing people back to ourselves? So there's many other principles. Those are the ones we've looked at so far. There are many other principles that we could apply from the Bible to our use. of technology and it's a study that you would be welcome to continue on your own to look at bioprinciples and see how it relates to our use of technology and devices. There's also a lot of things that we could look at very practically and say, here's a thing that you can use, and here's the thing that you can implement in your life regarding the placement of these principles. But for the sake of the series, we're going to end today on a very important foundational principle that truly affects all the others we've talked about. This is what I've entitled the protection principle. This is not another that we can get uh this are sorry, this is another that we could get very practical with, but we're not gonna do that today. I'm not gonna go through and we can spend the whole lesson talking about certain filters and what they do and software that you can buy and hardware that you we can get uh implemented monitoring software and filters and things of that nature. One reason we're not going to be going through that is because they're constantly changing. And for another is that there's a different purpose for the different types of software. The top software that I would need for myself and my wife and my young children is different than the ones that I'll need once I have teen children. And there'll be completely different ones available. There's ones that uh affect computers and there's ones that affect phones, so that's something if you would like to know more about or need some help finding something for your family, uh see myself or Pastor Caleb or Pastor Gus, who would be glad to help you find something that would work for your family. And that would be money well spent to put some protections in place for your family. That's not what we're going to do today. We're not going to talk software. We're going to talk about scripture. The Bible principles that will be realized in the protections that you put in place. The protection principle is simply the principle that we have a duty to protect ourselves and our children from spiritual danger. If you have your place there in Proverbs chapter 4, we're going to read verse number 23. There the Bible says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Then you flip to Matthew chapter 15 Where I had you turn. Matthew 15, verses 16 through 20. This passage will sound familiar if you've been coming for a couple months where we dealt with a series on communication. Verse number sixteen says, And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without understanding? Do not ye yet understand that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly and is cast out into the draught? But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart, and they defile the man. For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornication, thefts, false witness, and blasphemies These are the things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashing hands defileth not a man. Let's open the word of prayer. Lord God, we love you and we thank you again for your word. Lord, for what we can learn from it. I pray, Lord, we would see the the great need we have, um Lord, to put protections uh up in our lives to guard ourselves from the attacks of our flesh, uh of Satan. this world Lord who wants to destroy us and to destroy our children, uh to damage our testimonies, Lord. Everything we've talked about with the ideas of priority and getting power, Lord, it it comes back to this idea of protecting ourselves. From Satan's attacks and his desire to have advantage over us. Pray you'd help us as we look at your word this morning. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. So if we look at this idea of protecting ourselves as something very important, as I as I said kind of starting out, that this one affects all the rest. something having power over you, you can put protections in place to keep something from having power over you. If something is a priority, uh you can put some protections in place to keep Keep yourself making sure you have the proper priorities. When it comes to your purity, and other things we talked about, this idea comes back to what safeguards do we have in our life that we're protecting ourselves from the danger that's out there. Our first point we're going to look at this morning, I've been titled The Regard for the Spiritual. The Regard for the Spiritual. This is the idea that I want to emphasize that script or that the spiritual is more important than the physical. The spiritual is more important than the physical. You know, everyone to a certain extent is concerned with their physical condition. Now we know that for some people that's more than others, but we all have some level of concern. Some people don't care enough about they care but not enough to do anything about it. Others care so much they'll go to do unhealthy things about it. But most of us fall somewhere in the middle. Uh I told you beginning this year I went on the diet because I didn't like the way the scale looked at Christmas time I told my mom it was broken um and she wasn't going to get a new one, so I had to go on a diet. Um and so we're we we look and we think about ourselves and we get we're concerned with our physical condition. So just think, what do you do in concern for your physical condition? What are some things that you do? Just some examples. We pay attention to how and what we eat We do that for our physical condition. We uh take medicines and take vitamins, uh make sure we get proper rest. We go to the doctor for checkups We take care of our hygiene. We brush our teeth. We make ourselves presentable. We wash our hands. We do these things. Why? For our physical condition. We exercise and do mental conditioning. I've heard of folks that do crossword puzzles every day because they want to keep the brain sharp and things of that nature. We do this for what? For our physical condition. We want to take care of ourselves physically Most of these things that we do to protect ourselves physically have several things in common. One is that they're habitual. We do them on a regular basis when it comes to brushing your teeth. every morning, every evening. Uh I know somebody that um brushes their teeth five times a day. They do it in the morning, they do it after breakfast, after lunch, after dinner, and then at the in the evening. Uh and they have gum problems. because of it, but they're concerned about uh brushing their teeth. So we have these things that we do habitually. We wash our hands at certain points in the day. We get up and we get ready in certain points in the day. We have time to take a shower. We do these things habitually on a regular basis. Why? Because we're concerned about our physical health, our physical condition. They're also intentional. We do it on purpose. You know what? I need to do this to make sure that I'm keeping myself okay. I need to go to the doctor because it's been six months, it's been a year. I need to go to this checkup because I've hit this certain age. I've gone we do these things intentionally. We think about it. Why? Because we're concerned about our physical condition. And they're also logical, there's there's a reason we're doing it. Now my kids don't understand uh why we have to brush our teeth, why we have to make our bed, why we have to do these things It doesn't make sense to do this, but we understand there's a reason behind it. We've thought through I want I want to keep this in shape in condition, and so I need to make sure I'm eating these things. I need to hit this goal weight, so I'm going to do these exercises. We do it intentionally. We do it logically. But all of our physical bodies also have something in common. They'll all one day be destroyed. For Christians, ours will be replaced with a glorified body. For the unsaved, theirs will be destroyed eternally in the lake of fire. All the work that you did, and I I say it is important to a certain extent to keep your body in good shape, but all that work you did will be of no use when either of these situations materialize. And that's why our spiritual lives are so much more important. Jesus addressed this idea when he spoke of removing a hand, an eye, or a foot. He taught people it's better to have a damaged body and go to heaven than to have a whole body and go to hell. You don't have to destroy your body to go to heaven, but your focus should be much more on the spiritual than on the physical. Again, your physical health is not to be ignored, but your spiritual health is immeasurably more important. Let me illustrate this through another through another spiritual principle, kind of to illustrate. Remember we just read it if you were in the church devotional program a couple chapters ago, how Jesus said, You cannot be my disciple if you don't do these things. And one thing he said was, If you do not hate your mother, father, brother, sister, children, you cannot be my disciple. And we understand when he says hate there, he's not talking about actually despising and loathing your family members What he's saying is that your love for me should so outweigh your love for family that that it looks uh like hey, it's the idea of loving something less. And the same should be true with our physical versus our spiritual, that our care for our sph our our spiritual nature should be so extreme that it makes our care for our physical nature seem minute. Not that the care for the physical is not there, but that our care for our spiritual is so much more important to us. The problem is that for most of us our care for our physical is so important And so habitual and so practiced and so methodical and we're not going to miss it, but our care for our spiritual is almost non-existent. We've got it backwards. That we're so much more worried about this body than worried about our spiritual nature. So what do you do for your spiritual health that is habitual on a daily basis? Every time this happens, I'm going to do this to take care of myself spiritually. What do you do for your spiritual life that's intentional? You know, I need to do this spiritually, so here's what I'm going to put in place to make sure that it happens. What are you doing intentionally? What are you doing logically? What have you thought through for yourself and for your family? You know what, here's where we want to end up as Christians What am I going to put in place to get there? We'll do that for a diet to lose 15 pounds, but we won't do that for a year to figure out how to read our Bible. And so we got our focus on the wrong thing. The f the spiritual is so much more important than the physical. So we need spiritual protection. Proverbs 4, verse 23 warned us to keep our hearts. The word keep there is the idea of protect. It's not doesn't mean hold on to it, it doesn't mean save or treasure, it means to protect. If you remember to a uh medieval example, a keep was a part of the castle. And the keep was the part of the castle that was the stronghold. If the castle came under attack, the the nobility would go into the keep. It was the most fortified tower where all the valuables and the valuable people would be put if there was ever attack to keep them safe That's the idea, to keep them, to keep them safe. And God says, keep your heart, protect it, build some strongholds around it, set a guard there to protect it from the spiritual damage that is coming for you. Why should we um protect our hearts? Why should we keep our hearts? Proverbs 423 told us, for out of it are the issues of life. We need to guard our hearts from what comes in because The issues of life come out of it. And you know what comes out of your heart is based on what you've allowed into your heart. It's what we've allowed in. We should be concerned with what comes out of our hearts I remember one time when I was a young person, uh I was probably nine or ten, I was baking a cake. Uh I believe for my birthday I was making a cake, and uh um the cake came out terrible. You know why it came out terrible? Because of what got put into it. Is that why it came out bad? It came out of the oven bad because it went into the oven bad. See what I did is I mixed up abbreviation in the recipe between teaspoon and tablespoon when it came to salt in the recipe. I misread what it was talking about and grabbed the wrong spoon. Turns out what comes out of the oven has a lot to do with what was put into it. The same is true of our hearts. What comes out of our hearts is based on what put in what's put into it. So as Christians, we need to guard our hearts, we need to protect our hearts, we need to keep our hearts, and not just ours, keep the hearts of our children. Because the things we allow into their hearts are going to come out of their heart as well. So we need to guard, we need to protect what goes into there. I've heard the expression uh from from numbers of Christians who say something that they shouldn't and follow it with the excuse, oh I don't know where that came from. Well the Bible tells us where that came from. It came out of your heart. And how did it get into your heart? Because you let it there. You did you didn't keep your heart and you let it get in there. Understand that a lack of spiritual protection will result in a harvest of wickedness. This is where we jump from Proverbs to Matthew. Proverbs tells, keep your heart, because out of it are the issues of life. Matthew takes this and says, here's the things that come out of your heart. And they're defiling you. And we read this list here. We're not going to take time to go through it again, but he has there in the passage just All the atrocities and and evils that of human existence are possible from our heart, because our heart is wicked. Desperately wicked, who can know it? It's bad enough on its own without you pouring a bunch of extra junk down in there. Um and we need to be careful because of out of our life is where where the issues of life come. So we need to be guarding them. We're not defiled because of the physical things that we bring in, like eating with unwashed hands. That's the context here. The Pharisees were upset that the disciples were not washed. their hands before they ate and talked to Jesus about it. And he's saying, look, eating when you only washed hands, that's not what's going to make the difference. You need to be more concerned with the spiritual than with the physical. But they were worried about that. We're defiled because we have not guarded our hearts and the stuff we put in is going to work its way out. We should have a greater concern for our spiritual protection than we have for our physical But ask the question, what gets more of our attention and our protection, our spiritual health or our physical health? Let me give you two simple examples of this. Are you worried? Are you more worried about your children washing their hands before they eat or praying before they eat? Right here from this example, what's more important, that they get their hands washed or that they pray? I'm not saying you can't do both. That's okay to do both. But what what's more concerning to you? I can tell you because I'm not too worried about unwashed hands. My kids have heard a lot more. Did you pray? than they have heard, did you wash your hands from me? Because to me, the spiritual is more important than the physical. Not saying the physical is not important. It's still important. We should do those things, but where is the emphasis? Where's the focus? What are we worried more about? I could care less that their hands are dirty. I want to make sure their hearts are shaped right and pointed towards the Lord. Another simple example, this last year we've gone through a worldwide health concern pandemic. Uh and panic. Uh in 90%, I read a study, 90% of people are washing their hands more often than they were before, uh, based on the last year and all the recommendations and all the signs we have posted everywhere. 90% are washing their hands more than they used to Makes you wonder how much people used to wash their hands. People learned more about health and germs and bacteria spread over the last year than they ever thought they would. Now I'm going to make an illustration and I hope you can see the illustration and not get tied up in the weeds and the politics and the concerns w as I deal this with this illustration. I know there are a lot of different opinions when it comes to the precautions that people took last year, but I believe it would be accurate to say that most people who wore masks last year did so under the belief that a cloth filter could protect them from physical danger They wanted a claw filter because they're worried about what's coming in, and it was going to protect them from physical danger. And there are lots of Christians who operate under the same belief Most of the Christians who were toss filter to protect their lungs likely do not have an internet filter to protect their hearts. That we're so worried about the physical and we have no concern for the spiritual. If a parent made a child wear a mask to protect their physical health, but gave them an unfiltered device with no concern for their spiritual health, they're spiritually foolish. I would rather have my children get sick of COVID than to be expl exposed to pornography through something that I gave them as as a parent We need to be aware of the spiritual danger. We're hyper-aware of the physical danger, but we need to put protections in place to guard ourselves and our children of the spiritual danger that's out there. So we have this idea of um the necessity and the requirement that we have. I lost my point. Got a couple pages of mine. For spiritual, the regard for the spiritual, we need to be worried about the spiritual more than the physical. And so this brings us to the requirement for centuries We need help guarding our hearts. We need to put things in place to be those sentries, to be those guards, some hard and fast things in our lives to protect us. Say, I'm not letting this into my life. I'm guarding myself from this area in my life. Do you have anything in place to protect your hearts and the hearts of your children? We all need these physical guards in place to protect ourselves. Couple principles here that can be sentries for you. All devices should have time limits. Most devices today have the ability to implement time limits. I have time limits on my phone and my wife has the password, so I can't change my time limits She has the password to that. The same is true of her phone. She has time lips on things on her phone and I have the password to it. Whenever my kids are going to get a device whenever that happens years from now. There's gonna be time limits in place. Why? For protections, physical protections, saying this is not good for you. Even if it's not something bad, it's not good for you to spend an hour and a half a day on this game on this activity. We need to have some safeguards in place. All devices should have time limits. When we consider um the protections we're placing on our our devices, we need to keep in mind the other principles. What's getting power over them? What's having priority in our lives? What's what's affecting our purity? What's affecting our presentation? And we need to restrict those things. When we consider time limits, every person is going to be different. I have different time limits on things on my phone than my wife does on her phone, because we have different things that affect us when it comes to our presentation and our power and our priorities and things of that nature. So all devices should have time limits. All devices should have downtime. This is closely related to the first, but instead of just having limits on certain applications, there should be limits on the whole device. The phone should go off sometime in the evening. Other than the ability to receive text and phone calls, my phone shuts down at 1050 and it doesn't wake back up until 6. 30. If it wasn't a pastor, I'd turn off texts and calls as well. Brother Brady mentioned that as far as when was the time that you got a three o'clock in the morning emergency phone call? Well as pastor, I've had a couple of those. So might leave my phone on. Um but don't call me unless it's an emergency. Um I got a call at 330 about two weeks ago. That was not an emergency, and I I didn't I didn't appreciate that. Uh it wasn't from anybody in the church. Um it was from the fire system They're like, hey, there's a problem, but you don't have to worry about it. Like, well then why did you call me at 3. 30 in the morning? Um but I I shutting it down. Say this this this I don't there's no reason I should still be on this after this time at night. And pick that. Pick that for yourself, pick that for your children, and put it in place. Some downtime. The phone should have some restricted access zones. For example, maybe when you're having family time. What? No phones. No phones in the living room between 7 and 9 o'clock. Whatever you want to do for your family. No phones at the table will be another example. Maybe at church. Uh collect the kids' phones before they come. Uh or put your phone in the car. We should have some restricted areas and say these are areas where where I'm not going to let myself have access to these things. Some some restrictions there. All devices should have downtime. All devices should have filters. What prevents your phone from accessing content that you shouldn't access? What prevents your kids from accessing it? There are some built-in filters and there's external filters that you should I have built-in filters put on my phone and right now I'm shopping for a different solution. I've gone through several of them for an external filter to put on my phone beyond what's just built into it. And money spent on filters is well worth it. I'm a tight one and I don't like spending money, but it's worth it to put it on to put some restrictions and filters on your devices. So all devices should have filters. All devices should also have restrictions There are apps and content that do not belong on a Christian's phone. And there are many more apps and content that do not belong on a child's phone or a young person's phone. Most of the things that young people shouldn't be doing take place through alternative apps. It's not what's built in the phone, it's what they download and bring onto their phone. That's where the danger comes in most of the time. There's still danger on the stuff that's there But there are some apps and things that children and teens shouldn't have on their phones. And they shouldn't be allowed to download new stuff to their phone without your knowledge. They should be able to say, hey, I want to put this on my phone. And you can restrict that as a parent. Um that you can say, don't let them download anything without me seeing it first. That way you can open the app and say, oh, this is a calculator that hides pictures inside of it. Why would they need that on their phone? This is a device that deletes messages after they're sent. Why would they need that on their phone? And you can restrict what gets put on their phone. And lastly, as far as these principles, these centuries, all devices should be accessible Parents should have complete access to every aspect of their child's devices all the time. They can look over your shoulder, they can read your text, they can go through your pictures, they can access deleted files. They can open all of your apps whenever they want to. They can also take away your device whenever they want to. Parents should have complete, unrestricted anytime access to a child's phone. If you're on it, they can come take it and look at it and see what you're doing. And you shouldn't fuss about that, because they're doing it to protect you, as far as that goes. They should be accessible. Also, husbands and wives should have unrestricted access to each other's devices anytime as well. My wife has all my passwords, I have all her passwords anytime she wants to. And she can go through it if she wanted to. And I can do the same for hers, unrestricted access. Why? It's to protect us, to have these sentries in place. So having some firm sentries guarding our hearts are important to keep us protected as Christians. Beyond the things that are these hard and fast, these don't change. These are things that we want in place. There are more general principles we can put, and I've called these the role of safeguards. Just some guidelines, just like on a curve on a mountain, you have the guardrail there to keep you from going too far. These general principles that we can put into our lives and say, you know what, for our family, we're just going to do this to protect us, to watch out for ourselves. A couple examples that I'll give you come from the Red Book that I showed you, the TechWise Family. He listed ten principles that he put in place in their home. and said these are things that we do to protect our family when it comes to devices. One thing I liked about his book is that at the end of each chapter, so each of these ten principles had to do with a chapter. End of the chapter he gave a self-evaluation. How is the couch family doing with this Crouch family? How's the crowd family doing? He said, Well, we didn't do this one very well. We tried to, we put it in place, but hey, we we we messed up in this area, this area. He just put that in there and say, you know what, these these are principles and they helped our family, but you know we weren't perfect Uh but and you're not going to be perfect either. But having them is better than not. And having these safeguards in place. So what is some of the his rules that he had? Number one, his rule was we develop wisdom and courage together as a family. Family, kids are instructed from the parents is basically the idea there. Secondly, we want to create more than we consume. Number four, we are designed for a rhythm of work and rest, not of toil and leisure. One hour a day, one day a week, and one week a year, as a family we turn off our devices. That was one of his rules he had. Number five four, we wake up before our devices and they go to bed before we do. Number five, we aim for no screens before double digits at school or at home. Until his youngest child hit ten years old and he didn't buy a TV. Um and three months after they had a T V, somebody asked the kids how what it was like having a TV and the ten year old said, We've got a TV Because ten years without one, you don't need one that bad. But that was one of his principles that he put in place. Number six, he says we use screens for a purpose, and we use them together rather than using them aimlessly and alone. Number seven, car time is conversation time. Number eight, spouses have one another's passwords and parents have total access to children's devices. Number nine, we learn to sing together rather than letting recorded music take over our lives and our worship And number 10, we show up in person for the big events of life. So these are 10 principles he put in place as a as a family. Here's what we're going to do to protect ourselves from technology. I'm not saying you have to list those ten and I don't have those ten in my life. But I have some. And you should have some. Saying as a family, this is what we're going to try to do to control this area of our life, to have some safeguards that are there. It's part of protecting your heart. It's part of protecting your children. Just some examples from when I was a young person, uh, as a teenager is right when I was a teenager right when technology was becoming more and more ubiquitous. Um, and uh got uh I mean cell phones, my and when I was in the youth group, uh that's when kids first started getting cell phones. When I came in the youth group, none of the teenagers had them. When I came out of the youth group, most of the teenagers did. So that's the time frame that we're talking about here. And understand um technology This the phones that we had, all they could do was call and text and take really bad pictures. That's all that the phone could do. There's no accessing the internet. Um and even even then you I'll I'll use that in an example. example in a second, but my phone couldn't text. Um I couldn't text until I came to Hunt Valley and Pastor Dave told me I had to put text in my phone so he could talk to me. But I didn't text. It didn't come with our phone. Our phone did not have that ability until I was twenty one um to to send text messages. And so that was even restricted there. But here's the ru uh guide rails that my dad put in place in our home. One of the rules was that there was only going to be one phone that was shared by all the kids And you could only use it once you started driving. The idea was the phone's there to communicate with your parents when you're not home. That was his rule that he had. You could only bring the phone away from the house if you're leaving without a parent. If me and mom are going to the grocery store, I can't bring the phone with me. Why? Because I got mom. Um and I don't need the phone to call to anybody while we're at the store. That was another rule that we had. The phone had to be left on the counter unless you were leaving the house with it You couldn't take the phone in the living room, couldn't take the phone in the bedroom, couldn't take the phone in the hallway, couldn't take the phone in the b Bathroom, phones stayed on the kitchen counter unless you're leaving the house without a parent. We were not allowed, as I said earlier, we were not allowed to text. My phone didn't have texting on it until I was 21. And to this day, to my knowledge, the Wi-Fi at my parents' house is unplugged before my dad goes to bed. Whenever my dad goes to bed, the Wi-Fi for the whole house is unplugged. And that's right now with my 25-year-old brother and my mom and dad living there. As far as I know, when my dad goes to bed, the internet's unplugged Just some safeguards that he puts in place for his home that I had when I was there as a teenager when technology was a lot less dangerous than it is now. So again, these aren't rules that I'm putting out for you to put into your life. Just some ideas and to think about What do I have? Have I put any safeguards? Do I have any boundaries? Do I have any restrictions when it comes to my life and when it comes to the use of technology? Not just for my kids, but also for me, having these rules in place Lastly, this morning, I want to emphasize one last point, and that's the reason for support. In order to protect our hearts, we need accountability. Accountability is an often forgotten protection that is available to us as Christians. You know, in the Bible, as Christians, we have the responsibility to provoke one another to love and good works. We have the responsibility to exhort one another. We have the responsibility to admonish one another. Do you care enough about your brothers and sisters in Christ to check up on one another? This gets back to what we're talking about with the physical versus the spiritual. We're very diligent to pray for one another's physical needs and to check up with them to see how they're doing. So why are we so hesitant to check up with one another spiritually? We'll go to somebody and say, hey, how did your surgery go? We're asking him, how did it go when you were there with the doctor and he cut a hole in your body and put his hands in there and changed some things around and put it that's kind of an invasive question. More invasive of the question than, hey, how was your Bible reading this week? But we're so we're we're okay talking about the physical, but but we're nervous talking about the spiritual You know, the Christians that have fallen out of the relationship with God and out of church, they needed a Christian friend to come and ask them, What did you do in your Bible reading this week? We need accountability, not just after we mess up, but we need accountability before we mess up. This starts by building deep relationships with one another, and it starts in the home. You know, the deepest relationship we have outside of our relationship with the Lord is with our spouse Do you know if your spouse read the Bible this week? Do you know what your spouse is praying for? Do you know what your spouse struggles with? We don't because even with our spouse our relationship is superficial. How's your relationship with your children? Are they comfortable coming to you with spiritual needs? Do you know what their devotional life is like? Are they saved? And if they're not, are you praying for their salvation? Can they talk to you, or do they know you're too busy I heard somebody comment recently, I had somebody comment recently on how many questions my son Titus asks. If you've been around Titus very much, he can talk for hours if you let him. You know, there's times when I will tell him that's enough. No more questions, no more talking, no more words. But I want him to know that when he has questions, he can come and ask God for answers. So I let him ask a lot of questions. Because right now the questions are why do spicy drinks make me burp? But one day it's going to be, my friend said this, what does that mean? My friend showed me this. So later he can be comfortable asking questions as well. I want that relationship with my children. And this good relationship that you have within the members of your family should extend outside the home to Christian friends of the same sex. Men and men and men should have good Christian relationships where you can challenge one another, iron sharpened of iron, so is the man sharpened accounts of his friends, the ladies that get together, we should be challenging one another spiritually and keeping each other accountable. Not because somebody's done something wrong and you're making sure they're not doing it again. To make sure they're doing what's right. To say, hey, I'm I'm concerned about you. I want to see you succeed. I want to see you grow as an individual and as a Christian. I read this week that meaningful conversation will rarely happen until seven minutes into a conversation. And that seven-minute counter will restart every time someone new is added to the conversation. So what that means is that you're not going to develop these type of relationships in the foyer. We have to spend time together. If you want to have that kind of a relationship with another, we need to watch out for one another. Not only do we need accountability before we mess up, we also need accountability after we mess up. Accountability is vital for us to overcome things that we struggle with as Christians. This is a theme that the young people brought up several times last week in their testimonies from camp. The path to victory on your own is riddled with defeat. A wounded person will always walk easier with someone else to lean on. In Ecclesiastes four, nine and ten it says, Two are better than one, because they have good reward for their labor, for if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him that is alone when he falleth, for he hath not another to help him up. And in 2 Timothy 2 verse 22, this is a whole nother message about biblical accountability that I want to preach at some point. But he gives us the recipe for overcoming sin. He says in that verse, flee is full lust. You've got to flee. Follow righteousness, faith, and charity. So there's things you've got to get rid of. There's things you've got to go after, but it says there with them that call on the Lord. You flee sin, you follow righteousness, and you do it with some other people Having some accountability. As Christians, this is a great protection that we can have in our lives to watch out to make sure we don't fall into Satan's temptations. Starts in the home and extends to our our church home, our church family, caring for one another. Very important for us as Christians to protect protect ourselves because our spiritual needs are way more important than our physical needs. Our spiritual protection is way more important than our physical protection. And we've got to make sure that gets us the right place in our life.