Pray for for wisdom and you pray for me as uh you know I'm going to continue to try and study and look into this that I might be an encouragement and exhort you uh as As a church family with regards to prayer throughout this year and uh hopefully God uses it in a great way in our midst. We're looking at uh today our theme verse for the month and that is the potential of prayer. We preached this morning the first couple of points with regards to the potential of prayer. But if you look back at our text, James chapter five, I would like to read that uh verses thirteen through twelve. twenty again to get our minds back in the context of what we're dealing with here. He says, if any among you is afflicted, let him pray. Is any merry, let him sing psalms. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of the faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain. And it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth And one convert him, let him know that he which converted a sinner from the error of his ways shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of We began this morning and talked about this idea of the potential of prayer and what to do in a time of hardship. What to do when you're under hardship. If any of you is afflicted, what should you do? Pray. Amen. Well, I don't know what happened. You know, sometimes as a speaker, you you you have something in your mind and you look down at this page of scripture And somehow all the words on the page just get all turned around. You're like, I know it's here. And I was looking through chapter 5 this morning trying to find that verse when I was starting out and uh it was kind of a plug for in worst case scenario this is what when in worst case scenario this is what you do So look back if you would in chapter 5 at a verse. I went back to it this afternoon. I don't know why I didn't see it. I was looking for a particular phrase, and it's found in verse 7 and verse 8. He says, Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming Look at verse number eight. Be ye also patient, establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. So, love in the worst case scenario, know this, the Lord's coming soon. Amen. So, I mean if things are bad, if you're under hardship and if it's a cloudy day and and and things are rough and you think, man, I don't know if I can handle it anymore, uh, he exhorts us to be patient Hang on a little longer because hey the Lord Lord's coming draweth nigh. He's coming, it's right around the corner, and that's what we can do. But if until then, what do we do? We pray We've got to pray that God would come on our behalf. And we saw this morning the fellowship of the believer. Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Is any merry? Let him sing. In that point, we looked at the partnership that's there for the saints, that partnership that we have in the family of God and what a joy it is to have a family of God. I received a text this afternoon From one of our members and said, I was a member of church for many years and I participated in many things. I sang in the choir and I was involved in this program and that program. But she said it wasn't until I came to Hunt Valley that I found a church family. And she said, I praise God for my church family at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And that's what church is supposed to be. It is a family where we come together and We worship together, but we uh rejoice with those that rejoice and we weep with those that weep. There's that partnership of the saints, and we see that petition for the suffering as we lift each other's prayers up for each other and carry each other's burden. And pray for one another. And we see that praise of the Savior. That we ought to be drawn into the presence of God. And that's part of what our song service is, just praising God and lifting our hearts up in worship unto God. We began this morning looking at the faith of the believer. Verses fourteen through sixteen seeing that faith, that prayer of faith that heals the sick, as we saw the petition for sickness, that, hey, listen, it's right to pray. Regardless of what caused the sickness, regardless of what somebody's belief might be about the sickness It's right to pray for those that are ill. And that's something that we as God's people need to be holding one another up and praying for each other. There is the placement of the sob that's put on the oint the ointment and you can be anointed with oil. We saw that's anointment for anointed for a medical purpose, or uh you could also be anointed there uh for a metaphorical purpose and that's the same. That is a picture, a testimony of your faith in God, that God can and will answer prayer and that you're trusting Him in it. And we discussed this morning the practice of sharing. That practice of sharing and the idea that we're supposed to share this together as a church. Let him call the elders. Let him call the elders. Hey, if there's somebody that's sick You've got to share. You've got to let people know. You've got to tell somebody that you're going through it. You shouldn't be carrying that burden all alone, beloved. You've got a church family that wants to carry it with you. And sometimes I know people say, well, I didn't want to bother anybody with my problems. And in some respects, you know, hey, praise God, you can handle it. But listen, your church family is there to help you. Your church family is there to carry that load with you, but it takes sharing. We've got to share. And listen, we rejoice together, we weep together, we pray together, we worship together. It's family. And that's what it's about. And so you you've got to practice, we've got to we've got to do that. We've got to practice that sharing and make sure that we don't let things slip by that that's part of what our testimony time is for Just talking about what God's doing and sharing with one another what God's doing in our hearts and what's going on in our lives. And we praise the Lord for that. Then we So the participation and submission and the idea that there is an implication in the text with regards to sin that many times sickness was looked at as uh uh There's possibly or there's sin in somebody's life, and that's why it's there. So he says here in the text, hey, if there's sin in your life, confess it. Confess your sins to one another and and and you can be forgiven. And we discussed that sufficiently this morning. I think that we don't need public displays of what we've done wrong, but individually. If if you've offended somebody, go to thy brother. And and get get it right with your brother. And we talked about that. There's only one aspect of this that I didn't get into To this morning, and that is the idea that there may be somebody that you need to confess your sin to that they might partner with you in helping you to be victorious over that. They might have nothing to do with the sin, they might have nothing to do with the situation and not be part of it, but there's somebody that's mature and spiritual and they're strong in the Lord, and you need somebody to partner with you to help you get victory. You need somebody to hold you accountable and say, listen, I need you to to help me and and you're gonna be my partner in this and we're gonna pray together through this. And and uh sometimes when you're dealing with something that's very personal or really something something that you're struggling with, it helps to have a prayer partner. Somebody you know that's praying with you. Somebody that you know is gonna he next time they see you, they're gonna say, hey, you having the victory in this And you you've committed to be honest to the with them and you've got to tell them I I messed up this week. They get and you get together and pray and get it right and and then you say, hey, I I've been victorious. I've been victorious. victorious and praise God and you work together on that. And so sometimes you might confess what you've done to somebody because you want them to help you get victorious. Victory in that area, but there is that practice of submission and submitting to what God wants us to do that we can be forgiven. Then I want you to see the potential of seeking God. The potential of seeking God and That's what we see in this verses 15 and 16 here, that the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Would you agree with me? Would you agree with the Word of God that prayer works? That prayer is powerful, that prayer does accomplish things. It's getting a hold of heaven And it's not that we're twisting the arm of God or that we're changing his mind. You know, God wants to do for you. God wants to answer your prayer. God wants to meet your need. You have not because you ask not. And when we're praying in sync with the will of God, it's his desire to answer our prayers. He wants to do that for us. And there is so much potential in prayer. Man, the prayer of faith shall save the sick. The prayer of faith shall save the sick. What an amazing thing. Now let me just say that this is not an endorsement of the faith healers that are out there. Okay, this is this those people are scam artists. If they could really pray and heal people, then how come they're not going to the hospitals? How come they're not out there uh seeing people the the only time they're healing people is when it can be televised When it can be monetized. Okay, that's what it is. When that's when they're healing people. And uh so many of them have been proven time and time again with camera equipment and so on to be sure. Listen, we believe God can heal. No question. I don't doubt that at all. But you understand it's about God, not about some guy that can slap you on the forehead. God can do it. And he can and will heal, but these people that make a show of it and try and encourage you to send your seed offering in. Plant that seed so that you can be healed. I mean they they've done documentaries where Groups were taking literally thousands of letters. They opened the letter, they got it on video. They opened the letter, take the checkout, and throw the letter over there. They've told everybody on television, we're gonna pray over every one of these little Letters. We're gonna we will call on God. Every single request is brought before the Heavenly Father. And they got it on video. They're tearing them out, pulling the checks out, throwing the letters away. Boxes of letters just being dumped into the dumpsters Just scamming people. Now, God can heal. There is potential in prayer. And I praise God for that. But don't get caught up into that faith healing stuff. Beloved, it's the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man that availeth much. You talk about potential. Potential to see great things. happen. That but that's just amazing. George Mueller was crossing a body of water. I know he was going from Quebec to somewhere. I don't remember where the other uh place was. I just read this in the book uh that we're having the bookstore now called The Kneeling Christian. Uh I was gonna promote that tonight, so I'll promote it right now. The Kneeling Christian Christian, by the unknown Christian. It'll be less than $10. Be there in the bookstore for you. I want to encourage every member of Hunt Valley Baptist Church to read to read that book. It's a short read. I'm not a good reader by any means and I I'm most of the way through it in in about a week and a half. So here another week or so I'll be done with it. Uh but very powerful stuff. Anyways, George Mueller was going from Quebec to somewhere, and his wife who suffered severely from uh motion sickness, seekness seasickness, uh needed a chair that helped somehow with that. And And uh he had purchased one, and it was being shipped to their port of departure. And he had prayed that it would come, and he had confirmation from God that God was gonna get it there And they were on the ship waiting for this chair to arrive, and the captain of the ship comes to them and says, Listen, Mr. Mueller, I know you're waiting for this chair. It it's only about thirty minutes till we're going to depart. And There's no way they're gonna get something here in the next thirty minutes. It's not here, it's not gonna get here, it's not gonna get on the ship. You why don't you just go into a shop in town and buy one? Mueller says nope. We've prayed that it'll be here. It'll be here And uh they were waiting and again the the captain said, Listen, in just a couple more minutes you won't even have time to go get a chair and I know this is very important to you and you gotta do this whole passage without the Chair for your wife, you might want to just run and grab one. He says, nope, we've prayed. God will answer. And uh just Just as the tinder was going to pull the plank from the shore, up pulled uh carriage, on the top was the chair. They grabbed the chair off the top and ran across the plank and they actually inadvertently handed it to the captain. And he he was like, no, he needs that over there. Mr. Mueller's chair is here And what a testimony. There's power in prayer. Listen, we talked about it this morning. I mean, you think the sun and moon stood still. I mean, there is power, there's potential there. If God can cause the sun and moon to stand still, I think God can help you and I with what's going on in our life. God can do this. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Now, I've called this point the potential of prayer on purpose because I want you to understand that God is under no obligation to heal you. I know we pray and we pray in faith, but uh God is not obligated to answer that request in the word way that you see fit. You may in your mind be looking for a particular outcome, but that might not be what God's will is for you. And just because you've prayed and you can look in the scriptures and see examples like when Israel was asking for a king. God withheld that king and they kept on coming and kept on coming and finally said, okay, if that's what you want, you can have it. But you got what you wanted, but you lost what you had. And that was the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords directly ruling over them. A just Lord, a just king. Now they had a man who was fallible with all the weaknesses of men. They lost what they had But God's not under any obligation to heal you just because you prayed. The potential's there, God can, and we've seen God do great things like that. But you remember Paul, who prayed three times. That his thorn in the flesh would be removed. And God said, no, but my grace is sufficient. Right? So God didn't answer the way that uh Paul wanted him to, but God gave him what he needed. In 1 Peter chapter 4, verse 19, it says, Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God. God. Let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to Him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator Saying, okay, Lord, I've got this thorn in the flesh and it's not your will that I get rid of it. I'm just gonna show Trust you. I've got this problem, I've got this need, I've got this this burden, I've got this struggle, whatever it might be. We pray and understand that God, the potential's there for God to miraculously solve the problem or to bring aid or to bring a conclusion, and he can do it. But he's not under obligation to. But we are under an obligation to trust him. Whatever. He answers. You can trust God because he knows what is best. When we continue in pursuit of Something that not necessarily God's will for us. Sometimes God will give it to us. Just like He did for the children of Israel, but it wasn't what's best for us. You know, there's sometimes Sometimes kids can do that to their parents. Parents know it's not best for you to stay up that late, or parents know it's not best for you to watch that. Parents know it's not best for you to play that or for you to have that But you just kept asking and kept asking, and as a parent, they they're trying to do what's best for you, but they just say, oh, fine. You want it so bad, you see, they want to make you happy. And they give in and give you what's not best for you. You say, well, hey, at least I got what I want, but it wasn't what was best for you. You need to trust God. I want you to see thirdly here the fruit of believers. In verses 17 and 18 He says, Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months, and he prayed again in the heaven gave rain and the earth brought forth her fruit. The fruit of the believers, beloved, here I want you to see that first of all Elias, uh Elijah was a man of like passions as we are. We see the passions of a sinner here the passions of a sinner. Elias is just like you and I. He had the same burdens, the same heartaches, the same struggles. He had the same things that he dealt with here in sometimes Elijah was courageous and he went, you remember, I mean he he he was underneath Ahab, that wicked king. And his wonderful wife, Jezebel, who wanted his head on a platter And at times Elijah had that courage, and he went before Ahab and said, listen, this is what God said, and like it or love it, this is the truth. And they didn't like it. But then at other times he ran. And you know, in my notes I say he he was a coward because that is alliterated with courage. But but but I mean I don't want to be that hard on him really because I don't know that I would have been any different when the when the king, the strongest man, you know, says and and his wife is ready to kill you. I'm not sure I would be standing up and saying, oh, come and get me then. You know, I mean, I I don't know. But he he at times what I'm saying is he was discouraged, downhearted, struggling with life. Just like you do, just like I do. And yet he has given us here this example in the Word of God. That he prayed and it didn't rain. Man, do you talk about the potential of prayer? He prayed again and it began to rain. Understanding, beloved, that was the will of God. God wanted to withhold the rain, that he could teach the people something. And when the lesson was learned, God said, okay, whenever you're ready, Elijah. Elijah prayed and the rain came. That you see the passions of this man who was just a sinner, but I want you to see that God provided for him because he was a saint. The provision of a saint. God answers prayers of the believers. And what I'm saying is, God gave us this example here, this testimony. This, hey, look what God did for me. God gave us this to say every single believer should be having answers to prayer in their life. You should be experiencing direct answers to prayer. And let me encourage you, stop praying so general. That you can attribute it to an answer because the sun came out. I mean God wants us to be specific. I remember years ago my brother Daniel was praying for a truck. He prayed for a truck that was a particular size with a particular engine and a particular color. And God gave it to him. Exactly what he was praying for. Not just, Lord, would you provide me some truck? He's like, No, I I need this size engine because I pull these trailers, I need I need this, and And Lord just waiting on you, just love to see you answer it. And and I'll tell you what the faith that Daniel had and the the the joy that he had when God gave him that truck and you know uh I mean hey, who wouldn't be happy with a new truck Anybody, hey, praise God, I got a new truck. But what made him happy is that God gave him exactly what he asked for That meant so much more to him than the truck that was sitting in the driveway. But that his Lord answered his prayer. God met his need. Christian, every one of us should have fruit in our life that we can look at and we could say, I prayed for this and God did it. I prayed and God answered. He met this need. He came through and supplied this. He did this for me. I prayed earnestly for from here to here or for this time. I asked God and He met that need I hope the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church are experiencing fruitfulness in your prayers. You're seeing God answer prayer for you, bringing about great blessings. In your life, because of the potential of prayer. This last point here is going to be a little bit of teaching, but I want you to see here the friendship of believers He said, Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him, let him know that he which converted the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death. And shall hide a multitude of sins. So we see here a provocation of a sinner. Beloved, we're supposed to provoke one another to love and We're supposed to provoke each other to do what's right. He says here, if a man has erred, if he has erred from truth, I want you to see there's two descriptions here in verse number 19. He says He does err from truth. Truth is doctrinal error. He's starting to believe and think the wrong things. He's starting to say things that don't line up with this book. He's starting to practice and do some things in his life that doctrinally are not correct. I have a friend, a great young man. Was going to be a missionary to Russia. Graduate from Bible college. Went through Christian school. His dad was a pastor for a long time. On deputation to go to be a missionary to Russia, he got caught up in Calvinism. So much so he said, there's really no reason for me to go to Russia It's not gonna make any difference. Decided not to do that. Quit raising support, went and got a house somewhere, and he's just living in his life now. Because he got tied up in Calvinism and figured it doesn't matter what he does. Whoever's going to be saved is going to be saved. Whoever's not is not. Doesn't make any difference. Doctrinally, he got messed up. But you see here he says in verse number 20, he says, if a sinner uh err of his way That is moral error. That is participating in doing things that we shouldn't do. This word convert here, he says, brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him, that word convert literally means to turn around. Like repentance, 180 degrees, to turn around. And so he says, if one doth err and and a brother in Christ, our point here is the friendship of the believer. A brother in Christ, a sister in Christ sees somebody heading down the wrong way. And we go to him and we say, hey, that's not right. You can't do that. You shouldn't do that. And we're able to convert him Turn him around and get him coming back the right way. That's what a friend does. That's what a brother in Christ does. That's what a sister in Christ does. When we see somebody go in the wrong direction, we should pray for them. And given the liberty to do so, we should go to them and try and help them turn around to do what's right. It's not just the pastor's job. And it is my job, but it's not just the pastor's job. If you or have a brother or sister in Christ that you claim to love And you see them going down the wrong way. Just like this morning in Sunday school, Pastor Derek was teaching and he was talking about raising your voice, dealing with corrupt communication. And he said, you know, there are times you don't want to raise it in anger, you don't want to raise it in clamor, but there are times that you might raise your voice because there's something calls for it. For instance If one of his boys happen to be out and they're going to pull a thing of bricks over on their head or something, he might raise his voice to get them to stop so they don't get hurt Well, beloved, when our sisters, our brothers in Christ are going the wrong way, it's cause for us to get involved To try and convert them, turn them back to him. We can't be like Cain and say, Am I my brother's keeper? He's a grown man. He can do whatever he wants to do. We ought to at least try. We ought to at least try. You can try and convert them by being an example. be an example unto them. Well I'll tell you what, it it it's there is positive peer pressure, just like there's negative peer pressure You know, we we talk about peer pressure among the young people and sometimes they you say, Oh, that peer pressure is going to get them to go the wrong way. But you know there's positive peer pressure as well? You could look over here. All these guys are wearing gray suits. I mean you talk about peer pressure, man. One started wearing a gray suit and then next Sunday another one and then no, I'm just kidding. That's not that's not how that happened. But um I'm just saying there's positive peer pressure. You know what? They are all in shirts and ties, they all look sharp. And there's that pressure to, hey, let's let's look sharp. Let's do right. Let's do what God wants us to do. Let's be an example And you can, with your brothers and sisters in Christ, you can put some positive peer pressure on them by you just doing what you're supposed to do. You be where you're supposed to be, and you serve God with fervency and pray and live an example of Jesus, what Jesus Christ wants you to be. And say, Man, if Don Wilson can do it, bless God anybody can do it, amen. I can do it. If Don can do it, I can do it Hey, there is that positive pressure. There are people that would look at like Don Wilson and say, Man, he's got a couple years on me. If he can do it, I can do it. You know, when I was in college, I'm not going to go We're gonna skip that con that thought that thought chain. We're gonna stay here. Be an example. Put that pressure on somebody. Just do what you know is right to do. And you can convert them. Get them to say, Man, I gotta stop slipping up. I gotta stop staying home. I gotta stop missing these opportunities. I gotta start being a witness. You be an example and you'll motivate others. Brethren, if one be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such in one in the spirit of meekness. You can be an encouragement to them. I tell you what, it's it's it's such a thing when somebody just write a note, just say, man, it was great to see you encouraging God's house today. Man, it was wonderful to see you ministering or serving this way. It was great for you to do this. I mean, uh, you just find a way to be an encouragement to somebody and it'll help them. If they're drifting, they're starting to kind of miss and go the wrong way, by you just encouraging them to do what's right. it could really it could turn them around. They could say, I didn't think anybody cared. I didn't even notice that people noticed that I wasn't here And then if God gives you liberty to, you may have to actually just go to them and correct them. Tell them this isn't right. You need to straighten up. You're going the wrong way, and I'm I'm burdened for you, brother. You're going the wrong way, and my heart is heavy. I I I just I've been praying for you, and I see you headed down the wrong pathway. It's not going to end up good for you or your family or your kids or whoever it is you're just talking to just say you can't you can't go that way You know, you remember the old saying, friends don't let friends drive drunk. Well, I think friends don't let friends drink. But the idea there is that you just what kind of a friend are you if you let somebody that is inebriated, get into a car and drive away and kill themselves or somebody else. Well beloved, what kind of a friend are you? If you let somebody go down a path of sin that's going to destroy their life, and you just say, well, they're doing what they're doing There's a friendship among the believers that's supposed to motivate us to bring correction, to try and bring correction to them. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. For the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. Now you understand, beloved, that this is in the context of friendship. This doesn't mean that you go tell everybody that you see that's doing something wrong. That they need to straighten up. That's that's not what you do. You don't just see somebody in church and say, Well, you shouldn't be acting that way, you shouldn't dress that way, you shouldn't talk that way, you shouldn't You understand the difference here is that you haven't earned the right to tell them that until you've been a friend. Once you've been a friend, that brings you to the place where you can say, you know I love you. You know I care about you Before that, they're just going to look at you and say, mind your own business. Which is probably good advice. You may be telling them something right. But you know what? They don't care what you're saying because you don't care about them. You've got to be a friend. And after you've had the privilege of being a friend and loving someone Somebody for a while, you see them going down the wrong way, you you've earned the right to come to them in love and say, Hey, man, you can't go down that road. This is not what God wants. You might have to do it. If you are find yourself in a place to correct someone, let me give you a couple of thoughts to remember. First, remember that no one likes correction. I know you do, but no one else does. No one no one likes to be told they're wrong. It doesn't matter, I don't know who's the youngest in here. Lucas, are you the youngest? Oh well. Yeah. We could talk we could go all the way down to Andrew. Andrew, you're the youngest You don't like correction, do you? Yeah. All the way Nobody likes correction. So would you remember that if you're gonna correct somebody? Use a little bit of wisdom. Remember that no one likes correction. Also, remember that you yourself are not perfect. You gotta be careful that you That you don't go to them with your nose stuck up in the air. I remember when I was a young and weak Christian that I had the problem that you're dealing with now You know, no. Understand it's only by God's grace that any of us or anything at all that God's done any work in our life that we've accomplished Or been able to grow to a point. And sometimes it's your own your own feeling of unworthiness will keep you from trying to correct somebody. You say, man, who am I? Your brother or sister that Loves them. You're not saying that you're perfect. You're not saying that you haven't done wrong. You're not saying you've never had a problem with what they're dealing with. Maybe the fact that you have had a problem, you know what it causes. And you can go to them and love and say, Man, let me help you in this. But you're not perfect. God didn't set you or I up as judge over other people's Lives. You shouldn't be looking for an opportunity to correct somebody. You know, like I I obviously have several kids over here, and the the youngest, Caleb, he gets bossed around all the time. By his older siblings. They're always telling him what to do, right? So Caleb looks for opportunities when his older siblings mess up. And he pounces on those. I mean like he'll like he'll just jump on that like you didn't put that away. You're supposed to take care of that or you're supposed to I mean he's trying to get even a little bit, you know, for for all the abuse he takes as the youngest. And uh he's looking for that opportunity. That that happens, but as Christians we shouldn't be looking for the opportunity to correct somebody. It shouldn't be joyous to us. We should come to it with fear and trembling. You need to remember to pray first. Pray first. Ask God for wisdom to help you. Ask God to open their heart and to give you the right words. Because when we approach somebody to correct them, they're not going to like it. But you might save their soul from death. And we see here the last That very last verse, the protection of the soul. Again, the idea of converting is to turn around. When you're able to get a Christian to turn Turn around, you bring them back, you actually protect their soul from death. Now this obviously it could, but it is not necessarily talking about physical death Now you could possibly protect somebody from killing themselves if you if you're able to keep them from you know getting involved in drugs or who knows what they're getting involved in and and that that inroad could kill them. But it's not necessarily talking about physical death. It also is not necessarily talking about uh death as in uh spiritual death where death and hell were cast in the lake of fire. Fire and this is the second death, it's not talking about your saving their soul by means of salvation. When the Bible talks about death, there is nowhere in the Word of God that the Bible teaches death is to cease to exist. That's not in the scriptures. That's evolutionary teaching. Do you know when the Bible speaks about death, what it's talking about? What is it describing? Separation. Separation. And I I want to give you a little teaching on this thought and solidify this in your mind. Because I think sometimes people's Perception on that is wrong. And what he's saying here, you could save their soul from death. He's saying you could save them from being separated from God. In the Bible, the idea of physical death. Is a separation of the body and the soul. To be absent from the body is to be, okay, well, your body stayed here. Right? But your soul went on to heaven. That physical death is a separation of the body and the soul. Your body stayed here. In Ecclesiastes twelve, verse number seven, he says, Then shall the dust return. A separation of this physical body that was formed from the dust of the ground, and the spirit, which God gave when he breathed in life The Bible talks about a second death. That is the separation between man and God. You see, you don't just cease to exist, but you for an eternity are separated from God in a place called hell. You continue to exist there Separated from God. That's what it's talking about. The men is now separated for eternity from God in Revelation twenty one, verse number eight. But the fearful and unbelieving and the bondable and murderers and whoremongers and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars shall have their part in the lake of fire which burneth. With fire and brimstone, which is the second death. That's the separation from the man and God. The Bible also talks about being dead to sin. Dead to sin. That is the separation between the Christian and sin. Again, teaching the idea of separation. Separation between the Christian and to be dead to sin is that we are separated from that. That we no longer are involved in that, that that is out of our life. Likewise, reckon yourselves also to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Romans 6, verse number 11. Dead to sin. That means we're separated from sin. Praise God. That's what the Christian is supposed to be: separated from sin. The Bible also talks about being dead to the law. Dead to the law. That is Christians being dead to the law, separated from the law. We're not under the law anymore. And I'm glad we're not. I'm glad we're under grace. In Romans 7, verse number 4, he said, Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of Christ. That ye should be married to another, even unto him who is raised from the dead, and we should bring forth fruit unto God. We're dead to the law, and we have new life in Jesus Christ. That's to be separated from the law. We're not under that anymore Then there's spiritual death, and that is where we're separated, that's man, from God. The most familiar verse with that, Isaiah 59. Verse 1 and 2 Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God. God and your sin has hid his face from you, that he will not hear you. That's the that is the death that it's talking about here. When it says if you're able to, as a brother in Christ, as a f as a true friend Friend would go and get somebody to turn around from the direction that they were headed. Moral failure, doctrinal failure, practicing doing the wrong things, get them to turn around. You just might save their soul. From death. And that is being separated from the presence of God. Because of sin it separates us From the presence of God. When you're a friend and you can do that for somebody else, that's what we're supposed to do, beloved. When a Christian Sins, he's separated from the Father. And it's amazing. You look at that last phrase there in that last verse. When you turn, when you get them to turn, Turn back to God, a multitude of sins are hid under the blood. A multitude of sins. Because God God is faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Think about the power, the potential of prayer to bring bring people back to God. Now listen, this entire message, we've covered a lot of information. There's a lot of teaching in this passage of Scripture. The fellowship of the believers. Maybe you need to thank God and value the fellowship, the the believer, the family of God that we have here. The faith of the believers, the that petitioning for sickness, the practicing the sharing of burden and letting the truth church family know about it. The participation and submission and and getting it right with your brothers or sisters in Christ if you offended them in some way and seeking their forgiveness or apologizing yourself or whatever you need to do. And then we see the potential of seeking God and what God can do. And we talked about that in different ways, but the miraculous things that God can do through prayer. I hope you have that faith, the prayer of faith. Then you have the fruitfulness. Are you seeing answers to prayer? Are you seeing God do things in your life? You say, Man, I wish I was. You talk about God answering prayer and meeting needs and doing this and Pastor, that's foreign to me. I don't even understand how that takes place. Listen, you can. God wants you to. Get a hold of it. Get that book we've got in the bookstore. Read it. Start to see the potential that prayer has. Get a hold of it and let God do great things. In your midst. The friendship of believers. That idea that we We as God's people really are our brother's keeper. And we really should be watching out for one another and making sure that we're not heading down the road wrong road. As I close, I want to read to you one small section about prayer From missionary David Wilbur Chapman. He said that he was in a meeting one time and he was heard he heard that praying hide Was going to be there. And he said the power of God in that meeting was so amazing that he sought for an opportunity for praying high To pray for him, missionary Wilbur Chapman. He went to him And he said, Mr. Hyde, I want you to pray for me. He came into my room, he turned the key in the door, locked it, and dropped to his knees. I waited beside him for five minutes without him uttering a single syllable. I could hear my own heart thumping and beating in my chest And then I felt tears running down my face. I knew I was in the presence of God. Then with upturned face And tears running down my cheeks. He looked up and he said, Oh God. Then again, for what must have been at least five minutes still, he sat quiet And only when he knew that he was talking with his God, there came from him and the depths of his heart such petitions for me that I had never heard. I rose from my knees to know then and there what real prayer was. And I believe that prayer is mighty and powerful. And I believe I believed it then as I never had before. There is great potential. In prayer. But it doesn't just happen because we say, Lord help me. It's the effectual, fervent prayer, fervent prayer of a righteous Man that availeth much. I want to see God do great things at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, and it's going to happen because of prayer. In the beginning pages of this book, it says very clearly the failure, every spiritual failure. Failure is the result of a prayer failure. Every spiritual failure is the result of a prayer failure. Church, we need to be be praying. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Are you experiencing answers to prayer, beloved As a church, we're going to track this year the prayers that we're seeing God answer. I would like every single member of Hunter Valley Baptist Church, every person that calls Hunt Valley Baptist Church their home to have testimony of God answered this prayer for me. God answered this prayer for me. When we get around to Thanksgiving service at the end of November Man, I would love to have that service just filled up with God, God answered this, God answered this, God answered this. But it's going to take a church that's praying to see God do great things.