All right, we're going to get right into the Word of God this evening. You can turn your Bibles to the Book of Ruth. We are looking at the book of Ruth. We began last week, just refresh our memories, some basic things that we learned. The book of Ruth was probably written by who? Anybody remember? Samuel. Samuel, correct. Probably written by Samuel. Ruth is a bridge between what two books? Judges and Ruth is in between, judges and 1 Samuel. Yeah, you got that. Then Ruth covers approximately how many years? Ten elevenish, uh just depends. We know for sure it tells us very clearly uh that they uh abode there, they continued there for ten years. And uh then uh there is the balance of the chapter covers, uh really uh the of the four chapters covers About a year or less, somewhere around around there. So about a year. And when we we read and study the scripture, we need to keep in mind, uh obviously all scripture is profitable. But there's some basic things regarding our understanding and interpretation of Scripture that we need to remember, and that is that there's one primary interpretation So when we begin to study scripture, we gotta be careful that we don't get off onto uh a lot of uh Goofy tangents and things, there is one primary interpretation. However, there are many practical applications And the word of God can be applied to our life in many different ways. And the same passage of scripture that uh speaks to these young men over here uh today is going to speak very differently to them when they're married and have kids and are raising a family and uh because all of life is different and what they're dealing with is different and so how it impacts them can be completely different. So There's only one primary interpretation, but one many practical applications. But also a lot of scripture, not all scripture, but a lot of scripture also has a prophetic revelation. And there is some of that in the book of Ruth. And you really need to have a balance of these things when you begin to look at and study the scriptures, because if you don't have a balance You really will get off into some goofy beliefs. You'll get off into, I mean, if we are all dealing with uh practical application, that's very interesting and I tend to be a very practical person, so if if we're only practical application, then you have a tendency to not be very doctrinally correct. And you begin to be more emotionally based truths. And so practical application leads towards that. However, if we're all interpretation, Then we begin to be, oh, we are theologically and doctrinally correct, but we're very orthodoxy in our address and our how we come across. And although we can, you know, theologically describe a biblical truth, we don't know how that applies to our family. We don't know what difference that's supposed to make for us today. And so you need uh all three. And then of course if you go off on prophecy, you get into a lot of problems when you start trying to draw prophetic revelation out of passages of scripture that don't have prophetic revelation. You'll see people applying things and making applications and drawing typology and analogies. from passages of scripture that have nothing to do with those things. And when you when you begin to focus too heavily on the prophecy aspect then you you really can get into some big things. But all three of these things are part of the book of Ruth and as we go through I will do my best to say stay true to the interpretation, but as well as give us some practical application that can really speak to our heart as well. And then although prof prophecy is an area where I'm weak, I will be trying to give you the prophetic uh interpretation as well, the the revelation as it pertains to the children of Israel and what God is saying about them. So we're going to be talking about those things as we go through this. We are in the book of Ruth, and today we're going to be looking at verses chapter 1, verses 1 through 5. Last week we did just the introduction, learning the basics of the book of Ruth. So beginning here in verse number 1, first of all, we see the move to Moab. Verses one and two. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to sojourn in a country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, in the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons, Molon and Kileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah, and they came into the country of Moab And continued there. We see here that word, opening word of this verse, now. That connects us back to the book of Judges. It puts us in that same time frame. Not really we need to understand it's not just giving us a time frame of when the book was written, but it is literally describing for us the moral time period, the mindset of mankind during that time, the description that is given to us about the book of Judges, where every man did that which was right in his own eyes. that kind of overriding philosophy that permeated society as a whole. And so by saying it was l as the time of judges uh it it is describing for us the mindset of those individuals during that time and knowing that we're dealing with that time period We see here they're living as though there was no king in Israel. They're living as though there was nobody over them. They could live and do whatever they pleased. I wonder, beloved, if we are not sometimes living as though there is no king And I don't mean just in in our country, but over us, in our lives, if we're living as though we can just do whatever we want and There is nobody we answer to, and there's nobody that is dictating or uh stating for us how and what we should be doing. The fact of the matter is, is because every man did that which was right in his own eyes and they were living the way they wanted to, that God sends a famine. So we see here the famine, first of all. Now the famine is famine, that word famine, is found 96 times in the Word of God. 96 times the word is used to describe and talk about what is, for the most part, 13 different famines that are found on the pages of Scripture. Now, I have a list of these thirteen famines. We're not going to go through and describe them, but here's the thing that you learn when you begin to look at all of the famines, and that would be a fun study for somebody just to look at the famines and and see what God was teaching and what God was doing. But here's what I want you to understand. When a famine comes, it's not just Mother Nature. When a famine came on the pages of Scripture, that God had a plan. He had a purpose. There was a reason why He sent the famine or He allowed the famine to come. What I'm saying is it wasn't just happenstance. It wasn't just, oh, uh, luck of the draw or a bad day in Israel. The fact of the matter is that God was doing something. God sent the famine for a cause, for a reason. And beloved, for you and I, I want you to remember that God allows famines to come into our life for a reason. Now that famine could be something, uh it doesn't have to be a time where we lack sustenance physically. Obviously, that's something we do not have very much of a problem with in America, not at at a place where we lack food, but we may have a famine in our life of many other things. There may be a a famine of of uh you know friendship Uh there may be a famine of of close relationships that you you just feel all alone. There may be a famine uh uh financially just you can't seem to get ahead and you're struggling and and you're weighed down just just continually battling against situations trying to there may be a famine physically, you're just in very poor health and it just you can't one one challenge after another and and you got this famine physically and So those situations, we need to remember that they come into our lives and many times it's for several things. I want you to see on the page of Scripture, there's three things I see that famine comes into our life for. First of all, is because it is to check. your faith. To check your faith. The very first famine we see in the page of scriptures in Genesis chapter 12 and verse number 10, God sends it in Abraham had just left his land that he was part of and went by faith and followed God and went to go where God wanted him to be. And yet God sends a famine and it's sad reality, but many people on the pages of scripture, when God allowed a famine to come, they failed the test. We see that in the book of Ruth. They didn't the famine was there and they failed the test. Their faith was not strong enough to remain true through the famine. We see Abraham decides to go down to Egypt. And you remember that Genesis chapter 12 and verse number 10. He decides to go down to Egypt and he spends some time there. But God didn't tell him to go there His faith was tested and he failed the test, but it's to check your faith. It's also to cultivate your fruit. To cultivate fruit in your life. We see that in Hebrews 12, verse number 11. Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. The idea of the chastening, the testing of God coming to your life, it's not joyous, it's grievous, it's hard, but it happens that we might bring forth fruit and that we might bring it forth more abundantly God allows those things into our life to help us to be more fruitful in our life, in our ministry, in our service for Him. And we of course know that also God used it most of the time in the page of scripture. We see he uses it to chasten, to chasten his people. He brings that in to chasten your failures. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse number 6, he says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. We see, beloved, that God brought this to the children of Israel numerous times. In Deuteronomy 11, verse number 17, it says, And the Lord's wrath was kindled against you, and he shut up the heavens. And there be no rain, and that the land yielded not her fruit. God sent famine. Why? Well, it's going to be either to check your faith, cultivate some fruit in your life, or maybe to chasten you. And when you're in those situations, I would ask you to search your heart to get before God and find out the cause of the famine. We see here the famine is brought. We see the failure of a limelech. Alimelech. We know that I told you last week alimelech means what? God is my king. My God is king. Specifically, whichever way you want to say it. But the fact of the matter is that Limelech had that as a description of himself, that God is king. It's notable that in a time when men lived as though there was no king, he was named that, and yet when it came time for him to put that on display, he chose not to. He decided not to yield to God. It's notable, beloved, where God places the responsibility of this failure Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to sojourn. A certain man. Now he took his family with him, but God doesn't lay the responsibility of this decision at the feet of Naomi. He doesn't lay the responsibility of this decision at the feet of the children. The fact of the matter is, is God has set up and established that the man would be the head of the home. Which means he's responsible. Which means before God, what happens in that home, he's the one that's going to be called to account. He's the one that's carrying the weight. And beloved, although the family did not make the choice, can you see in the story here that they Got to be part of the prosperity as they went down to Moab and they weren't in the middle of famine anymore, but they also experienced the punishment. The results of that bad decision. And sometimes, fathers, we are making decisions that we think only affect us, but they affect our whole family. Our family is going to bear the prosperity or the punishment based on what we do. They left behind the house of bread, Bethlehem, Judah, that place of blessing, and went to the place of backsliding The title for tonight's message and these passages of scripture really is The Danger of Backsliding. The danger of backsliding. That's really what we're dealing with here tonight: the idea of going back. They left the place of blessing and went back to where God had delivered them from. You see, Moab was back across the River Jordan. It was about a 40 to 50 mile journey, not that far. You know, beloved, it's really not that far from being in the will of God and being away from God. It's not that far of a journey, but you know, beloved, when we make the decision to stay in the will of God, I want you to know that it will leave you rejoicing. But when we choose to follow the will of man, which is what Elimelech did here, he reasoned within himself and he thought this is going to be a good option, it always leads to regret. This idea of going back, backsliding Every believer should remain close to the house of blessing. And I would like to apply that to the house of God, to God's house. A place of blessing, a place of obedience, a place where you can be encouraged. I decided many, many years ago that If I got sideways with God, if I got bent out of shape, if I got to where I just was very upset, what I was going to do purpose in my heart is I'm just, I I I'm going to, at the very least, I'm going to stay in church no matter what. Because, beloved, your chances of God getting a hold of your heart and reaching you again when you never darken the door of a church is slim to none. But if you'll just stay in the house of God, that leaves the door open for God to use a word from a brother or sister to Take the word of God that's presented from the pulpit and open your heart once again and stir you once again and turn you back towards Him. At least stay in the house of God. But they went down to Moab. Instead of turning to God, he turned to his own understanding. You know what Moab was God calls Moab in Psalms 108 verse 9, Moab is my washtat God calls it a washpot. According to J. Vernon McGee, he said, if I could paraphrase that for God, he said, Moab is my garbage can. That's how God viewed Moab. And this is where Elimelech decided to go. He Considered his own understanding, but we know Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 tells us, trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. You see, in the midst of this hardship, this famine, Elimelech decided. To just do what looked practically the most feasible. I don't think Elimelech really, in his heart and mind, had decided to run from God or to leave God altogether. He just was going to take a step this direction, and he didn't trust in the Lord in the midst of this famine. He didn't seek the Lord for the decision about the direction that they should go. Moab is definitely a picture of the old man. Not an old man, the old man, the flesh. A picture of the old the old flesh, the the old man that that we supposed to have victory over. We see this literally as a picture of backsliding, going back across the Jordan, going back to the land that you were delivered from, going back to God brought you across the Jordan River and gave you the promised land and you're experiencing his blessing and you say, you know what, I would rather go back over here and live in the desert. How many of God's people are like that? They're in the blessing of God and God's leading them in their lives, and then they decide, you know what, I'm just gonna go back over here I'm going to let go of this. I'm going to stop following the will and the plan of God. And I'm tired of fighting. And it is a fight, beloved. It is a fight to be in the spiritual life. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and rulers of darkness and beloved. If we're if if you're going to be walking with God, you're going to be in the fight. And I'll tell you what, we get tired of fighting. I get tired of fighting. But the only other option is to just quit. And to me, that's not an option. So we just got to keep on fighting. The sad reality which we see so often is that temporary becomes permanent. We see beloved that he went down to sojourn. We know that sojourn is is really to just step aside the trail, that is to just take a quick break, to to stop for a little while. And yet in a matter of just three verses, we see in verse 2 that he continued there, and in verse 3 he dwells there for ten years. Temporary has a way of becoming permanent, doesn't it? I was just planning to miss one Thursday night or two. I wasn't really planning to get out of church altogether. I just it's hard for me to get to church on Thursday night and After all, I can just stream it, right? Why not? We'll just stream it. But you know how that goes. You stream it half-heartedly for the first couple of weeks, and then you Uh, we'll start it and you end up starting it late. And you got something to do, so you turn it off early. And before long you're not even turning the stream on anymore, but you're not but you're missing Thursdays. And you're missing Sundays. Oh, oh, I I was not planning to never go soul winning again. I just got busy during the summer, you know. I had a lot of activities taking my time, and I I I couldn't give up my time like I I once did, and I wasn't really planning to quit altogether But temporary has a way of becoming permanent. I wasn't planning to not sing in the choir anymore. I just was taking a break. I wasn't planning to do that. Beloved, temporary becomes permanent. We allow the convenience of life or the challenges of life to overtake us and we drop our commitments to God. Beloved Elimelech's failure really was that he failed to trust God in the face of famine. We see an introduction to the family in verse 2 there. We see Naomi is given to us. Naomi means pleasant. You know, a surrendered saint is going to be pleasant. They're going to be content and have a sweet spirit about them. The afterthite means fruitful. It says they come from a place where they're fruitful in their lives, and beloved, every believer should be fruitful in his life. Melon and Kileon. They really both of those names have to do with the idea of sickness. of being unhealthy, of wasting away, of pining away. And you know in the scriptures, very often the name that was given was a descriptive characteristic or character trait of that individual. and described them and maybe from birth these boys were not very strong or hardy of spirit. Maybe they battled with different things from very young age. But maybe kind of a sign of things to come that they were going to die young. They weren't going to live that long, I don't know, but we see an introduction to the family here. Then in verses 3 and 4, we have the marriage that takes place in Moab. It begins, first of all, with the fatality. In verse number four, we see in Elimelech, Naomi's husband died, and she was left and her two sons. Limilech sojourned so long that he died there I wonder how many Christians sojourn so long that they die away from God. They die backslidden. They don't ever have the opportunity or the chance or they never seize the opportunity. It was never their plan, but they don't seize the opportunity to return back to God. Do what God wants them to do. They think I will do it next week or I'll do it next month and time and and you know how quickly it flows. It goes by so fast. It's mind-boggling to me. 50 years old, a month from being 51, and seeing the kids grow and be gone. How fast life has trespassed. And before you know it One year is gone, and two years is gone, three years, five years is gone. You've been away from God so long. I wonder how many believers they never thought that that was not their plan. Then they get to the end of their days and like Elimelech, they die and never return. Never come back to God. They wait until it's too late. I wonder if he could have saved the life of his boys had he turned back to God sooner. Well, he didn't see them die, but they're not going to live much longer. We're going to see who deal with that here in just a moment. But what a tragedy this was for Naomi. I'll tell you the loss of a maid is a tragedy in any time for anyone. It is probably one of the greatest heartaches that you'll bear this side of heaven. To lose that love of your life. But in this time frame, where Naomi is living, she doesn't have very many options. You see the the the women's movement hadn't really taken hold yet. The mindset was still very much That these ladies without a man to take care of them, they didn't have very many options. It put her in a very bad place financially, very destitute. But you know, at least she still had her two sons. They could take care of her. Now, the law made provision for this situation, and we'll talk about that as we progress down through the story. But I just want you to see and in your mind get the idea of the destitute nature which she's in right now and the hopelessness that she feels and the heartache that she's carrying at the loss of alimelech. But then we see the fallout of the poor decision that was made in verse 1. In verse number four, and they took them wives of the women of Moab. And the name of one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelled there about ten years We see in this verse several things. First of all, we are able to see their intent. You see, they had no intention of returning home. They had come to the place where they were comfortable in Moab. They were settled in Moab. If they had in their mind's eye that, oh, dad is past and After all, he was the one deciding he's the one that brought us down here, but he's gone, so let's let's return home. Let's make preparations. I think that had they determined they were going to go home that quite possibly they would have uh postponed getting married. They could have waited until they got home to to marry their own people. But they had no intention of doing that. They took of them wives of the Moabites What a tragedy. Not only did Limleck and Naomi's life change drastically with the poor decision that was made, but it impacted the lives of their children. You see, their children had no use for God. You know, parents, we've got to be careful. The decisions that we make greatly impact our children. What we do in moderation, children will do in excess What we think is marginally acceptable and we allow into our lives because we think well we can We can spend a little bit of time in Egypt and get away with it, but we don't realize the the seed of covetousness and the taste for the world and the flesh gets rooted in them like it did for Lot when Abraham took a little trip down to Egypt. And you get that into heart, the heart of your young person, and you don't realize it, but then when they get older, they reach the place where they have no use for God. You have a parent who they raise their kid in church, and I'm going to put quotes there because what they'll do is they'll, yes, we go to church unless it's time for t-ball. We're in church unless it's time for dance or soccer or what other sport, whatever it is you want to do. You allow something else in this world to take priority over God's house, and you are teaching that child from the very youngest of age that church is important unless there's something else I want to do. That is what you're teaching them. And you will be like so many parents that I have talked to over the 25 years I've been in the ministry that have said, I don't know what happened. I raised them in church. And you did, except for when you wanted to do something else. You see, you allowed that Little pursuit in the world to take you away and for you it's not going to keep you from church. For you, you're going to come back and you're going to be okay. But what you put into the heart of your child, they're going to reach an age and they're going to say, you know what? I have a lot of things I would rather do than go to church. And church is not going to be a priority for me. And a numerous number of heartbroken parents because of that situation, I mean, it's innumerable. It can't even be measured. Beloved, the fallout from the decision that he made, it took his boys away from God. You see, what happened is he was more worried about the physical than he was the spiritual. You see, he wanted to make sure his kids had food to eat, which is a good thing, but he was more worried about that than the spiritual, and so he took them down into the world to get them fed. And they never came back. We got to be careful that we're, listen, there's a lot of parents that are a whole lot more concerned about things than they are about the truth. They're more concerned that their kids have the right things in society today they have the right games and they're carrying the right phones and I'm excited to see this new movement uh in that's kind of spreading a little bit and I don't know if you guys have seen it yet but there there's people trying to say kids don't need smartphones until they're later in life and I think that's a great thing. I've been saying that for many years and I don't understand a a parent giving a seven-year-old a smartphone It's it's foolishness. I mean, we didn't even have a TV in our house when I was a kid, let alone in my own room. And you're giving that child access to the most perverse wickedness in the world and letting them take it to their room. And you're saying, now just be good with that. Just don't look at anything you're not supposed to. That's crazy. We gotta be more concerned about the spiritual than we are about the physical. Less worried about things and more worried about the truth. Your kids are gonna be okay. I know that it's peer pressure and there's everybody in the world has them and your kid doesn't have them and it's not fair and all that. Well all my kids didn't get theirs until the last year of high school And you know what? They were all okay. They all lived. Did they like it? Sometimes probably not much. But they lived. Caleb's there right now. He still doesn't have one. But he's itching. He wants one. It's normal. It's inconvenient. We gave him a one of those dumb flip phones for a trip he had to take. He said, here you go. It had 30 days on it, you know, a pre float track thing. Here you go. And you know, even that little track phone, I didn't even realize it until we bought it. I'm like, that track phone has internet on it too. I mean as long as you're connected to Wi Fi. I thought it would be like completely I mean you have to type using the numbers and it's only a little three-inch screen and it's like six forty buttons by 780 or something. The resolution's real bad and all that. But it's you can get on the internet with that dumb little track phone. And I I was shocked. I'm telling you, you've got to be careful parents. Too many of their kids are getting destroyed by a little trip down into the world. That's what happened here Their boys took wives and Moabite women. Now some have said, and we're not going to turn there, but in Deuteronomy chapter seven, verses one through three, there is the list given there of God tells them not to marry these people, and he lists out the tribes of the kingdom. Canaanites and the Amorites and the Hittites and you know he lists out all these. Now the Moabites were not in that list. And so there are some that say, well, it wasn't actually wrong for them to marry of the Moabites But I think there's several other principles. They they were not supposed to of the people of Canaan. The Moabites were of Canaan. We know that their Bible very clearly teaches, and he said it over and over again, even in the Old Testament, the idea of not being unequally yoked. There's no question that they weren't to be unequally yoked. And as a general rule, unless they had found time to witness and bring them and teach them and train them and they converted, the fact of the matter is, as Moabite is women would have been followers of Chermash, a wicked pagan god who had I mean just perverse things. The things that I read today, I some of it So perverse I couldn't even say it in mixed audience. The things that were done in the name of, you see, they believed that they needed to appease these gods. And if there was a famine or if there was an enemy coming in to attack them, they thought, well, we need to appease the God. Somehow we need to get the God on our side. And so they would uh do human sacrifice and sacrifice the chur the young children. They would take a red dye for that they would gather from the from the edge of the water. And they would go through the city and pick, if they could, the firstborn, but they would go through and find the children and mark them with this red die, and any child marked with red die the next time they needed a human sacrifice, that child would be taken These are the gods that they worshipped. And yet, Limelech's boys married them. We see the misery that it led to, the misery in Moab in verse number five. And Malon and Kileon died also, both of them. And the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. You see, beloved, we see the fear. That she feels at this point. She's been left completely destitute now. You can see these three ladies There, maybe at the graveside, without any hope, without somebody to provide for them. They have no land, they have no money. They are quite literally homeless. It's amazing here that there is no implication given. There's nothing describing here that she had any friends, that there was anybody from the Moabites that would do anything for her. You would think here is a widow woman who's now her her daughter in law, they're both widowed and They're all alone, they're by themselves. You would think them living there for ten years among those people that there would be some that would come alongside and say, oh, let us help you. But can I tell you that's a picture of the world as well? The world will just use you, take whatever they can from you. And when you're no longer the life of the party and no longer uh getting anything from they're no longer getting anything from you, they just leave you. That's what happens. They're facing this misery. The fear that she feels, what am I going to do now? And here's what I want to do. I want to go, I want to wrap this up. I want to go all the way back to the beginning. I want you to see the fear that Elimelech felt That drove him to go into Moab. And now Naomi feels fear But that fear is going to drive her back to God. My question for you tonight. Is what are you allowing the fear that comes into your life to push you towards? Is it pushing you away from God, towards your own way, towards solving your own problems, towards doing your own thing? Or is it pushing you towards God and what God wants for you in your life? That's the difference between these two decisions. I don't think Elimelech had any intention of destroying his family. I think if he could have seen the end from the beginning. He wouldn't have taken the first step that direction. But that's the subtlety of Satan. He doesn't show us the end. just shows us one step. We feel like we could take that step. Could I suggest to you tonight Don't just do what's expedient. Don't do what looks good. We know the Bible says there are a way which seemeth right to man, but the end thereof is the way of death. I think that Elimlech was just doing what was expedient. He just was doing what seemed to be practically acceptable or what looked to be the best option instead of really seeking God. And then I want to ask you lastly, if chastening comes into your life, if famine comes into your life, Hardship of some kind. Let that hardship drive you to God. Would you be like the psalmist and say, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts And see if there be any wicked way in me. Leave me in the way of everlasting. If God is bringing something into your life that is as a form of chastening to try and get you to turn back to him, then do what he told the Ephesians church there in Revelation. Where he says, return, repent, and remember. Return to God. Repent. Confess whatever it is. And remember how good God has been to you. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?