Uh throughout the week, a little course that can be remembered. Uh sorry, we actually lost power about an hour ago here, um just for a few minutes. Uh fire alarms went off and uh You know, of course everything flashed. And I think that it's quite possible that whatever happened created a surge that blew out our signal to this screen. I don't know if you're quite distracting, but it was flashing and changing colors and and uh that's the problem with technology. It's very susceptible to damage through power surge and lightning strikes and things like that. And uh so even though we have most of the thing most of the things here protected via uh power strips and so on, uh occasionally something gets through. And so I think that's probably what happened. This uh seems to have lost its signal. So we will live without it for this morning, but um You know, good good to see all of you here today. Uh in the Sunday morning service we're going to ask uh those of you who are willing to uh to say the memory verse. Uh for this month of January. I know we're not quite at the end. We've got one more week that we can work on it. We've got an extra week in the in the month of January here to uh be able to work on that and We'll say it again, but we've we've been working on it for about four weeks. So you know, hopefully you have seen some improvement and uh have got that down. Um Turn your Bibles this morning to uh we're actually going to start in Matthew. Um this morning's reading uh was Matthew chapter 23. And uh I just thought, you know what, let's let's just start there. We'll uh launch from there with our study that we've been looking at at the Ten Commandments, but uh you know where I'm going if you read this morning um our reading that everybody's doing together. And I'll be there shortly. And in Matthew chapter twenty two, um verse number thirty six Matthew twenty-two, verse number thirty-six, he says, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law. And the prophets. And we have been studying the uh Ten Commandments together, so now you can turn back to the book of Exodus and uh chapter number twenty where we see the Ten Commandments given to his people. And in Exodus chapter number 20 is where where those are listed and found. Let's uh review those uh together uh quickly. First of all, you have commandment number one is thou shalt have no other gods before me. Commandment number two, thou shalt make unto thee no graven image. Commandment number three, thou shalt take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Number four, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Number five, honor thy mother and thy father Number six, thou shalt not kill. Number seven, thou shalt not commit adultery. Number eight. Number nine false witness And number ten, thou shalt not covet. Uh I went through those I had been doing that here with the adults and And uh last night in family devotions, I went through that with my kids. And they're like, How come you never taught us that? And uh I said, Well now you can learn it. So we went through it uh with the kids last night because we've been doing this And I had just been uh going over this morning's Sunday school lesson. And uh so the kids know know most of these and uh but sometimes as adults we we knew them in the past and And so that's kind of what we're we're doing here. Uh so this morning we're going to look at the second commandment, that's Exodus chapter number twenty, verses four through six is where this commandment Is contained, and uh he says here, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness. of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the sea, under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am jealous God, visiting in the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and the fourth generation of them that hate. me and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. So this here uh commandments n not to be setting up any graven image. That word graven of course is uh uh means chiseled, formed, fashioned, uh m put to put together, uh We're not to be setting up any graven image. The first commandment we know is that uh you know God is first. He is God, he is God alone. And we should have no other gods before him. As much as the first commandment is talking about who we should be worshiping, the second commandment is telling us how we should be worshiping. And somebody put it like this, that the first commandment forbids us to worship false gods. The second commandment forbids us to worship the true God falsely. So that's what the second commandment is dealing with here, and uh a couple things that's notable about this commandment is that this is the only commandment that contains in the text both a punishment and a promise. For adhering to it or for neglecting to adhere to it. There's both a punishment and a promise listed here with this commandment. Another thing that's notable is that this commandment, for some reason Uh most Christians feel that this is the one they don't have a problem with. I mean we look at it and we say, oh well, I'm not setting up any graven images. I haven't fashioned it any any gods. I I haven't done that and to us that seems like this is one that we could say we do. We're okay with that. We haven't set up any graven images. But uh I think we might not quite understand all of it, or we might be a little more guilty of it than we think, because another notable thing about this commandment is this commandment. is repeated through the scriptures more than any other. Which leads me to believe that God knew this was going to be a problem. That this is something that the people were going to be dealing with. And throughout all throughout the law and the prophets, uh you see this commandment given over and over again and repeated more than any other commandment, this idea of setting up graven images. So first of all, I'm going to give you several points here about this, but first of all, God wants us to have a proper concept of Him. This commandment is dealing with us having a proper concept of God. He's giving some insight into the fact that we cannot imagine what he is like. We can't imagine it. He he gives us a list here. He says, anything that you see in heaven or in earth or under the earth. I mean if you take everything that you've ever beheld and put it together and try and come up and fashion something that is a God, it's going to fall short. You can't come up with an image that would significantly represent God Almighty He's saying, so don't do it. Don't try and come up with an image. Don't fashion something from what you've seen in your mind's eye or that you've beheld. We cannot come up with anything that would give us a likeness of who God is. In Isaiah 40, verse number 25, he says, to whom then will ye liken me? Or shall I be equal, saith the Holy One. The thing is, is when we are putting God into a likeness, he says, Who then shall you liken me to? And who who am I going to be equal to? We're saying God is equal to a cow? God is equal to an elephant? God is equal to what what characteristic uh it is that uh a group of people would choose to try and say God is embodying this or this is a representation of God, every attempt is going to be wholly inadequate. They lack so much from what God truly is that they keep us from seeing. him. I mean if you think about the idea, anybody that's going to fashion a God would do it from their experience. From what they believe God to be. And if I was to take my skill set and I was going to build something, that God would be representative of what I believe God should be. and those characteristics that are important to me. And this God that I fashioned would be inside the box of my little mind. And I wouldn't be able to see all of who God is because I would be limiting him to this little box. I have fashioned this box and said, okay, now this is God. And it's not anything like what God can be For everybody, but I have put him down in this little box and fashioned him into whatever I had in my mind's eye. When an idol is fashioned. The builder can only build that what he what he thinks is possible. He turns God into his own genie and is only emphasizing the attributes that he believes to be important. We're warned about this in Romans chapter 1, verses 21 through 23. He says, because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and they changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the into an image made like to corruptible man and to birds and to four-footed beast and to creeping things. You know, it doesn't matter how ornate it is. It doesn't matter how much gold is put on it. Or how many jewels are embedded into the surface of it. It is still just something fashioned by the hands of man. It doesn't matter how much labor was put into it or how beautiful it is or how big it is. There are some who build magnificent edifices To represent their God and people come and worship at the feet of these things. It's still just something fashioned by the hands and the minds of the people And God warns us not to do it. There's some controversy over this uh Commandment, as you can as you can well imagine, in light of Christendom and the problem or the the likelihood or the propensity that people have, that man has, to to fashion somehow to we want to see God. We want to be able to behold him. And so man from the very beginning has had this problem. And In light of Christendom and all of history, you see so many peoples and groups and religions and sects building, fashioning images And idols and things to worship. This has created a lot of controversy over this. There are those who have taken this commandment and combined it to the first one. and just kind of put it together with the first one and oh these two this is just one commandment to minimize the impact of the seventh second part of it that it's not a commandment of in its own. And what they do is they take the tenth commandment Who it it says twice, Thou shalt not covet uh you know thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife. They make that two commandments, so that they can have ten still. Uh and they do away with this woman Because they want to set up images and they want to say it's okay. And that has created much controversy. But there is a commandment here clearly given to us that we're not to set up images. It has been taken to an extreme by some and said we're not to take up any image. We're not to have any image. And uh welcome to Sunday school this morning with a couple of uh strangers. Uh This is uh brother Brady and uh his wife, good friends of ours. Did you guys make it to the inauguration? Great. Well good to have you this morning. Appreciate you coming and being with us. We hadn't he had texted me or sent me an email or something that they might be coming this way a while ago and I didn't know if they were, but good to have you this morning. So we are talking about the Ten Commandments, dealing with the second one here in Exodus chapter 20, verse number 4, and just dealing with some of the problematic controversy that covers this And the fact is that some people take this to an extreme and say that you shouldn't have any images at all. I mean, there are some religious groups who would say that even a photograph is wrong. Because you are taking an image. And that is wrong too. Because this commandment doesn't stop with just verse number four. You see, if it was just verse number four, then we might could do that. But this commandment includes with it a little bit of explanation. Verse number five. See, verse number four tells us, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above or that is in the earth beneath, that is in the water under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God. See, verse number four is part of that. And he's letting us know that We're not to be setting up images that become a thing that we worship, that we bow down to, that we want to worship. That's what the differentiation is That means if you take a trip uh to Belize and you bring back some hand carved uh trinkets from Belize and And you know, maybe they have uh well the Philippines. I have one on my desk from the Philippines and it's a little jeepney uh that was hand carved out of some some wood, you know. And uh oh well you can't have that, that's an image. If it was just verse number four, you might could say that. But it's okay. Maybe you have some of you very patriotic, and maybe you have a brass carving or a wood carving of an eagle That's okay. Because we're not bowing down to those things. And it's okay to take pictures and to have photographs of your family. You're not bowing down to your husband, are you, ladies? Yeah. Uh you're not you know, you're not bowing down to to these pictures. You're not worshiping them. Uh so that's okay. So we just want to be sure that we understand that as we see this, because there are those that would take this to an extreme, and that is just as wrong as those who would want to disregard the and say let's have images. Let's set up these things. It helps us in our worship. It helps us to feel spiritual. It helps us to feel like we're in the presence of God. And that is not what God wants for us to do. Objects are not bad, it's worshiping them that is bad. It's okay to paint a picture, but the painter should not be trying to visualize deity. In a church that we visited over uh Christmas when my family and I were traveling, they had a picture of of Jesus on the wall in their auditorium. I I just couldn't I mean A long-haired, infeminate picture of Jesus on the wall in the auditorium. God cannot be visualized And what happens when people try and do it is they mess it up. We we can't uh you know, I I it wasn't until I really started studying this that I started thinking in my mind, you we are not supposed to be putting anything in the place of God. If I was to talk to you and say, if I started a conversation with you and talking to you about God, do you in your mind visualize something? I do not. I do not have an image of what I perceive God to be. Do you, in your mind, all of a sudden think of a cow? Do you think of, you know, uh an elephant or what it sometimes culturally there's some things that are so inbred in some people because of how they grew up and what they that immediately when you start talking about God, this image comes to their mind. And we can't visualize God. Nothing in heaven, nothing in earth, nothing under the earth is going to give us a picture that adequately depicts God. That's what he clearly tells us here. So we can't do that. So he gives us, first of all, he wants us to have a proper concept of God, and we can't do that by trying to get an image of him. What does the Bible say? They that would worship him must worship him in spirit. Spirit and truth. Just right here. We don't need to try and visualize him. We just need to worship him in spirit and and in truth. Um then the purpose for this commandment is confirmed to us. He says thou shalt bow down, verse number five, thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them, for I the Lord thy God am a jealous of God. The purpose is made clear why he wants us to have this commandment, why this is important to us. See the progression? First verse he says, Thou shalt not make unto thee any grave an image. And then he says, thou shalt not bow down. And then he says, thou shalt not serve them. There's a progression. Man has an innate desire to worship. You say, I don't think so. Look at our secular society and how far they are away from God. Look at a tribe out in the middle of nowhere that nobody's ever been to. They they they have their own dialect, they have their own uh form of communication, and you go there and you will find that they worship something. It's built inside. Doth not creation itself tell us that there's a God? And man sees that and he has a desire, an innate desire to worship. And when we set up a carving, Then comes bowing down, then comes serving. And people would serve a piece of wood. Sadly, but that is the progression. And God doesn't want us to do that. He is a jealous God. He is jealous of his honor, of the respect and honor that is due unto him. God said he's going to protect his name in Isaiah 42, verse number 8, I am the Lord, that is my name, and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images. He's not going to give the praises due to him to a chunk of wood, to a to a graven image that is set up. God is also jealous of his creation. You know, he created man And he has given us dominion over this earth. And man is the culmination of his creation. No, we sure messed that up, but we were his masterpiece. And for us To take something that we're supposed to have dominion over, whether it's a chunk of wood or an animal or whatever, and to lift it up over us. And to begin to bow down to that is to get things out of order. You see, God is jealous of his creation. And we are to bow and to worship him, not to be bowing down and worshiping uh sticks or other graven images, idols. He is guilty he is jealous of that. He's also jealous of his testimony before men. Of his testimony before men. You see, when we bow down to something like this, what is it that we are telling everybody else? That this is God? The testimony that those in this world are seeing from us. We're stealing and robbing from God the glory that is his. And God is jealous of his name and he will protect it. This is the purpose that he has for us. Then the promise. He gives us a promised cost. As I said, this is the only one of the Ten Commandments that has both with it a promise and a punishment for what has taken place here. There's a promised cost. In verse number five here, thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and the fourth generation of them that hate me. It's going to cost for those that to choose to disregard this commandment. What you're doing right now could affect your heritage for a hundred years I mean you think about it, sometimes people think, oh well I'm just doing this, it's just me, I'm uh isling unto myself. He's talking about affecting your family for a hundred years. from now. Because of what you do right now. Because you disregard this command That is why we don't understand something sometimes because we don't know all of history. But sometimes we look at a group of people and uh we might say Oh, look at them, you know, why why isn't somebody reaching them? Or look at the hardship that they're going through. I mean, they just they have this uh terrible war. That's why it's not America's job to police other countries. We don't know what God is doing in other countries. There may be a group of people that rejected God and despised God, and God is using one nation or another nation to bring judgment on these people that they might turn back to Him. But America wants to take it on themselves to act as the police for the world. And we don't know what God is doing It may be these families, this generation, this group of people as a whole rejected God. Not yesterday, but their fathers, or their fathers, rejected God And as a nation, they are reaping that, which ought to be an alarming bell for us and where we are as a nation, and where we're going to be in a hundred years Because of the reaping that we will have to do because of where we are today. It's going to cost you for what you do today. Now we don't understand this because we're very loving today, we're very caring, and we've come a long ways from the harsh justice of day Gone by. But it used to be that, you know, when a father did wrong, many times his entire family would pay the price. Let's say a man was guilty of treason. His family would lose their name. They would no longer have a name that was honorable in the community. They would lose their position They would be taken from where they were as status in society and and as the entire family would lose their position in society. Just because of what the husband did. And we're a long ways from that. Now I believe that God uh still deals with individual responsibility and that in the scriptures we see Children doing the sins of their fathers. And ultimately they can choose not to. But what it is, is children most of the time, you know, monkey see, monkey do. And children most of the time will do like their fathers. And this is where we're dealing with down to four generations of people who probably are going to have the tendencies that you had And many times we'll take it to even further extremes. We see that with Aaron's sons, Nadab and Abayu, who were killed because they offered strange fire to God. Where did they learn that? From Aaron, who set up a golden calf. And so many times our children are going to carry out beyond what we do. And so it this is a very familiar thing, but if a child lives with criticism, he learns to condemn. If a child lives with hostility, he learns to fight. If a child lives with ridicule, he learns to be withdrawn. If a child somebody took this a step further and applied it to spiritual things. This is not me, but somebody did. He says if a child lives with faith that is focused on experience He will seek experience rather than seeking God. If a child lives with superficial faith, he will learn to view faith as insignificant If a child sees parents bowing down to representations of God, he will conclude that these representations are God. If a child grows up in a home where worship is not a priority, but worship is an option, he will seldom choose it. Kids are going to have a tendency to do what they see. This is why that will be passed on from generation to generation. I believe that they can overcome it, that God's grace and mercy will allow the next generation to break through and get get i don't believe that they're just necessarily going to be uh punished without regard to their own personal walk. But the problem is most of the time And I want you to see that in the next point, and that is there's a powerful compassion shown here in verse number six, Exodus chapter twenty, verse number six. And showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me. And keep my commandments. Here he's showing the compassion of the Lord, the mercy that he is showing to those You know, none of us deserve it. None of us deserve the mercy, the compassion, but God shows it. Those that obey his commands, he has this mercy on. And if you read this in context, the verse before this is talking about those that will be punished unto the fourth generation. In this verse, the word generations is not used. But it is amazing when you apply it to that and think about the fact that he is talking here about having mercy up to a thousand generations. Because of obeying this commandment. There is a little bit of Bible proof for that as well. In Deuteronomy 7, verse number 9. He says, Knowing therefore that the Lord thy God, he is God, the faithful God, who keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him and keep his commandments. to a thousand generations. The amazing disparity here between Justice, judgment, and God's compassion. In his justice and in his judgment, those that disregard this commandment, he's going to up to the fourth generation. But in his mercy and his love up to the thousandth generation. Amazing compassion. And love from our Lord, this powerful compassion that we see here. God will show mercy because of those that did right. You have the power to affect your children. Up to a thousand generations by what you do right now. That is an amazing and powerful thought when we think about it Here he's calling for love. That New Testament passage in John says, if you love me, what? Keep my Commandments. Keep my commandments. That's what God wants for us to do. And we have the ability to affect many generations. Because of reshaping God to fit our lifestyle or our life, making God into our image, we are to be made into God To the image of God. We are to be made like Him. Letting Him, through His Word, change us. Instead of us trying to bring Almighty God down and fashion an image of Him. Let's yield ourselves to God and say, God, would you make me into your image? What a powerful truth. And if we could do that, God would do something in in and through us that we just can't imagine. And we can praise Him for it. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. Let me close this in prayer. Lord, we thank you for your love and your goodness. Thank you for the power of your word and how It speaks to the heart. We ask you, God, that you would be with us this morning. Be with us in the morning service. May you there's one here that's lost. May he see his need of a savior today. May you encourage those that need encouragement, Lord. Give us a wonderful time. in your house and around your word. We'll thank you for it. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much. You're dismissed. We have service in about twenty minutes, in choir, we've got practice in about ten. Oh yeah. Right.