So I do have the main text uh blown up uh in my notes here, so why don't you follow along and I'll read that. Uh but our main text for tonight is Second Chronicles chapter 32, beginning in verse number 22, we're going to read down through the end of this chapter, and the very last verse is where we find a peculiar phrase that that jumps out at me and uh we're gonna look at that tonight. Verse 22, he says, Thus the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, and from the hand of all other. and guided them on every side. And many brought gifts unto the Lord to Jerusalem, and per and presents to Hezekiah, king of Judah, so that he was magnified in the sight of all nations from thence. In those days Hezekiah was sick to death, and he prayed unto the Lord, and he spake unto him, and he gave him a sign. But Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit done unto him. For his heart was lifted up. Therefore there was wrath upon him and upon Judah and Jerusalem, notwithstanding Hezekiah humbled himself for pride, for the pride of his heart. Both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the Lord came not upon them in the days of Hezekiah. And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches. And honor, and he made himself treasuries for silver and for gold and for precious stone and for spices and for shields and for all manner of pleasant jewels. storehouses also from the increase of corn and wine and oil and stalls for all manner of beasts and coats for flocks. Moreover he provided him Cities and possessions of flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him substance very much This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper watercourse of Gion and brought it straight down to the west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works. Howbeit, in the business of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon, who sent unto him to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land, God left him. to try him that he might know all that was in his heart. In this verse we see that peculiar phrase, this God left him. That would on the surface seem to be a contradiction of Scripture because we know that over in the New Testament that the Bible tells us that He will never leave you or forsake you. We know that when Jesus was talking to the disciples, he told them, and thereby all men who would be his disciples, kind of a a message for us all. He says, Lo, I am with thee always. So we have on one hand this command that God would always be there, and on the other, we have here the statement that God left him. Well it really comes down to an understanding of that phrase, but The purpose in which God did this, he gives it to us right in the verse. He says that he might know all that was in his heart. Tonight for a few minutes I want to talk to you about the heart of Hezekiah. The heart of Hezekiah. Let's ask the Lord to lead through the message this evening. Lord, we love you. We thank you for the privilege to be in church, to preach your word. Lord, we thank you for all these that have Taken the time tonight on Father's Day to gather once again in your house and desirous to hear from heaven, Lord, I could not hope to minister to the hearts of these your people. No sermon, no matter how eloquent we presented, is going to make one ounce of difference if the Holy Spirit doesn't speak. God, if you don't do the work, if you don't change lives. Lord, as I endeavor to preach your word tonight, I pray that you would speak to your people. And Lord, we would be drawn into your presence, and I don't know who needs challenged or strengthened or encouraged or Lord motivated tonight, but whatever it is, Lord, you know the need, and we pray you'd minister to hearts. We'll thank you in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Could I take just a couple minutes and remind you uh And unless you get scared, let me say on the onset, this message is about seventy-five percent introduction. And uh twenty-five percent Actually we'll get to the points of the message. So I'm going to lay a lot of groundwork. Don't don't think once we get to the message like oh my goodness We just starting. I don't want. We are headed somewhere, and ultimately we'll be able to close it up real quick quick at the end with uh some simple thoughts But we want to lay the groundwork and draw for us the pictures here. The story of Hezekiah, I mean, I love reading about Hezekiah. I I the stories that are found in the Kings and the Chronicles and Isaiah about he about Hezekiah and what God did in his life. It's an amazing story. It's a very challenging, and there's so many parts of Hezekiah's life that uh we should aspire to be like. Let me remind you, we're not going to take time to read all these passages, but if you go back to chapter number 29, kind of the story of Hezekiah, where he becomes king, he he begins to reign at the age of 25 years old. In in verse number one, we see that in chapter twenty-nine. And then he does that which is right in the sight of God. His father had given him a country in a very bad state. I mean his father had passed off the scene and and he had gone away from God and done wrong and done wickedness and And because of that, they experienced the judgment of God, of course. But Hezekiah, I don't know what motivated him to make this change, but ultimately he when he became king, he said, We're going to do what God wants us to do. You see in chapter 29 of verse number 3 that he opened the doors of the tabernacle. He opened the doors of the tabernacle, the house of the Lord, and he repaired them. He had opened those doors. You know, anybody that's going to get right with God, I've seen it over and over again. Anytime somebody begins to get right with God, you know where the first place they want to go? It's back to God's house. Anytime somebody who's wandered far from God begins to desire to please God again and they're drawn back into God's presence and they say, Lord, I know I've messed up, but I want to please you. The first place they want to go is back to church. Yet you got many people that say they love God and want to please God, and they say, oh well, I don't have to be in church. I can worship God anywhere. You know, nature is my church. You know. And and all this I mean But it's evident in the heart of anybody who desires to please God that they're going to be motivated and drawn back to the house of God, which is what he did. The first thing he did is he went and he opened the doors of the temple He acknowledges, if you read through the following verses, he acknowledges the sin of the people and the judgment of God. He recognizes it. You get to chapter number 30, and you see, chapter number 30 and verse number one. And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah and wrote letters unto Ephraim and to Manasseh. You know, he had to write letters because you remember they were on the other side, right, of Jordan unto Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the Lord at Jerusalem. For what? What was it if you're looking at that? To keep the Passover. To keep the so he reinstituted the Passover. You know, beloved, if you're ever going to get right with God, it starts with doing what you know God wants you to do. He opened the doors of God's house and he said, Let's gather back into God's house. And you know what? God told us we're supposed to be observing the Passover. So what we're going to do is we're going to observe the Passover. Everybody come like God wants us to. Let's gather together and let's observe the Passover. And Christian, you can't ever get right with God or be right with God until you. Do what you know God wants you to do. . You can't say, oh yeah, I want to be right with God and I want to have that right relationship with Him. I know this is what He wants me to be doing, but I'm not going to do that. Anytime that you put up a wall or you stop God or you say, This is as far as I'm going to go for you, Lord, you cease to be right with Him. He reinstituted the Passover. If there's any area of your life, beloved, that you're holding back on. That is keeping you from seeing God's loving favor on your life. We see in verse number six of chapter 30, that powerful word where he says unto them, so the post went with the letters. From the king and the princes throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandments of the king, saying, Ye children of Israel, turn again. Unto the Lord God of Abraham and Isaac. He tells them to turn again unto God. Turn back to God. Turn from your wicked ways. Let's look let's get rid of all that old wickedness. Let's stop doing those things and let's Turn back to God. He has a heart and desires to please the Lord. He tells them in verse number eight, we're not going to read it, but he tells them to yield to God and he tells them to serve God. Man, isn't this the heart of somebody that's willing and ready to surrender and do what God wants? That's where any Christian who sees their current state and says, I've got to change this, I've got to get back with God, they first of all they want to get back in God's house. They want to start doing what God wants them to do. They want to stop doing. They want to turn away from those things they know are wrong. They desire to yield to God and serve Him. I hope tonight that that's in your heart, those desires and passions. In chapter number 31, he encourages the people to encourage the priests and the Levites and And we're not going to read through all of that, but we get to chapter 32, and in chapter 32 and verse number one, we see the phrase, and after these things. After these things. Well, after what things? Look back one verse And in every work that he began, in the service of the house of God and in the law and in the commandments, to seek his God. He did it with all his heart and prospered. He wanted to seek God and he did it with all his heart. And he prospered. But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him, if thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. You see, Hezekiah said, We need to seek God. And he went after God with all his heart. And God blessed him in miraculous ways. You and I too can experience that. If we seek God with all our heart. He says there in chapter 32, verse number one, in after these things. After Hezekiah sought after God with all his heart, after he made these decisions and reinstituted the Passover and got people back into God's house and encourage people to yield to God and to serve God and to submit to God and do what God wanted after they encouraged the priests and the Levites and did their portion in helping them to be able to minister and serve as God wanted them to After these things, what happened? Look again at verse number one. After these things and the establishments thereof, Sennacherib King of Assyria came and entered unto Judah and encamped against the fenced cities, and thought to win them for himself. We see here this threat comes. I've said it before, and you'll hear it again. Very often, right after a mountaintop, comes a valley. Right after great victory, after you see God do something powerful and victorious in your life, after you make a decision, I'm going to serve God and bless God, this is what I'm going to do for him, and you start to see God do something, and then Sennacherib comes. Or Satan comes. Right? The devil's gonna come and he's gonna attack and he's gonna think to win a victory against you. That is what's gonna happen. You see the threat that's there. Sennacher believes that he's going to win a victory. There's 185,000 soldiers that are standing encamped against the city. And we don't have time to turn back to 2 Kings chapters about 16 through chapter 20 where you read this story that took place. And and they encamped uh against him and they were going to win, and and God gives Hezekiah some some great wisdom on how to protect the city. But ultimately they turn to God and they pray and they seek God. And God gives them assurance that they're going to win. I mean, when you read the story in the kings, it's amazing because the Assyrian uh leader, the king of the Assyrians, comes and he actually reaches out to the people The individual people, he reaches to the people of the city and he says, listen, don't follow Hezekiah. He says your God's going to deliver you. Well, guess what? That's what every other nation said, which is now under my rule. He tells them, he lists the nations off. He says, what did this nation do? What did this nation do? What did this nation do? And now all of them eat the crumbs from my table. He says that they they all fell and their gods didn't help them either. And Hezekiah was a little bit scared and concerned, and he goes to the prophet and he goes to God and says, What are we going to do? And God gives them victory. In Kings, God promises them that the leader of the Assyrian army there would die of a sword in his own country. Well look here at verse number twenty-one of this chapter. In 2 Chronicles 32 and verse number 21. And the Lord sent an angel which cut off all the mighty men of valor, and the leaders, and the captains in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame. of face to his own land. And when he was come into the house of his God, they that came forth of his own boughs slew him there with the sword. Exactly what God said came to pass. Not only did that king go back home shamefaced, but when he was got home he was killed by the sword in his own land. Sonacro comes Then sickness comes. Verse number 24 tells us that he was sick. He was sick unto death And this is that story where you you've heard about Hezekiah where he was sick, ready to die, and he prayed, and God gave him fifteen more years. I mean you see such in in Hezekiah's life there's so many direct answers to prayer. There's so many times that Hezekiah came and said, Okay, God You know that I followed you. You know that I tried to serve you. You know I tried to do what you want me to do. But uh Lord, here's the situation. And God gave him the victory. God answered his prayer and said, okay, I'll give you 15 more years Sometimes I wish we could get answers that were that clear, right? We could get that. Oh, I got fifteen more years. Okay, at least uh you know. Uh I mean, you know the that And Hezekiah, I don't know if you remember this part of the story, but Hezekiah wasn't quite sure. And he asked for a sign. He says, I want a sign. And he said, It's a pretty easy thing to see to see a shadow fall by ten degrees. But shadows don't go backwards. So Lord, I would like to see a shadow go backwards by ten degrees. Which means the sun has to go backwards by ten degrees. God did that for him. God caused the sun to stop and go backwards ten degrees to give Hezekiah a sign. Unbelievable. Amazing how God worked directly in Hezekiah's life in so many situations We see in verse number 22 how God saved him. We just saw there in 21 how the king the king went home, died of his own sword, but then verse number 22 Thus the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Senacred. Not only did he save him, but look there at the end of that verse, he guided them And from the hand of all others, and guided them on every side. God guided him. Then verse number 23, we see God magnified him. And many brought gifts unto the Lord to Jerusalem and the priest to Hezekiah and presents, sorry, to Hezekiah, the king of Judah, sent so that he was magnified in the sight of all the nations from thence. Verse number 24 is where he read that he talked about how he got sick. Hezekiah was sick to death, and he prayed unto the Lord, and he gave, and he spoke unto him, and gave him a sign. But Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit done unto him. For his heart was lifted up. His heart was lifted up. We see this story of Hezekiah, and it could be, as I've described for you, just kind of giving you a parallel story, the story of any Christian. How they turn back to God and God leads them and they begin to seek God and God begins to guide them and then God begins to bless them. And they see that God lifts them up and maybe even begins to magnify them in some aspects. And God begins to use them and they begin to experience great blessings in their life. And then Satan will attack. Just like with Hezekiah. And we see here in verse number thirty-one, how be it in the business of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon. who sent unto him to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land. These ambassadors were sent to ask As to why all this blessing? What what's what's the secret? What's the what what's going on here? How is it that you're experiencing all this blessing? What is the reason that you're victorious? How is it that you have such abundance? They wanted to know. And what I want you to understand is very critical because if you go back to Kings, you'll see that those that they sent Their name was literally the name of their their heathen gods. And these were worshipped the sun god. These heathens came and They would attribute all victory to their sun God. And they're seeking and looking from Hezekiah to know why. Then we get to our verse, to our question here, to the matter of why the Lord left Hezekiah. He didn't leave him in the sense that we might initially think. The word comes is a Greek word. Which is Azab, which means to loose or to relinquish, to permit, to loose, to link, to relinquish or to permit. You see, the people came And they said, Hezekiah, why are you so prosperous? Why have you been so victorious? What do you attribute all of this to? And the Bible says that God left him But what he's saying is God relinquished, loosed Hezekiah. He removed that direct connection where the Holy Spirit might be speaking, and I know we're talking about Old Testament here. But what I'm saying is that direct connection with God, God loosed him and he tells us in the verse the purpose that he might know what was in his heart. Basically, God was saying, I'm going to let Hezekiah handle this all by himself, and I'm going to see what's in his heart. After all that God had done, and all the victory that God had wrought, and all the blessing that God had given, and the direction signs and the direct answers to prayers. And there is no question in Hezekiah's heart as to who has accomplished all these things. Yet God tries him. This is what a parent might do to a child as See if he's mature enough or responsible enough to handle a larger thing or a bigger job. They'll let them do something all on their own and find out, okay, maybe they're not ready to make spaghetti yet. Uh they need some help. They still need some direction and and they start to make decisions and show the maturity and and parents begin to, as I've described or or illustrated many times, the idea of loosening the rope. They they let loose. They they loosen the rope and and young people and your parents loosen the rope. They're doing so to find out what's in your heart. They're doing so to find out what is really in there. When you have the option to do what you want to do, what are you going to do? And when you don't do right, what do mom have to do mom and dad have to do? Dad have to tighten the rope back up. You wanna you wanna loosen the rope? You want you want more freedom, kids? Do right. Do what God wants you to do, do what your parents want you to do is they loosen the rope and they say, Okay, uh yeah, you can go out with your friends and and go get some ice cream, but I want you to be back here by Seven o'clock. Will you get back there by six forty-five? Your parents will say, Hey, they're responsible, they're responsive, they're doing what I've asked. Next time I know I can trust them to go. But you get back at 8 30 or 9. Next time you want to go somewhere, they're going to say, um, sorry, you've got a device that you've been given? You've been told how to use and given some instruction on that? You want to keep keep that? Do right with it. God was trying his man here to see what was in his heart It's the times like this when we see what we're truly made of. If we're going to come forth as gold or if we're just all smoke and mirrors. We'll make the wrong choices when what's in our heart is not right. When you remove those outside influences How would you fare if God said, I'm going to let you loose, I'm going to let you do what you want to do? Okay, you can go. How would you fare? He tells us here in verse I think number thirty three. Um sorry, 32. He says, Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his goodness, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah, the prophet. So let's turn over to Isaiah. And let's see what was in his heart. Turn your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 39. Verses one through four. We see what took place here. He says in Isaiah thirty nine verses one four through four at that time I'll let you say that name. Murdoch Bel Dadan, the son of Bel Dadan, the king of Babylon, sent letters And a priest to Hezekiah. Sorry, I keep saying priest. I can't read even if I have my glasses, right? And presents to Hezekiah. So this is the story here of what took place. They sent letters and presents to Hezekiah, for he had heard that he had been sick and was recovered. And Hezekiah was glad of them and showed them the house of his precious things. The silver and the gold and the spices and the precious ointment, and all the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures There was nothing in his house nor in all his dominion that Hezekiah showed them not. Then came Isaiah the prophet unto the king Hezekiah and said unto him, What said these men? And from whence came thee unto thee? And Hezekiah said, They come from a far country unto me, even from Babylon. Then said he, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiah answered, All that is in mine house have they seen There's nothing among my treasures that I have not showed him. We see here what was in Hezekiah's heart. Or two things that weren't in Hezekiah's heart. And we're going to be done. Two things that weren't in Hezekiah's heart, or we could say that were you could say there was pride in his heart. He didn't have the humility that he should have had. It's righteousness that exalteth a nation and pride that will destroy it. What's in your heart? Do you have a humility about you or is pride lifted you up? Hezekiah knew more than anybody else that all he was was because of God Beloved, all that we are and everything we have is because of God. What hast thou that thou hast not received? Every ability you have, every strength you have, every blessing you have, the ability to get out of bed and enjoy the sunshine of a new day is because of God. It's all from him. We've got no measure or no room to be puffed up in pride. We should have a heart of humility. Beloved, pride will grow in any heart where humility is not fostered. Humility must be fostered. It must be something that we work on. That we exercise and strengthen. If not, pride will take over. Over and over again, God delivered Hezekiah. In direct answers to prayer. Yet Hezekiah did not want to render again unto God. You know, pride doesn't even have to be re-rooted in reality. Pride doesn't have to be rooted in reality. Uh I have seen some of the least capable people that are puffed up in pride. They're just full of them. You're like I don't know what you're proud about, buddy. Um do you realize, you know It doesn't have to be rooted in reality. Pride can come from any heart It doesn't matter what your particular skill level is or how much blessings you have or don't have. We must guard against pride. When the seeking heart finds God and experiences his great deliverance, we better remember from whence that came. As we have been served and challenged to seek God, and if thou seek him with all thy heart, thou wilt find him. And as a result, beloved, we will experience the blessings of God. And as we see those blessings come to pass in our lives, we better keep humility in our heart. Humility is fostered. by the spirit or attitude of gratitude. It's fostered by gratitude because when we acknowledge or recognize that blessing or that gift or that provision came from someone else. We realize it's not us. We realize we don't have a means or reason to be proud. But that God is the one that granted or gave it. Hezekiah in all of his showing these ambassadors around and showing them all that he had Do you think they went back to their country and said, man, we need to stop worshiping the sun god We need to worship the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. Because that is the God that has blessed the people of Israel so much. That is the God that has answered the prayers for Hezekiah. That is the God that healed Hezekiah. Do you think they went back with stories like that? No. Or they went back with stories of all that Hezekiah accomplished. Gratitude gives the credit to whom it is due. Hezekiah would not have been saved if it had not been for God. He would not even have a kingdom if it wasn't for God. He would not even be alive if it wasn't for God. And all of us could say those things. It's vitally important that we teach gratitude to our children. The greatest way to teach it to them is to live it in our own lives. Recognizing and acknowledging God's blessing on our lives. Beloved, God just might test you to see what's in your heart Will you make the right decision? Will it come from a heart of humility in a heart of gratitude? It is our Heavenly Father who gave us all we have. Hezekiah did so many things right. As you read the story of Hezekiah and all that God did for him, it's amazing. It's powerful. It's challenging. I have several other messages from the life of Hezekiah and w how he did the right things. But that greatest of things, how God blessed him in such a magnificent and direct way, Hezekiah let it turn his heart. Into pride. We need to guard against that tonight. We need to guard against it. Recognize and see from whence it all came. And give him the honor and glory. And Reem, keep a heart of humility