Let me begin by echoing what Brother Mickey said this morning. There's something refreshing when you go to a church, a mission conference, where you know the church loves missions and love on their missionaries and it made me think of Ono Siphorus in Second Timothy chapter one and verse sixteen who was used of God to Often refresh the Apostle Paul in his ministry. And you know, we look at the Apostle Paul as one of the greatest missionaries that ever lived. But I'm convinced that he could not have done what he did without those people behind him that encouraged him along the way to do the work. And that's one of my desires as the field director for All Points is to be that honestiferous for our missionaries. And you if you were to do a word study on that word refreshed. The word has the idea to pull down from the effects of heat, to revive. And I shared with the teams this morning that it reminds me of the water boy on the football team. The football team's out there playing hard to win the game. And when the coach calls timeout, the first person to greet them on the sideline is the water boy. And what's he doing? He's given them water to refresh them, to revive them, to get back out there again to play the game. And there's something about going to a church who loves missions and loves missionaries. It kind of revives the missionary. uh to get back out there and continue on in the work. And so we just want to say thank you and we appreciate everything you've done for us this week The accommodations, the food, just the fellowship has been a blessing and refreshing uh to us. And so thank you again for that. I'd invite you to open your Bibles this evening to the book of 2 Corinthians chapter 4. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, and we will begin our reading in verse number 1, where the Bible says, therefore, seeing we have this ministry. As we have received mercy, we faint not, but have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully. But by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of this world had blinded the minds of them which believed not. Blessed the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, whose image of God should shine into them. For we preach not ourselves. But Christ Jesus the Lord and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath it shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. This evening, I want to direct your attention particularly to verses 3 through 7 as we consider this question of the hidden message. As I begin to study the passage, I believe God drew my attention to a particular point that I would like to share with you this evening. And let me begin by saying this, that it should trouble our hearts. That the gospel of Jesus Christ is being hidden. Would you agree with that? It should trouble you. It should trouble me But the more I study the verse, verse number three, where it says, But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. The more I study that verse in its context, and let me say here in that It is important that when we study the scripture that we stay within the context. Amen or not. We have too many people that are taking a phrase or a word or a verse out of its context and creating a doctrine, a man-main doctrine. And that is dangerous. When you study this verse in its context, I believe that the gospel is being hidden today, not Because of the lack of presentation of the gospel, but because there's because the God of this world Seeks to persuade men of its unimportance. And we'll talk about that in just a moment. But I believe that an acknowledgement of that fact Ought to stir our hearts. It ought to move us to respond in obedience to what we are called to do as children of God And lest we forget what that is, a part of it is found in Matthew 5. 16 where it says, we are to let our light so shine before men. That they may see our good works for the full purpose of glorifying our God which is in heaven. But what I'm trying to say this evening is this that we have an enemy tonight that does everything possible to hinder people around this world from perceiving, from understanding, and embracing the truth of the gospel. Are you with me? And that is the reason behind the hidden message. And so I conclude that the spiritual blindness is the aim of the adversary of missions, namely. The God of this world, Satan. And that's what we want to consider tonight. But before we do, let's have a word of prayer. Father, we thank you. For the blessing it is to be in your house on a Sunday evening in a mission conference. There isn't anywhere else that I'd rather be on Sunday than in the house of God with your people. Father, we've come to the part of that service. In my opinion, is the most important part, the preaching of your word. For that reason, I ask you tonight that she would please anoint these feeble lips, that I would say exactly what you would have me to say. That you would please have me behind the cross that only the Lord Jesus Christ would be seen, uplifted, and glorified in everything that is said and done here this evening. I pray that the Holy Spirit would do his work in our hearts, that we would leave this place different than the way we walked in. We pray nice these things in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. As we begin this evening, I want to draw your attention to the first verse of this chapter where we find Paul's call to the ministry. Paul's called to the ministry. Paul begins the chapter, I believe, manifesting a persevering spirit, a spirit of commitment, a spirit of dedication. A spirit of resolve to do what God has called him to do. Here in verse 1, Paul says, Therefore, seeing we have this ministry. And I'm going to jump over the next phrase just for a moment. Seeing that we have this ministry, we faint not. We don't lose courage. We have not become weary. We don't decline in vigor. It's the same ver the same word that you find in Luke 18 where it says men how in 181 where the Bible says how men ought always to pray and not to Faint, not to become weary, not to decline in vigor. But here Apostle Paul was talking about the ministry that he received from God And with that ministry in mind, with that ministry in heart, he says, I am not going to become faint. I am not going to become weary. I'm not going to decline in vigor. Now to understand what this ministry is all about, we have to go back to the previous chapter. That's why the word therefore is therefore. Yes. We need to understand that that word therefore be it takes us back to the previous chapter And Paul was referring to being one of the ministers of the New Testament. You find that in chapter 3, verse 4, where the Bible says this, chapter 3, verse 4. No, not verse 4, excuse me. In the previous chapter, I'm finding it. Give me a second here. There, verse 6. Who also has made us able ministers of what? The New Testament. He's referring to being a minister of the New Testament. These were men that proclaimed the message of grace in contrast to the old A covenant. Paul, along with others, appreached the message of the new covenant, the message of God's saving grace. through faith in the finished work of Christ. And this ministry that Paul received was a ministry of reconciliation. You can read that in chapter 5 in verse number 18 where it says, and all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, hath given to us what? The ministry of reconciliation. Whereby he pleaded with people to be reconciled to God through the Lord Jesus Christ. First Mark 20 of chapter 5 says this. Now that we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead be reconciled. to God. It was a message of eternal life through the working of the Spirit of God and not by keeping the law. Now we understand in verse chapter 3 that the law was glorious, but it was not as glorious as what came by the way of Christ's death on the cross. Amen. The law had its purpose. Its purpose was not to save, its purpose was to point people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Because there is no salvation by obedience to the law. Amen or not? Paul made it clear in Romans 3. 20. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law, excuse me, is the knowledge of sin. And he goes on further in verse number twenty-two. But now the righteousness of God without the law was manifested. Even the righteousness of God which is by faith. of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all that believe. So the ministry that Paul was referring to was significant and I believe he took it seriously. And he acknowledged that it was a ministry that he received from God and not something that he acquired by personal merit. Now we go back to that phrase in verse number one. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy. Do you see that phrase? As we have received mercy. That word as has the idea, just as or even as. In other words, Paul was saying this: just as I receive the mercy of God and salvation. He also received the ministry of God in service. Both were not earned or acquired by personal merit. Are you with me? Paul writes in 1 Timothy 1:12, and I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful. putting me into the ministry. Listen, none of us here tonight deserved deserve to be used of God. We don't. But can I say that it's a delight to be used of Him. So I would conclude that it was a ministry motivated by the call of God in his life. Notice here it says that see we we have this ministry. I like doing word studies as I study the Bible. That idea we have carries the idea of engaging in that which was given. So since Paul was entrusted with a valuable message, he was fully engaged in not adulterating the message. He was committed to the call. He was committed to not diluting the message that it was given to him. Therefore, he says, we faint not. We don't become weary. In other words, the significance and the seriousness of the ministry of God stirred his heart to remain faithful to the proclamation. Of God's truth. He was determined not to deviate from spiritual truth nor dilute its message. He was engaged in Preaching the unadulterated truth of the gospel. Unfortunately, we have today, we have too many today who are attempting to dilute the message of the gospel, which in fact endangers the possibility of someone truly getting saved. And they give them a false hope. Just do this, just do that. We were in Portugal for 21 years. And it grieves your heart to see the people. crawling on their knees down this sidewalk in in the direction of a of a chapel where they have the Statue of Mary there and and how they have uh around that chapel places where they burn candles uh uh twenty four seven and And you see the parents carrying their kids, having their kids there, helping them light those candles. From very from birth, they're being deceived. That's not the gospel. But those kids grow up thinking that all is well because I did this, I did that, and I'm doing this. This leads me to the next point. We saw Paul's commitment to the ministry. So we see here too in verse number two his commit excuse me his call to the mystery, now his commitment to the message. Verse 2 says, But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully. But by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. Here in this verse, we discover We continue to discover really Paul's compassion, commitment to faithfully proclaim the unadulterated, the uh uncorrupt, untainted message of the gospel. And he does it. with with utmost honesty, without any selfish motives of deceit. You see that It is so sad to see preachers get behind pulpits with ulterior motives other than glorifying God. And and they place themselves on a pedestal. But notice here what Paul says, but I have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty. When you c study out that phrase there. It's saying that he has forsaken the concealed motive of deceit We need to ask ourselves this evening. Missioners, we need to ask ourselves this evening, what are our motives of getting the gospel out to a dying world? Why do we take up these cars to give to missions? What is the primary motive in our hearts? How far would we go to win a soul, even if it meant diluting the truth? How far will we go? What are the motives in our heart? What are those hidden things of dishonesty that that's rooted in our heart? Paul continues by saying, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully In other words, Paul is talking about his approach not into the proclamation of the gospel, but of his uh treatment. How he he sees the word of God, how he values the word of God. And he approaches the Word of God with utmost respect And reverence. Then he goes on to say here in verse number two, but by manifestation of the truth Commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. In other words, he says, but by an outward display, an exposure, a revelation of God's truth. We entrust ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. In other words, God's omniscience And man's conscience should attest to the honesty and integrity of proclaiming the unadulterated truth of God. Amen. Listen, God knows my motives. God knows what I'm thinking. And man, they can read you They know when you're truthful or not. But I'll tell you this: we may be able to deceive man, but we'll never deceive God. He sees every motive, every action. Apparently in Paul's time, there were men who had ulterior motives in their ministries, especially when it came to preaching. And these were men who apparently twisted the message or took scripture out of context, perhaps with the purpose of personal gain. Listen, who are we? To tamper with God's message. This reminds me of what the Apostle Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And I'll read this quickly. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2, Verse number one says, And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. But in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. When Paul preached the gospel, it was with simplicity. And he allowed the Spirit of God to work in the hearts of the people so that the faith of men would be the result of God's power, not man's wisdom. They said, I'm not here to impress you. I could impress you. My vernacular, my vocabulary may not be impressive, and that's okay. My goal, my motive here should not be to entertain. Amen. But to simply preach the word of God and allow the Spirit of God to work in hearts for God's glory, not mine. Can I remind you tonight that the gospel message in itself has the power? It's the power of God into salvation. To everyone that believed. Romans 1:16. It has that power to transform lives to the glory of God. And Satan knows He knows that. Which leads us to the next point. Paul's concern for the message. Paul's concern for the message. But That's my favorite word in the Bible. And the Portuguese people knew that. The Portuguese word for it is mush. And I thought one day they were going to give me a plaque with that word on it. Because it's my favorite word in the Bible, because it speaks of a transition. Right? So Paul's talking about his call to the ministry. He took it seriously. He was determined. He was courageous. Um he was committed. Because I knew, I believe he knew Satan. And he knew the power of Satan and the purpose of Satan in ministry. Don't leave your think that Satan doesn't know what's going on right here and what he what was going on throughout this week He says, but if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. And this should be disturbing for any believer And I believe it was something that disturbed the Apostle Paul. Because behind this hidden message is this principle, this idea of spiritual blindness of the unbeliever. The adversary, if you will, of missions. So with that in mind, there's with me the peril of spiritual blindness. This is where I want to depart. The peril of spiritual blindness. It says here, but if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. The word hid here means to to cover, to to veil. It also carries the idea of hindering the knowledge of something. You see, the purpose of this spiritual blindness or this spiritual obscurity is to veil the truth of the gospel so that the person, the unbeliever, hearing it, Considers the message unimportant, insignificant, unnecessary, meaningless. And you see that happening all over the world, all around this. People belittle the message of the gospel. They discredit the power of the gospel. They deride its uh importance and they the value is relevance. Listen, Satan is good at obscuring the truth of the gospel, is he not? And that leads me to the next point. The person behind spiritual blindness. But if our gospel be hid is hid to them that are lost, in whom Who's the whom here? The lost. In whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not Notice a small little letter G. I'm sure you uh you're all intelligent. We know that's not talking about the only truly being God in heaven, right? We know that that's talking about the adversary of missions, Satan, the devil. He is considered here as the God of this world. In other words, the evil prince or ruler of this world It reminds me of Paul's admonition in Ephesians chapter six, where we are told that we wrestle not against what? Flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness, against spiritual wickedness in high places. And the ruler or prince behind this spiritual witness is none other than Satan himself. In Ephesians 2, 2, Satan is referring there as the prince of the power of the air. Therefore, as God of this world, Satan seeks to obscure the message of the gospel. And so often we are led to believe that we are the ones responsible for the hidden message. And I'm sure you've heard that, and I'm not here to knock any preacher who has said that. But we're not the ones responsible for this hidden message. It's Satan, the god of this world, who is obscuring the truth that produces this spiritual blindness. He is the one that blinds and obscures the minds of them which believe not. That phrase cures the idea of hindering the discernment and the acknowledgement of the truth and it's to darken the mind to prevent the perception of truth. And that is the constant goal of Satan, no matter where the message is being preached, no matter where the gospel is being uh given out, because he knows the power of the message Dear church members, dear church people, this remember this Satan is active in his obscurity and he's an arrogant in his objection. The stewards will find there in Taiwan that Satan is actively obscuring the minds of them which believe not. He no no doubt is obscuring the minds of the people there in Kenya and uh and uh in the and the certain surrounding areas. And in Canada and Portugal, and you name the country, the city, the county. Satan is actively obscuring the minds of them which believe not. Therefore, the gospel is being hid. It's being veiled, being covered. Because Satan knows the power of the message of the gospel. Notice with me also the perimeter of spiritual blindness. He is the God of this world. This spiritual blindness is global. It's not limited or confined to a particular city, county, or country. People around the world are spiritually blinded by Satan to the gospel. Hence the need. Hence the need for God's people, for missionaries to go and give a clear presentation. Of the gospel of Christ, to let their light so shine before those people Why does Satan so actively blind or obscure the minds of unbelievers? I'm glad you asked. Here, notice here the purpose of spiritual blindness And this is what really caught my attention in this passage. Why? Do you ask, why does Satan so actively blind the minds of the unbelievers? Why is he so active in obscuring the message of the gospel? Notice that little word lest in verse number four. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine unto them. That little word lest carries the idea of for fear that Or so that. In other words, the purpose or objective for Satan blinding the minds or obscuring the gospel is for fear. That a person will believe, or for fear that the light of the glorious gospel would shine into them who are not saved. Yes, the gospel is glorious in that it's magnificent in its message and it's priceless in its power because it has power to save. It's wonderful in its work because it transforms lives for all eternity. Yes, this light leads to salvation to all who accept The Lord as our personal Savior. And we can all attest to that time in our lives when God shed that light in our hearts and we understood We saw our need. We saw that we were a sinner. We saw our hopelessness without Christ. And by faith we trusted in Jesus Christ, our first Lord Savior. And we're here today to say thank God for the glorious light of the gospel. We're thankful that someone told us of the gospel and shed that light before us and hit we're here today. our lives being transformed because someone took it seriously to let their life shine before us. Amen It's glorious because it centers around one person who is the image of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, the one and only mediator between God and men. The man Christ Jesus, 1 Timothy 2, 5. But the point I wanted to highlight here tonight was this. Satan is fearful. Of the saving, transforming power of the glorious gospel of Christ. And that is why he is so determined to blind the minds of them that believe not. And I don't know about you, but I like the fact that Satan trembles at the thought of people getting saved. I like the fact that he is fearful of the saving power of Jesus Christ. I like the fact that the devil gets nervous. He gets uneasy when the children of God let their light so shine before men. Amen. Are you with me tonight? And I believe that Satan gets agitated when missionaries are sent around the world to present the gospel truth and lives are changed. Amen? I have no doubt that he's trembling tonight at this mission conference. Because he knows that missioners like these here tonight are surrendered and determined to send the light, the blessed gospel light. Yes, let it shine from shore to sword, from border to border. We need to let our light so shine, and that is our responsibility as children of God. That is the responsibility of these missionaries here tonight. But all of us tonight need to let our light so shine. And I don't want you. I want Satan to tremble. I want him to be fearful. I want him to be agitated. But you know what? When we don't let our light shine, he's happy. You with me? Oh, he's okay when we don't let our lights shine. He's not fearful when we sit in our pew and we don't do anything about the unsaved. He's not agitated when we don't give towards missions. Oh, he doesn't get nervous when we don't answer God's call to go to the mission field when he's calling. Come on now. We are we are we are desperate and I'll if I can use that word w for laborers Labors are few. And Satan's okay with that. He sits back in his recliner. I don't know if he has recliner, but you know what I'm saying? He's okay. He's not nervous. Why? Because we're not doing our job Minds are still blinded. The message is still being obscured in their minds. Why? Because the light of the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ is not being shown around the world. So with that in mind, Paul, as a child of God, as a minister of the New Testament, felt obligated. To preach Christ Jesus the Lord to all he came in contact with. Verse number five. For we preach not ourselves. If we were to preach ourselves, God doesn't do anything for the unsaved. Except give us a reason to gloat, right? And put ourselves on a pedestal. For Paul says we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord and ourselves, your servants for Jesus' sake. Well that's humbling, isn't it not? To be a servant to someone When I thought about that, really as a missionary, we are servants to the unsaved in the sense we owe them something. We have something that we need they need. Are you with me? No. Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 9:16, For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of. For necessity is laid upon me, yea, woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. Then look at his spirit in the next verse. He says in verse number 17, for I do this thing willingly, voluntarily, unforced at his own will. Have you ever thought about this? Pastors Should not have to be behind pulpits today pleading for more labors. It should be something that all of us should want to do. Are you with me? But he's pastors have to constantly plead for laborers. Here the Apostle Paul says, woe is me if I don't preach the gospel. It's a necessity. And I do this thing willingly. No one has to twist my arm. No one has to convince me that it's something I have to do, it's something I want to do. I have a reward, but if against my will, a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me. You know what that means? That word dispensation means this. A stewardship. And administration of the gospel is committed or entrusted to me. Paul acknowledged the stewardship of that which was entrusted to him. And that was the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. What about us? That's the challenge for us this evening. We too have been entrusted with the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. Listen to how Paul describes the message in verse number 7. We have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. He considers the message as a treasure. We possess I'm gonna say something in Portuguese. We possess um something that is priceless Something that is precious, something that is powerful, and I'm talking about the Word of God, the blessed gospel of Jesus. Christ. And think about this. God has chosen to use us, earthen vessels, weak vessels We have nothing of ourselves. And I'm even humbled at the fact that God would even choose me to go to Portugal and learn a different language when I couldn't even e speak the English language correctly. But yet God used me But for his honor and glory. But what a privilege it is for us as earthen vessels to take this gospel around the world. Amen. And preach it to those who need to be saved. The truth of the gospel can be seen as we let our light so shine among men. And so this quest of letting our light so shine is an honor. It's needed. And it's all about God It's all about his power. It's not about us. It's all about him. So the challenge is that we have the responsibility Of being good stewards of the gospel of Jesus Christ. How are we doing with that tonight? Listen, I'm speaking to myself. We need to be better witnesses. We need to look at this as an honor, a privilege, something that we ought to be doing. So in conclusion, that little word less in our text ought to encourage us tonight to shine more and more as lights in this dark world. This light needs to shine brightly all over the world. The light of the gospel can be seen can be seen clearly through the transformed lives of God's people. So what are we doing with that with which we have been entrusted? Well, let's not let Satan get the victory. As he seeks to blind the minds of the unsaved. And may we rely on the power of God to give us that power to be that witness. Acts 1. 8. And may God help us to be found as faithful witness for his glory. And may we let the light of the glorious gospel shine more and more to the honor and glory of God. I ask you tonight, how are you doing in letting your light shine? Let's stand as we bow our heads in prayer tonight. Presseminity Father, we thank you for the message. I thank you for the challenge. And I pray that it would challenge my own heart. To be a better witness, to look for those divine appointments to share the gospel. Father, I don't want Satan to get the victory. But I I I want to see him tremble. At the fact that we as your people are letting our light so shine before men so that others can come to know Christ as their personal Savior. Father, I ask that you would work in our hearts at this time. I pray there's someone here tonight who does not know the Lord as our personal Savior. That tonight would be that glorious day when they come to you in repentance and faith and accept the Lord as their personal Savior. I pray and ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. As their heads are bowed as the pianist plays, if God has spoken to your heart, you come as He plays And perhaps you need to come and ask God to help you to be a better light for his glory. You need to come, you come as others come.