And uh in a marginal way to the Gentiles around that I Israel uh area, which we see as we see the different people that have been ministered to their uh Philip and Saul and Dorcas, uh it's We need to remember, we're really going to face it today as we look at this that God is moving the message of the gospel towards the Gentile nations and opening up the opportunity for them to come to the Lord. But there are many Jewish people that really have to grapple with their own prejudices in order to do that. You remember the Jews considered Gentiles dogs. They were called Gentile dogs. The Jewish people actually felt that they were unclean if they touched a Gentile. They had to go through a uh ceremonial cleansing. to be cleansed if they to touch the Gentile. So this was kind of the heart of the Jewish people, and then here now God is saying, listen, we're gonna take the message of the gospel and that same love that God has for you, He has for them. And boy, they really have to wrestle with that. And we'll see Peter even wrestling with that a little bit. as we get into to the day, but the expansion of the church, which continues to spread out. It's interesting to note that thus far we've already seen the conversion of the Ethiopian eunuch. He was a descendant of Ham. And then we've seen the conversion of Saul, who was a descendant of Shem. Chapter 10 here opens with the conversion of Cornelius, a Roman soldier, who was a descendant of Japheth. So we have there the uh really the the entirety of the population as far as the world, the descendants of men. represented God making sure that the entirety of the world has a mess the message of the gospel and in these three very important people that out of all those that were given the gospel and all those that had been saved during that time, God recorded for us in His Word these people's story. I think partially, notably because of who they represented. And how that God was making sure the whole world had the gospel and that we understand that as we consider and think about what God is doing at this time with the expansion of the church. So we open in chapter number 10 here with some visions that are sent from God. There's some visions that God sends, and God's working and doing some things, and he's leading these men. And uh so first of all is the vision of Cornelius. We see right away that Cornelius was a faithful man. Chapter 10 and verse number one. There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of the band called the Italian Band. Now Centurion obviously means uh a hundred, the Centa. He was in charge of or led a hundred men as a uh Centurion, he would have been a leader of men But not only was he a leader of men, we see here very clearly that he was faithful. And I would encourage you to to study this chapter out in the preceding chapter is any place that Corne uh Cornelius has mentioned and look at his faithfulness. There's there's many aspects of the faithfulness of Cornelius that can be drawn from his testimony even in coming chapters of what was done there. But we see right away here very clearly that he says that he was faithful in giving of alms and in praying. We see in verse number two, a devout man and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God always. So this man of prayer, this man who was seeking for and looking for God. He feared God. Now here's a perfect example or uh testimony of somebody who knew about God, who understood who he was in relation to God. Even though he was a leader in a Roman army, even though he had men underneath him, he understood who he was in relation to God. He was just a man and he needed to know God. So he was seeking, he was longing for, he was doing things that were good, doing things that were right. He was Prayerfully seeking for the Lord, but at the same time, he was not yet a Christian, which we're going to see in a little bit. Yet here, God knows his name And as we saw with the bo in the book of Ruth, that God knows his need. Knows exactly what he needs. So God is beginning to open the doors of the gospel unto him, and he has to work miraculously to do it. So we also see See that he was obedient. In verses 3 through 8, he says here, and he saw a vision. Evidently about the ninth hour of the day, an angel of God came in unto him, saying, unto him, Cornelius. And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and he said, What is it, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial before God. And now send men to Joppa and call for one, Simon, whose surname was Peter. Look down at verse number 8 We're just going to skip a couple just for time, and we'll do that several times as we go through this. But he says, and when he had declared all these things unto him, So when the angel had finished declaring these things, he sent them to Joppa. So he sent them to Japah. He said, okay, guys, I was told to do this. You guys go find this guy, Peter. Simon 3, go go find him. I've been told to get him. So he was an obedient man. He did what he was supposed to do. At the same time that God was Opening the gospel to Cornelius and drawing him in, the Bible tells us that God draws the heart of men, and God is doing that to Cornelius here. At that same time, God is preparing Peter So we see a vision that God is giving Peter in verses 9 through 16. God is preparing his servant to reach the Gentiles here. We see, beginning in verse number nine, on the morrow, as they went on their journey and drew nigh unto the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth hour. And he became very hungry. and would have eaten, but while they made ready, he fell into a trance. And he saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending unto him, as it had been a great sheet. Knit at the four corners, and lut down to earth, wherein were all manner of four-footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said Not so, my lord, for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean While we see here God working and teaching Peter and beginning to illustrate unto him some things that he needs to go to the Gentile nations. Three times, God tells him here in these verses, I think we see it down in verse number sixteen, this was done thrice, and the vessel was received up again into heaven. There's a couple notable things here that we see with this vision that God was giving to him. God was showing him in this sheet that there were unclean animals and clean animals. They were mixed together. God was showing him that the uh old uh laws regarding these animals was no longer applicable. That it was okay. And he says unto him, Hey Peter, take, kill, and eat. Now notice what Peter says there, and you may want to underline this in your Bible, but in verse number 14, but Peter said Not so, Lord. Now, beloved, that's a contradictory statement. You see, you can't have it both ways. You can't say Lord and say no. You can't that doesn't work. It's either yes, Lord, or it's no, and he's not Lord. So that idea in our heart, and I think sometimes we're just like Peter. We kind of uh decide in our mind and we say, okay, Lord, but no. Uh and and uh a heart of submission and an acknowledgement of who he is responds with a yes, with an okay. But see, Peter had to grapple with his own beliefs, with his own uh heart in what was going on in his mind He had to submit to God. He God was showing him that the ritualistic uh ritual law of the Old Testament was no longer binding that God was illustrating here that the gospel was not just for the Jew, the clean But for the Gentile, those that would be unclean, they have them mixed together in this sheet. And three times this descends down to earth, and note that three times they're taken together. Up into heaven. The unclean weren't rejected before the they were lifted up into heaven. They were all together and they were all lifted up into heaven. Three times God giving him this illustration for him to see and again he's not really positive about what's going on. But I want you to know Romans ten twelve tells us, for there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek, for the same Lord is over all, rich unto all that call upon him So that idea is being taught here to Peter that listen God is uh he loves the Gentile just as much as the Jew, that they're together, the old ritual law of partaking of these Uh animals that were considered unclean is no longer applicable to you. Peter, please feel free. Peter's grappling with this, we see in verse number 17 that he uh he's questioning. Now while Peter doubted in himself what this vision, which he had seen, should mean So he's wondering, Lord, what does this mean? Now, what are the chances of this? I say obviously it's not chances, God directing the steps, but note what happens here. Well, he's in his mind trying to figure out, okay, Lord, what is it you're teaching me by this Behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius had made an inquiry for Simon's house and stood before the gate And called and asked whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, was lodged there. While Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him, Behold, three men seek thee Arise therefore and get thee down and go with them. God in this vision had shown him three times this descending sheet with these mixed animals in it, and then he says, Hey, uh at the door There's three men. There's three Gentiles. And I'm telling you, you need to go with them. Boy, was this going to get uh Peter out of his comfort zone. He travels with these Roman Gentiles to Caesarea. You know, you have several things here that are really pushing the limits on Peter's. uh like what he's okay with, right? He's really getting out of his comfort zone here. Not only was he going to be with some Gentiles, but you understand that was exasperated or made one level worse by them being Romans. Because the Romans definitely were not appreciated by the Jewish people. The Romans were their oppressors. They did not necessarily get along with them. So now he's traveling with these Gentiles who were Romans and they're going to Caesarea. That's like going to Sin City. That's like going to the place that is the metropolis or the capital or the main event for the Gentile world during that time. Caesarea was named after Caesar Augustus. It was a Roman city. It was known for all of the uh aspect of the world at that time and for a Jewish person to go there was definitely not in their realm of to-do list or what they would ever want to be seen doing Yet Peter submits and follows God's leading and does what God told him to do. And we see in verse number 25 that they find Cornelius is waiting for him. Not only that, Cornelius begins to worship him. Look at verse number twenty five. And Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him, and he fell down at his feet and worshipped him. But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up, I myself also am a man. And as he talked with him, he went in and found many that were come together. And he said unto them, Ye know how that it is unlawful that for a man that is a Jew to keep company, or to come unto one of another nation, but God has showed me that I should not call any man common Now we didn't read that in the, because we didn't read the entire vision that God had given, but God was telling Peter there in the vision in the earlier verses, listen, don't call that which I have made unclean. Don't call it common. God has made these things. And so God is teaching him and showing him. And Peter understanding that shares that with Cornelius here. You know, these lifelong held beliefs that Peter had, when he was confronted with them, he was willing to change. We see in verse number 28. And he said unto him, ye know that it was unlawful. He said, we shouldn't do that. This is not something that Jews should do But, he says, I should not call any man common or unclean. He was willing to change his attitude, and he was willing to change his actions. I wonder if God speaks to us with what we would have as a long-held belief. Whatever that might be. Would you be willing to change to follow God, to follow his word? Peter, a religious man, Peter, a follower of Christ, Peter who it wanted to honor and please God, but he had these these beliefs in his life that he had held to for a long, long time, and God says, wait a minute, we're going to change that. And Peter had to submit. And he had to say, okay, Lord. Whatever you want. On March 6, 1994, there was a story in Our Daily Bread about Gandhi. Gandhi recorded this in his own biography. He said that during his university days. He became very interested in Christianity. You see, he had a real problem with the caste system that was dividing India. That caste system was tied strongly into Hinduism. So he was interested in Christianity, and he thought maybe Christianity had an answer for this. And he read the gospels fervently. And he thought, well, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to a local church and talk to the pastor about Christianity and see And in his own autobiography, he says that he was seriously prepared and ready to convert to Christianity. But he went to this little church in his neighborhood, went in through the doors, and he was met by a leader in the church there, and the church looked at him and said, What are you doing here? I think that you should go worship with your own kind. And Gandhi says, I walked out of the church that day and decided, well, if the Christian church has the caste system. They have division like that. They have that. Then why bother with it? I might as well just stay a Hindu. Beloved, can you imagine Both ramifications, what could have happened had they responded differently, and what did happen because Gandhi was rejected. Beloved, we won't know till we get to heaven how that one little comment made of that small church that day. affected the eternity of probably hundreds of thousands of people. India might be a Christian nation today, instead of a Hindu nation. Had that one contact been different, I wonder, are we willing and ready to change our attitudes, to change our actions, to let go of our prejudices? For the love of Christ and what God wants to do in the lives of people that we come across each day. Boy, he is convinced That God is God for all men, and that all men are to be accepted. Look down in verse number 34. Peter here, Peter is chapter 10, verse 34. He says, and Peter opened his mouth and he said, Of a truth, I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. But in every nation he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted within him. So you see, Peter, it took a process for him to come to this place. It took God giving him a vision, God working on his heart, and him submitting and yielding to that. But he realized that, and then we see God's confirmation of what Peter was learning, given to him and to all the Jews that are in the area, when he empowers them by baptizing them or giving them the Holy Spirit and then they are baptized. So we see in verse number 44. As he says, let's start with verse number 43. To him gave all the prophets witness that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins. While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word. But look at verse number 45. And they are of the circumcision which believed were astonished. So them that are of the circumcision, you're going to see that several times in these passages, that obviously is speaking of the Jewish nation. They were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Spirit For they heard them, spake with tongues, and magnified God. Then answered Peter, Can any man forbid water that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then prayed they him to tarry certain days. They said, Hey, would you stay here and teach and instruct and help us for a little while? And and but they were filled with the Holy Spirit in confirming of the working of God in their lives. And then they Peter realizing that says, hey, they need to be baptized just like we were baptized. removing all the boundaries that were there before time. Then we see the report of God's work in chapter number 11. There's a reporting that comes back. Peter stays for a few days and then he heads back. And we see first of all a reprimand of Peter by the Jews in verses 1 through 3 in number 11 here. And the apostles and brethren that were in Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word. And when Peter was come unto Jerusalem, They that were of the circumcision contended with him, saying, Thou wentest in to men uncircumcised and did as eat with them. Boy, they were indignant. They were shocked. They said, How could you do this, Peter? You're unclean now. I mean you went with these people and these uncircumcised, you know, people and you the the pe These Gentiles and you sat and you ate with them. We heard, we heard through the grapevine, and this is what happened. Uh, you know, we gotta be careful about what comes through the grapevine Uh not that we should be listening to it at all, but you know a lot of times through the grapevine, the information is at best incomplete And often completely wrong. We've got to be very careful. So they had heard through the grapevine, they said, Boy, it was reported unto us. And so then Peter begins to tell them what happened. He says, let me tell you what happened. He rehearses the events before them in verses 4 through 18. I want you to note that Peter is clear, complete, and confident in his communications to the Jews. He gives them the entirety of what God did, and we know what he did, so we're not going to read through all of those verses, but he recounts to them exactly what took place. How God worked through visions and miraculously led him and brought him to that place and how they repented just as the Jewish people repented and that they were uh Given the Holy Spirit and that they follow the Lord in believers' baptism. And boy Peter tells how he shared the gospel with these Gentile people and that they were saved. Let's look just down at verse number 14. Who shall tell these words whereby thou and all thy house shall be saved? And as I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us at the beginning. He said, listen, this is exactly what happened to us, the Spirit of God. worked amongst them, and they repented, and God's Spirit fell upon them, just like God's Spirit fell upon us. The people were granted repentance and salvation unto eternal life. Look at verse number 18 there. When they had heard these things, they held their peace and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance unto life. So those People of the circumcision, the Jewish people that were contending with Peter, heard the entire story. And when they had heard the whole story. They said, wow, I guess this is what God wants. They too were convinced there in verse number 18 when they heard these things. They that held their peace and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance unto life. I guess God is sending the message to the Gentiles Then the rest of them that were present saw what God was doing, and they were ready to believe it as well. That opens the door for a rise of a great mission work in Antioch. Verses 19 through 26 communicates this to us, how this mission work in Antioch begins. And uh through the scattering of the church, the believers that went, they traveled, and they traveled as far as Antioch. Verse number 19, Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that rose of about Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus. In Antioch preaching the word to none, but also unto the Jews only. And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which when they were come to Antioch spake unto the Grecians. preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was upon them, and a great number believed and turned unto the Lord. So this mission work is taking off. Many people are believing. The hand of God was on them and blessing them in a in a great way. Beloved, any church that's going to move forward, uh except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. God's the one that has to do the work. And uh God's hand of blessing has to be on a place. And that means uh the place has to be honoring to God. And if it's honoring to God, then God will bless it. We see Barnabas is sent from Jerusalem to be a help, to be an aid. Let me see here, where is verse number twenty-two, I guess Barnabas has mentioned. The tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church which were at Jerusalem, and they sent forth Barnabas that he should go as far as Antioch. who when he came and he was seeing the grace of God was glad, and exhorted them all with purpose of heart that they would cleave unto the Lord. For he was a good man, full of the Holy Ghost and of faith. We see here that Barnabas was sent forth and he was sent with a purpose. To encourage the church, to be helped, to instruct the church. He had a purpose. He had a plan. He wasn't just there visiting saying, hey, how are you doing? But he had a purpose to go and to have something to accomplish. He also had the power of God there in verse number 24. full of the Holy Ghost and of faith, and many, much people were added to the Lord. Then departed Barnabas to Tarshus to seek Saul. So Barnabas needs some help. He says, man, the work here is expanding, the things are growing, and I need some help to to adequately teach and instruct these these uh b new believers. So he goes, he he departs to go find Paul. And he says, man, Paul, I need you to come. Paul is recruited and they work together for a little bit to see the work move forward. And God blesses greatly. We see in verse number 26 that first time there believers are called Christians. And when they had found him, he brought him unto Antioch, and it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people, and the disciples were called Christians first. in Antioch. This is where that name, that title, Christians, Christ ones. Christians, Christ-like. They had become known as people of the way. And now they kind of shorten that a little bit and say these are Christ ones. These are Christians. And that name kind of stuck and has stuck until today. And beloved beloved believers, I tried to put those two words together, uh believers should live up to the name. Christian, Christ-like. It is a privilege and an honor to be called a Christian. We see that the persecution continues in chapter number twelve. Moving to chapter twelve, the persecuted church is not done. Actually Herod uh here comes on the scene and Herod we know was a wicked wicked man He killed James, the first apostle that was martyred here, now about that time, Herod. Think uh the king stretched forth his hand to vex certain of the church. And he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he said, man, that made the Jews happy. He proceeded further to take Peter also. Hey, that boy, I And killed James and everybody like that. Let's go kill Peter too. So he captures Peter and uh because it was uh the feast Uh the the Feast of Unleavened Bread, because it was a feast of unleavened bread, that he says, well, we're not going to kill them today. The Jews are kind of preoccupied. The Jews have something special tonight, so we'll wait and we'll kill them tomorrow Listen, the die was cast, the order was given, all that had to happen was for about 12 or 14 hours to pass, and Peter was going to be killed He was thrown into the prison in a very secure way. I don't know why they felt it was so necessary to secure him so, but you can read this passage of scripture and you'll see that Peter was not in the first prison or the second prison, but he was down into the third prison He was all the way into what you might call solitary confinement, but not only that, he was chained between two soldiers. They had two soldiers with him Maybe they had heard about how some other saints of God just got up in the middle of the night and walked out of the prison. Maybe they just heard about that and they said, Well, we're gonna get these guys secure. You know, I don't know what it was, but they chained them directly to two guards and he was going to spend the night and they were going to kill him in the morning. But you know what, beloved? Praise the Lord for a church that prays. We see verse number five. Peter therefore was kept in prison, but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. Beloved, you know the church needs to be a place of prayer. We need to be a people of prayer involved in the the ministry of prayer and praying for one another. And and these this church, we're gonna see That they had enough faith to pray, but They did doubt. They certainly doubted. And understand, beloved, that that's okay, that in your heart and mind, you know, trying to realize or acknowledge or say, man, God, how are you going to do this I don't know. I know you're capable. I'm just not positive, Lord, but Lord, would you do this? Beloved, they they certainly were not praying in faith believing. Like we in our heart and mind think that we must pray without having Yes, we need to believe that God is able, but I uh maybe you're not like me, but sometimes in my mind I wonder how. How could I know God could But would he? Is he going to? Why wouldn't he? I mean there there's there's there's this measure of doubt, but there's enough faith, enough belief to at least get down on my knees and pray. And they did this, and God answered their prayer in a miraculous and powerful way. Peter was protected, verses 6 through 12. He was delivered. An angel came unto him. His chains fell off. They got up and walked out the gates. Um let's just look at verse number, I think let's pick up in twelve. And when they had considered this thing, let's see here. Let's look at verse number 11. And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a surety that the Lord has sent his angel and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod. And from all the expectation of the people of the Jews. They all thought he was going to die. Everybody's expectation was, hey, we'll see Peter killed tomorrow. But that expectation was ruined because God came and delivered them. Verse number twelve. And when they had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose her name was Mark, which many were gathered together praying And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a damsel came to hearken named Rhonda. And when she When she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate for gladness, but ran in and told how Peter stood before the gate. She was so excited. That Peter was there, she forgot to open the door. She just turned around and and ran back. And uh if anybody that's had kids, you have seen this happen. Where Uh they'll just leave the guest at the door, they'll leave them out there. They didn't invite them in. They just, you know, they're just coming to, oh, grandma's here or or whatever. And they're like, Peter's here, Peter's here. And they didn't believe her They said, nope, that's not the case, boy. They were very perplexed. And they said unto her, in verse number 15, and they said unto her, thou art mad. But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. They said, It is his angel. But Peter continued knocking, and when they had opened the door and saw him, they were astonished Boy, they were astonished. The perplexity of the saints, they were perplexed, they were shocked that God had answered their prayer as they had requested. Then God gives us a little bit of insight into the pride of Herod. He was puffed up with pride. He believed himself to be So much we see in verse number 21. And upon a seat Herod arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his throne and made an oration unto them, and the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a God, and not of man. And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not God the glory, and he was eaten of worms, and he gave up the ghost. So here he was full of pride, but God punished him for it. Herod, under the direction of Satan, had done his best to stop the church. They had killed James and imprisoned Peter, were planning to kill him They were doing all that they could, but I want you to understand, beloved, the blood of the martyrs was simply a catalyst. For the fire that burned in the heart of the early believers. And instead of stopping the church, the persecution promoted the church, the church began to grow and expand even more and more. We see verse number 24, but the word of God grew and multiplied. And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem when they had fulfilled their ministry and took with them John, whose surname was Mark. So the work of God went forward in a great and powerful way. This is the expansion of the church. We're going to see it now moving if you look at your schedule or your overall timeline again. We see now God has prepared the hearts of the Jewish believers to embrace this ministry towards the Gentiles. God has prepared Paul through his salvation and instruction. And now we're going to move right into next week the Paul's missionary journeys where we're going to fulfill Acts 1. 8. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria. And now Paul is going to be taking it to the uttermost and getting the gospel to the rest of the world through his missionary journeys that uh the rest of Acts is concerning. That brings us to a conclusion for today. Let's pray we'll be discussing. Lord, we love you. We thank you for this time in Sunday school. I ask you, God, that you would give us a wonderful time in your house this morning, that Lord, your house would be filled with your presence and filled with your people. Lord, would you work in our midst to give each and every one safety as they travel to and from? Lord, I just pray that you would just bless this time together in your house, Lord, and we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, you're dismissed