I've been doing a study on the church. I've enjoyed it. There's been a number of people that have uh talked to me and expressed their joy or appreciation. We'll get to that. Big brick there in just a moment. But they've enjoyed it. And I told you when I began that the motivation for the Study on the church really came out of m my heart's desire and my musing about wanting to have a great church and and kind of man I I want to have a great church. And and I I mean just looking at it and of course in my mind I'm I'm developing what a great church is and I'm looking at things and saying, boy I want a great church and And you know, of course, I I want a lot of people and I want people coming to church and and yeah, I want to see people saved and I want to see uh lives changed and a great spirit and excitement in church and thrill about being there and just all of the stuff that goes on with with uh you know in that mind's eye I'm I'm kind of pondering and thinking about those things and boy I I want a great church and of course the Holy Spirit kinda stopped me and says, Well well, uh you want a great church in the eyes of God or a great church in your eyes? So I began to look at the Word of God and say, Well what defines and what makes a great church and we've we've been looking at the church and I've enjoyed that study but Of course, as I said this morning, the church is made up of people. That we are the church. And if we're going to have a great church, really, it's going to be because we've got great Christians. And the Word of God tells us very clearly what makes a great Christian, but we're going to use this text here to kind of as a launching point as we see this word, the greatest Among us kind of the idea presented, Luke 22. Look down in verse number 24 as we read through verse number 27. He said, and there was also a strife among them. Which of them should be accounted the greatest? And he said unto them, the king of the Gentiles, exercise lordship over them, and they that exercised authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so, but he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that doth serve For whether is great, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth It is not he that sitteth at meat, but I am among you as he that serveth. What an amazing thing that the disciples are here at this time. There's almost a jockeying among them for position right in the shadow of the cross. Literally right before Christ is going to be taken, they're kind of deciding, well, who of who among us is going to be the most important? Who among us is going to be the greatest? At the heels of one of them among them, betraying Christ, and Christ dealing with the pain of him that turned away. They said, hey, who among us is going to be the greatest? And although, beloved, there should never be something between Christians, it's not a matter of, oh, I'm a greater Christian than them. or I'm a better Christian than this person, or I'm the greatest Christian in the church, or any of this. There shouldn't be a jockeying for position. But there really should be in the heart of every Christian the desire to be a great Christian. Not necessarily greater than someone else, not necessarily greater or in measurement or in status to somebody else you look at in the church, but hey, we know Jesus Christ is a standard. And we want to be a great Christian in God's eyes. Wow. So if we're going to be a great Christian, there's three times in the Word of God that I see that Christ talked about Those that are great. And I want to see what is what are the attributes or characteristics of a great Christian tonight. Turn to the book of Matthew if you would, Matthew chapter number five. I'm sure many of you are familiar with the teachings of Matthew chapter five. all that's laid out for us in this great and powerful chapter. But we see the first of these given to us this evening. He says in Matthew chapter 5, verse number 19, he says, Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments And shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whosoever shall do and teach them the same shall be called great. in the kingdom of heaven. Now, he doesn't say that you'd be called the greatest, but he says you would be called great. So if we want to be a great Christian, the first thing I see that Christ lays out here for us is that it's going to take complete obedience. Complete obedience. He says here, whosoever shall uh break or the least of these commandments. And teach others to break them as well is going to be the least in the kingdom. But whosoever shall do and teach them the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. I want you to understand tonight that God puts high value on obedience. God puts high value on obedience. Complete obedience Those of you that are parents, you understand that partial obedience is not obedience. You tell the children to clean up their room and they go in there and they pick up uh the Lagos But they left the puzzles and they left all the Tonka trucks and they left the guns and they left the socks and the shoes and all the dirty clothes. They left all that. Well they didn't clean the room. They say, well I I picked up the Legos. No, no, no. You were told to clean the room. Partial obedience is not obedience at all. And Christian, we don't get to decide among the commandments of God and the direction that God gives us that, well, I want to obey this one, but this is one I really don't care for. If we want to be a great Christian, I'm talking about a great Christian in the eyes of God, not a great Christian in Pastor Caleb's eyes, not a great Christian in the eyes of those at Hunt Valley Baptist Church A great Christian in the eyes of God Himself, he says it's going to take complete obedience. You know, delayed obedience is not obedience either. I'm sure all you parents have dealt with this where you've told your children, well, uh here I want you to do this. And then you come back later and you see them playing a game or you see them out doing something, you're like, what are you doing? I told you to wash the car. Well I was going to, but first, no no there's no but first you were given direction you were given instruction you were supposed to be doing this and And and delayed obedience is not obedience, and Christian, we need to obey God completely right away. What God tells us to do. And in Matthew chapter number five, Christ lists some of these things that he kind of does some compare and contrast back and forth where he kind of lists out for us what would be great. And I have a great big brick down here in front of us. There's a big brick, and we could have chose different things, but the last time we had a big stone we scarred this So we don't want to star the scar the stage tonight. But we there's a big brick here. And there's some things that when our eyes, we look at certain sins and we think, well, that's a big sin. That's a big thing. We got to be careful about that because that's a big thing. Look down in verse number 21, chapter 5 there, verse number 21. He says, You have heard that it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not kill. It's probably a pretty big thing, right? I mean that's pretty big. Thou shalt not kill. And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. Verse number 22, he says, But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause Shall be in danger of the judgment. What a contrast there. So we have the big thing. The big thing that we look at and say, well, I would never kill somebody. But it's okay for me to be angry. I have a right to be angry because I was mistreated, because somebody didn't do what I thought they should do, because my expectations weren't met. Because things that I thought, so I'm justified in my anger. We gotta have complete obedience. He says, shall be in danger of the judgment. Whosoever shall say to his brother Rakah shall be in danger of the counsel, but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. That raka there is it means worthless. If you don't have that mark in your Bible, you might want to circle it and write next to there worthless, just so you kind of know what that what that's talking about. So the idea there, just calling people names. That's a pretty least commandment, right? Pretty small commandment. Just just calling people names Being careful what we say to people. You see, we like to put a level of importance on the commandments of God. Our level of importance. We like to establish, oh this is important, this is not as important. I would never do this big thing. I would never do that. But it's okay if I harbor this anger in my heart. I would never do this, but it's alright if I mistreat my wife. I would never do this, but I'm justified in Saying these things to a brother in Christ, after all, if it's truth, it's okay to say it. Look down in verse number 27. The list goes on. He keeps listing off and does some more expounding on these things, but in verse number 27 he says, you've heard it said. By them of old time thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. Well, Pastor, I would never commit adultery. Pastor, it's okay if I look as long as I don't touch. Not according to God. And not if you want to be a great Christian. Not if you want to be a great Christian. You know, beloved, the great Christian is not the one that can stand up and sing with the tongue of angels. The great Christian is not even the one that could stand up and expound the scriptures with great eloquence. The great Christian is the one that's obedient. The one that's obedient. You see, we look at things like the eloquence and we look at the the voice and we look at somebody in in front of others and they're able to do this or they're able to do that and We are impressed with that, but God's not. What God's impressed with is obedience. You can read down through the rest of the passage there and see the different list of things, but beloved James chapter 2, verse number 10 says, Whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point is guilty of all. I want you to understand that little things matter. Little things matter. People today like to throw around the idea, well, you're majoring on the minor Jesus said the little things matter. And as a church, we're not majoring on the minor. I spent the whole message this morning talking about the focus of the church. But just because you're winning somebody to Christ doesn't mean you get to be disobedient to God in every other area of life. You don't just get to disregard everything else because you happen to be a witness. Oh, I can I can be disobedient to God and God's going to overlook that because I'm a witness. No. Not if you want to be a great Christian. Obey the least of the commandments. Well, Pastor, that commandment is not that important. That instruction is not that important. God said the least. If you disobey the least and instruct others to disobey the least, he says you will be the least in the kingdom. You don't lose your salvation. There's a text verse for it right there. Never even seen that till right now. That you yeah, you you didn't lose your salvation when you disobeyed those commandments and even instructed other people to disobey them, but you'll be the least in the kingdom. But to be great, you obey even the least. Many times we have a lofty opinion of ourself. And the level of Christianity we've attained, but I want you to know that God sees your bad attitude. Beloved, God sees your wicked thoughts. God sees the anger that's in your heart and the bitterness that you will not let go of. God sees the aught that you hold against some brother or sister in Christ. And you have your personal devotions, and you feel like you're a great Christian because you're reading your Bible and you're spending some time in prayer, and you have disregarded the Spirit's prodding to get that fixed with your brother in Christ. That's it, if you want to be great, you're gonna obey the least of the commandments. It's been said that if you're gonna save a big ship, you've got to stop the smallest leak. If you're gonna save a palace from burning, you have to put out the spark. It's not oh it's just the dining room's on fire. It's not that big a deal. We're not gonna worry about that yet. The house is not engulfed. No, if you want to stop the house from burning, you've got to put out the spark. You've got to take care of the smallest of disobediences. It's the little foxes that destroy the vineyard. Just one at a time. Just one at a time. You know small sins for what they want in weight are usually made up for in number. I have here a bag of pebbles. Very little pebbles. You know this bag of little bitty pebbles weighs more than that big brick. And the little sins that we let in our life that we've been ignoring that we've been thinking, oh we can just live with that. Right. You know the weight of sand can sink a ship just as much as the weight of some big cargo? It's just a little bit. Just little bitty tiny things. But we allow those little things into our lives, and they're going to destroy us. If we want to be a great Christian, we're going to have complete obedience to God. It is the allowance of the little sin that makes way for the vilest of all sin. You know you will never get caught, young people. You'll never get charged with stealing a car if you don't ever steal money off your dad and mom's dresser. You'll never develop that habit of of of stealing if if if you first don't steal that food from the pantry that you know mom was saving that that those Twinkies, the the ding gongs, the twizzlers. Oh dad and mom won't miss just a little bit. It's a little thing. Oh it's okay, it's I can steal from mom and dad. They're not gonna press charges. I'm not gonna get arrested. But you're letting some little thing in your life. And that sin is going to turn into something larger, and you'll be like Raymond. When I was a teenager, he was stealing from his mom and dad One time he came to my house and he handed me as a teenage boy about fourteen years old, he handed me three thousand dollars and said, I just stole this from my parents. And the police are at my house. My parents know that they've been missing money. money and they filed with the police department to find out who's getting into the house to take their money. Oh, it started with just a dollar or two off the counter. He stole three thousand dollars at one time. You say, Well, I'd never do that. If you would take a dollar from your parents, you would steal three thousand. It's a heart matter. It's a heart matter. You gotta guard against the little sins. If we want to be great Christians, we've got to ask God to help us see those little things and get them fixed. Get them fixed. You know, some Christians obey out of fear Some obey out of selfishness. You know, like the child who obeys because he's afraid of mom and dad and above punishment. And praise the Lord, that's training. There should be discipline for disobedience, and the child should know that there is discipline for that. And fear might be the motivator for why they don't disobey. So they're going to obey because of fear, or maybe they're going to obey because they know if they obey, they're going to get an ice cream cone on the way home. And so they're excited about what they're going to get. And so they're going to obey because of selfishness, because of something that they want. But do you know, beloved, that a sign of maturity is when a child reaches a point that they obey their mom and dad because they love them? And because they know the smallest of disobedience is going to break their mom's heart, it's going to bring tears to their father's eyes And they would just hate to do so. And so they, out of a motivated heart of love, say, I must obey. And it's not about fear of what will happen. It's not about what blessing I'll get. It's because I love my Father. And Christian, the sign of maturity for you and I is when we obey the least of the commandments out of a heart of love. Do you love God enough to obey the little things? Complete obedience. To be great is to be Completely obedient. Secondly, turn to Matthew chapter 18. Matthew chapter 18. We see there at the beginning of The chapter, verses one through four, he says, At the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And Jesus called his little child unto him And sent him in the midst of them, and said, Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven Not only does it take complete obedience, but it takes childlike humility. To be a great Christian, we've got to have childlike humility. You know, this is contrary to the way of the world's thinking. We think if I'm going to be great, I've got to be something. If I'm going to be great, I've got to accomplish something or do something. But according to God, to be great, it takes childlike humility. There's two things in the Word of God that we as Christians are hum. You know, the verse I quoted this morning that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro. That there's things that we're not to be like children in. We're supposed to grow up. But there's two areas where I see that Christians are to be like children. We're to have childlike faith and we're to have childlike humility. That's an amazing lesson. Because you know you don't naturally over time develop humility. As you grow up, you develop a lot of other things. Naturally over time you might develop intellectually You know, down at the camp I had a couple people tell me, you know, Tim, he's he's really quick witted. Like he's he's smart. I said, yeah, a little too quick for his own good. That's the problem. Uh yeah, he's quick witted. You know my you might over time develop physical strength. Anytime we're moving something, I'm like, where's John? The guy's the beast, man. I don't know where those muscles are hiding, but he's just strong. God gave him some strength You know, God you might develop some some talent or some skill with your hands or or with your voice. You get some some things that develop naturally over time, but humility is not one of them. What develops naturally as you get older is pride. And you gotta fight that. And work to have childlike humility. You see, for the child, everyone is bigger than them. This morning in Sunday school, little Elena was walking around the fellowship hall among the sea of legs. She just walking I don't know who she was looking for, but she was like she's gonna have a neck ache. She's walking around looking at all these all these big people You know, all just to a child everyone's bigger and stronger. To a child, everyone is smarter than them. To a child, they're 100% dependent on someone else for their provision and care. A child is directed, instructed in everything that they're to do. The sad thing is the adult has come to believe that those things are no longer true about them. I didn't say they were no longer true. I said they've come to believe they're no longer true. You see, because now I'm in control of my life. Really? You're you're in control? And if on the way home tonight you get into an accident and that motor gets shoved up through the firewall and the doctor has to amputate your legs? You're in control? Tomorrow morning you get a call from the doctor and says that uh you've got a growth on your liver and it's cancerous, you're in control of your life. You see, we think we are. We've lost that childlike humility that recognizes that he's in control. Yeah. That really we are one hundred percent dependent upon him. Oh, we like to take the reins, we like to be in control, we like to say we we have this. But you know when it comes right down to it, he's in control. And it's child-like humility that recognizes that. We're like a child before God. He's in control. You know, fame and fortune in this world is so short-lived. The older I get, the more I realize that. It's just so short-lived. I mean, some of the older members of our congregation, you know the big stars that were the big names years ago Where are they now? I mean th th they're these kids don't even know their names. Right. They don't even know who they are. And you're like, what? You don't know that person? They were the biggest Not anymore. The the trend setters of today are going to be unknown tomorrow. It's it's amazing how fast and how quick. That world fortune and fame just passes away. It's so empty. But to be great in the eyes of God. Last forever. And it doesn't take pride like this world pushes, it takes humility. I remember some years ago, shortly after we finished the house over there on Shawan Road, I went down to the care facility and I picked up Mr. Merriman Kemp. And I brought him over to the house and I just wanted to show him the property and all the previous that we did and and he stood there and cried about the house and how beautiful it was and all the work we did and he was just so excited about it. And I drove him around. I offered to take him out to dinner, but he didn't really want to go eat. But we drove around and We ended up on Bosley Road, and Mr. Kemp told me that Bosley Road was named after him. His name is Bosley Merriman Kemp. And as an excavator, he built many of the homes on that road or did the dirt work design, maybe maybe did the dirt work for the road, I don't know. But that road was named for him. But you know how many people know that today Not many. Well all of you do know, but I'm just saying greatness in this world is so short lived. It's so short-lived. And people work so hard to get it. When all it takes to be great in the eyes of God is childlike humility. And complete obedience. Sadly, we've taken the gifts of God, the strength of God, the ability from God, and we begin to think like a cat. You know the difference between a cat and a dog. The dog, the owner comes in and puts some food down for the dog. The owner pets the dog. owner looks the dog looks up in the eyes of his owner and says, Man, my master must be God. But a cat, you come in, you feed the cat, you sit down, you pet the cat. And the cat says, Man, I must be God. You see, that's what we do. God takes care of us. God provides for us. God meets our needs. His mercies are renewed every day. His goodness to us. We take all that in and we say, wow, I must be God. Instead of looking back at him with childlike humility, just saying, Thank you, Lord. To be great in the eyes of God, we've need childlike humility. Spurgeon exhorted us to be be not proud of race, of face, of place, or of grace. We've got nothing to be proud of. Lastly tonight I want you to see in the book of Mark, chapter number ten, that it takes Christ-like service It takes Christ-like service to be great in the eyes of God. To be a great Christian, we've got to have complete obedience. Childlike humility and Christ-like service, he says in Matthew chapter 10, verses 43 through 45, he says, but so shall it not be among you. But whosoever will be great among you, Shall be your minister. That word minister there literally means servant. And whosoever of you will be chiefest. Shall be servant of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many That word in our mission statement that we played this morning, that we desire to see the world ministered to was chosen on purpose. Because that was the heartbeat of Christ to minister to the world. In the text that we read when we first started tonight, Christ said, Who's greater? The one that sits down to meet, that is, to sit and to be served, or the one that's serving? And he says, I'm here to serve. So you tell me who's greater. It takes Christ-like service. Christ is that example of true servanthood. If we're going to be great, we're going to be the servant. Not just the servant of our master. You say, well, I I serve my boss. Yeah. But the servant of all. Do we really have that kind of spirit? You know, we look at people We look at the church, we look at we look at Christianity as a whole, and sometimes we are enamored with men or ladies that we look at and we say, wow, look at that lady Wow, look at that man. Boy, look at that great Christian, look at that great individual, and all that he's accomplished. And there's some aspects of those things that we look at, but I think, beloved, that when we get to heaven We're going to be shocked because some of those people that we were looking at as great are going to be in the back of the line, and that small Christian servant in the church house that nobody knew their name, but in the quiet of the evening while everybody else was leaving, they were back cleaning the restrooms They were back there picking up the trash and taking it out. They didn't want any recognition. They didn't need anybody knowing their name. They just wanted to find a place to serve God. They were willing to do whatever it was. They just wanted to be a servant for God and for God's people. And don't need to be patted on the back. Don't need to be recognized. Just give me a place to serve We're going to be standing there in glory in those big names, the people that stood on the platform, and everybody who said, Wow, are going to be standing in the back of the line, and that dear little saint of God is going to be up front. Don't take light your service for God. You're gonna be a great Christian. That's what God says. Child, you're being Christ-like. When you're just serving. Just serving. Whatever it is. Just serving. Oh, glad to do it. However, I can help. Whatever I can do. Just glad to do it. Just let me serve Wow. We're so enamored with the fast and the flashy. We're so impressed by the big. But God is not. God's impressed by obedience, by humility, and by service. That's what God's impressed with. You know Hey Titus, wanna help me? Come on up here and have you help me. Alright, come right up on here in the stage. So everybody can see you. So for example. I want you to know you did a great job seeing your verse. Didn't he do a good job? That was awesome. Here's another one that's a little bit too smart for his own good, but So you just good job. Mm I'm happy for you. And I just patted him on the back and said, Good job, but you know how long that lasts? Yeah, it's gone, right? I mean we ought to give credit and recognize it and you keep memorizing those verses, okay? Alright, here, give me five. Thank you. You can go have a seat. But you know a pat on the back, recognition from somebody here on earth? So short lived. Right. But just serving God? Oh, I'm just serving God. As you're serving, as you're picking up the trash, as you're out there this week. in the heat dealing with those kids that yet again disregard your your instructions. You know, don't throw that spike. You know, you're dealing with that Hey, God sees your service. Might be a long day, a frustrating day, and you're coming from work and it's been it's been hard, but God sees your service. God sees you back there in the Sunday school class in the nursery and the sound booth and the security all the different areas we have in the church where the church just serves. God sees you sees you practicing Sunday after Sunday during the choir. Nobody else is here yet. You had to cut your nap short or skip the nap altogether because you want You want to sing. You want to serve God. If we're going to be a great Christian, we just gotta have a servant's heart. Just serving. We could summarize this way. God's looking for obedient, humble servants. I don't know about you, but I want to be a great Christian. Which means I gotta be an obedient, humble servant.