Bibles this evening we're gonna turn to a familiar passage of scripture. I'm gonna apply it in a little bit different way, but turn to Daniel chapter number six. Daniel chapter number six this evening. I have been pondering the strong link Between persistence and faith. As I've pondered this, I've come to a conclusion, a conclusion that might not be profound, but Through my musing upon this idea of persistence and faith, my faith has been strengthened, and my determination to persist. In that which God has called me to do, and those things which I believe the Christians should be doing, my determination has been solidified. And my prayer tonight is that through the example of the Word of God and the application to our hearts, that God would do that for you. That your faith would be strengthened, and your determination to continue doing what God wants you to do. Would be solidified, strengthened. In our text this evening in Daniel chapter number six, follow along as we read these familiar verses about this story about Daniel, when Daniel was thrown into the lion's den. We see in Daniel chapter number six, verses three through ten, he says, Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and the princes, because an excellent spirit was in him. And the king thought to set him over the whole realm. Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but they could find none occasion nor fault Notice these next few words here. He says, for as much as he was faithful Daniel was faithful to do what God had called him to do, to live how God wanted him to live, to be an example of the believer. Daniel was faithful. Neither was there any error or fault found in him Then said these men, we shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God. Then these presidents and princes assembled together to the king and said thus unto him, King Darius, live forever. All the president of the kingdom, the governors, and the princes, and the counselors, and the captains have counseled together. Uh notice the deceit here. They didn't all do it because Daniel was a part of that. That's usually what happens when people are planning this type of thing. But all of them, they said, everybody came together, they consulted together to establish a royal statue and to make a firm decree, and whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save thee, O King. He shall be cast into the den of lions. Now, O King, establish the decree and sign the writing, that it be not changed, according to the law of the Medes and the Persians. Which altereth not. Wherefore King Darius signed the writing in a decree. And verse number 10. Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house. And his windows being opened in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he knelt upon his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God as he did. Aforetime. You see, Daniel had faith in God. Daniel lived his faith. Day by day. He did what he believed God wanted him to do with such a level of consistency in his life that these that were enemies of his could find none occasion against him. We could go all the way back to the beginning of Daniel in chapter number one, where we see that powerful testimony where Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king's meat. From that time until this, Daniel has lived before these men with such a consistent testimony, such a Faithfulness about his spirit, faithfulness in his actions, consistency in doing what God wanted him to do, that these men could find none occasion against him. He believed and persisted day by day in God's calling upon his life He was faithful when things were looking good, and he was faithful when things got to be looking bad. I mean, even here in the face of the lion's den, Daniel was faithful. Beloved, most of our days are lived in what we might call average. Most of the days that we live are there is nothing really, really magnificent that happens, and there's nothing really, really terrible that happens There is not any great blessings and there's not any great burdens in most of our days. Now we know some days those things in our life, those things happen. But do you understand that most of the days we live, we're not facing a lion's den event. Most of the days we're living and uh we're just living life Some people would call that mundane. They would be kind of boring. It's just nothing exciting happening today. We're just doing what we're supposed to do today. And getting through it, and looking for something exciting down the road, right? Or uh worrying about some burden that might come later. And that's how most of our days are lived You know, many people are brought to church because of a doubt Daniel in a lion's den event in their life. It's some type of great challenge that comes into their life that they, man, I need to get back to church. Man, I need I need God. And so they're motivated to come back to church. You know A lot of times people get out of church, but do you know it's not a Lion's Den event that gets them out of church? It's usually the mundane that gets them out of church. It's usually just the day-to-day Nothing exciting, nothing boring, just just life, just living life that we might would call casual Christianity, that they ultimately end up just growing cold. Decide, no, I don't know if I want to do this anymore. There's no excitement left in God's house. It's not as thrilling as it used to be. There's not an nothing's new anymore, so they they get kind of bored with it and they they start letting it slip and ultimately get away from God and get away from church. You know, more Christians are destroyed By lack of challenge, then there are that are destroyed by challenge. You know many times, I mean I know on occasion There are some that have a giant. They have a Goliath that it comes up in their life and they lose to the Goliath. They lose at that great battle. But for everyone that loses in facing a Goliath, there's probably a hundred that walk away from God not having faced anything. Just because of the mundane. Now I'm going somewhere. I want you to stay with me as I preach this message entitled Persistence in Faith Or faith and persistence, the idea that these two things are intertwined, that they are linked together. What I want you to understand, beloved, is that persistence is the revelation of your faith. Persistence through and in the mundane of life is the revelation of your faith. I've said it before, you've heard me say it, that it it just the way of thinking of it blessed me and helped me, and the idea that Just praying and asking God for something is an expression of faith. Uh as a young man I battled my mind and I thought, you know, do I have enough faith for God to answer this? I mean, you're supposed to pray in faith, believing, and and do I have enough faith? Well, beloved, praying is an expression of faith I am asking because I believe that God can do something about it. That is faith in action. So, beloved, persistence Is continued faith in action. Persistence in prayer is great faith Little persistence is little faith. If I give up or quit or stop praying right away, My faith wasn't very strong, was it? But if I persevere, if I continue to pray. That is an expression of great faith that I believe God can and will answer that. How you and I live our daily lives, the things that we give ourselves to, the things that we pursue reveals our faith. Let me give you the definition of persistence. Straight from dictionary. com. Faith or obstinence Continuance in a course of action in spite I said faith firm, sorry, is the word firm, firm or obstinence Obstinate continuance in a course of action in spite of difficulty or opposition. Firm or obstinate continuance in the course of action. In spite of difficulty or opposition. I can't read. Buddy, but e body. Yeah. Now that definition, doesn't that sound like faith? That to me sounds like faith. I mean firm or obstinate continuous in a course of action in spite of difficulty or opposition. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Faith is believing and saying, I believe God can do this, and opposition comes, and we say, I still believe God can do this, and a challenge comes and Satan comes and temptation comes, but we by faith continue to do what God wants us to do that we might see the result that God wants to give. Persistence In our life is an expression of our faith in God. You see, you're not going to give yourself to something that you don't believe in. You're not going to step on a board that you don't think will hold you. You're not going to sit in a chair that you don't think is strong enough You're not going to get in a car and drive from here to Texas if you don't think that car is capable of getting you there. I mean you evaluate and you say, I I'm not taking that car. Uh no, I I'm not gonna do you won't do that. None of you in here tonight would go downstairs and ask some of the kids in master clubs, hey, I need to go to the airport in a couple of weeks Would you give me a ride to the airport? You're not going to ask one of the kids down there that they could provide a ride for you, because you don't have any faith that they could actually do it. So you don't ask. Brother Armando needs to get to the airport here soon. And he asked me. He said, hey, faster. Could you give me a ride? I said, I'd be honored to give you a ride here for it. You see, he believed that I both had the means and the wherewithal to give him a ride. So he came to me and asked. You see, he believed I could do it. We by asking are showing our faith in God. You know, you're not going to continue to take vitamins If you don't think that they help you. If you don't believe that they're making a difference. There are some that are avid vitamin takers. There's somebody in our church who was telling me this last week. that all all the different vitamins that they take consistently and and this person was saying, well, some people say that it's probably not going to help you, but I believe it does. And so for years I've been taking these vitamins faithfully. I said, well, you're pretty healthy, so uh by by that by that uh standard I would say they must be doing something But what is it that caused this person to continue to take those vitamins? I mean that is really an expression of faith, at least for a for s a consistent amount of time, because you don't take vitamins today and all of a sudden feel like a million bucks tomorrow. I mean you don't you don't you know I mean it's not something you see like that. You gotta take it with faith, saying, you know what, I think these vitamins are gonna make a difference. They're gonna make me healthy, they're gonna they're gonna make me stronger, or whatever it is. So you by faith you take 'em You see, beloved, you're only going to persist in that which you believe in. Right. It was a dark, stormy night. Lightning was flashing. Thunder was clapping Dad thought his young daughter might be fearful for the storm that was approaching their home. So he snuck down the hallway and Kinda peeked in the door and all the lights were off. He thought maybe his daughter the lights would be on and she would be hiding 'cause of the storm and he he's looking in there and He thought, well, she must be asleep, but before he turns away, there's a huge thunder and a big crack of lightning. And the lightning was so bright that he saw a silhouette of his daughter standing in the window looking out at the storm. And sh and then he heard his daughter say, Way to go, God, that was a good one. Do it again. She wasn't afraid of it. She was praising God. She's saying, Man, God did that. And oh, that was a good one. Let's do it and let's see that again, God. You see, she believed that God was in control of that storm, and she wasn't afraid of it. She was recognizing and honoring God in it. The source of your belief is the foundation of your action. You and I know that we're to live by faith. We know that it's impossible to please God without faith. Well, let's take faith from the stratosphere. Let's take it from this Starry night, and let's apply it to our life, to how we live, because beloved, faith is taking God at His Word and doing it. That's what faith is. I believe it, so I do it There's some areas in our life that we need to persist in. We see Daniel here. He lived faithfully. He lived consistently. all the way to the lion's den, continuing to be faithful to God and what God wanted him to do. In every action of his life. But with the understanding of the foundation I laid, I want you to understand there's some areas in our life that we need to be persistent in. First is our walk with God. The fact is, is if you do not have a walk with God tonight, it's because you don't have faith. As I pondered that and wrote that in my notes, I thought, well, this is a very powerful dogmatic statement. But the fact is, is if we believed that a walk with God would change our life, that it would make an impact on our day, it would make a difference in how we live. It would give us strength to stand against the wiles of the devil. If we really believed that, we would by faith do it each day. But because we don't believe it, because we don't have that faith, we don't do it. It's not that important to us. We feel as though we can live life without it. But, beloved, what I'm saying is the Christian life, the faith that we're to live, is to be lived out day by day. Oh, we like the big challenges, but most of the time it's not the big challenge that destroys the Christian. It's the fact that they're not walking with God today when there isn't a big challenge. Oh, the big challenge drives us all to our knees. But what about today when there's not a big challenge? The only reason that you're going to persist in prayer is because you believe that God can and will help you. I'm not talking, beloved, about an academic knowledge of, oh, I know, I know ultimately that God can do anything. This is academic knowledge. But faith Puts action to though to that understanding. In faith prays, believing that God can do anything And ask of him to do it. Ask of him to supply that need. Ask of him to to give that victory. Ask of him to uh heal that friend. Ask of him to do because we have faith believing that he can Mrs. Johnson just shared with the ladies how she and her husband and her family prayed for 40 years for her dad. For 40 years they prayed for her dad to be saved. That's a long time to persist. That's a long time to persist. But God answered at 95 years of age, her father trusted Christ. What if she would have quit at 39 years? And said, well, you see, but faith persists You remember that parable of the widow and the weary judge? That parable where the widow comes and says, Hey, I I I've got this enemy, I've got this problem, I need your help. In that parable, Jesus was describing the life of faith in a generation that had no faith. Saying, what does faith look like? He begins it with men ought always to pray and not to faint. That's what faith looks like. Either you're going to live in fear or you're going to live in faith. You just keep asking, keep asking, keep asking. And and the judge said, you know what? I I didn't fear anybody else. I didn't believe in believe in God, but you know what? This woman is going to to keep asking me, so I'm going to take care of this problem. And God says that's faith. That's the expression of faith. Doing that, praying consistently. You remember the parable of the friend at midnight? Hey, I had a friend come and he needs some bread. You got any bread? Go away. It's midnight. Don't you know what time it is? Go away. Wait, wait, wait. I've got to feed my friend. We need some bread That continual asking. He knew that guy had bread. He knew there's a possibility to get bread from him. So he kept asking. My sister wanted children. She wanted a family so bad. That's all she ever wanted. It was to have kids. And she she she got married and was expecting to have kids. I mean, they were going to have a a big family. Lots and lots of kids. They were married five years and no kids. They went and saw all kinds of doctors, talked to every kind of holistic healer and talked to everybody short of a shaman of what you could do to have a kid. And and you know, of course everybody says, well, you know, stand ups upside down and and circle around and pray three times and and do this on a full moon and and eat this and and take that and all kinds of you know whatever uh and they did everything they could do and still honor God but God didn't give them kids. But they kept praying. I I don't have it with me tonight, but my wife uh my sister wrote a poem uh about her broken heart, about God not giving her kids. And how she'd cry herself to sleep and try and trust God through it. For 15 years they prayed. After 12 years, God allowed them to adopt. They adopted a child And they love that child as their own, but still praying that God would give them their own kid. And now they can't stop having kids. said uh you know you are um how many years older than me? Uh yeah at some point you know it's not healthy to keep doing that but um they've got lots of kids now. But they prayed fifteen years. God answered God gave gave them kids. Just keep asking. You see that's what faith does. I'm talking about living your faith. You know why we continued to pray for so many years for our court case? We say because we had to. Yeah, I know. We didn't have any choice. Oh yeah. Hey, God does some things to drive us to our knees, amen. But God answered. What if we would have just said, you know what, let's just throw in the towel, let's just cut our losses, let's just forget it, let's just bite the bullet and and uh say real Yeah. But God answered. The only reason you persist in the reading of your Bible on a daily basis is because of faith that it's going to make a difference in your life. That's living living your faith out. That's an expression of faith. How much faith do you have? Well, what are you doing today? As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word that you may grow thereby. The only reason that you would pick up this book, this old book, is because you have faith that these pages Are quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, piercing the divine asunder of soul and spirit, and that the words that God put here are a message from our Father, and they will change our lives. By faith you read that. And if you're not reading it, you don't have faith that it's going to do anything for you It is a well of pure water when I'm thirsty and dry, bread when I'm hungry and worn. When the battle is raging, it is my faith-worn soul. A shelter from life's troubled storm. It is a light to my pathway and lamp to my feet when the word, when the world gets dark and I can't see I've not made a change in one word that it says, but it sure has made a change in me. This blessed old book that I hold in my hand. It's true from the beginning to the end. It's a solid foundation where I firmly stand. Sin kept me from it, but now it keeps me from it. from sin. That's the word of God. And it's faith in it that would cause you to continue. Also, our worship in God's house Beloved, faith that won't get you to God's house will not keep you through the lion's den. You see some people they want to have this great big faith in God when they get the call from the doctor that the this cancer or they get a call from a friend that somebody's passed away or they they get that terrible news and oh they're looking for faith for God to sustain them But beloved, that kind of sustaining faith is gained through daily living and doing what God wants you to do. And if your faith in God won't get you to the church house, it's not going to keep you when you're put into a lion's den. It's faith that God's going to do something in your life that causes you to week after week and service after service Cut out of your house and you're tired and you're worn out and you're discouraged and you're downhearted and all you want to do is just sit on the couch, but you say, I gotta go to church Why? Because I have faith that God's going to do something in my heart, that it's where God wants me to be. And I know sometimes a pastor preaches a flop and Sometimes the message doesn't reach down into your soul and change it like you wish it would, but you go to church because you believe That that's what God wants you to do. And so by faith, you get yourself ready and you hold yourself down to God's house and you drag yourself into the auditorium And you just sit down and you say, God, if you can do anything with this old worthless vessel and this hard heart of mine, I'm asking you tonight to do it because I need something from you It's faith in God that brings you here week after week, not a relationship with the pastor, not a dedication to some ministry. Not a duty to fulfill. Oh, those things will keep you a little while. But only faith in what God wants you to do will keep you coming week after week after week. When the pastor preaches 28 long, weary messages through one book of the Bible, you're like, Lord, are we ever going to be done with Bolivians? Could we go on to something else? But you keep coming. And it's not because of who's behind the pulpit, but it's because of who you serve and who saved your soul and who you're looking to to make a difference in your life. And faith says, whether I feel like it or whether I want to or whether the day's been good or the day's been bad, I know what God wants, and because of that I'm going to go to God's house. And you do it week after week after week after week after week. Oh, everybody comes out for the big day. Big days are fun. Big days are exciting. Boy, these are thrilling. But that is not where your faith is lived. Your faith is lived on the Sunday that nothing's happening. Your faith is lived day by day. Because you know what God wants you to do, and you say, yes, Lord. And you do it anyway. You're gonna be worshiping in God's house I've said it before, no matter how far you get from God, determine you'll never get out of church. Just make it a promise. Just make it something that listen, if I get all bent sideways and cold and and and church is not doing anything for me, just Just mark it down. At least I've got to be in church because then there's an opportunity at least for God to get a hold of your heart again. Don't think, beloved, well, I'll stand for God in the face of the lion. then or I'll stand there like those three Hebrew children at the fiery furnace. If you don't have faith to get in church, you will not stand. If you don't have faith to do what you know God has told you to do, what makes you think you're going to stand in the face of a fiery furnace? Oh, I want to beat a Goliath. Yeah, I want to do that. Did you read your Bible today? Do you spend any time in prayer? Faith and persistence. Persistence is the expression of your faith. Everyone likes the rallies. Everyone enjoys the crusades. All the excitement, but Christian faith is lived when the parade is over. Beloved, our life is lived. As we think about worship, a big part of worship is our giving. 1 Corinthians 16, 1 and 2, he says, Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye. Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you that lay by him in store, as God has prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come. Giving to God That's a part of our worship. That's a part of our faith. Do we believe God or not? We hear it preached, give, and it shall be given unto you. If you believe that, you're going to be a giver. You hear it preach that God's a debtor to no man You reap what you sow, and when you give, God gives back, or God gives through you what he might not want to give to you, but you could become a vessel for God to bless many people, and there's so many things that we talk about giving, but are you living it? What's gonna keep you giving when you lose your job? What's gonna keep you giving when when the the bill comes that you weren't expecting? Oh, um this bill I wasn't ready for, so this week we're not going to be able to give. This week we're going to pay this bill. No, see that's we're talking about faith, persistence in faith. You say, I do do you believe it or not? If we believe it Then we're going to say, okay, God, I've got this bill. I've committed to give you this much. This is what I've promised you. This is where I'm at. And I'm going to by faith trust you to take care of this bill Many years ago, Mary and I were both working full-time in the ministry, and both of us together, our salary was $12,000 a year. And we received a doctor's bill for $12,000. That might as well have been $120,000. Living on $12,000 a year and get a $12,000 bill? What in the world? Two or three days, I was sick as a dog over that. I was just burdened about it. What what am I gonna do? How are we gonna take care of this? I still remember it like yesterday. I I walked into the kitchen. God had given me direction, given me peace about it. Walked into the kitchen. I stood next to Mary and I said, hun, what are we giving the missions right now? And she told me, because once we decide I forget about it. I don't she writes a check every week and puts it in and I don't even pay attention. Um and and so I said, what are we giving the missions right now? And she told me and I said, I want you to double it. That doesn't make sense. You got a $12,000 bill, you should stop giving emissions. No, but faith says, I can't do anything about this bill, but I know a God who can. And so I'm going to trust God. And I we we doubled our missions and God took care of that bill and more and blessed beyond measure. That's living faith day by day And if we could just get young Christians to understand that and to start to live their faith and not just talk about it, it would change your life. We could go on and on with talk about what causes you to to to have a biblical home. To work on your relationship, to love your wife as yourself, man. What causes you ladies to follow the biblical example? You know everything in the world today tells ladies not to do that? Everything in the world tells you to just to rise up, to that that's old school, that's old fashioned, that's archaic, that's suppressive, that's uh you know wrong, and you shouldn't do that, but it's in the Word of God It's Bible. Do you believe it or not? And faith doesn't listen to the world and to the modern philosophy or ideas. They say, this is what God says we do to have a happy home. And so by faith, I'm going to try and do it. And you live that. And you get to reap the joy of it. This world tells you about disciplining and raising your kids. That boy, you can't do that If you discipline your kids, they're gonna hate you. Boy, if you if you do this, man, you're this is gonna be the worst thing ever. Boy, I can't believe anybody ever thought it was a good idea to spank children But the Bible tells us that's the way you do it. It's still in the book. And as a parent There was days where Mary felt like all she did was spank kids. My arm's tired. It's your turn. Gotta take over. These kids are out of control. I can tell you that it gets better. If you follow God's pattern, it works. Your child your children will rise up and call you blessed. I don't know, I I don't understand how people can't see the mess that the world's creating and why they would want to follow that. But faith says I'm gonna do it because it's what God said. We could talk about your witnessing being a witness for God, reaching the lost. Oh, you can't win you can't win people to Christ anymore. They're too hard. People don't like it. Nobody wants to hear it. But this Bible still tells us to go. And we know that this book has power. And the Holy Spirit is going before us. And God still can save sinners. Can I tell you something? Brother Anthony, he's downstairs, but he told me last Sunday, he said, Pastor Caleb, I've noticed the last few weeks or a month or so that there's been like You've been preaching more powerful messages. And I said, it's just because you're right with God now. I said, no, I said, well, thank you, brother. But I want you to tell you something, something changed in my mind. About the way that I preach. You see, unlike anybody else, I like to be liked. And as I preach a message, I look at it and say, Well, I want. I want you know people to enjoy this, I want it to be impactful, I want it to be a blessing, uh you know, uh all that. And maybe I was evaluating these these messages from the point of of how it's going to be received and not preaching in faith that God would take his word and do something in your heart. That is what changed in my mind. When I stand behind the pulpit, it's not about how it's perceived, it's not about how it's taken. But the idea of preaching in faith that this is God's word, it's quick, it's powerful, and it can make a difference in your life. And I want to preach with the idea that by faith, I'm presenting this. By faith, I'm giving this to you, not so you'll think something of Pastor Caleb Batrell, but so that the word of God will change you. That's what I want God to do. Persistence is an expression of your faith. How much faith do you have? What are you doing right now? What do you you doing right now? I know we look at it sometimes we think, well I want to have great faith. Are you persevering in what you know God wants you to do? Persistence in faith is not futile. I want you to understand it will bring fruit. Be not weary in well-doing, for in due season you shall reap if you faint not. Oh, Daniel was put in the lion's den. And I think as he was being lowered in there, he was a little scared. I think he probably in his heart and mind, his heart was beating, and he was probably lifting his legs up thinking, this is the end. This is this is it. But he got lowered all the way to the ground. And them, beast of the jungle, they didn't roar like a lion. I think Daniel was pretty shocked when they came over and purred like a kitten. When they came over, I was picturing this, you know, can you you know how a little cat rubs against your leg and pushes, you know, pushes against your leg to, you know, just purring Could you imagine a big old lion? You probably knocked Daniel over, like, whoa, a big old lion, you know, purring like kitten. Hey, the three Hebrew children, they were thrown into the fiery furnace. But they were shocked when the furnace had no heat for them. Because God was there. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flames Kindle the why? We want faith in the lion's den and we want faith in the fiery furnace. Well we've got to live it day by day. Faith did not just bring them through the fire. They were brought through fire, yes. But they were also promoted on land. They were given high positions. When we live by faith, you'll see great blessing from God Want to know how you'll do in the fire? You know when I was a kid, my older brothers, they got jobs before me, and they they started having all these people praise them. I'm glad my kids aren't in here. But they started having all these people praise them about how harder workers they were. And to be honest with you, I thought that I was lazy. Because I would take every opportunity I could to get out of work. I was a normal kid, man. I mean I was any chance I could I would I would get out of work But I hear all these guys praising my older brothers about how hard workers they were and they want them to work overtime and they're gonna give them a raise and all this and in my mind I'm thinking, man, when I go to work I'm in trouble because I'm not a very hard worker But what I didn't realize is my dad tricked me. See, he he made me work so much that I didn't realize how hard I was working. And so when I actually went to work for somebody, they were really excited. But I didn't feel like I was working that hard because the way dad worked me. You know, it kind of wasn't really anything I did. But then people began to praise me. What I'm saying is daily I didn't realize it, but I was working hard and it turned me into a hard worker. And I didn't even realize it was happening. You see, beloved, if we'll daily have enough faith to just do what God wants us to do. We might not realize it. But we're going to be strong, faith-built Christians.