Um you can take your Bibles, turn to Psalms twenty-seven this evening. Psalms twenty seven. We have been these last I don't know, three or four weeks, whatever, to looking at the idea or the places in the scriptures where we are given a uh the The admonition or the caution, the the word beware is seen. And I still have a couple of those that I would like to do. Uh the Bible tells us to beware of wine. And uh I don't know that I've ever taken an entire message to preach on alcohol, but uh at some point in the near future we're gonna de we're gonna look at that, beware of wine. And then uh on the Thursday before Thanksgiving Which uh is typically our Thanksgiving service. We move it to Tuesday that week. But uh that week I wanna for HMS is entitled Beware That Thou Forget Not God. And uh that's found in the Old Testament, uh, where we're told, Beware that thou forget not God. And uh you understand that a lack of gratitude comes most of the time because we forget what we have. So on that Sunda that that service, I'm going to preach that message. We're going to take a quick break from that. We're going to look tonight at the source of your strength. The source of your strength. Follow along as I read this psalm. It's only 14 verses. You can follow along as we look at this. We're going to look at the entirety of the psalm this evening. A Psalm of David, The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes come upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, and this will I be confident One thing have I desired of the Lord that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me upon a rock And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me. Therefore will I, after his tabernacle, sacrifice Sacrifices of joy. I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, have mercy also upon me and answer me. When thou saidest, Seek ye my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. Hide not thy face far from me, put not thy servant away in anger Thou hast been my help. Leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation. When my father and mother forsake me Then the Lord will take me up. Teach me thy way, O Lord, and lead me in the plain path because of mine enemies. Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies. For False witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty. I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say wait on the Lord Lord, we come to you now and we are looking into the scriptures. Lord, I ask you this evening, although we gather in church out of obedience. Lord, I pray tonight that we would turn our hearts towards heaven, allow you to stir us, to challenge us, to bring us into your presence. Lord, I pray that at the conclusion of the service tonight, although we may have gathered here out of duty, I pray that it will have been our delight to be in God's house tonight. Lord, I pray it wouldn't just be another time of gathering for the sake of doing so, but that you would indeed speak to our hearts Lord, I know that this thought this evening can strengthen the weak, encourage the discouraged, challenge the lackadaisical. Lord, I just pray that you would use it in our hearts and lives Bring great benefit and blessing for having been in your house this evening. We ask in Jesus' precious name. Amen. David here is describing for us his relationship with his God. He's telling us his reliance On God and why he's relying on God. He's given us that because David is in a rough place. Things are as bad as they've ever been. He found himself in a time and a place where the only way he could look is up. He found himself back in a point of discouragement. Now the commentators really aren't sure as to the source of this trouble. They don't know exactly when in David's life he is drawn to this need to write this passage. Some say it would be when David's running from Saul Uh although when you look at the text, Dave's describing the battles and uh wars and fightings, and maybe that would be a little bit early for David to have been through a lot of battles. He certainly had done some at that point, but He hadn't been a king and hadn't walked that road yet. Others believe, and I tend to lean towards it, is the time when David is running from his son Absalom. It's a time in his life when David realizes yet again another struggle that was born out of that sin. Can I remind you this evening that just because you say sorry doesn't remove the consequences of sin? Just because you may come and confess your sin to God and ask for His forgiveness, He does forgive you and praise God for that, but there still may be some consequences or some results of that sin that you're going to have to bear. David is a picture of that, if there ever was one. For over and over and over again in the life of David, you see him yet again dealing with a struggle, dealing with a challenge, dealing with a burden, because of the fruit of that sin. You of course know that Absalom was the fruit of the sin with Bathsheba. And he Finds himself running. David, running from his own son, Absalom, who, out of a heart of rebellion, has stolen the hearts of the people. He's stolen the kingdom from his father. He's ascended or appointed himself king and taken the throne. And I don't know if it was out of a love for his son and David didn't want to kill his son or David not wanting to battle or to fight with and kill his own people. But whatever the motivation, David determines, I'm gonna run for my life, I'm gonna flee the city of Jerusalem and wander out into the hills. And I can only imagine David going back to the place where he was familiar with. I think he probably found himself in some of those caves that he was in back when he was running from Saul. He found himself in some familiar places, and can you think about how discouraging that is? I don't know if you've ever been in your in your life and you've come to a place and you thought in your heart and mind when you walked out of there, you thought, man, I'm glad I will never have to be back here again I'm glad this is it. And I think David probably did that when he left that cave for the last time and he thought I'm done running from Saul. I get to go home I get to live like a normal person. I'm so glad I don't have to live in these caves anymore. I don't care if I ever see them caves again. And yet David went from the throne back to the cave. I imagine as he found himself in that familiar place, he was very discouraged. Very downhearted. Oh. Reaching a place where by this world standards, by human outlook, he would have been overtaken by sorrow. Listen, that's not what we see in the text. We don't see David wallowing in selfity. We don't see him expounding on how difficult or how hard his life is. Somehow David is able to reach past his sorrow and find strength in God. Regardless of what you're enduring this evening, regardless of what this life has brought you to, or you need to find a way through, I want you to have hope tonight. That you have cause for hope because of the source of your strength. There are three things I want to point out to you in this text. There's many things we could look at, but I want you to see that First of all, if you're going to look at that source for your strength and you're going to recognize it and have strength in that hour of darkness, I want you to see David first of all Explains his faith in God's greatness. His faith in God's greatness And I use that word faith on purpose tonight because I want you to understand that it's more than just a knowledge of a great God It is a faith in that God. It is a faith in the greatness of that God, a faith in who it is that he is serving. He reads these first six verses and gives us a description of his God and what God is doing for him. Can I remind you tonight that we serve a great God? A powerful God. The creator of the universe and the savior of our souls. He is capable. He has a hand that cannot help. It is not shortened in our time of need. Do you have faith, an unwavering faith, in that God? It's easy to see a great God when the sun is shining It's easy to believe in a great God when things are going well and the paychecks are coming in and the bills are taken care of and the kids are obeying And everything in the house is where it's supposed to be. And you walk out and you're enjoying the sunset and you think, Boy, don't we serve a great God Oh, amen. And let's enjoy and rejoice about those times. But beloved, it's a little bit harder to maintain that faith in a great God when we are in a cave. When you're in a storm, when you're in a darkness, and what I'm saying is if you want to be able to reach through your sorrow and grab a hold of that faith, you've got to have a sure foundation in the greatness of the God you serve. David had faith in his God's ability, and God gave him strength in verse number one. He says, The Lord is the strength of my life. You know, strength comes from God. The ability to maintain and to keep on going comes from our Lord. He is there to provide and to give you strength in your hour of need. God gave him safety. In verse number two, our safety comes from God. He says, When the wicked, even my enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh. They stumbled and fell. God gave him safety. I don't know where your enemies might be coming from or what trial or test you're dealing with, but know that you have a God that's able to provide and to give you safety inside of that store. I'll tell you, he gives them serenity in verse number three. He says, Then in hosts should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. He said, regardless of what's coming after me or what's go what's going on in the darkness, I serve a great God, and I have a peace, a peace in my heart that passeth all understanding, not in myself, not in my ability, not in my strength, but the strength And the safety and the serenity that I get from God. God gives that to me, and I'll tell you what, you've seen it in people's lives when they're going through a struggle, going through a trial, and you look at them and you think, how can they have that peace? From God? From God. God gives him stability in the storm. In verse number five, he says there. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me upon a rock. He shall set me upon a rock, giving stability. I'll tell you what, Christian, we need people with stability. This is vital. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. It is not God's plan for God's people to be so tossed to and fro and carried out about by every wind of doctrine. We're to be stable. And we find that stability in our God because He changes not He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And if you find you're you're unstable, your life is being tossed to and fro and everything is is upended and and you you just don't have any solid ground. Get back to God. That's where you'll find stability That's what he says. David was running. He's on the run. He's out here. He doesn't know who his friends are and who his foes are. I mean everything's he's just what in the world's going on He said, Well I can get to God and have stability. I can get here. Look at verse number six, it's neat. And now shall my head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me. Therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy. I will sing. Yea, I will sing praises unto the Lord. David gave, God gave him a song, a song in his heart God gave him a song in his heart. You know, you can have a song even in the storm. Even when the enemy are attacking, even when everything looks upside down and backwards, you can have a song if it comes from God. David was contemplating and thinking about his God instead of his troubles. Instead of thinking about how unfair life was and how it didn't he didn't deserve this happening to him. And woe is me, and wallowing in self-pity, David spent a few minutes thinking about his great God, and he was encouraged and gained strength to help. David had an unwavering faith in his great God. Secondly, I want you to see that David had faith in God's guidance. He says in verse number 7 and 8, he says, Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, have mercy also upon me and answer me. When thou saidest, Seek ye my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. He says, okay, Lord. I cried out to you. I said, look at this problem. Lord, would you fix it for me? Have you ever asked God just to fix the problem? Lord, would you take care of this, my son Absalom? He's a rebellious, rotten brat. He needs to be disciplined. Don't kill him, Lord, but discipline him. Let him know that I'm supposed to be on the throne. God, would you fix this problem? And God says. Would you seek my face? No, no, no, Lord, you don't understand. That's not what I was asking for. I just need the problem fixed No, you see, God had given some guidance to David, and David had faith in his God that he was going to follow God's guidance. He was going to be obedient. He was going to do what God wanted him to do. It might not make sense. You might not see it as a solution to your problem. But do you have faith tonight to follow the guidance that God gives David's faith was so strong in God, in God's guidance. That he says in verse number 10 there, he says, When my father and my mother forsake me. The Lord will take me up. He said, when the two people that are closest to me in the world, when the two people that are supposed to be there no matter what, when they reach the place that they say, I've had enough of this guy and walk away from me. I know that my God will be there. He will take me up. Therefore, I'm going to trust His guidance What God wants you to do. I want you to understand obedience is a result of that strong faith in God's guidance. If I told you tonight, unquestionably, now, if I started this with that, you would be like, like if I said this is a sure thing. Well, I want you to know that's the number one warning for you, right? But what if I said to you tonight, listen, I've been given some information, and if you invest in this thing tonight, By this time tomorrow you'll quadruple your money. It's gonna happen. It's promised. It's guaranteed. It's underwritten by Elon Musk. Whatever. If I said, hey, this is a sure thing. Based on your confidence in what I said is whether you would do it or not. You see, when you have faith Listen, this is Pastor Caleb. He wouldn't lie to us. He would not lead us astray. This is something he's fully convinced in. I'm going to do it. Or you'd say, you know what, I'm not sure. This is Pastor Caleb. He doesn't know anything about investing. Anybody listen to the hymns, they've lost their brains. But based on the level of faith, your confidence in what I say is what you're gonna do, right? You see, when we have faith in God, we'll obey. We'll obey. We'll do what God tells us to do. David had confidence in his God, and even in the midst of the storm, he obeyed. You know what, there's far too many Christians that when they get into a storm, they take the truth, the guidance, the direction that God had given them, and they throw it away It's the time when they need to grab hold of those truths, when they hold stronger to it, when they need to go after it and follow God's guidance for their life But the the normal course of man in our human nature, what happens is they say, Hey, I'm done with this. Hey, God said go to church, but I'm It's too hard right now. I ain't gonna go to church. God said to tithe, but money's short right now, so I'm not gonna tithe. God told me to be a witness But it's hard today in this world and and I'm not gonna witness, even though God said he that goeth forth bearing precious seed shall doubtless come again, bringing his seeds with him, rejoicing. Even though God gave me that promise I'm not gonna witness because it's not not popular today. I'm saying I don't know what it is that God has done in your life or told you to do, but you need to grab a hold of it and believe it and do it Do you have that kind of faith in God? Faith in the guidance that God has given you. You want source for your strength to know how to get through a storm or through a trial or through a test is just have faith in God. In the guidance that He's given you. You build your faith in that source of strength. By reliev by reliving past victory. You know, David probably sitting there in the cave and Satan, you know, comes up and say, see? God don't care about you. See, you can't win the victory here. You're done. I'm sure David and his mind went back to a time when he was in the field. And a lion came up. And he stood up in the power of God's might and defeated a lion. And he defeated the bear. And I'm sure he played over in his mind the time where he stood there and declared to all of God's people, is there not a cause? And stood up to that giant. In the power of the Lord. And I think as David reviewed and went over those things in his mind, he was strengthening his heart to say, God did it yesterday, he can do it today. You need to relive some past victories. Has God done anything for you? Has God brought you through some storms? Has God carried you when you couldn't go anymore yourself? Well, you find yourself in another place of hardship, relive that. Let that strengthen your faith. And you need to review the proclaimed truth that God has given you. Proverbs 24 verse number 5 says, A wise man is strong. Yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength Strength. We're talking about your strength tonight, your source of strength. How do you increase your strength? Have you have you heard somebody say knowledge is power? Knowledge is power. Well, that statement itself is attributed to uh Sir Francis Bacon because he believed that the foundation of influence And and uh intellectual prowess was in the sharing of knowledge. So he's attributed with saying that knowledge is power. What does God say? Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. You need to review the promises of God. Review the truths of God. Review the principles of God and let it strengthen your faith. And then we see, lastly, this evening. In verses thirteen and fourteen, that he had faith in God's goodness. Again, I'm using the word faith on purpose. It's not just an understanding or just an abstract knowledge or oh yeah, God is good. I'm talking about a heartfelt belief, a conviction that he knew he served a good God. He said, I had fainted unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord. You see, again, it's not hard to talk about the goodness of God when everything's going well. Let me encourage you tonight, friend, that you need to get to the place, you need to settle this in your heart and mind right now. It needs to be something that is a conviction of yours that it is not up for date, for debate, not up for question, the fact that you serve a good God. And no matter what comes into your life, no matter what hardship or struggle or burden you end up having to carry, you've got it established in your heart and mind that God is good. Because I can guarantee you, when you go through a tragedy, when you go through a loss, when you go through heartache, Satan's going to come and he's going to say to you, see, God's not good to you You need to have it settled in your heart and mind that you serve a good God, and that's not up for question because God is always going to do things for His glory and for your good without debate. That is God's plan. He said, I had fainted that people that know a lot more about Greek than me describe the tense of that word. Means literally that I was done. I fainted. I had fainted basically, physically or in myself, I was through. There was nothing else that I could do. But then I saw the goodness of God. And listen, let me remind you: he didn't see the goodness of God that day. He didn't see it right then. He didn't enjoy it right there. It's something that he knew was there and was coming down the road. The anticipation, the looking at it. Just because we serve a great God, just because we serve a good God, doesn't mean that you won't go through Some trials. That you won't face some heartache. You've got to have it settled in your mind like David did in Psalms 145, verse 9. He says, The Lord is good to all. The Lord is good to all In the face of pain and hardship, will you still believe that God is good? Will you still have an unshakable faith in that fact? Let me remind you tonight that when the clouds are dark, that it's sin that causes suffering in life. It's sin that brings the darkness. Before sin, all things were good. God declared it to be good. But man sinned, and with that sin he brought a curse. And with that curse comes suffering. The amazing thing about our God is He takes those times of suffering and He uses them for our good In James chapter one, verses two through four, he says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation. Knowing this that the trine of your faith worketh patience, but let patience have her perfect word, that she may be perfect, entire want and nothing. It is through the refining fire that God purges the draws from our lives. But even in the refining fire, God is there. God is there. And he is working for our good. I think David understood Romans 8. 28, the truth of it, even before it was written. That all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. He knew that principle. He had learned it through life, that God was good in all things. You might not understand it, but can you trust in the goodness of God? Things are going to come into your life that will cause you to question But do you have an unshakable faith in his goodness? When we're in that place, we're in that hour of need We're told to wait on God. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. You need to get to the feet of Jesus and wait on him. Let him minister to your soul's need. Get into the book again and hear the voice of your God. You know, beloved, I don't know how many of you have I I think it's probably everybody here. There's been days in your life where you got busy and you were working and you worked right through lunch. And then you were working and you worked right through supper. And and you get in towards the end of the day and and your body is so weak. And the headache has started to set in because you haven't eaten all day and and you're just you you're just starting to feel miserable and you're thinking, man, I I'm just done. I just I've done all I can do today. I I am just I've had it. Because your body has not received any Nourishment. You know, the sad thing is, is many Christians live that way. They're malnourished spiritually. They don't have the strength to do what they need to do because they have not gained any spiritual sustenance. So they feel spiritually so weak and can't do anything, but that is there for us if we would just wait on God. Isaiah 40, verse 28 through 31 says Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? Neither is no searching of his understandings. He giveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might, he increaseth strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary, and the young man shall utterly fall. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk. And not faint. If we wait on God, we'll get the strength that you need to go through and endure what God has for you to endure. The day's gonna come, beloved. The day's gonna come if we wait long enough that God's gonna remove the curse of sin. And he'll restore back things the way they were. He tells us in Isaiah 65 that the wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the bullock of the dust. Hey, they shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountains, saith the Lord. He's going to bring it back to them. Until then we've got some things to go through, maybe. Maybe you're a place you need some strength. Can you wait on God? Tonight, do you have faith in the greatness of our God? That He is able, that He can. Do you have faith in his guidance, what he's told us to do? Listen, in your hour of struggle, don't quit doing what God's told you to do Don't give up. Don't throw in the towel. Don't stop. God's giving you some guidance. You keep doing that. Keep going through. You have faith in the goodness of God. No matter what it is, He's a good God. There's something for it. Have that faith in him