Well, we've come to the point of the message. That's what we're here for. No pressure on Me I had several people come in this morning and say, Pastor Caleb, you have a good message for us today? I said, well, Lord willing, I certainly give it my best shot. I want to bring the Word of God and we'll pray He uses it in our lives. Amen. That's what we're going to speak about, the Word of God. We don't have a message if we don't have the word. This is not man's opinions or man's ideas. This is uh from the scripture given to us by God Himself. I want you to look in your Bibles this morning to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Heavy, I'm glad to have you back. Hallelujah. Those of you that are guessed, that was not a slam. That's that's Garland's nickname. He he goes by heavy. And uh they they they they took a road out and And made it harder for him to get to church. Told him I'd get him on the four wheeler, you know, pick him up. But yeah, we're glad that he made it today. Mr. Encouragement, Evy, we're glad to have you in church today. I read this week about Ruth Dillow on February twenty-seventh, nineteen ninety-one. The height of Desert Storm, she received a heartbreaking message. Someone from the Pentagon called her. And said, ma'am, I regret to inform you that your son, Clay Carpenter, private first class, has stepped on a mine in Kuwait and is dead. Roost later wrote, I cannot begin to describe to you the grief that gripped my heart The shock that overwhelmed me. It was more than I could bear. I wept until I could weep no more. I went through that roller coaster of emotions dealing with Loss and hurt and anger and sadness and heartbreak and loneliness. For three days, my friends and family tried to comfort me to no avail. The loss that I felt was too great. But on that third day, she received a message when the telephone again rang. And the voice on the other end of the line said, Mama, it's me. It's me, I'm alive. She said at first I I I couldn't believe it. I I I thought no no no my son's dead, but I recognized his voice and it it was him. He was there, he truly was alive and I I I I laughed for joy and I cried for joy and I I wanted to throw cartwheels because I was so excited that my son, whom I thought was dead, was alive, and what a triumph it was. This morning we've gathered together in the Lord's house, and we are literally discussing the triumph at the tomb. The fact of the matter that we celebrate today the resurrection of one who was indeed dead. But he reached down into hell and death in the grave and he grabbed a hold of the keys and he stood up and walked out of that grave on Resurrection Sunday. He was dead and he is now alive. That triumph on the tomb. Listen, Easter, beloved, is not just the inauguration of spring. It is not just the anticipation of warmer weather or our longing or looking for the trees to bloom and the green grass to come in. It's not a desire to it for us just to see the the flowers come or some of you ladies looking for them spring sails around the corner. that that everybody's gonna have. That that's not what Easter's about. It's not the notification of those things, beloved. Easter is about the triumph at the tomb. The resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In our text this morning. In First Corinthians chapter number fifteen, Paul addresses some what ifs. He really deals with the idea or the aspect of what if there was no resurrection? What would it mean if this day and all that it means for us as believers really didn't happen and it was all a hoax? What would that mean? Well, beloved, I want you to see it. We're going to talk about that this morning. Look in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 12 through 20. This is our text for this morning. He says, Now if Christ be preached. That he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen? And if Christ be not risen, Then is our preaching vain? And your faith is also vain? Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ? Whom he raised not up, if not Christ raised, if not Christ so be that the dead rise not For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised? And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins, then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. And if in this life only we have hope in Christ, We are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits. Of them that slept. Beloved, I would like to address this, these what ifs, what it means for us And ultimately conclude with verse number 20, where we see indeed there was a triumph at the tomb. We see, first of all, this morning the claims of denial. The claims of denial. In verse number 12, he says, Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you? That there is no resurrection of the dead. There was the question stated, it was asked, there was false teachers that were proclaiming that Jesus didn't rise from the dead. Can I tell you that from the day that Pilate set a watch before the tomb because of Christ's testimony? Because Christ said that, hey, if you uh Kill this temple, if you destroy this temple, I will raise it up again in three days. They didn't realize he was talking about his physical temple. Jesus had promised that he would raise it up again and And uh listen, because of that promise, they set a watch before the tomb. And can I tell you that from that day till now there have been detractors? There have been false witnesses. There have been those who would say that Jesus did not rise from the tomb, that it is fake. But let me ask you, beloved What would the purpose be? What would the motivation be for the early believers to run around telling everybody that Christ rose from the dead? Why would they do that? Did they get some monetary gain out of it? Did they get any did they get any uh you know did they get accolades and did they get praise because of this Did they get patted on the back? No, beloved, the early church, they were persecuted, they were stoned, they were imprisoned, they ultimately were killed because they were teaching and preaching to the world that Jesus rose from the dead There is no motivation for them to carry the truth forth. And from that day until now, there have been people who said Jesus didn't rise from the dead. But why is it that still pulpits from every pulpit in this country and across the world is preaching today on the resurrection of Jesus Christ over two thousand years later Still proclaiming the truth because it doesn't matter how many people in history, what great minds stand up, the greatest philosophers of all time have stood in opposition to the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and yet that message still goes forth. Because it is truth and you cannot silence truth. We're not going to take time to go this morning through all the pages of scripture and and read all the accounts of of over 500 people that saw the resurrected Lord and testified of it personally that they saw him They have public testimony and witness of it. We're not going to go through the pages of history and declare all of those through the angel of time who have declared the resurrection of Jesus Christ. But here's what I want to tell you this morning That I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. I know that He is living. Whatever men may say, listen, I see His hand. I see Him working. I know that He's living. Why? Because He's in my heart. I don't care how many false teachers there are that stand up and say, Oh, it's a hoax, it's a lie, it doesn't really matter. There is no resurrection because I know there's a resurrection because the change that's been brought into my life You cannot convince me. I don't care how many doctorates you have and how many letters you have behind your name, I have the truth of the Word of God, the promise of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, the creator of the universe, and the Savior of my soul, that Jesus rose from the dead. You won't convince me of something else. That's the truth of the word of God, beloved. There have been many denials over all of time. Beloved, you can't have Christ and a Savior and not believe in the resurrection. Oh, there's many that like to deny it, but could I tell you this morning that He arose? Could I address these consequences of this deception? Paul discusses it here. He says, what is it? I mean, what what if this really is a hoax? What if it is not really true In verse number 13, there, the first thing he says, beloved, is, we have no faith. He says, But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen? He's saying Christ isn't risen. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain? And our faith is also vain. Beloved, if Jesus didn't raise from the dead, we don't have any faith. Every message ever preached From Peter at Pentecost until today, has been a waste of time if Jesus didn't rise from the dead. He addresses that. He says, hey, if Jesus didn't rise, then the fact of the matter is, is your faith is vain. Beloved, our faith is founded upon this truth, this everlasting and unchanging truth that we serve a risen Savior. However beautiful the picture is painted, or whatever sentimental feelings have been aroused. If the truth of the resurrection is not so, then it's meaningless Every service ever held, every service ever done, every sacrifice ever made has been for naught. It's been futile if there has not been a resurrection. Not only do we see that our faith is vain. That every message we preach, he says in verse number 15, he says, yea, we are found false witnesses of God. He said, you know, if if Jesus didn't rise, you're standing up there telling people that, you're a false witness. If indeed he didn't But if we testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up, He's saying, listen, if you're saying it and it didn't happen, then it's false, then it's fake, it's a lie. Not only do we have no faith if it's not true, but we have no forgiveness. Look at verse number 17 He says there in verse number 7, he says, and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain, and ye are yet in your what? Sins. Beloved, why does this day mean so much to us? Why does a resurrection mean so much to us? Because beloved, if If indeed it didn't happen, then Paul addresses the fact and he says, listen, if Jesus didn't raise from the dead, then you are still dead in your trespasses and sins. You don't know the forgiveness that's available through Jesus Christ if it's not faith, but can I tell you today that I know my sins are forgiven that I've been restored into a right relationship with my Heavenly Father, not because I'm such a good man, not because I've done so many good things, not because I serve at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, but because Jesus died and he was buried and he rose again on the third day. I am forgiven because of the shed blood of Jesus Christ that was shed to cover my sin and to wash it away. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Amen. I'm forgiven today, and beloved, if the truth of the resurrection is not so, Paul says, then we don't have forgiveness. You're still dead in your trespasses and sin. Not only does he say we have no forgiveness, but listen, he says you have no future. Look what he says there in verse number 18. Then they also which fall asleep in Christ are perished. But he's saying those that are dead in Christ, if there is no resurrection. Those that have gone on before us, they're gone without Jesus. And they're perished. But, beloved, this morning I do not have to sorrow as those that have no hope. I have the truth and the knowledge, beloved, that there is a risen Savior. And that he did die for us, and that he has given us a promise, that he has gone to prepare a place for us, that that where I am, there he may be also And he's going to prepare that place and he's going to bring us together. One day I will be restored with those whom I loved and cared for that have gone on before me. Beloved, we have that sure promise and we have a future today. We know that no matter what happens in this world, no matter how discouraging and destroyed this world gets and things look bleak at times, but beloved, we have the promise of God. That we have a future because this world is going to perish, this world is going to pass away, but the day is going to come when I'm caught up together in the clouds with my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ And with all of you and then Stephen will get to take care of the church. It's my son-in-law, just for those of you that are guessing don't know. Amen. We're gonna listen, we've got the promise of God on it. That we're gonna be together with those whom we love and cared for. And what the Paul is saying is if if it's not true, if it's false Then that we're still in our sins, we have no forgiveness. We if it's not true, we have a faith that's meaningless If it's not true, we have no future that's been promised. But can I tell you this morning that Paul doesn't leave us there? He doesn't stop there. He asked the question. He said, Listen, there's some people that are saying this, so let's address the question. Let's look at the elephant in the room. Is it indeed fake? Listen, if if it's fake and it's not real and there's a bunch of people gathering in churches all over the world today celebrating the resurrection, then the fact of the matter is it's all futile and meaningless. But Paul doesn't leave us there, beloved. The fact of the matter is where we have our faith is sure. Bernie Madoff holds the record for the largest Ponzi scheme ever in history. Trading on reputation and status, he convinced hundreds and thousands of people to invest their life savings in his Ponzi scheme. You guys know the stories and have heard the horrific events that took place around that. People literally sold their houses and and and and invested the money with Bernie. They they took their cashed out their 401ks and and and took losses on their Roth IRAs to give their money to Bernie so that he could multiply it and and and all of it was a Ponzi scheme. It's not that they didn't have any belief, but their belief was placed in the wrong thing. And you know what's crazy, beloved, is that not only did they lose what they invested, they lost all that was promised to them. Do you see they were getting these tickets? They were getting receipts. They were getting statements in the mail that said, oh, your investment of 500,000 has been turned into 1. 3 million. Your investments of 800,000 is now 2. 8 million. And in their mind they had $2. 8 million, but beloved, it was all fake. There was nothing there They had faith in the wrong thing, but can I tell you, beloved, this morning, if you put your faith in the shed blood of Jesus Christ, it is a sure faith. There is not one promise failed that Jesus has ever made. Lastly, this morning I want to talk to you about the certainty of deliverance. The certainty that is ours in verse number 20 he says, but now is Christ risen from the dead. He said there's been people that have said they didn't, and here's the consequences of that deception. But beloved, let me let me not leave you there. Let me tell you assuredly, uncompromisingly, and with all the conviction that I can that Jesus is risen from the dead. And that means that everything that Paul said that was a negative has been turned on its head. And now it's a positive. The fact of the matter is, is I can be and am forgiven of my sins because Jesus rose from the dead. Amen I do know for sure that I have a future and I have a home in heaven. Why? Because Jesus did rise from the dead. Everything that was a question now becomes an emphatic answer. Yes. We have a proven triumph, a proclaimed truth, that Jesus rose from the dead. That first glorious Easter morning when the sun was shining, can I tell you that it was shining inside the tomb before it was shining on the ground? The sun stood up. Hallelujah. The sun stood up and he took the keys of death and hell in the grave and he walked forth. Oh, God sent his angels down to roll away that stone on Easter morning. It's not so Jesus could get out, but so that we could see in. And beloved, I've had the privilege of walking down into the edge of that tomb there in Israel, looking at the place where they laid the body of Jesus. And can I tell you, he's not there. He's risen. Hallelujah. He is alive today. And that's why we have a faith that is sure, beloved, you come here and and I appreciate Pastor Gus giving us a little a little uh sermonette there in between the songs like, come on, let's be in church every Sunday. Hallelujah. Let's we're celebrating the resurrection. Can I tell you your faith is not in vain What you believe in Jesus Christ and what you follow from this book and why we stand on biblical truth and try and live and do what's right each day is because we serve a risen Savior There's a reason. Our faith isn't vain. Our faith isn't meaningless. Our faith has purpose. And can I tell you one of the best things about knowing Jesus as your Lord and Savior is the fact that God gives you purpose in this life. You have a reason to live. So many people in this world are living without purpose. They're living without meaning. They have the sitting there wondering, what's it all for? What's it all about? Why am I getting up and going to work so I can make a little money so I can pay a bunch of bills so I can go to sleep so I can get up and go to work to make some money to pay some bills so I can go to sleep so I can get up and work to make the money so I can pay some b It's meaningless, beloved it is meaningless without Jesus. But with Jesus you have a meaning and your faith gives you purpose in life, and we live life with a purpose to tell other people about the shed blood of Jesus Christ. so they don't have to die and go to a sinner's hell and spend an eternity in a place that was made for the devil and his angels, where people are going to spend an eternity in in punishment and in pain. And we tell them about the love Jesus Christ, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life and we carry that message to a lost and dying world so they too can put their faith and trust in Jesus. Amen I feel a little preach coming on. This is Easter. We're celebrating the resurrection and we have the truth, beloved. The truth that Jesus rose from the dead. And if you can't preach that, you might as well hang it up. Everything that he questioned, everything that he said was Like this is the problem got flipped on its head and the fact of the matter is is we have faith that's real and meaningful and powerful because Jesus rose from the dead We have forgiveness of our sins. If you're here this morning and you don't know that your sins have been forgiven, that the shed blood of Jesus Christ has washed away your sins, and you know that you're in a right relationship with God. Can I tell you today, hear me please? God loves you. And he wants to forgive you of your sin. And it's not religion. Religion has sent more people to hell than anything else. Can I tell you? It's a relationship with the Jesus who loved you, who died, was buried, and he rose again so that you could be forgiven. Don't leave here today without having your sins forgiven. It's not something that Hunt Valley Baptist Church offers. It's not something that we can give you. It's a relationship with Jesus Christ. All we're going to do is try and help make the introductions If you're not really sure how to know for sure your sins are forgiven in a couple of minutes, we're going to have an invitation. Can I tell you, we would love to take a Bible and introduce you to Jesus. And Jesus would love to forgive you and restore you into a right relationship with Him today. Hey, we have forgiveness, and because we have forgiveness, we have a future. No matter how bad things get in this world, I know I've got a future. This world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue. There's waiting for me there on those glorious shores, friends and family whom I loved and longed to be restored with. What a blessing to know that we have faith, that we have forgiveness. That we have a future. There's a certainty, beloved, the certainty of this deliverance, Paul says, but now is Christ risen from the dead. Beloved, he says, and become the first fruits. I'm not going to take a long time to develop this. We're going to bring it to a conclusion, but beloved, the idea of that first fruit is that Jesus Christ was the example. He was the one I mean if Jesus didn't rise from the dead, how how do we expect him to raise us up one day? No, Jesus did rise from the dead from the dead and therefore he became the first fruits. He stands as a living example that he rose from the dead and he has promised one day he would take us up again and raise us from the dead. They that are dead in Christ shall rise again. We're going to be lifted up. We have that promise. He is the first fruits, a sure promise. Because of that. Testimony. Wow. This is Easter. What a meaningful and powerful day for us as believers. Ms. Lori said, was it is it one year, Lori? Two years. Two years that Laurie's been coming to church here today. Today's her anniversary of coming to this church. We're we're glad, but you know the most important anniversary is your anniversary of when you trusted Jesus as your Lord and Savior. And that can be you today. If you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Can I tell you you can have that settled today? Easter Saturday. Sunday, twenty twenty-six. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? We want to give you an opportunity to praise the Lord and thank him for this glorious resurrection, but also for those of you who might be here that don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, we want to tell you this morning that God loves you. He wants to present and give you an opportunity to trust him before it's eternally too late. I'm going to ask you right now, if you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, don't let shame or embarrassment or pride keep you from settling that today and understanding and knowing. Could you give us the privilege of introducing you to Jesus? Would you allow that to happen. Would you just show me by an uplifted hand and say, Pastor Caleb, that's me. I'm not a hundred percent sure that my sins are forgiven, that I have a home in heaven. Pastor Caleb, pray for me. Would you lift your hand up and just show me anywhere around the auditorium and say that's me Beloved, we preach the message of the love of the gospel of Jesus Christ, how he died and buried and was rose again for you. If you're here and don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, please don't leave without letting us at least talk to you about it. You don't have to make the decision. You just let us talk to you about it. And you could decide for yourself what you want to do. It's the most important decision you'll ever make. Beloved, this gives you meaning for your life and a reason for living and hope for a future. Whether there be one here today and say, Hashtag Caleb, that's me. I'm going to ask you if you'd be willing to come down to the front and let us take a Bible and show you how you Listen, it's not about coming down the aisle. It's not about coming forward. It's just an opportunity for us to show you in God's Word how you can know for sure you're forgiven. If you're here this morning and Jesus spoke to you about maybe carrying that message to a lost and dying world or celebrating the resurrection, the pianos is going to play and as As the pianist plays, if God spoke you, you come. Do what God wants you to do. We've gathered in God's house for Him to do a work in our hearts, beloved. That's why we're here.