So in Mark chapter 10, we see the disciples coming to Jesus and asking of him a question and then his response to them. Jesus is in the heart of his ministry here. His public ministry is growing. It's expanding. Everywhere he goes, people are drawn to him. The crowds are getting bigger and bigger, you know, and and the people are more and more excited. People are drawn. Some just want to see what it's all about. Some people want to see if it's true that this man can really uh you know heal the lame and cause the blind to see and and there's interest and and and many people want to sit under his teaching and hear what it is that Jesus is is sharing and teaching and they're they're coming. Well there is this expansion and this growth of his ministry and the disciples are kind of getting to go along with this. There you can kind of sense their excitement. They're like, man, this is fun. This is awesome. Look at look at what God is doing here. And look at how Things are growing and and and they're close to Jesus. They're kind of on the you know the in crowd there with Jesus and they're enjoying that. You know, people are coming and they're like, wait, wait, wait, no, you don't need to talk to Jesus. Uh you remember some trying to get to Jesus and the disciples are like, no, don't don't bother him. And Jesus says, wait. Let them come, let them come. The disciples kind of uh enjoying this position of recognition as it were. We see their heart here, especially James and John, the son of Zebedee, who were known as the Sons of Thunder. We see they're getting caught up in this. And look in verse number 35, chapter 10 and verse number 35, we see, first of all, this carnal entreaty by them. They ask a question. And they say here, and James and John, the sons of Debedee, come unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire. And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you? And they said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit one on the right hand, and the other thy left hand, in thy glory. God, we Jesus, we've been walking with you. We've been part of this. And you know, boy, it sure would be nice if we could right now go ahead and seal our position. Right on the right there, I want to be on your right hand and and and one of you on the one of us on the left hand and Lord could we please uh you know be right there with you course Jesus gives them some instruction that we'll look at, but they desired to be recognized. They desired a position. They wanted to be lifted up. This caused a little bit of displeasure with the other disciples, possibly because they didn't think of it. You know, like, oh man, we missed our chance. We should have asked about that. I don't know exactly what their motivation was, but look down to verse number 41. And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John. You know, maybe they were displeased with James and John because they were truly spiritual and they thought, come on, James and John. What is it you want to be recognized? You want to have this position? I mean, come on. We're just here to serve Jesus. That's what we're here. But I think that probably, knowing human nature, they were probably a little more displeased with James and John because they wanted that position. Because they want it to be recognized. They want it to be lifted up like that. And there's only one right hand and left hand. And if James and John get it, well, then it's taken. So this creates a little bit of problem there, this carnal entreaty, but we see Jesus answer in verse number 45, but Jesus called to them. Called them to him. And he saith unto them, ye know that they which were accounted to rule over the Gentiles, exercise lordship over them. And their great ones exercise authority upon them. These words here in the middle, that little phrase, that which were accounted to rule. Have you seen in the average high school yearbook that page or two that says the most likely to succeed? This is basically what the accounted to rule here. That's basically what it's saying. There are some that are expected to be that physician. There are some that are accounted to rule. Like people would look at them and say, boy, he is going to be a leader Most of the time, these people that adorn those pages of most likely to succeed, there tend to be the better-looking people in the high school They tend to be the more popular kids, the kids that had some measure of recognition. Sometimes there are kids that come from a wealthy family. They have that position because their parents have money. Sometimes it might be because they have a very particular skill or talent with a basketball or a football or they kind of have risen to the top in in the high school in that regard. But rarely beloved is a decision to include somebody on this page based upon their character. Most likely to succeed because they have discipline. Because they have character, because of who they are as a person, when the reality is character is what's going to make the biggest difference. Those of us that are older, I don't know if it brings joy to your heart or breaks your heart when you look at the high school books and you look back and you see where those people are today Some of those that were going to rule the world, the most likely to see, they're still working at McDonald's. And then students that nobody even really knew their name. I mean, probably nobody even signed their yearbook And they're a CEO or CFO of a company somewhere. Because it's not just popularity and position, it's who you are as a person. He said, this world has this kind of those that are accounted to rule. Those that you look at and say, boy, they're going to be something. We see that those kind of people they exercise, the Bible says there in the latter part of that, they exercise lordship over them. And their great ones exercise authority upon them. You see, these kind of people, they take power by ruling over others. They're motivated by self-promotion. The end justifies the mean. It's anything that's going to promote me. In today's world, there's people that thousands and thousands of people that they themselves are the brand. It's about promoting the brand. And the brand is them. They have become social influencers. They they are the brand and they put their name out and their picture out and what they think out and For some reason, they have millions of followers on YouTube or Instagram, and they have this level of influence in society because they've promoted the brand. Jesus kind of mocks the great ones. He says, oh, the great ones, those ones the people the world looks at says, they're great, they're exercising their authority over others. But you see, I want us here to see some Christian enlightenment in verse number 43. He says, but so shall it not be among you. He said, this is the world's mentality, this is the world's way of doing things, this self-promotion, this grabbing uh authority and grabbing a hold of a position and Boy, put us on your right hand, Jesus. Put us on your left hand, boy. We want that recognition. God says, no, that's not the way it is in the kingdom of God. That's not how it's supposed to be. This should not be among you, but whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister, he says. Now that word minister there comes from the same word that we get deacon from. Deaconas. You know, beloved, a deacon is supposed to be a servant. The church has taken the position of deacon and glorified it. And changed it from what it was meant to be to be a position, to be a place of recognition. Oh, this is deacon so-and-so. Well a ti-da. A deacon is a servant. It's somebody who has signed up to serve God's people Any way they can, to be the most help they can, to further the cause of Christ, to help the church move forward. What they are is a servant And that's what God says we as God's people should all be. We should have this heart of service It's not about position. It's not about self-promotion. It's about savior promotion. It's not, beloved, about self-service. Who is serving me? It's about self-sacrifice. Who can I serve? the Christian enlightenment, getting an understanding and looking at it from a biblical perspective, he says, boy, whoever will be the greatest among you shall be your minister. He elaborates this and kind of drives home the point there in verse number 44 where he says, and whosoever of you will be the chiefest shall be the servant of all. He's saying the the the guy that wants to be the biggest is the guy that needs to be the smallest The guy that desires the most should be the guy that's going to be the biggest, the guy that will be the cheapest is the one who is the servant of all. Literally, this heart and mindset of serving God by serving God's people, serving others. Beloved, God is less excited about who you can command than he is about who you have compassion on. Who do you have compassion on? Who is it that you are moved to serve and to help? It's about you having a position, not about a position of authority, but a place of influence. But you can influence others for God. You know, beloved, there's some dear old ladies that have been in every church I've ever been in, and they never had a position. But they've had a lot of influence. I still remember we left Sheboygan, Wisconsin when I was nine years old, and I remember Grandma's Bible. Who would stand at the back of the church? Church would dismiss and she would move back there towards the back wall. She would stand with her back against the wall so that the kids didn't knock her over And she had a big old purse. And she would open up her purse, and kids would come walking up, and she would pull out a piece of Brock's candy. Oh, so good. She would give us a piece of rock's candy every Sunday. I remember when Dad take me with him. to go see Grandma Stibel, visit her at her house. Oh boy. She would take us into the kitchen and she would She's real slow moving, you know. She'd go over to the kitchen, she would pull open a drawer, and there was more Brock's candy in there than they had in Giant. I mean, there was drawer was full of rock's candy and she would say, you can have a whole handful, and man, I was excited. It was good. What I'm saying is there are a lot of dear old ladies. They don't have a position, but they've got a lot of influence They are not the chief in the world's eyes, but they're chief in God's eyes Because they're serving God's people. We need to have a heart of service. Beloved, I read this week that the church doesn't need more leaders. The church needs more leaders, more service. We don't need more leaders. We need to have more servants. You know, I've seen a lot of churches having leadership conferences. I haven't seen you having a servants conference. But what we need is servants. People that understand Christ's example here. In verse number 45, he says, even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. And to give his life a ransom for many. Beloved, Jesus Christ, the King of kings, the Creator, the Lord, he came to serve. Can I remind you that Jesus knelt on his knees in front of the disciples And washed their feet. God in the flesh washed their feet He was illustrating the humility and the willingness to serve other people. That's the kind of spirit we should have. That kind of of a heart to just serve. It's not about getting recognized. It's not about having a position. on the right or the left or being on the platform or having people pat us on the back. It's about serving. Just doing Whatever needs done. And I preach this today because I believe the brand Has displayed this spirit. I believe Brandon has been a servant during his time He's been willing to do whatever needs done. Even this last week, they're getting ready to move, they're heading out. He's like, If you need anything before Sunday, can I get anything else for you? And I'm just thankful, Brandon, for your spirit. I believe that if you'll keep that, God will use you in a great way. Because it's not, it's not about being the person that's recognized. Now sometimes In God's infinite wisdom, He chooses to give honor to whom honor is due. And if that happens, We need to do our best to deflect it, point heavenward and give honor and praise to God. Because we don't want to be in the place Where we're functioning in a carnal way, where it becomes about us and what people think about us. We want to serve others. And I'm just thankful, Brandon. And for the servant's heart that you've displayed during your time here. I appreciate that and know that God will use you greatly as God moves you and Valerie on and you do whatever God has for you to do. And the next step, and one day when you're an evangelist, we'll have you come back and preach for us. Amen. Beloved, I would like to just take a moment of invitation. I don't know how God might have spoken to you. But uh let's do that and then we'll take some time and and uh say thank you to Brandon and Valerie and uh uh recognize them. And uh let's stand to our feet if you would and have the pianists come and play.