Ready, well you can grab your Bibles tonight and turn to the book of Micah. We're gonna be in a number of passages of scripture tonight, uh, but Micah's where we're going to begin. And uh I for the foreseeable future we're going to just kind of tackle some individual things. I had a couple of questions that some people asked and You know, a few years ago I did a series on what does the Bible say about and kind of put it out there if you had any Bible questions or were interested in knowing more about a particular topic. uh you know, you could ask me and I would study it out and, you know, present it on Thursday night. And so provided we have time or whatever, if you have a something you're interested in, I could uh bring that and preach that to the church family answering a question for you. I do have one or two that were asked already that uh I could address. Uh but tonight I'm going to add to a series that I began in 2020 on the balance in the believer's life. It is really important for us as God's people to have balance. There's so much of our life that requires a correct balance, and man's tendency is to get out of balance. Uh we really tend to gravitate towards one extreme or the other. I mean let's just take our eating habits. Uh i it it is so hard, isn't it, just to kinda have a steady you know, a healthy eating habit, right? It's it seems we lean towards one way or the other. Like, okay, we're going on a strict diet, we're gonna starve ourselves until we get and then uh oh we're gonna binge, we're gonna eat, you know, I'm having all this cake and ice cream and And and just to have that balance and to be consistent and steady, that's hard. And it's the same way in every area of our life. But so much of the Christian life really is about being balanced I think as we observe the life of Christ, we can see and learn from him the need for our life to maintain this balance. Christ put a premium on truth, but he never sacrificed truth. For mercy. Yet he was full of mercy. He had that balance in his life. We need to worship, but that doesn't mean that we should leave off all the work. There should be a balance. Yeah, there's work to be done, but we also should have time of worship. We should have a balance in our life of amusement and accomplishment. Yes, it's okay to take a break. It's okay to to have a good time or to go on vacation or to relax. But that's not life. There needs to be a proper balance in our life, and we need to accomplish some things as well. Well tonight I want to speak to you for a few minutes on the balance of boldness and humility. The necessity for boldness. And humility. In Micah chapter 6 and verse number 8, the Bible says, He showeth thee, O man, what is good, and what doth the Lord require of thee? But to do justly. There we have boldness. To do justly. There are things that are right and things that should be done because they are right to do and We really should not waver on those at all. We ought to do justly, but he says here, and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God. So there's the other side of that same coin. Both expected from God, and obviously by implication, both. Very possible. A familiar passage of scripture in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse number 1, the Bible says, To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. A time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted. A time to kill and a time to heal, a time to break down, and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh. A time to mourn and a time to dance, a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together, a time to embrace, a time to refrain from embracing. A time to get and a time to loose, a time to keep and a time to cast away, a time to rend and a time to sow, a time to keep silence and a time to speak. A time to love and a time to hate, a time of war, and a time of peace. I think you have here uh like just a a list one after the other, almost shotgun style, where God is giving to us the fact that Hey, th there is a time to speak, but there's a time to be silent. And we need to have balance in those. There's there's a time to uh be moved by love, but there's a time to stand and to fight and be involved in war and and those things just over and over again he listed off. He said there's a time for all of it But as Christians, we need uh a God-given balance in our life. You should spend time with your family, but you should also be committed at work. You should invest the time necessary for that. You should serve God with your life. How is it that we're able to or should, how can we possibly do all that really is required of us? I mean, I could give the whole of my life with no other distractions simply to the ministry and the service of the church. You all know you could give the whole of your life without any other distractions simply to being a husband and a father, to the family. What needs that are there and take that time and do that. There are some. I was talking to a church member just yesterday and he's he was talking about a co-worker that he has and he says, I think he lives to work. I think work is that's his hobby. I don't know, like it's like he he's just always there. That's what he does. And and you you could invest so much of your life in work that nothing else matters But how do we balance all these things that call upon our time? We've got so many areas that we've got to juggle and to keep correct. Well, I believe that the Lord gives us the ability to do that when we earnestly seek him and ask him for it. God knows exactly what is calling for your time, and he says there's a season for it. There's a purpose for everything under heaven. And we need to pray and ask God to give us a balance in our lives. The Bible says that the righteous are bold as a lion. So we ought to have boldness in our life. But God says he resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. That kind of stands in contrast to that. That, wait a minute, how can I be bold and also be humble? Which is it? You see, beloved, God calls us to confidence without conceit. And he calls us to contrition without compromise. And that's the balance. How is it that we can be bold without being a narcissistic individual that's just full of themselves? But how can we be humble without being a pushover? That's what we're talking about. The balance in the Christian life. So first of all, this evening, I would like you to see we need courage to stand. We need courage to stand. You see, boldness without humility leads to pride, but humility without boldness leads to compromise. And we don't want either of those. We need both of them in our life. In a familiar verse, I would have you turn to Ephesians chapter 6. We're going to be there in just a moment, but I'm going to read for you Galatians chapter five. In Galatians chapter five, verse number one, the Bible says, Stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free. And be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. We know the beloved that we're to stand. He says, stand fast. Then in Ephesians chapter number six, the familiar verses there, beginning in verse number ten, and we'll just read a few verses here, I probably down through twenty, but he says, finally My brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be, what's the next three words? Able to stand. Able to stand. We need courage to stand. He said, put on the armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. He goes through these armor that we're to put on. And in verse number 19, he says And for me, the utterance may be given unto me that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. To be bold for Christ, to stand for Christ in our wicked day. Beloved, we need to stand confidently. He says, stand fast, therefore. Stand fast. We need to stand confidently in our wicked day. You know, we don't have to be timid. We don't have to be shy when we're standing on the truth of the Word of God. You know, some you if you're standing on your own opinion, if you're standing on your your thoughts regarding something, you may be kind of like, well you know, uh I like Ford but you might like Chevy. And it doesn't really matter and and you know, you don't y what I'm saying is you That's a matter of opinion for one person or another, but when you're standing on the truth of the Word of God, we shouldn't be wishy-washy. It really uh, you know, you hear these TV preachers that won't Clearly state the truth. You know, Joe Olstein on National Television that he's asked directly about whether homosexuality is wrong or not, and he's like, well It's not really for me to decide, you know. I don't want to judge about people. Uh I just, you know, uh we just want to try and, you know The Bible is clear on that. You don't have to be wishy-washy. You can state the truth of the Word of God and let the let things end up where they end up because it's not your truth you're sharing. It's the truth of the Word of God. And we ought to stand firm. God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and a love and a sound mind. Beloved, when we lack the confidence and the courage to stand on biblical issues, The cause of Christ suffers, and I believe ultimately men, souls are lost for eternity. We're standing for Christ. We stand in the liberty that Christ gives us and with the strength of Christ. And we're to stand continually. He says, be not entangled again. When the Lord teaches us or shows us truth from the Word of God and we take that stand in our lives, he says, be not entangled again. Don't go back to the world. Don't get caught up in that again. We need to stand confidently because we're standing on the truth of the Word of God, but we need to stand continually Don't go back again. Don't be wishy-washy. Don't be up today and down tomorrow. Don't be excited about the things of Christ today and not sure about the things of Christ tomorrow. You need to stand continually. You need to purpose in your heart to do so. Purpose to continue to be faithful to what God has revealed to you. Standing for truth and righteousness. We can't lower our banner just because of the pressures of the world that are out there They're gonna come. You're gonna get backed into a corner. There's gonna be people in this world that put pressure on you But we're to be bold as a lion. The apostles prayed for boldness in Acts 4. 29, and now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants with all boldness. That we may speak the word. They were coming and they were threatening him. And can I tell you that in today's world, a lot of what is preached is getting reclassified as hate speech. And there's going to be threatenings. Obviously you all have seen it just this last week. Protesters entered a church, a house of worship disrupted their services There is going to be threatenings. There's going to be uh you know, which is one of the reasons why we have a security team here and why they stay in the foyer and why they watch when people are coming. A group like that would never make it into the auditorium here. That would have been dealt with out there and the police would have been called and it would have been addressed before they ever got in here. But listen, the the the world's waxing worse and worse And we need to decide in our heart and mind if we're standing on the Word of God, we have listen, we're not standing on our authority. We're standing on the authority of God Almighty. And we are doing God a disservice when we're wishy-washy and and not sure about what what what it is, or well, I don't know. Everybody's entitled to their opinion. No, God sets the standard, and we either line up with God or we're wrong. Somebody's wrong, and God's not wrong. And so we need to stand there. We need to have, beloved, the the courage to stand. But in the midst of that we also need The contrition to submit. We need to have the humble heart That God, that Christ displayed when he was here, that we can minister to people even in the midst of when we're standing. You don't have to be a jerk. You can stand for truth. What does the Bible say? You are to speak the truth in love. That's the balance. There's a balance there. There's, yes, stand for truth, be bold for truth, but be humble enough to do it with love. You might be in the right, but that doesn't mean you need to be a jerk. James chapter 4, verse number 6 says, But he giveth More grace. Wherefore he has said, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. God gives grace to those that are humble. I wonder, are we humble in our dealings? Psalms 51, 17, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. O God, thou wilt not despise. We need to have that kind of humility, that that broken heart, that contrite spirit, where we're in submission to God and His will. Humility keeps us teachable. Correctable and dependent upon God. And that is necessary. I think about Gideon. who was called to lead men into battle. He certainly was a leader. He certainly knew how to command men and to say, here's what we're going to do, this is how we're going to do it. But in the midst of that, he had the humility to submit to God and say, okay, you're going to send home all these guys? Okay, you're gonna send home all these guys? Lord, you know we're down to 300 here And we're we're still going into battle? Well, this battle plan seems a little peculiar. But I'm saying is even in the midst of that, when he was leading these men, he was standing on what God had said. He was able to lead them boldly, but at the same time submit to God and remain teachable, remain leadable. Humility in the heart of a leader keeps you from becoming a narcissistic self-promoter, which is very prevalent in society today. Where it's really about it's about me. It's about the whoever is in charge. Whoever it's it's all about them and let's let's do everything we can to promote this person and let's put them in front and and we're gonna we're gonna sell this person and and their image and what they're m doing or whatever. And humility keeps that from happening. Even if you are in the right You see, beloved, courage gives us power in our voice, but contrition gives us the proper tone. Courage says this is what's right. But humility, contrition gives us the proper way to communicate it. Speaking the truth in love. I think of Joseph, whom God continually promoted, and man continually humbled. From the very beginning of Joseph's life, God continually promoted Joseph. And yet man continually humbled him. Man kept knocking him down. And Joseph could have stood up And said, I got uh direction from God and and he could have been belligerent and angry and upset, but in each situation he just submitted to where he was at and he stood before his brothers and he says, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. That is the heart of humility that in the face of even great hardship he was able to continue to lead a whole nation. To be bold, but to be humble. I believe this is a challenge for us. He had quite a balance of quiet submission to the will of God as he rose in leadership everywhere he went, everywhere he was. And yet he still submitted to God's will. When he got knocked down again and again, and imprisoned again and falsely accused, but each step he just submitted to it. And let God build him and move him again. You know, this is very important. We need this in our homes. We need a balance of boldness and humility. Don't let things go unaddressed that need to be taken care of, but at the same time, communicate with compassion. Communicate with your mate with compassion. Deal with might be a matter of concern, but don't ever do it with the purpose to wound. Or to even win. Because when you win, the relationship loses It's not about winning. It's not about proving who was right and who was wrong. It's about coming together to find a workable solution. And that's where humility comes. You may be right. He may be wrong. He may be right. She may be wrong. But we need to have the the ability to communicate with one another, even in those situations with a man with a level of humidity. Husbands need to live as servants. Yes, you're to lead, but you need to be a servant leader in the home instead of a leader who gets served. Need to be a servant leader in the home. Boldness retaliates But humility restrains. Just because You're right. Doesn't mean you should say it. You ever been there? Might be wiser just to hold your tongue because the mess you're gonna have to clean up afterwards the the the the problems that it's gonna take So ultimately, how do we have this balance? How do we balance boldness and humility? Well, we need Christ to be successful. We really need to follow Christ's example and live as he lives to have this correct balance. We won't be able to stand against this ever-changing world unless we're standing with God. One day, a much older and far more seasoned congressman was a little troubled by a decision that a young congressman made. And he went to him and he said, I notice that you voted yes on this last bill. I know that you're against that. We've talked about it. Can you tell me why? You voted yes. The younger congressman said, you don't understand. Boy, they brought a lot of pressure to bear from my district And the older congressman said, That may be, but when you are strengthened from inside you are not moved from the pressures outside. And can I tell you, beloved, that when you are standing on what is right and you're strengthened from Jesus Christ on the inside, You will be less likely to be moved from the pressures that are outside. This world has a lot of pressures on us. It's going to push us every which way, and beloved, if we're not standing firm with Jesus Christ We're going to be tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine and slight of men and their cunning craftiness. That whatever pressure arises Whatever happens to be the greatest pressure of that day. And by and large, that's where society moves today, whichever way the greatest wind is blowing. See, only when we're strengthened from within can we stand. So I ask you, I think tonight we're dealing with a group people, but do you know him as your Lord and Savior? You will not have the strength to live for him until you love him. You must know that he is your savior, and then do you rely on him as your sustainer? Is he the one that you know that's where you get your strength, the strength to stand, and you feel the pressure, and maybe you need to be like the apostles and and and pray, Lord. Give me boldness. The threatenings are there. The pressure is there. And I see the problem, but Lord, I know I need to stand for you and He will strengthen you to do it. Christ over and over again stands as a stalwart example for us. As he says in Matthew 11:29, take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly of heart. In the same verse at the same time, on one hand he's saying, listen, follow me, do what I do. He says, I'm meek, I'm lowly of heart. I I have this balance and we should have it as well. Christ blended authority and approachability all the time, everywhere he went. He stood with authority, the authority of God, the creator of the universe, and yet still was approachable by even the smallest of kids. He was God and thought it not Robert to be equal to God. He boldly said, I and my father am one. And yet he humbly went to the cross. I think of the woman who was taken in adultery. You remember the story the the accusers were there and they were ready to take her out and stone her. And Jesus kneels down and begins to write there in John chapter 8. Begins to write something and it'd be interesting when we get to heaven to know what Jesus wrote in the Psalm that day. We don't know what he wrote, but whatever he did, it caused those that were standing there with stones to question because he said, Hey, those of you that were without sin, you can throw the first one And they turned away and Jesus said, Where are thy accusers? You see, he didn't compromise with her and say, Well, you're all fine. Don't worry about it. No. He addressed their sin, but he also revealed the hypocrisy of the crowd. He dealt with that. That's an outside pressure. a crowd, uh a mob of people that want to do something in particular, he stood against that. He said, that's not this is not right. We're we're not gonna do that. But then he looked at her and says, Hey, go and sin no more. So he had compassion on her and he restored the sinner. He confronted those that were there and the sin that they had in their own hearts But then he humbly re restored this broken woman. When Jesus was with his disciples. John chapter 13, as God, he knelt down and washed their feet. He said, So after he had washed their feet and had taken his garments and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you Ye call me master and lord, and ye say well, for I am. He said, you call me master, you call me Lord, and that's correct, I am. He says, if I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. That power that he had as God in the flesh and he acknowledged the fact that yes, I am God, and you you you understand that I am the Lord and I am your master, but you've seen me kneel down and serve you. And so you should do likewise. I'm saying over and over again we see this spirit of servant leadership in our Savior, of a balance of boldness to do right, to declare the truth, but at the same time To be humble. And that's such a hard balance. Sometimes you'll have men over here and boy, they are bold for Christ. Boy, they stand strong But they're arrogant and they're mean. And their speech comes across hateful whether whether they mean it to be that way or not, they can they can get they can get hateful in their presentation and and sometimes be hurtful in in that way. I don't not say that's their goal or ambition, but because of how they come across so boldly, so strongly, and listen, we need people to stand But then you go over here and you have people that are afraid to take a stand. They're they're so humble and so afraid of offending anybody and so afraid of of you know, stepping on anybody's toes that they they don't want to do anything that would possibly cause harm and so th th they're afraid to take a stand. And this is what I'm saying we need Christ to get the balance How do we do that correctly? I think only when through the power of the Holy Spirit of God can we do it correctly It's something that's a struggle. Peter and John were bold. But what is it they noticed about Peter and John in Acts chapter 4, verse number 13? He says, Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, And perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled, and they took knowledge of them Do you know what they recognized? That they had been with Jesus. That's I think what we need. If we're going to correctly balance boldness in this Christian life and stand where we should stand, listen, we don't need to compromise truth. We don't need to lower the standards. We don't need to bring the banner down. We we should stand on truth. But if we're going to do it with the love of Christ and with a humble heart, then we need people to when they see us, they can say, hey, they're bold. But they've been with Jesus. They've been with Jesus. They'll see that. They'll recognize That balance that comes from God. Boldness confronts the issue, but humility preserves dignity. Those of you looking around, there's not too many tonight. There's a few that have kids, Anthony and you know some of you got grandkids who might use this with the grandkids Boldness confronts the issue, but humility preserves dignity. You know, a week ago something happened in a church service that really bothered me. I was sitting up here and I saw something and I I wanted to stand up and address it in church. I wanted to call that person down and say, we're not going to have that at this church. I would have been right. But I paused and I said, Lord, what should I do? And the Lord said, You better not do that. Instead, after the service, I talked to that person individually and said, We're not going to do this. You see, boldness confronts the issue, but humility preserves dignity. It wasn't necessary to crush that person. Or make him look foolish in front of everybody. Let's deal with it, but let's preserve dignity. That's balance. And we need the Spirit of God to get it right in our lives as we deal with people. You need it at work, as you address individuals at work, as you deal with relationships. You need humility. Consider protecting the dignity while still dealing with the problem. You've got to have that balance. It's only in and through the power of Christ that it's possible. I think ultimately what we have to do is ask God, Lord help me, to stand strong on truth and what's right But Lord, give me your love and compassion. Help me to do so humbly. And with your power. Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Balancing boldness and humility in our lives. Both are necessary. And our tendency would be to lean one way or the other based on our personalities, what we enjoy one way or the other. Maybe some humility is really not a problem for you, but you lack boldness. For others, maybe you're you're plenty bold, but maybe you lack some humility in how you're dealing with people. And we need to ask God to help us find that correct balance. As the pianos plays, if God spoke to you, you come.