Well, it's time to get into the Word of God this morning on this Mother's Day, and uh hopefully uh you're you're ready to do that. Turn your Bibles to Psalms chapter number eighty six, Psalms chapter number eighty-six This is Mother's Day. We have in America and the world uh it seems that as though we have a day for everything. Um those of you that don't know it, there's actually a national static electricity day. It is January 9th. There's frozen yogurt day. There is a little red wagon day. There's a cream puff day. Cheesecake Day. There's actually lots of cheesecake days. There's Chocolate Cheesecake Day and Caramel Cheesecake Day. And you know, it's amazing to me how many of the days are actually around food. There's there's particular days for food. Uh, you know, just crazy. The one that I like is March 9th. That is National Get Over It Day. That's what I like. Get over it. National get over it day. March 9th. I'll try and remember that one. Well, most of these days really are just for fun. They're just enjoyed to do something fun, maybe a reason to give somebody a gift or to enjoy some cheesecake or something like that. They don't necessarily hold a lot of meaning and people around the world aren't necessarily observing them but this day Mother's Day is one of those truly important days that we as a people observe and take time to remember the unsung heroes our mom Someone said, you know you're a mom when you're vacuuming, dusting, wiping, washing, drying, loading, unloading, shopping, cooking, driving. Flushing, ironing, sweeping, changing sheets, changing diapers, bathing, helping with homework, clipping coupons, paying bills, and balancing a budget Folding clothes and putting to bed and dragging out of bed, brushing, chasing, buckling, feeding, not yourself. Plus Playing baseball, pushing trucks, cuddling dolls, blowing bubbles, turning on sprinklers, coloring and crafting. Plus raking, trimming, planting, gardening, painting. Painting, walking the dog. You find you have no time to eat, sleep, drink, and yet you still manage to gain 10 pounds. You might be a mother. Uh you might be a mom. Certainly our moms are the unsung heroes. They labor selflessly in most people's lives. I know not every single situation in home life is such that they Had a relationship with their mother in this way. But praise God for the heart of a mother. And the mothers that we've had. Motherhood has always been something of a position of honor in the church. Actually, the foundation of Mother's Day here in America is because of a church A church first began to uh honor mothers and it began to spread and is now a national holiday. Unlike this world who who likes to comment about motherhood and snide remarks and To make less of it and they they say little things like, Oh, you're just a mother. As if in some way they're you are less of a person because you didn't have a life pursuit of in corporate world. You're a mother And I want you to know that in God's economy, that is a great thing. And something that has always been recognized and honored in the church house. So today, as we've shown on the video, and as our church does annually, we try and pause and say thank you to mom. We try and show honor and love to her for all that she has done for us. This morning, as I describe for you the attributes of a mother given to us in the Word of God, I would like you to maybe in your mind think about your mom, and maybe you were blessed to have a mom who contained these attributes and you would want to thank God for her. Maybe that would motivate you to thank her for being such a mother. Wouldn't bother me a bit if you took some of the notes that I have written down here and you copied those and put them in a card to your mom. You know, I never was really creative, but when I I I'll let you in on a little secret. I'll go to the store and I'll buy a card for my wife. My wife's not in here right now. So she doesn't know this, but I'll buy a card for my wife, but then I look at all the other cards and find something good to say to her. Not in the card that I've given her. I already got that one. But I'll look at the other cards and I'll like I like that so I'll put that in there. I like I like that so I'll put that in there. These guys had some good ideas. Well I'm gonna give you some ideas. You can write some things down this morning. Let your mom know what things you are thankful for her. You know, if you are a mother this morning, maybe God would challenge you to Make sure that these attributes are part of your life and help you be the kind of mother that God would want you to be. No matter how old you are, no matter where your kids are, as we said when we talked about the definitions, we said a baby is mom's youngest, even if he happens to be 42 years old It doesn't matter if your kids are out of the house or where they're at, you're still mom to them. And these attributes would still be worthy to have. Would you turn to our text this morning, Psalms chapter 86? If you're not there yet, get to Psalms chapter 86. In the text this morning, we have a description of David's mother. Now we don't know her name. We really don't know much about her. As far as I know, this is the only passage in the Word of God that gives a description or a any information about his mother. But David talking here about his own mother, he gives her a title that in a word defines for us who his mother was. In a word, gives for us what David thought of his mother. Would you look at our text, Psalms 86 and verse number 16? He says, O turn unto me and have mercy upon me. Give thy strength unto thy servant. And save the son of thine handmaid. Save the son of thine handmaid. As far as I know, this is the only reference in the Word of God to David's mother. We aren't giving her name, just some information about who she was. I want to bring you a message this morning entitled The Handmaid of God. The handmaid of God. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning. As we take a few minutes this morning to honor mothers and as we throughout the day today express our love and appreciation for those that we call mom. Lord, for we know this is biblical. You said in your word that we're to give honor to whom honor is due, and surely if there's honor due to anyone, it is due our mothers. Loved and sacrificed every day of their lives for their families. Lord, we also want to honor you in and how we do this today. So we pray, God, that our hearts would be encouraged. Lord, we ask that adults and children alike would Express thanks to you for the mother that you gave them. We ask you, Lord, that moms would be challenged today to be the kind of mother that David's mom was Lord, this morning we ask you one more thing as well as we look in this. We ask you, God, if there's one individual listening. On the live stream, out around this community, or even anywhere in the world listening to the stream this morning that don't know you as Lord and Savior. Lord, we ask you, Lord, to Convict them of their sin and help them this morning to trust you. The free gift of salvation, Lord, if they would receive it and ask you to forgive them of their sin and to save their soul. Lord, we'll thank you for answering this prayer as we look in your word now in Jesus' name. Amen. This is David talking here in this text He's talking and describing his mother. This is the great psalmist of Israel. This is King. David, King David talking, the one who was a man after God's own heart. And he here, in one sentence, describes for us the testimony. of his mother. Let me ask you today, if you had to summarize or give A testimony of your mother in one sentence, what would it be? Like many of the kids very briefly on the video we watched, they had to come up with something quick. How does your mom show that she loves you? In what ways do you see that? What's something your mom really loves, or how can you show your mom you really love her? I mean, quickly thinking, and if I asked you this morning to summarize or to in in just a word or two or just one sentence, give me the testimony of your mother, what would it be? Ma'am, how would your children describe you if they only had a word to do it in? What would be the defining characteristics that would be on display or that they would quickly come to their mind as they talked about you? David said of his mother that she was the handmaid of God. What does this mean? What can we learn from it? How can we apply this? Well, in order to apply it, we've got to understand what the word handmade is referring to. to. I'm going to take the service and talk about that word handmaid and give you a little bit more insight into what it is, the picture that we get of his mother, but I think everybody understands that a handmaid was a slave. A handmaid was a female slave. Their found handmaids are noted throughout the scriptures in several different places in many different contexts. That word itself is only found one place in the New Testament, as we'll see later, but in every situation we're dealing with somebody who Was putting themselves in the position of a slave or humbly submitting like a slave. Someone who had lost all their personal rights. One application about the handmade that I just want to throw out as we begin here is it's amazing if you think about a handmade that They had a unique relationship with their master. You see, the master may have a number of servants, and a lot of the servants might their duties or tasks might be out in the fields or out in a yard and and they might never actually ever get into the house. Their jobs were outside. They never actually were in the house. There might be some in the house who were servants and they served in some capacity or another in the home, but they certainly would never be allowed into the personal space. of the master. But the handmaid. The handmaid had a special relationship. The handmaid was somebody who was right there. The handmaid got to be with the master all the time. Knew the master in a close, compassionate way, knew what the master liked and disliked knew the preferences of the master, knew how warm it should be or how cold it should be, knew uh the the how much food should be prepared or served, and knew what time of day they liked it. They knew everything about the master They had a close relationship, and I hope your heart and mind is starting to apply the word of God to us personally in our position, in our relationship with the master. Are you close to him today? Do you know his likes and dislikes, his preferences, what he would want for you? But she was somebody that was always there, and she was a handmaid, so maybe I could say it like this. She was handy. Now I don't mean handy like she was good at fixing stuff hammering. I don't mean like that. I mean she was at hand. I know all of you men have all every one of you have used a monkey wrench as a hammer. I know it's happened. You've used a screwdriver as a chisel. You've used a tool that was not specifically designed for the purpose in which you were applying it. But you did that. Why? Because it was handy. Because it was there. You know, I I know that ladies, you have your own multi-function tool. It's with you almost everywhere you go. It's get used for many different things, and it's called shoes. A shoe is a good fly swatter. It's a bug killer, you know, it's a hammer when you need it. You turn it upside down and bang on something. You know, it's the shoe, the multi-purpose tool. You use that why? Because it's handy. Well a handmaid is handy. They're there all the time close to the master utilizing and Taking advantage of that great relationship that they have. The handmaid was a servant. She was at hand. You know, there's different types of servants in the Word of God, you have a a hired servant. A hired servant was one that would uh you know be uh given a certain amount of pay for a certain amount of time to accomplish a certain amount a certain job. And then when that was done the hired servant could leave. Yes they served for this period of time, but at the end of the day or at the end of the week or whatever their arrangement was, they got to go home. There was also a bond servant. There's a lot in the Word of God about a bondservant. One who had lost their freedom. They had been either purchased. Or had a debt that was upon them, and they were put into bond service to pay off this debt. Many bond servants never again gained their freedom. They were purchased slaves. Can I remind you this morning that we're all bondservants? to Christ. That we are bond servants according to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. What know ye not? That your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and you are not your own, for ye are bought with a price Therefore, glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. You're not your own. You've been bought with a price, just like a servant And I know today in our in our society and in our world we don't even like that word. We don't even like thinking about the idea that you've lost your freedom, that you're not your own. You don't have a choice to do what you want to do, that you are a servant. But beloved, if we understand the biblical principle given to us here by God, He has bought and paid for us, we are bond servants. Servants. You're not your own. You've been bought with a price. And a bond servant, they served the master. They were available at hand anytime for whatever the master needed. Are you available? Are you at hand Are you ready to say yes, Lord? Yes, Lord, no matter what it is. Whatever he calls you for, do you just say yes? Because he has bought and paid for you. This is how we should be. You know, today many of you will honor your mom. You'll write her a little note. You'll say expressions of love and appreciation unto her. Can I let you know something? Yet you did that because you chose to. You chose to do that. Your mom doesn't have you on a shop collar, I don't think I don't I don't think she's waiting and if you get to lunchtime and haven't expressed love and appreciation she's br she just buzzed it and you get it? No, uh you have the freedom to choose to express that love. If you are this morning wherever you are uh at home sitting in front of a TV or in front of a monitor or your iPad or some device and you're sitting and watching the service this morning. You did that because you chose to. There is nobody that called you this morning and said, if you don't get up and and turn on the live stream for church If you don't spend some time worshiping God today, you're going to lose everything you have. No. It's a choice. The amazing thing about our master, yes, we're bought, we're paid for with a price. He loved, died, and gave himself for us. But then he gives you a chance. Choice. Will you love me? Will you serve me? Will you do what I ask of you? It's your choice. We get the choice to do What we want to right here in this day. You've chosen to honor God and spend time in his house. Just like that, we get to choose how much of a handmade servant of God we're going to be Like Ruth, who chose to be a handmaid. In Ruth chapter 3, verse number 9, she said, And he said, Who art thou? And she said, I am Ruth, thine handmaid. Now Ruth was not a servant at this point. Ruth was not under any type of bondage, but she made the choice and submitted Herself. She just said, I'm your handmaid. I'm here and I'm available. I humble myself. Christian Mom, are you God's handmaid? Are you God's handmaid? Are you humble before God and said, whatever you got, whatever you want? I'm ready. I'm willing to do it. David describing his own mother, just in a word Said so much when he said she was God's handmaid. You know, there's many handmaids like Ruth here, other Abigail is mentioned as a handmaid And uh others in the in the Word of God, the prophet had a handmade. Um but you know there's only three times in the Word of God that somebody was recognized as a handmade. This is one that we're looking at now, David. Then there is one in 2 Samuel, uh 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse number 11, where Hannah Is praying for a child and she says she's a handmaid of the Lord. Hannah raised and gave her son to God. She realized that God had given her son to her, and she said, okay, Lord, and she raised and gave her son back to God. Mom, are you raising your son for God? Are you raising your son for God, your daughter for God? Or are you raising him for yourself? Are you raising them to accomplish and do what it is you your your ambitions, your goals, what you want for their life? You know, a number of parents here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church have come and Dedicated their children to God. In that dedication service, they said, we're dedicating our child and committing to raise them up in the nurture and admonition of God. To allow God to use their son however, or their daughter, however, he sees fit. Are you God's handmaid? David was a servant. All his life he was a servant. How many of you understand that your kids copy what you do? That's just a fact. Someone said this: children seldom misquote you In fact, they usually repeat word for word what you shouldn't have said. You know how that is, especially when you have the younger kids and you haven't taught them uh etiquette yet and and tact and so on. Uh they're like mommy said blah blah blah and you're like oh no uh they usually remember those things. Kids they they just repeat. They just copy. They just do what we do Listen, David was a servant. David served his father in the field. He served his brothers food. He served the king in battle. He served the Saul in the palace. And he served the people. as king. Let me ask you, where did David learn this heart of service? Where did this become part of David's life? Now, I don't I mean I I'm reading into this a little bit. I'm looking at this one word that we have here, a description of his mother. But if he said that she was God's handmaid, I think that what he was saying is she had a servant's heart. I can only picture David's house as they were growing up, and I'm sure that David would come in and there would be other people in the house and mom had an open home. Mom welcomed people into the house and said, Oh, come on in and hey, we're gonna have dinner. What do you want for dinner? We're gonna make some extra food here. No, come on and sit down. And she had a table where she was always serving other people I'm sure that his mom was helping the needy. I'm sure that she was always preparing some food for somebody else, some neighbor down the road. She just had to get this meal together. They would come in and they'd be like, Mom, what's for dinner? Oh, that smells so good, and she's like, Don't touch. That's for the folks down the road. Aw Mom. I'm sure that happened many times as he saw his mother serving a little bit. I'm sure they were out running around doing things, and David probably had stuff that he wanted to do. He was ready to get home and go run around and play in the field, but mom said, Oh no, we're gonna stop by and uh visit so and so and and Just be an encouragement to them. As a young boy, he was probably like, ah, I don't want to do that. And mom gathered the kids around and said, Hey, you guys, why don't you guys sing for them? And the kids are like, oh, okay. But not knowing how much of an encouragement that was to the elderly. became a servant. What are you? Are you a servant? Did you have the blessing of growing up and watching a mom who lived like that and served others? Are you today a mother who is portraying that kind of heart and spirit before your children? Are you at hand? Are you handy? Are you close? Are you ready to do whatever God wants you to do? As a servant, she was also helpful. She wanted to help any way she could. Another handmaid that I draw this application from is the only other one. We have David's mom and we have Hannah. You have to go to the New Testament. Actually, the only place in the New Testament that this word is seen is in Luke chapter 1 and verse number. 38. And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word. She said, God, whatever you want, I'm your handmaid. Be it unto me according to you I mean you think about what Mary had to do. She was asked to bear the Christ child, and you say, oh, what an honor. Yes, she was asked to bear the reproach of being pregnant out of wedlock. She was asked to deal with maybe losing Joseph, whom she loved and wanted to be with, but she knew that if he finds out I'm I'm expecting he isn't going to love me, he's not going to want to be with me, he thinks I'm defiled. But then she turns and says, Lord, I'll do whatever you want. I'll bear whatever reproach I need to bear. Lord, I'm thy handmaid. It's you that matters, not me. Whatever you want, Lord, I'll do it. She was submissive and ready to do whatever God wanted her to do. You know, the James 4. 7 tells us, submit yourselves therefore to God. Are you submitted to God? Are you willing and ready? To do whatever God wants you to do. Are you handy? Are you helpful doing that idea, that heart of spiritual service to the Lord? Submitted to God. You know, it seems like the older we get, as I'm talking about Christians, not just age, but the more years a Christians have been saved, the less submissive. We are. I mean, a new Christian, everything's fresh and new, and they see it, and they're like, oh, I gotta do that. Oh, I gotta do that. But the older we get, we're like, oh well, I know what's right. I don't need to be told anymore. But are you submissive to what God wants? To whatever the Lord has for you this morning? I believe that when we look at the life of David, and if David copied his mother, then we also see that she was holy. For she couldn't have been the handmaid of God and lived an ungodly life. David wouldn't have grown up, I believe, to be a man after God's own heart if His mom would have been one after the things of this world. If his mom would have been like Lot's mother, I don't think David would have been Grown up with the heart that he had. And we looking at the heart of David, we can see much that his mom put in him. Psalms 18, verse number one, we see that he says, I will love thee, O Lord, my strength. David loved God. I will love thee. We read a number of verses in Sunday school that talked about David's love for the Lord and His love for God's scriptures. He knew the Word of God. He loved the Word of God. He wanted to be with, wanted to ponder and think about and meditate on God and on God's Word. Where did children learn that? From a mom who sits and reads the Word of God, from a mom who sings praises unto God, from a mom who's always talking about God and the things of God, they catch it. A lot faster than they're taught it. Is that your heart, Mom? Are you living a holy life that your children could copy and repeat and they would be okay? David knew how to follow God. That most familiar passage of Scripture, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures and leadeth me beside the still waters David knew how to follow the shepherd. He knew how just to just to do what the shepherd wanted. To allow the shepherd to lead him in his life. He had that kind of relationship with the master. There's not a lot said about David's mother. We don't even know her name. But we have one defining characteristic given. the handmaid of God. I don't I can't think of anything that would be better for a mom to be recognized as the handmaid Handmaid of God. Too many young people think that mom's their handmade. Mom's there to be at their beck and call. Mom do this, mom do that. Kids, you ought to praise God if you have one mother that's a handmaid of God. And you ought to be serving mom instead of mom serving We honor mothers today. Mothers. Listen, a mom can't be godly unless Unless she knows God. You can't be the handmaid of God unless you know God personally. Unless you are saved and you've trusted the taken the free gift of salvation that's offered to you by Jesus Christ. Listen, the moment that Christ forgives you of your sin, the Holy Spirit comes to dwell in your heart, he empowers you To live a godly life. I'm not saying you can't be a good mom. I'm not saying you can't excel and do good things or do a good job, but I want you to know that you're doing it in your own strength. Well, it's a challenge. Let me encourage you if you're listening today to realize the only way to be there. handmaid of God. The only way to live your life as a godly mother is to have God as your master. To know him as your Lord and Savior. And you do that by accepting the free gift of salvation that is offered by His Son, who gave His life for you. He came and to seek To save that which was lost. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He commended his love toward us, and while we are sinners, Christ died for us If you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. You want to be a godly mother? You want to be a good mother? Start by knowing. God is your Lord and Savior. Ask Him to forgive you of your sin and take you to heaven when you die and to save your soul. And He'll do it today. You can get God's help to be the right kind of Of Mother. If you're already saved, you know God is your Lord and Savior, then listen: are you the handmaid of God? Have you been living your life with that mindset? I'm the handmaid of God. Whatever God wants. Whatever God wants for me, whatever God wants for my family, whatever God wants for my children, whatever God wants, that's what I want. I hope you're living your life with that spirit. in mind. Manasseh pianists to come. Lord, we come to you right now and we ask you to be with this moment of invitation. I pray, God, if there's one here that was listening today that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior. Not that they they can't live a life and never do anything good, but they can't be godly unless they know you. They can't have your strength and your help to be the mother you would want them to be. To be without your help. Lord, I pray that you would impress upon them the need of a Savior and that they would by faith trust your free gift today Before it's eternally too late. God, I pray that you be with every mother listening. Lord, I pray that they would be challenged to be a handmaid of God. And Lord, I ask you to be with every son and every daughter. That they would be moved to thank you and to thank their mother for being a godly mother. Lord, we thank you for these things. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.