We've got a busy morning here with all that we've done thus far. We've had a sunrise service and and put all the chairs away and tore the tent down and had breakfast. And many people worked and cleaned up the breakfast. And then we had Sunday school. And uh now we're here on this resurrection Sunday morning. We're gonna have uh time here in the Word of God. I'm gonna bring a message, if you'll allow me to kind of paint a picture in your mind. I would like to take you in your mind's eye back to the sepulchre. The title of this morning's message is Sight of the Sepulchre. We see here that Mary Magdalene saw the sepulchre. And when she saw the sepulchre, what does it bring to mind? All of this, part of the service here, is to draw us into the presence of God and bring into remembrance what He has done for us First, I would like to bring this message and paint in your mind a picture of seeing that sepulchre. Look with me in John chapter 20, and we're going to read the first 10 verses. And then we'll get into the message this morning. John chapter 20, verses 1 through 10. The first day of the week cometh, Mary Magdalene, early. when it was yet dark unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. Then she runneth and cometh to Simon Peter and saith to the other disciples, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Peter, therefore, went forth, and that other disciple and came to the sepulcher, and they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter and came first to the sepulchre, and he stooped down and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying Yet went he not in, then cometh Simon Peter, following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie. and the napkin that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Then went in also the other disciple which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw and believed. For as yet they knew not the scriptures. That he must rise again from the dead. Then the disciples went away again unto their home. As we walk with Mary Magdalene up to the sepulchre Up to the tomb of our Lord and Savior on that first day of the week, early in the morning. It actually, according to the text, was a little earlier than our sunrise service this morning Because if you look into the Greek, the Greek's a little more specific about the time of day. It is actually referring to what they called the fourth watch of the night Which would have been between 3 to 6 a. m. So sometime between 3 and 6 a. m. , maybe in what might be considered the twilight of the morning. But certainly the Bible says here, well it was yet dark, but enough light that as she was approaching the sepulchre that day. She noticed, she saw that there was something amiss. She said that she seeth the stone was taken away from the sepulchre. Today, with Mary Magdalene, we behold that the stone has been removed. This allows us to go and to look inside the sepulchre. And as we go with Mary Magdalene and the other disciple and with Peter, and you see the progression here, there's three times the word saw or seeth or see is used in this passage. And there's a progression of seeing that takes place. They see from a distance, and then they saw from the door, and then they saw, and the text says they believed. There's a progression of what they saw as they went in and as we behold the sepulchre with them. What do we see? On this Easter morning. We realize as we behold the sepulchre why we're there that day and why we're here in church this morning On Resurrection Sunday. As we see the sepulchre, it brings back to into our minds memories. We begin to remember the events of the past week. We begin to remember what has brought us to the tomb that morning. First of all, we remember the charge. We remember the charge that was brought against our Savior in Matthew chapter 27 and verse 22, 1 and 2, it says. When the morning was come, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death They brought a charge against him. They said, we're going to have him put to death. And when they had bound him, they led him away and delivered him unto Pontus Pilate the governor. Many people charged Jesus falsely. They made things up about him, they said in verses 12 and 13 of Matthew 27, and when he was accused of the chief priest and the elders. He answered nothing. They said Pilate unto him, Hearst thou not how many things they witnessed against thee? Jesus answered not a word and he says Do you hear how many charges are being brought against you, Jesus? And we remember the charges that were brought, and the falsehoods that were stated, and the crowds that wanted to see him killed. We hear them making stuff up in Luke twenty three, verses four and five. Then said Pilate to the chief priest and to the people I find no fault in this man. And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirth up the people. They were charging him of sedition of stirring people up against the Roman government. We of course know that when asked by those that would trap him about whether they should pay taxes or not, Jesus said, Hey, render unto Caesars that which is Caesar's. And unto God that which is God's. It was a false charge. He didn't stir people up against the government. He stirreth the people up, he says. Teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place, he says, Hey, he's causing trouble. They accused him of sedition. They accused him of neglecting the Sabbath. Of healing people on the Sabbath and not observing the laws of Moses. They declared him to be guilty of blaspheme. Because he said he was the king of the Jews. Because he was God in the flesh And they said, this man blasphemes. They accused him of blasphemes. These false charges sent an innocent man to the cross. And oh my, we remember the cross. We remember the scene of the cross and how Jesus was taken and brutally killed. The reality is that Christ died on a cross. Such a brutal, vicious killing, not humane in any way The prophet Isaiah says in Isaiah 52, verse number 14: As many were astonished at thee, his visage was so marred more than any man. And his form more than the Son of Man. His visage, that's his appearance. how Christ was appeared. He said his appearance, what he looked like, was so marred, that word marred means disfigured. Disfigured to the point where men could not recognize him. Men did not know. They were astonished. Shocked at this brutal killing of our Savior on the cross. Jesus went to the cross We're standing at the tomb and looking here at the sepulchre, and it brings back to memory the charges that were brought against him, and it brings to memory the fact that he went to the cross and that he went to the cross for us, but my, it also brings back to memory the cry that we heard from the cross. As we stood there with the crowd and beheld our Savior up there hanging on the cross, dying for us, we remember the cry of our Savior in Luke 23, verse number 34, when he says. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do in the midst of this agony, in the midst of all of his pain, in the midst of the suffering Hanging on the cross there. What he was concerned with was not himself. What he was concerned with was not vengeance. What he was concerned with was not getting down off of the cross But what he was concerned with was the heart and the soul of the men who were doing this to him. We remember his cry, Father, forgive them. That cry reminds us that he died on that cross for our sins. That his Father might forgive us 1 Corinthians 15, 3 says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. Christ died on the cross for our sins, as the scriptures said he would, and he did it why? Because he loved us. The Bible says that God commended his love towards us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He commended his love. He showed his love in that magnificent way on the cross in the midst of all the agony and pain when he cried out, Father, forgive them. I can't imagine it. Every moment of sheer agony he endured was for you. And was for me. Because he loved us. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever should believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. You better believe it today that Jesus went to the cross because he loved you. When he died on the cross, you and I were on his mind. He knew me, yet he loved me. He whose glory makes the heaven shine. So unworthy of such mercy, yet when on the cross I was on his mind. You were on the mind of the Savior as he hung there on the cross for you. We are standing at the tomb. And we're beholding and looking in, and it brings back these memories of what has happened over the last week, and we also remember the care. The care that was taken of Jesus' body. For Joseph of Arimathea in John chapter 19, he went and he begged for the body of Jesus and said, Could I please take it and treat it with some respect? Could I please take our Savior and wrap his body and anoint it with oil and treat him with respect and give him a proper burial? We remember the care and the love in which Joseph and Nicodemus took the body of Jesus and wrapped him in linen, burial clothes, and anointed him with oil and spices. They came and laid him here in the sepulchre where we now stand, looking and beholding. That's why we're here this morning to come and pay respects and To anoint his body again. We come with Mary to see the place where he lay. But he's not here. Because he's risen. He's not here because he's risen and then all of a sudden our mind goes back and yes we remember the charges that Sent him to the cross, and we remember the cry of his love and the care that was taken. But we also bring to memorance the commitment that Jesus Christ made to us. We turn our minds back to the scriptures where he said in John chapter number 2, destroy this temple in three days. I will raise it up again. Those that were with him there thought he was talking about the uh actual temple, the building, the structure. They replied to him, it took 46 years to build this temple. And you think you're going to raise it up again? But he was talking about the temple of his body, knowing that he would die and in three days would again raise from the dead. And we remember what he said, that he was gonna raise from the dead. As you see the progression in this saw in this text of the seeth, saw, and seeth again, there's actually in the original languages the the words there they progress there's a there's a deeper meaning with each of those the first is kind of uh she came and she saw the tomb from a distance She kind of saw that something was amiss and she knew it wasn't right. And she said, oh, his body is gone. But then you know the other disciple, he comes up, but he didn't go in, right? He just came up to the sepulchre and he saw the clothes, the linens laying there. And Peter In Peter fashion, he runs right up into the tomb and like what's going on here? He walked, goes right in, and the other disciple follows him, and then the scripture says they saw And it's almost like they saw the fact that the burial clothes hadn't been cut off of the body. The burial clothes hadn't been strewn about. The scripture is careful to note that the burial clothes were laying there just as they had been wrapped around his body, still in place. But that which wrapped his head was not laying there, but and not just tossed over, but the scripture tells us it was folded. And set aside. Letting us know that his body wasn't robbed and taken and put somewhere else, but that in fact he had raised from the dead in that last see there then the scripture says that there's it's a sense of seeing and believing. You see they came to remembrance there looking in the tomb. They remember that Jesus said he was going to rise again And hey, it's it's been three days. And and Jesus' body is not here. And and he he's risen and the The joy of it came into their heart, and the thrill of it, and the belief of it came into their heart, where they realized Jesus had risen from the dead. They believed he was going to rise from the dead. That's why they set a watch by the tomb there to keep him from somebody from stealing the body. In Matthew 27, verses 63 and 64, he says Sirs, we remember that the deceiver said, well he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again. Command thee, therefore, that the sepulchre be made sure. They remembered that he had said that. And now he has done it. And just as he said, he arose from the grave on the third day. They remembered the commitment, the promise that he had made that he was going to rise. He is not here, for he is risen. We get a sight of the sepulchre, and we're reminded of these amazing and powerful truths.