Turn your Bibles to Romans chapter number one. Romans chapter number one. We have been looking at and have concluded our study on the I ams of Christ. It was very enjoyable for me as just to systematically go through those and to consider and contemplate what those statements meant as Christ declared unto us. not just what he did, but who he was, who he is. And uh I wonder if we could get those after seven weeks of looking at those and repeating them occasionally. Uh maybe we could list them off this morning. How many of you could remember uh the IMs of Christ? Somebody want to give me one or two of them? Anyone remember Brother John? I am the good shepherd, Harry. I am the resurrection and the life. There's two of them, brother the way, the truth, and the life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am the true vine. I am the light. I am the door. I am the light. I am the light. I am the alpha He does say that. That's not what we looked at, but that was one that he he is the beginning of the end, amen. That sums it all up, brother. Um I am that's one more missing. There you go. Uh I am the bread of life. And it's amazing when you think about what Christ did for us and what he was saying. when he said all those things. Well I wanted to conclude that study on the I ams of Christ with how Paul gives us some declarative statements. Some things that he had come to a conclusion in his life that were of utmost importance. He had reached a place where he was going to stand. by a principle, live upon a belief that he had, and he declared it unto the world in his day and through the power of God and the direction of the Holy Spirit. It was pinned into the scriptures, and we, these thousands of years later, get to benefit from his declarative statements about what he is fully persuaded of. We get to learn of that And as we look at these IMs of Paul this morning, it's not so that we could look at Paul and lift Paul up on a pedestal and say, wow, uh, stand in awe of what Paul did. Right. But it's that we might be motivated to find some things that are utterly true that we should be standing on. And be moved to stand on it. To declare, as Paul did, I am, and you fill in the blank. I am. What about you? So as we look at this, you ask yourself these questions and find out what it is that you would be willing to stand on for Jesus Christ. There's three of them that are given to us all together here under the first three that we'll look at in the book of Romans. You're in chapter number one. Go down to verse number 14. There's one given in fourteen, one in fifteen, and one in sixteen. He says in verse number fourteen, what's the first three words? I am debtor, both to the Greek and to the barbarian, both to the wise and to the unwise. So as much as is in me what's the next three words? I'm ready. I'm ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. And verse number sixteen starts with for what? I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation unto everyone that believeth. to the Jew first and also to the Greek. We're going to start by looking at these three. There's a couple of others that we will reference or point to as we're going through this morning. But he says, I am Debtor. I am debtor. Now we have been talking about finances. Uh we've been looking at our finances and discussing uh you know the idea of paying our bills and and not living in debt. Last Sunday night we talked about the matter of debt. and the financial debt that seems to creep up on us in today's materialistic society and uh that comes and and we we live almost uh most people today live in some measure of debt. And uh so we've talked about that and how that would not be what God wants us to do, but Paul here is not talking about a financial debt You see, he hadn't run up a bill for goods and services to the Romans that he needed to fulfill. Paul is talking about the debt that he has because of what Jesus Christ did for him. He is thinking about himself and who he was and what Christ did for him, and as he contemplated that, he was fully persuaded in his mind he said, I am a debtor. I'm a debtor because God gave his son. He thought about that. God the Father gave his son His only begotten Son. God gave His Son that He might be saved, that He might know for sure that He'd have a home in Heaven. God gave His Son. Now I know we say it, we talk about it, we say, For God's love of the world that He gave And and we say those things, but have you just stopped to think about and contemplate the idea of giving your son, your daughter, giving your child To die for somebody else. Giving that up, saying, okay, I'll be willing to give my son, Andrew. So Brother Crane could live. My son's gonna die. So that Brother Crane could live, so that Don Wilson could live, so that Harry could live. Giving your son. God gave up his son So that not, I mean think about this. He gave it up for the world that received him not. He gave up his son to a world that he knew most people would reject. I mean it'd be like me saying, I'm gonna give up my son Andrew, he's willing to die for you, Brother Crane, and Brother Crane goes, That's stupid, I don't want that You know, that's what the world's doing with the sacrifice that God gave of his son. He thinks about that and he says, man, I'm a debtor because God gave his son. Not only that did God give his son, but the son gave himself Not only did God willingly give up his son, but the Son, who was all God as well, had to submit. And and say, you know what, the Bible says that nobody took his life. He freely gave it. He gave his life for you and I. So the son gave himself. I mean I might sometimes volunteer my son to do something. You know, Joe needs some work done at his house, and I'll say, hey, my my son will come over and do that. And Andrew doesn't know anything about it. And then on Monday he finds out, hey, you're going over Joe's today. Oh, I am? Okay. You know, and so he he goes to Joe's to do whatever work needed to be done. And y at least so far he's submitted to those type of instruction and direction. Uh he's been willing to do that. You know, but I mean wouldn't be uncommon in the world today for a son to say, I ain't doing that I had plans today. But the son said, Not my will but thine be done. Abraham offered his son. Why? God provided the Lamb. Amen. In that beautiful, beautiful picture of the Lamb of God that would take away the sins of the world. God provided himself. A lamb. Yeah. So he was debtor. Do you understand that we have the truth, the hope, and the help for mankind? And that makes us debtors. We stand and hold in our hand what they need, and that makes us debtors. I mean if I was standing on the shore of a uh well let's just put it on a on the edge of a swimming pool, if I was standing on the edge of a swimming pool and I had a uh life preserver in my hand and there was somebody in the pool and they're they're drowning. They're going under. They're going under. And I just stood there and looked at them and I held the life preserver and watched them. I probably would be tried for murder. Because I did not do What is my moral duty to do? I had the means to save his life. And I disregarded it. I didn't do anything about it. And as Christians, we stand next to a world that's drowned in sin. They're going under one after another. And it is our duty, it is we stand in debt to give them the truth. To give them that which could preserve their life. The gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul was a debtor. Some might say, bless God, I pay my debts. J. Vernon McGee said, not till every man, woman, boy, and girl has heard the gospel of Jesus Christ is your debt paid. Because we're debtors. Because of what Christ did for us. That is why Paul preached the gospel without fear. And without favor to all men. He said in Ephesians 3. 8, he says, unto me, whom less than the least of all saints. Is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ? They said, I I've got to do it. That grace was given unto me, and I'm the least of all the saints. I think sometimes the problem is, is we think God got a good deal when he got us. And we feel like, man, God really he he he got it when he got me. But if we would see ourselves as Paul, as a sinner, undone, lost, and on our way to hell And realize what Jesus did and what God gave up so that we could be on our way to heaven, we would feel that measure of a debt that we owe. A debt that we could not pay. And Jesus paid it for us. Paul said he was debtor. He said to the whole world, in this verse, he says, to the Greek and to the barbarians. In that time the Greeks were those people that were educated. The Greeks were those who were uh highfalutin. They were the uppity people of of the world. They were the ones that that knew everything. They they they had and they had means and they lived on the top of society as it were, and they literally looked at the rest of society as a bar barbarians. So Paul knew by making that statement, he was including everybody. He was letting those at that time who would read this understand he was saying everybody. It would be like saying, I'm debtor to those people that are over six foot tall. And to those that are under six foot tall. That pretty much includes everybody, right? Somebody fits in there. You're either over or you're under, right? He was saying, I'm debtor to those that have heard the gospel And to those that had not. In two ways, you understand he was debtor to those that heard the gospel, to those that had gone on before, to those that had been giving the gospel He had a measure of debt unto them, and I think that you and I do as well, those that have invested in our lives. Look at Romans chapter 1, they're back at verse number 8. He says, First I thank my God through Jesus Christ for what? You all. Yeah, that's right. Thank God for y'all. He says that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. He's saying, there's some people that went before me. There's some people that were preaching the gospel that stood strong in faith and did what God wanted them to do. There's some people that had given up their life. For the truth of the Word of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I stand a debtor to those that have shared the gospel and given the gospel and made it possible that I too would know Him We know the testimony of Paul and what it is that brought him to Jesus Christ as he stood there and watched the Stephen being stoned, giving his life. Without bitterness and without anger for mankind, for those men around him. lost his life for the faith. And Paul says, those people that have gone on before, the people that have held high the banner of Christ, man, I owe it to them to keep going. I owe it to them to be faithful. I owe it to them to continue on. I have a debt to those that have gone on before. You know, why should we be carried on flowery beds of ease? Well others fought the fight through bloody seas. Why should we take this Christianity and this gospel so flippantly, so casually When those that have gone before have given all for the truths that we hold in our hands. This is part of what we've looked at in our Baptist heritage, and we're so thankful for those that have gone on before. Those that have given the ultimate sacrifice, those that have paid, but there's people even in the world today who are being Persecuted and tortured. Paul says, I owe it to them that have given all, that have gone on before, the people that made it possible for me to know the gospel. You know what? Somebody shared the gospel with you. Somebody told you about Christ. Somebody trained you and taught you. Somebody helped disciple you. Those people that have gone on before, we owe it to them to be faithful. Amen. To keep going. So Paul was saying, I I'm a debtor to those, but I'm also a debtor to those that haven't had the opportunity to hear yet. To those that haven't trusted Christ, to those that haven't heard the gospel. Somebody's got to tell them, and I have a debt. I'm a debtor. Do you feel that debt today? Do you feel that? Paul had resigned, hadn't just resigned himself to be willing to do this. He didn't just say, oh well, this is what I have to do. But he said, secondly, he said, What? I am I am ready. So he felt this debt and he knew that it needed to be paid, but he said, I'm ready. I am ready. Are you ready this morning? Are you ready? Verse number 7 or 15. He says, I'm ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. Hey, I'm going to preach. You know, going to Rome quite possibly would mean Paul would die. The people in Rome weren't necessarily waiting for him to come with anticipation and, hey, Paul's coming, all right, everybody's excited about it. Going to that place quite possibly would mean he would die. Paul said, I'm ready. He was looking forward to it with a sense of anticipation with eagerness. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm gonna go. You know, being ready starts with being ready to be saved. You're not going to be ready to take the other steps that God has for you if you're not saved. Be being ready, ready to trust Jesus Christ. He was ready to preach the gospel, but the gospel of Jesus Christ is the death, burial, and resurrection, uh the good news for mankind. And uh I can't tell you how many times I've shared the gospel with somebody and explained to them that uh, hey, uh you're a sinner. Oh, I know I'm a sinner. Yeah, definitely. They agree wholeheartedly. Yep, I'm a sinner. And I say, you know what, there's a penalty for sin according to the Word of God. There's a penalty. That penalty is that we've got to spend an eternity in a place called hell to try and pay for our sin, that it's a debt that will never be paid. There's a penalty for sin. Do you agree with the Word of God? Oh I see that. Yeah, I see that that it is a penalty for sin The good news is Jesus Christ paid that penalty for you. He came and he died on a cross. And they would say, do you see that? Do you agree with the Bible that that is true? And they would say, yeah. I see that. And all you have to do, all that Christ asks of you is that you would believe and confess with your mouth. Would you like to do that right now? And they say, I'm not. Ready. I'm not ready. What they're saying is I'm not ready to give up some sin I'm not ready to make a change in my life. I'm not ready to go to church. I want to do my I want to go out to the lake on Sundays. And if I trust Christ, I'm going to have to give those things up And I try and reinforce and say all that God is asking of you is that you would believe and trust on Him. And that's all that you need for salvation. They say, no, not today. But today is the day of salvation. You gotta be ready to trust Jesus Christ. If you're here today and you haven't made that decision, do it today. Do it today. Don't wait till it's eternally too late. Are you ready? But Paul said, I'm ready to preach the gospel. You know, some say, well, I I could do that, but Pastor Caleb, that's good for you. But I don't really know how to do that. It's all in here. Paul also said, Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Are you are you ready? You say you can get ready. You can get ready to preach the gospel by taking just a few minutes By getting a track, do you do you have any tracks? Do you have any you're invited to Hunt Valley Baptist Church Do you have any of those in your in your car or in in your Bible or whatever you happen to have with you? Uh do you have any in in your suits? Several people around feel pulling them out. That you're not ready if you don't have 'em. God may have a divine opportunity for you to share the gospel of Jesus Christ, and he was planning for you to give that person the truth. But you're not ready. All it would take is pulling a piece of paper out of your pocket, saying, Can I Give you something that tells you about Jesus. Can I invite you to Hunt Valley Baptist Church? And you've given them the gospel in printed form that they can carry home with them. The stories of people reached through a simple gospel track are innumerable. I've seen it many times in my own life. People just with a gospel track given to them. They take it home and they set it on their table. Sometimes it's not even them that gets saved. They they just were the carrier. They just carried it. They brought it home and set it there and it sat there for several months and somebody else in the house picked it up. And read it. We had a man in our church that to this day his wife and all his kids are in church, but in Lawrence, Kansas. We we had given him a uh invitation to Hunt Valley Baptist Church that had the to Heritage Baptist Church, sorry, uh that had the gospel on it. And he took it home and he put it in the top drawer of his dresser. Well about six months later, he packed up and moved. Him and his family moved. They moved to another part in town. They packed everything up and that got packed as well. Why didn't he throw it away? He told the story. He says I pulled out of my top drawer and I'm like and I put it in a box to put back in my top drawer. He said I just felt like that's like Bible. I shouldn't throw it away. Then six months later, after they moved into the new house, one day he came in and he opened his drawer and he said, I've been keeping this thing sitting here for all this time. I need to read it. And he read the truth and got saved. Over a year later and through a move, he read the truth and got saved because somebody says, Hey, can I give you an invitation to church? Him and his family came to church and God transformed their lives. And they're still serving God today. Because of a track. Are you ready? Are you ready to share the gospel? Are you ready to follow God? Do what God wants you to do? Paul was willing. He was eager. I mean it's not too picky. Not too fussy. I'm ready as long as I don't have to do this. I'm ready as long as I don't have to do that. Brother Boti. was uh out to lunch with uh brother Brian and I and he was telling us a story about how he went to visit a church and the pastor asked Moti if he would preach. And Motive was like, uh, you know, kind of apprehensive and and the guy that was with him was a preacher and and uh it was Moti's pastor from the States I think, uh, if I was following his story all the way around, but he was telling the and his pastor said, Well I'll I'll preach for him. 'Cause I know Moti that's not his thing. He's not really gonna be wanting to do that. And so th his pastor preached for him. Uh he said, Man, I'm not I'm not ready to preach. That's not what God called me to do. But what about the simple things? What about if God calls you to do something? Are you ready to follow Him to do whatever God wants you to do? To just follow the Lord. Paul was waiting with anticipation, like standing in line, waiting for his turn. I'm ready. Is it my turn, Lord? Can I go next? What do you want me to do, Lord? Most of us are like the guy that doesn't want to get called for work, you know, we're kind of like standing back hoping that they don't see us You know, like when I come in the house looking for my kids to go do a job and I'll be like, you know, Andrew and Tim, and they're in the other room and they're like May maybe he won't come in here. Maybe he won't know we're here and we'll have to go outside and work for the next five hours. You know, kind of hiding. We say, Lord, I love you. But I'm not ready to do that. I'm not ready to go do that. Let's say you were do have had a profit business Maybe some of you do. You had a profitable busin business. Things were going well. And God said, I want you to sell that business, and I want you to go be a missionary. Well Lord, that's not what I had planned. I was just I was just wanting to love you and you know be a good faithful church member at church and and that's what I wanted to do for you, Lord. I want you to go to India and help Brother Pratt reach souls for me. Say, oh Lord, that's not what I had planned. When I was growing up in Wisconsin, we lived in probably a six thousand square foot house. It was a church that we had converted into a home. It might have been bigger than that. We had a huge living room. It was the auditorium until we turned it into our living room. With 25-foot ceilings, huge chandelier balcony that overlooked it. My mom had her own sewing room. The kids had their own rooms. I mean we had we we could play tag through the house for hours because the house I mean run up the stairs to the balcony, run around the back side of the house, go down the office stairs, come around the front. I mean it was great. It was big enough that we had go-karts that we ran around in the In the basement we would drive go-karts. One time uh my brother was pushing the go-kart and uh he we were racing each other with two go-karts in the basement and he went into a laundry room and he hit the he hit the dryer right on the corner and I flew out of the go-kart. Going fast enough I flew out of the go-kart and I hit my head square on the corner of the dryer and and split it open. That's one of the reasons why I'm bald today. We had an eight-foot whirlpool in the basement, in ground jacuzzi, eight foot in diameter. We had a sauna in the basement. Big big sauna. And uh dad was pastor in the church there and uh he felt led to step down and while he was waiting, dad knew a lot about trucking The trucking industry, because for six years the church couldn't support dad. So for six years, dad drove a truck, he would leave Sunday night after church, and he would drive a truck and get back Wednesday afternoon And then he would preach Wednesday night and then work in the church through the weekend and leave Sunday night after church again. He did that for six years. So he knew a lot about the trucking industry, so he started working with the trucking industry while he was waiting on God. In a matter of six months, he owned ten semi-trucks And seventeen trailers. And had seven guys working for him. He had over three hundred thousand dollars a month going through his hands. And God said, I want you to go to El Paso and start a church. We're living in this big really Mansion. Dad was rolling in the cash. And Dad sold it all. We went to El Paso. All eight of us lived in a thirty-five foot trailer. And Dad started Victory Baptist Church in El Paso, Texas. Are you ready? Whatever God calls you to do, whatever direction God wants to send you. And you say, oh, I'm ready, Lord. Whatever it is, whatever you want. That's what Paul said. I was ready to preach the gospel. Like a fire shut up in his bones, like Jeremiah, that he had just had to do it. Paul was on his way to Rome, that affluent metropolis. Anybody there was anybody. Would have been in Rome and Paul was there. Are you ready to do it? Paul said that in 2 Timothy, I'm ready to be offered. And the time of my departure is at hand. If we get to the end of our lives and and We can with peace in our hearts say, God, I'm ready to be offered. You're only going to get there if you do what God wants you to do now You see, if you like Paul, run your race. If you finish the course that God's put you on. If you fight a good fight, these are terms that all that Paul challenges us with. But you're going to get to the end of your life and you're not going to say, I'm I'm ready, Lord, I'm ready to come and be with you. How many have reached the end of their life and said, No, I'm not ready to go It I'm not ready yet. There's some things I still want to do. Wait, Lord, I was planning to be a witness for you. I was planning to witness to my neighbor. Lord, I'm not ready. I was going to witness to my relatives. I've got some family that aren't saved yet. Lord, I need a little more time. But you can get ready now by doing what God wants you to do. Paul said, I'm ready Not only that, he said in verse number 16 there, he says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. These three things I think kind of go together. Paul realized he was a debtor, and he says, I'm a debtor So I'm ready to go and preach the gospel. I'm ready to tell the world. And he says, I am not ashamed to tell the world. I am not ashamed of it. I'm not ashamed of being a Christian. I'm not ashamed of holding high the banner of Jesus Christ. How many of you have ever been embarrassed by or embarrassed for some fanatic at a ball game? I mean some fan who is turned fanatical. He's lost all contact with reality, right? You see those guys? I mean they have no it's like they can't even uh realize what it is they're doing. They they they're such a fan. I mean you're like, oh my goodness, kids don't look. What what are they doing? Where are the fanatics for Jesus Christ? Where are the fans that love God so much that they don't care about praising him in public? Praise God This is a day that the Lord hath made. What a joy it is. And the person at the cast register asks you, How are you doing? And you say, Oh, I'm doing fine, instead of saying, Boy, I'm doing great. Isn't God good Say, oh well I can't say that. They might think I'm Yeah. I'm not ashamed, he said. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know, Paul had a reason to be ashamed. I mean, the to at least show possibly that he was. You see, because Paul, if he stood up in public, it was quite possibly going to cost him his life. He was going to be imprisoned. He had a reason to at least say, well, I'm not ashamed, but but I don't want to say anything because it might, I mean, what good am I to Christ if I get killed? So I'm not going to raise my hand. No, he he wasn't ashamed even in that circumstance There's places in the world today where many are persecuted. Yesterday as we're meeting, we're talking about the situations in India. Many people persecuted for their faith. Moti is worried about me a little bit. He's like, is Pastor safe? Is he safe when he goes with you? And Brother Bunny says, well. I imagine. Uh for the most part. Now he's been there a long time and he knows the situation. He says that we can't we can't hold any public meetings. We can't you you can't preach in any type of open air meeting because you're not you're not you're a visitor and that's not safe. There's some areas that we can't take you Because it's not safe for you there. And he he knows that, but he himself has been beaten for the faith People that serve with him over there have been beaten and imprisoned multiple times for their faith. But here in America, somebody might think I'm religious. Somebody might think that I'm judging them. Well God judge them. The Bible says that if they're not saved, that they stand in condemnation before God because they need the blood of Jesus Christ. To wash away that sin. They can't they can't get rid of it themselves. They need Jesus Christ. We are supposed to be the light of the world. We know Jesus said, I am the light of the world, and what it is, is we're the reflector. The light of Jesus Christ is supposed to shine through us to this world. We're not supposed to be ashamed of that. We're supposed to let it shine bright. We're not supposed to hide it under a bushel. We're supposed to shine to the light of the world, but many Christians live ashamed of Jesus Christ, ashamed that they know God, ashamed of the truth of the Word of God and what they know about God, and they don't share it, they don't shine. But we need to be like Paul and say, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. You see, he understood the person of the gospel. He said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus. Jesus Christ. It's the gospel, the gospel of Christ. It's not I mean we have a great church. I tell people we have a great church, best church in in Baltimore. Now I'm a little biased because I'm the pastor. I said, but our church could never take anybody to heaven. Only Jesus Christ can do that. It's not a Baptist gospel. It's the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is his gospel, and so he realized: hey, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ because of what Christ did for me. He said, I'm not ashamed of the purpose of the gospel. For it is the power of God unto what? Salvation. You know the purpose of the gospel is to see people saved. He said, I'm not ashamed of that. The purpose of the gospel is to see people saved. I'm not ashamed of that. We've got to see people say, do you know that the social gospel that many people carry today to other parts of the world, all it does is make the world a better place to go to hell from? Because the the gospel is supposed to be the salvation of souls. I mean, I think it's great. Brother Pratt has an orphanage that he works with and helps the children. But if that's all he was doing over there is feeding children and putting clothes on their backs, that orphanage is a tool and a ministry. To give the kids the gospel of salvation. And that's the focus that missionaries and we as a church need to have It's about the gospel. It's about seeing souls saved. He was not ashamed of the power of the gospel. It's the power of God. Aren't you thankful this morning for the power of the gospel? The power of the gospel has the power to make a drunk man decent. To make a thief thankful for what he's got. The power of the gospel can make a lazy man look for work. Amen The power of the gospel changes us from the inside out, and people that never thought they could change have the power to change because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he said, I'm not ashamed of that. Because of what it can do for people, how it can help them. It can put their family back together. It can make a person who's angry be agreeable. That's the power of the gospel. I'm so thankful this morning for the power that's in the gospel of Jesus Christ and how it changes us from the inside out. Let me give you a couple of the other I ams. I don't have time to really preach them this morning or give them to you with much applications, but in chapter 6, verse number 19, Paul says, I am glad. He says, For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. I am glad therefore on your behalf, but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good and simple concerning that which is evil. You want to be glad? Be obedient. Be wise unto that which is good and simple unto that which is evil. I don't have even time much time to go into it. Look at chapter eight and verse number thirty eight. What's the first four words there? Brother Pratt's like, I was wondering if you're gonna get there. He says what? He says, for I am what? What's that? Persuaded. That neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers nor things present nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. Are you this morning, are you persuaded? About God's ability? I don't mean do you in theory know or think. I'm saying are you persuaded about God's ability? God's ability to save you. God's ability to sustain you. God's ability to carry you through this next trial. God's ability to heal you if it would be His will. Are you persuaded that God can do it? Not just in theory, not just out there, but in your heart do you say, I know he can. I know he can. For with God nothing shall be impossible. Luke 1. 37, Mark 10. 27. And Jesus looking upon them said, With men it is impossible, but with God, for with God all things are possible. Matthew 19, 26, for Jesus beheld them, and he said unto them, With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. Jeremiah 32, 27, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there anything Too hard for me. Jeremiah 32, 17. Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power, and stretched out thy arm, and there is nothing Too hard for thee. Are you convinced about God's ability? Are you fully persuaded about that? Are you persuaded about your inability? Sometimes that's the problem. That's what's holding us up. We're not persuaded about our inability We think we can't do it. I can do all things through Christ, His ability. If we're going to really know God's strength, we've got to be real familiar with our weakness. Are you persuaded about your salvation? Paul said, I'm saved, I'm secure, and I've been sent. So I've got to go And preach the gospel to all. In Galatians chapter 2, verse number 20, don't turn there. You can just write it down. He said, I am crucified. Paul said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. He's saying I live because Jesus Christ lives. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I am crucified. I live. Are you do you have some things in your life that you've come to the realization of that you've got a purpose and you say, you know what, I am Are you there? What would God have you be fully persuaded of in your heart and mind this morning? Let me close Lord, we thank you for this time in Sunday school and the motivation that we get from Paul and his life, his testimony. Lord, what a challenge time and time again has his words brought to us in our Christian walk. Lord, I pray that we would Not be ashamed of the gospel that we'd be ready to give it at any time. Lord, ready to follow you and do your will in our lives. Why? Because we're debtors. Lord, we owe it a debt that we couldn't pay Lord, we thank you so much for paying that debt for us. Be with us now as we go into the morning service. May you be honored and glorified and give Brother Pratt liberty to preach. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.