We're going to conclude today the short series that I've done on the church Uh I have considered bringing a few other messages on the topic, but uh I think the items that I want to cover could be covered in another area or under a different uh uh scenario. So I'm gonna conclude today uh with uh message entitled The Future of the Church Look at 1 Thessalonians chapter number 4. Just read two verses here, verse 16 and 17. 1 Thessalonians 4, 16 and 17. He says, For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be. with the Lord. This um topic this morning we are concluding and and looking at. We we we began the study on the church. and really spent a uh a service and talked about the foundation of the church. And we of course know the foundation of the church, this entity that we call a church, uh, is Jesus Christ. He is the rock upon which the church was built. He is the foundation. We then looked at the formation of the church and talked about how it is that Christ formed the church, how he put the church together with the disciples and the ministry and the the the blessing of the Holy Spirit that he sent to empower the work of the church and and the f how he put these things together and then uh we looked uh at the formation of an individual church. How does a church start? Where where how do where does the authority come from? And How does a church like Hunt Valley Baptist Church come into existence and under God's direction and God's leadership as we saw the Apostle Paul in many places in the Word of God go and start churches? And so following those patterns that God has given us, that's how churches are started today. Well, this morning we want to conclude as we think about this idea of the future of the church. Now we also spoke last Sunday on the focus of the church. Uh and the focus of the church, what is to be that uh underlining guiding principle. What is it supposed to shape every decision of the church? Churches can get sidetracked, they can get invested in or involved in doing many things that might be good things, but The church is to be focused. And the the focus of the church is given to us in the Great Commission and it's twofold. We said it last week. The church is to be involved in do you remember? Evangelizing the lost. Evangelizing the lost and edifying the saved. So we are really, that's the focus. And everything that we do as a church needs to fit inside of those two goals in some capacity. And if it doesn't, we need to adjust. Maybe let some things go. There's some things that might be good, but they might just be weights. And you might have to let those go. As we consider this morning the future of the church, this topic this morning should come as a great encouragement to all those that name the name of Christ. As you think about that day of our coming, Lord and Savior, as you think about that time, not only is it a time that we look forward to with great anticipation, not only are we excited about that day that Jesus is going to come and we look to it and we're excited about it but it's also for all those that name the name of Christ it should be a warning for us. A reminder that that day is coming. And the time is short. We've only got a little time left to do what God wants us to do. And so we've got to fulfill God's call on our life and the purpose that He has for us. And for all those who don't know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. What I mean by that is they've never acknowledged the fact that they are personally a sinner for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Those that haven't acknowledged the fact that they're a sinner and they have no means or way to pay for them their sins themselves. They trust Jesus Christ, the gift that God gave us in his Son. They trust that gift for their salvation. Jesus came and died that he might pay our penalty. He took sin upon himself for us. And for any who don't know that for sure beyond a shadow of a doubt, for any who don't know that when they die, they're on their way to heaven because their sins have been forgiven by Almighty God. Boy, this is a cautionary message. This is this is a warning. This is saying, hey, this day is coming. You've got to be ready for it. You can stick your head in the sand and you can pretend it's not coming. You can act like it doesn't matter. You can say, oh, I don't want to think about it. Like a child whose mom has sent a message through one of their siblings. And the little brother comes up and says, Mom wants you to do the dishes. And the little brother goes, I can't hear you. And she says, Mom wants you to do the dish, I can't hear you We can plug our ears and try and say, well, I don't hear the message of God, but it doesn't change the fact that the message was sent. And the message is that God loves you. He sent his son for you. And he wants to take your sin. And beloved, he wants to wash it away. That day's coming. But this morning we want to look at this idea of the future of the church. And we look to it with excitement. We look to it with anticipation, with a little bit of joy and maybe a little bit of caution because we know it's right around the corner. But I want you to see first of all this morning the church pictured as in the Word of God, the church pictured, we see that there's there's pictures given to us of this entity, this body that we call the church. It's pictured in the Word of God, first of all, as a body. In 1 Corinthians chapter number 12, he says in verses 12 through 18, we have the description of the body of Christ. The body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also in Christ. The body of Christ. He has given us this picture. It's a type. It's a picture and it's a beautiful and powerful illustration of how the church, the body of Christ, is to function together as one body. That we are all members of one body. And he goes on and he describes the fact that, hey, uh the foot can't say, well, I'm just the foot, so I'm not part of the body No, the foot's part of the body. And he says the hand can't say, oh, I'm just the hand, so I'm not part of the body. No, the hand's part of the body. And we have this amazing picture of the church that God has given us, that the church is pictured as a body and how all of the pieces of the body function to fulfill the purpose for which God created them. And you know, he says, Hey, if if the body be just an eye, I mean can you imagine if somebody was just one eye just an eye? Just uh you have a cyclops going down the road, you know. I mean it wouldn't be very effective. You you do need the eye, but you need your hands and you need your feet and you and you need all the parts of the body working together. And he gives us this picture, each of these members, hands, feet, eyes, all of it working together to fulfill the function for which it was created. Now, if we apply that to the church, beloved, let me ask you, are you fulfilling the function for which you were created in the body of Christ? What is the function that you're supposed to be fulfilling? Do you have an area of service? Do you have something that you're accomplishing for God? Are you fulfilling that function as pictured? The Bible goes on in verse number 18 of 1 Corinthians chapter 12, and he says, But now hath God set the members, every one of them, in the body as it hath pleased him. God put the body together. He upset every one of the members. You know, it's amazing when you think about the human body for all of this world's advancements. All the computer technology we have, we can't even come close to what can be processed in a human brain. In the speed in which it can happen. All of this created, fitly joined, formed by God, put together. And God talks about how the church is put together the same way. If you're here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and you're part of this body of believers I believe God put you here. That God wants you here, that you're part of this guy. The Bible says that God put it together. And so it's pretty important when you're going to decide, oh well, I'm gonna go somewhere else. Because God put this together. And I'm not saying that God does not move and and you're here for a time and God prepares and builds you and makes you what you need to be and God might move you on to be what somebody else needs. What I'm saying is you've got to be cautious about it. It's not something that's made a a decision made carelessly or flippantly because God put the body together As we have this picture of the body, we need to understand that Christ is the head. Colossians 1. 18 says, and he is the head of the body, the church. So the head is where you get your instructions from. The head is where you get your direction from. The head is where you you you you all your decisions are made. Now I want you to know that this is his church, and Christ is the head, and the Word of God is the final rule of faith and practice, and we don't get to just decide, well, oh, we want to do this for church. You see, Christ is the head. And his church needs to be run and handled in the way that he wants it to be run and handled. Because it's his church. He is in control, or he's supposed to be. And hopefully we yield to him and allow him to be Not only is the church pictured as a body beloved, but in the Word of God it's pictured as a bride. In Ephesians chapter 5, verses 25 through 32, and I'm not going to read them all to you, but He says, husband, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. He gives us this example, the example between the relationship between a husband and wife And that love and that closeness and that sacrificial relationship that should be there. But then at the same time, he sets the example. For the church, by saying, like Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. So it it kind of goes both ways. You say, was he talking about the church or is he talking about the husbands and wives? Yes. He's talking about both, and both of them are a an example of the other when they're run correctly. A husband should love him love his wife and give himself for her. He should have that type of sacrificial love. And when that relationship is close and it's intimate and passionate and you have that kind of love in your husband and wife relationship Then you have an adequate picture of the relationship that's supposed to exist between the church and Jesus Christ. And when you don't have that kind of relationship, you can look back at the relationship between Christ and the church and say, boy, this is the example. That's the kind of relationship I'm supposed to have. We're privileged, beloved, that we have and can have that kind of relationship with Christ. He says That he may sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that it should be holy and without blemish. And then he goes back into the relationship of the husbands and wives. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth it and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church. Now he goes back to the church that this is just like Christ loves the church. He nourishes it, he cherishes it, he loves it, he sacrificed for it. God loves the church. Do you love the church? I hope so. One of the underlying desires of even preaching these messages on the church is that we might have a renewed vision of what it is that Christ has given us in this body. It's not just to take it or leave it, oh I'll catch church when I can, it's fine. If I if I'm there, I'm there, if I'm not, I'm not. But understanding the the love that Christ has for the church, we ought to love the church, but brethren. It ought to be something that we build our lives around, not that we fit into our busy lives. The church is central to our lives. And build our lives around that so that it does have that place of preeminence Christ is speaking of that close, tender relationship that exists. Not only is it pictured beloved as a bride and as a body, but in the Word of God where the church is pictured as a building. In Ephesians 2, 20 and 21, he says And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building fitly framed together. growth into holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. This building. If you think about how a building is constructed, it's fitly framed. Every piece is going together. I was just talking to somebody this last week. uh about when I was an assistant pastor in Lawrence, Kansas and we built a bunch of uh buildings there from the we developed twenty-six acres and and had a lot of work to do and you know I said it was fun Actually getting the steel delivered on the semi trucks and unloading them and and getting a crane and putting all the steel together, you know, like a huge jigsaw puzzle. I mean just these massive steel beams and and swinging in the air and and you know tying these things together. Uh I w one one time I was up with this twenty four foot uh post we were standing up and tying in to an eighty foot truss that went across to the other side and uh you know these beams the the piece that ties together are about as tall as me So this these two pieces come together and uh I had a pick, which is a steel uh beam that comes down to a point so that you can line the holes up. So you guide the new one in and you take that pick and slide the two holes together so that it lines up perfect. And I'm I'm on a ladder and the crane's bringing this thing in. And uh I I'm I'm picking this to line those things up so I can put a bolt in, get the first bolt in so this huge structure can start to be assembled, and a huge gust of wind in Kansas there comes and blows the ladder out from under me. So I'm hanging on the pick that's hanging on a truss that's not bassin' jet, it's hanging on the crane, you know And uh of course guys ran over and they grabbed this thing, but uh hey, praise God we put all that steel up and nobody got hurt. Uh well Mm nobody went to the hospital to say that. There's cer I'm sure there was some, you know, little minor injuries. But what I'm saying is all the pieces get put together. And that's what God does for the church. He builds fitly framed, he fashions and shapes and builds this thing that we call the church. And as he does this, beloved, he does it for a purpose and a plan, and it's because there's one day, there's a future for the church that we're looking forward to. And if that future is going to come, then we as a church need to be prepared. We need to be prepared. He says in 1 John chapter 3 Verses 1 through 3. He says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. What an amazing thing. I mean you just think about that. The love of Christ that allows us to be able to be called the sons of God. Now, I don't know who you like or dislike in today's world of drastic uh mm polarization that's in society. I hesitate to even throw a name out. Uh but the church here knows that I like Elon Musk not as an individual but Because he's a successful businessman and he's running all these companies and uh I like what he's doing. Now he needs Jesus Christ and he needs to get saved. But just for sake of an example, let's say somebody said to you, hey You're gonna be part of Musk family. You're gonna be remembered in his will. Cha-ching. Oh yeah, I'm all about that. Thank you very much. Yeah, hey, that's awesome. I I mean m busk I'm I'm set for life. I mean if I got one percent Of his hundred plus billion. Uh he's worth over a hundred billion dollars. Uh I I would be set for life. I could live on that. Yeah, I would like that. Well, the God of the universe, the creator of the world, gives us the opportunity to be adopted into his family. to be called the sons of God, to as many as believe on his name, to them gave he power to become The sons of God. Now, contrary to popular belief, we're not all everybody in the world is not a son of God. It's not just, oh, everybody that's born, oh, we're all child of God. No, we're all created by God. But the Bible is very clear that ye are of your son your father the devil. Because we are born with a sin nature. Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and so death by sin passed upon all men, for all have sinned. So that sin nature is passed upon all men through the blood. The only way we have that taken care of is when we become a son of God. By putting our faith and trust in Jesus Christ and He forgives us of our sin and allows us into the family of God. What an amazing thing that God loves us so much that we can become part of His family. You know we have the Alvarados down here. Anderson raise raise your hand. Wave wave okay Anderson here. He's our he's our Mexican child. Josh and where's Anna? Oh here's Anna. Yeah, you know, they're at our house as much as they're at their house. And uh they call them so they call themselves, you know, our Mexican kids You know, they're they're part of our family. Uh just to be part of the family. Say, man, that's awesome. Be part of Pastor's family. I don't know why, but they like it But man, isn't it awesome to be part of God's family? If you're not part of God's family this morning, I want you to know he w he wants you to be. He wants you to be He says there that what an amazing love bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. He says, therefore, the wor um The world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is. In verse number three he says, And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Beloved, the church needs to prepare for his coming. He's coming again. And it does not appear yet what we are, but every man that has this hope, if you have this hope inside Just like the bride who prepares for that wedding night, who desires that everything should be right, just like she's getting everything's got to be perfect for that wedding night, for the one that she loves, when they're joined together, she prepares for that. Christian, we need to prepare. Every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Do you know why many Christians aren't purifying themselves? Because they're not looking for his coming. They're not looking for his coming. That bride that knows the wedding is just a month away is running around like a chicken with her head cut off. She is like, there's no way I'm gonna get all this done. She's just crazy. She's just just going frantic. She's like, I I can't accomplish It's not all going to happen. I got this to do and this to do and this to do. And I I it's only a month left. And that urgency and that fervency is there. Why? Because the wedding day's coming Well the day when Jesus Christ breaks the eastern sky and we're caught up together to meet him in the air is just around the corner. Are you ready? Are you ready? Is there any fervency in your preparation for the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords when he comes for you? There ought to be some desire, some fervency, but today there is no expectation, there's no anticipation, there's no realization, there's no confident hope that God is coming for you. And so we carelessly live our days without any preparation. There was a little girl that was riding in her car with her mom and the radio was on and the radio was playing and the evangelist was preaching away and he says Jesus could come at any moment Jesus could come today. They got home and went in the house, and this little girl went upstairs and put her Sunday vest on and came down to the living room and she was standing in the living room looking out the window Her mom came through the living room a few minutes later and and and said, Honey, what what are you doing in your Sunday dress? She says, I'm looking for Jesus. Are you looking for Jesus? If we were really looking for him to break that eastern sky, we'd be preparing. We would be getting our Sunday best on. We would be doing what he calls us to do because we've only got a little time. We wouldn't be afraid of his coming. When I was about four years old, my mom and dad Uh got my sister's here today, so uh gotta be careful what I say. Uh my mom and dad got a bunch of new furniture Which is very unusual for our home. You know, we we had the the goodwill, the hand me down, the you know, we don't want this anymore, do you want it Uh sure, that's usually what we had around our house, but mom and dad got a bunch of brand spanking new beautiful furniture, and one of them was a really big, beautiful wooden dining room table set With real nice high back chairs, you know, beautiful set. Well that table was so shiny, so smooth, that I could lay on it and grab the sides and pull myself and I could slide from one side to the other. Hey, I'm just polishing the table. Okay? Oh, that was so much fun, you know, just sliding across the table. But one day my mom and dad were out visiting somebody, they were gone, I don't know where they were, but they were gone, and I got on the table And I laid down and I grabbed both sides and stretched out extra extra far. I mean just to give it all I got. I was gonna launch off the other end like Superman, you know. And I grabbed both sides and I stretched out and I pulled as hard as I could. And I only went about two feet. Something hung up. And I looked down and my belt buckle This hook right here dug into the top of that table and put a deep gouge about 15 inches long in mom's brand new table. Now if I was ever looking for the rapture, it was about right then. I was hoping mom and dad would never come home. That would be preferable to what was going to happen when they came home and saw what I did to their table. I mean, I was afraid of them coming through that door because I did not want mom and dad to see how I destroyed their table. Christian, there's a lot of us that are afraid of his coming because we don't want our Heavenly Father to see The destruction that we have done to the new life that He's given us. We have a new life in Jesus Christ, and it's a glorious life. And we're destroying it. And therefore we're not excited about his coming. Matter of fact, we're hoping he doesn't come. Now beloved there's nothing I could do about that table. I mean some old English wasn't gonna fix it. But do you know what? If you've made a mess of your life, there is something that you can do about it. Because if you confess your sin, he is faithful and just to forgive you over sin and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Cleanse you. You know in the Old Testament the sacrificial system covered the sin. But the blood of Jesus Christ washes away your sin. Has your heart been cleansed by the blood of the lamb? Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing power? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Are you fully trusting in his graces or are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Yeah. Are you washed? I hope you've been washed this morning. It doesn't just cover the sin, it washes it away. It makes it justified just as if I had never sinned. We need to prepare for his coming. And you do it by coming to him and getting forgiveness for all your sin. God sent his son. And he shed his blood for you and I. Are you excited about his return this morning? Or maybe you're a little apprehensive like I was about my mom and dad coming back. You don't have to be apprehensive. Get it washed and you can be looking for his coming with anticipation. Like the psalmist David, he said, Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. Let me just say, beloved, if you're gonna have a pure heart, you gotta have pure hands. There's nobody that has a pure heart that has filthy hands. They're tied. And there's no changing that. He says, Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. The only way to get a pure heart is to have pure hands. You gotta if we're gonna prepare for his coming, we've gotta start cleaning up our hands. Oh be careful little hands what you do. Oh be careful little hands what you do. For your father up above is looking down in love. Oh be careful little hands and what you do You're never going to have a pure heart unless you have clean hands. Why do we live a clean holy life? Not for salvation, not to earn our salvation. No. Not to earn our way to heaven, but to show our love and appreciation for the one who paid our way. The one who paid our debt for us. Lastly, this morning we see that the church is presented. We need to be ready. Ready. We don't know the day or the hour. We don't know when the Eastern Sky is going to break, when he's going to come, but we're going to, as a church, we're going to be presented. Like the bride is presented on that day to her groom and that glorious image as the back doors are opened and the bride appears and That man almost is weak in the knees and almost can't stand in anticipation of that great union together in their holy matrimony. Well, we are going to be presented to Christ one day as a church. We have that blessed hope and that glorious appearing that we look towards, the rapture of the church. It's going to happen in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. The Bible talks about how there'll be one man there in the field ploughing and then he's going to be gone. In this world, every news agency out there is going to try and explain it away Even though churches have been preaching this for two thousand plus years, the Bible says that they'll believe a lie, and there'll be some lie that is propagated that explains why all of the churches are empty. But it's those that were ready were taken up together to meet him in the clouds. Jesus Christ gave us the pattern. First Corinthians fifteen twenty-three says that he's the first fruits. A first fruit is that pattern. If you think about, if you have a fruit tree in your yard, you see some blossoms come and on that fruit tree comes a pear. You know what? You can be sure that every other blossom on that tree is gonna produce a pear. You're not you're not going to have a uh an orange show up. It's not gonna happen on that tree. Every other blossom, it's it's the first fruits. It is the example of what's to come after And Jesus Christ, by defeating death in the grave and rising from the dead for you and I, he has become the first fruits for us. He is set the example for us and by his power of resurrection we one day too will be resurrected. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. That's the future of the church. We look forward to it, beloved, because it's a day of reward. Yeah. It's the day of reward. You know, this hoping is is not a kind of just like a hoping like, oh well, I hope so. It's a confident expectation. It's it's a a promise. It's a realize that you know what's going to happen. And you're you're you're hoping because you gotta wait. You're looking because you're you're waiting, you're anticipating that great day. So there's hope for when the day's gonna come, but that hope is not a a a a uh just kind of like well I I hope I get chicken nuggets for lunch. I mean it's it's not a careless hope. It's it's not a casual hope. It's something that's real and powerful and based in the promise of God. It's rooted in the surety that He will come one day. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Fanny Crosby who wrote over 8,000 gospel hymns, many of those we still sing today. She was asked, beloved, if she could get her sight back, would she want it? She said no no not not here on earth because I want the first face that I see She was looking for that day. She was hoping for that day With that statement, it brings a whole new meaning to the words that she pinned, when my life's work is ended, and I cross the swelling tide, and the glory of his resurrection see. I shall know my Redeemer over on the other side, and his smile will be the first to welcome me. The first smile she ever saw, the smile of her Savior, when we're called to the other side I shall know him, I shall know him, and redeemed by his side I will stand. I shall know him, I shall know him by the print of the nails in his hand. Beloved, the future of the church is we're going to be caught up together, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. We look forward to that day. But until then, we've got time to prepare and to do that for which we were created. The hand has a job to do. You see my ring finger here? You probably can't see it's it's like got a goofy bump in it. I don't have my ring on for the first time in 25 years. because I did something to it. It's not functioning correctly. It hurts when I bend it. It's going on three weeks now that I'm having issues with this it's one little member. It's just a small part Well just cut it off. It's just a little thing, right? It's not that big a deal. Well yeah, it's a big deal. Every member matters. And every member of the body matters. Every member has a purpose, something that they need to be fulfilling until Christ comes again, until he calls us home. We've got to be prepared and ready for that day. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you haven't experienced the forgiveness of your sins by putting your faith and trust in Him. I want you to know that God wants you to do that this morning.