You know, I looking at some of the different ladies in the scriptures and studying about their their character traits and their qualities and just looking for direction for the Mother's Day message. And uh God didn't give me liberty to speak on this, but we're going to tonight. I've titled the message The Ethics of Esther. The Ethics of Esther. Follow along with me as we read the first ten verses. Uh uh we're gonna have to look at several chapters to to see the different characteristics of Esther's life, but um you know at least we'll we'll get the beginning part of the story here and I think this is a familiar story to to most uh about what has happened in this test text but look at Esther chapter two Beginning in verse number one, we'll read from verse number one down through verse number ten. He says, after these things. Now of course That tells us that something happened before, right, after these things. And if you know the story, we're not going to read it, but in chapter number one you know how uh King Ahashawaris uh wanted his bride or his wife, Vashtai, to come and you know to parade and dance before the his drunken coharts and they were having this big party and and she said no. and uh wasn't going to allow herself to be put on display like that. And uh the king put her away uh and uh divorced her and uh separated from her and at the direction of these men that were there, they they they were kind of part of the choice to do that. And then the king was kind of discouraged here. We see after these things, when the wrath of the king Ahasuerus was appeased He remembered Vassi, and what she had done, and what was decreed against her. Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, Let there be fair young virgins sought for the king And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather together all the fair young virgins under Shushan the palace, to the house of the women unto the custody of Hage, the king's chamberlain, keeper of the women, and let their things for purification be given them, and let the maiden which pleaseth the king be queen instead of Bastae And the thing pleased the king. And he did so. Now in Shusham, the palace, there was a certain Jew whose name was Mordecai. the son of Jar, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite, who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captivity which had been carried away. with Jehoiakim, king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, had carried away. And he brought up Hadassah. That is Esther. You know Hadassah is her uh Hebrew name. Hadassah means myrtle. I don't know if you have a study Bible and that's already noted, but if not, you might want to just circle Hadassah and write out there Myrtle, like like the tree. And that was a very precious tree. It had a sweet smell to it, uh, was considered to be very beautiful. And uh so that's why she was called Hadassah. And then Esther is her Persian name that was given to her, and Esther means star. Uh quite possibly believed to be because there was a star that The Persian people worshipped and was a star that brought beauty or acknowledged beauty and this star of beauty that that they worshipped, and so she was named Esther after this star. Now, and they brought up Hadassah, that is Esther, his uncle's daughter, for she had neither father nor mother And the maid was fair and beautiful, whom Mordecai, when her father and mother were dead, took for his own daughter. So it came to pass When the king's commandment and his decree was heard, and when many maidens were gathered together unto Shushan the palace, to the custody of Hagee, that Esther was brought also unto the king's house, to the custody of Hagee, keeper of the women And the maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness of him, and she and he speedily gave her her things for purification, which such things as belong to her, and seven maidens, which were meant to be given her out of the king's house And he preferred her and her maidens unto the best place of the house of the women. Esther had not shown her people nor her kindred, for Made Mordecai had charged her that she should not show it. So we're going to look tonight at this to what I've titled the ethics of Esther. The fact is that the very moral fabric of a society is not shaped by the politicians. Although they have a influence on it, the they are not the ones that determine the direction of a society. The moral fabric of society, although it is greatly impacted by its entertainers, it is not established or made by the entertainers. The moral fabric of a society is shaped by the ethics of the individual. Each individual that makes up that society. One's ethics will establish for them a framework from which all decisions in their life will be made. From their personal behavior to their professional practices, everything you do will be filtered through your established code of ethics. What you feel is right, what you feel is acceptable or wrong. That's why it's vitally important that individuals and people have a unchanging rule book. That's why it is critical that people have a foundation from which to establish their ethics. What is it that they believe to be right and what is it they believe to be wrong? Otherwise, it's just opinion And one might think it's acceptable to steal from your boss. After all, he doesn't pay you enough anyway. Well, you might feel that way, but if you have ethics based on the Word of God, you understand that uh stealing's wrong. And there is no justification for it. So you have that foundation of ethics that guide you and filter all the decisions you make. So tonight I want to consider and think about the code of ethics that this young orphan girl, Esther, had somehow established in her life that helped her make the decisions that she had to make In a very challenging situation. Very hard thing that she was going through. Yet we learn many things about her. You know that this book, Esther, is one of the post-exile books. Tightly, there's seven post-exile books, but the three that are the closest is Ezra, Esther, and Nehemiah. You know that there was three deportations or groups of people that went back to the Promised Land. You know under Nebuchadnezzar that they went into captivity. After the time of their captivity had ended, they had been allowed to go home. The first group went back under Zerebbabel. Zerebbabel took a group of about 40,000, I believe it was, uh back to the homeland back to Jerusalem. And that take place takes place in Ezra chapter one through Ezra chapter six, I believe. And then in Ezra chapter 7 through the end of Ezra, which is chapter 10, I believe, you you have the second group that goes back, and they go back under Ezra. And this is a much smaller group, but Ezra takes back the priest and establishes back the practice of worshiping and following God and opening the temple and those things Then you have Nehemiah, the third group that brings them back. Well, uh Esther takes place, the story of Esther takes place in the 60 years. Between chapter 7, chapter 6 and chapter 7, you have 60 years from the first deportation or group that went back to the second group that went back And there's a group, there's a space of time there of about 60 years between those two, and that's when the story of Esther takes place. Now, obviously you understand that story doesn't take place in Jerusalem. Where the stories in Ezra and Nehemiah take place. Those are in the promised land, those are in Jerusalem. This is, you know, the walls being built back up and all that. Esther takes place back in the land of captivity. With that group that were still under foreign rule and under foreign power. And it kind of gives you a snapshot of what's happening back there. Now, an interesting fact Esther is the most mentioned woman in all of the Bible. Her name is mentioned 55 times. There's no other lady that is mentioned that many times in the scripture Another interesting fact is that the name of God does not appear in the book of Esther. There's another book in the Bible that the name of God doesn't appear in. Does anybody know what book that is? It's I know I'm putting you on the spot. It's the book of Song of Solomon, uh, where uh God's name is not mentioned. Lockyer said this: On the surface, this book seems to be destitute of any spiritual teaching. Yet to the eye of faith, it is a burning bush. What he's saying is the book's on fire. It is full of principles that can be learned and gleaned, things that God would want us to take away from it. Oh, I know on the surface there's no direct commands. On the surface, you don't see God speaking specifically, but there's much that we can learn from it and glean from it to the spiritually minded individual. So we want to look tonight and see some things about Esther Esther that we can apply to our lives. And hopefully learn from. First of all, I want you to see that Esther was favored. She was favored, a favored individual. In uh Esther chapter two there in verse number fifteen, he says, now when the turn of Esther, that is, it's her time, it's her turn to come, the daughter of Abbahil, the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her for his daughter, was come to go unto the king She required nothing but what Hage, the King's Chamberlain, had the keeper of the women appointed. And Esther obtained, what does it say? Favor. Esther obtained favor. Down in verse number 17, it says, And the king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtained grace and favor in his sight. Esther did something. She held herself in such a way. She lived her life in such a way that she gained favor. And favor is a good thing. Favor is something that we should try and gain. Favor is something that we should want to have. Proverbs 22, verse number 1 says, a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold. So we ought to desire to have favor, that we ought to desire to be favorable or for people to look on us favorably. So the question is, what did she do to be favorable? And there's things in the text I imagine we could look at specifically, but because the word favor is mentioned so many times in the book of Proverbs, I just figured out grab a few of these from Proverbs and uh imagine some of these things were part of her life. But if we're going to gain favor, what's what's some things that we see? The Bible says that let not mercy and truth forsake thee, bind them about thy neck, write them upon the table of thine heart, so shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and men You'll find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and men. If you have a balance of mercy and truth in your life. And we we taught on this specifically having balance between those two, mercy and truth. If you're a person that lives a hundred percent on the side of truth and and bless God, there there is never any mercy, it's it's this or nothing and we're gonna we're gonna just cut your head off if you cross this line, there's no mercy in there. Listen, you're not gonna have much favor. It doesn't make sense because uh in our own mind we think, well, if we live over here and we're just all mercy, And we just love everybody and everybody can get away with anything and and and listen you guys do what you want because because after all we have mercy. You would think you would have lots of favor, but it's not true. You you end up with with people hating you. Yeah. This is right, you end up. But i it's it's the opposite. And you've seen that many times in the home with kids that are being raised in a situation like that. You think, oh, their parent d their kids are going to love them so much because they live and it's all mercy. But that's not the case, is it? No, it's not. You have to have a balance of mercy and truth, and that's why we need the Holy Spirit and and God's help to to have that balance. You need to seek to understand. Proverbs 13, 5 says, good understanding giveth favor, but the way of the transgressor is hard. Good understanding give us favor. You know, I can imagine that Esther did all that she could do to understand what her role was. Now, if you read the text there, you'll see that she went for a year. Twelve months in what they called the time of her purification. This this time of cleansing, this time of I think it was twelve months of training, and here's what is you know proper etiquette in the palace. Here's what you're supposed to do. You can walk before the king. Somewhere she learned that if you go before the king on beckons, you're going to die. Okay, somewhere she learned that because she Tells us that in chapter four. So I think that that time was a time where she's being trained and taught of all the things that she's supposed to do. And I think she worked at it. She worked to have an understanding of those things. And she gained favor because of it. Do you know that Esther was not here? I I mean I don't believe that she was here willingly. You see there, I think it was in verse 2 or 3 where they said the advisors of the king said, hey, choose you some men and have them go gather. The f the the virgins of the land. I don't think it was a beauty contest. Hey if you want to be in the King's Beauty contest, come come. I don't think that's what it was. I think they went around and they said, You are going with me You were going with me. Sorry, we don't need you. I think that's what they did. They just went and chose the fair maidens. And I think you understand what I'm saying is Esther was not there of her own free will. She was not in a position to be happy about what she was going through. She certainly had plenty to be disgruntled about or discouraged about or angry about Yet in that situation, she still did what she could do to understand her job, whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might Whatsoever we do, do it as unto the Lord. I think those principles were coming through in Esther's life, and that gave her favor. She seeks to understand. Seek to do good. Proverbs 11, 27 says, He that diligently seeketh good procureth favor. But he that seeketh mischief It shall come to him. That's Bible. He that diligently seeketh good procureth favor. Kids, you want favor? Diligently seek to do good. You want favor with your teachers at at school? Diligently work in class. You say, well, they're just a class pet. You know why they're the class pet? Because they're working in that class. And the teacher likes them. Because they're not a brat. Okay. Because they are listening. Because they they're not perfect They don't know everything. They they missed some questions on the test, maybe, but they're diligently seeking to do good. They're trying to do good. The problem is, is most kids want to seek mischief and then they're shocked. When mischief is what they get, they want favor, even though they've been seeking mischief. But that's not the way it works. Now you gotta seek to do good. Now there's a there's a favor is good. Favor is something we should have, and I could I'm gonna confess to you tonight. that I had a bad attitude, I had a wrong concept of this when I was in Bible college. You see, when I was in Bible college, um I just would not do anything on purpose to please the staff. I just wasn't going to do it just because there was this It seemed like, well, you could do these things and it would make the staff happy. Well, I ain't gonna do it just to make them happy. One example is that happened to me more than once is there was trash on the ground and I would often if I saw trash I would pick it up. But if there was a staff member that could have seen me pick it up I wouldn't pick it up. I I'd walk right by it. I'm not gonna pick it up just so he sees me pick it up. Now that's just pride. And on one hand you say, well, I'm not picking it up because I don't want to be praised by men or what it it's pride. And I didn't want to gain favor just because I did that, so I would go the other direction. Yeah. That's a bad attitude, kids. You can justify it and look at it however you want. You can spiritualize it and say, Oh, I just didn't want to be seen and praised of men. But the difference is what's in your heart. Am I picking it up like would I walk by it ten times? But then if there was a staff member, oh, let me get that. Did di did you guys oh, did you see this? Yeah, I picked it up for you. You know. That's the difference. You're not wanting to pick it up just to be praised. You pick it up regardless. You do good and you'll gain favor. I tell my kids this all the time. You want to be trusted, get caught doing good. Right. Get caught doing good. Anybody's gonna do good when mom and dad say, take that and put it right there and I'm standing here watching. Okay, you did it, yes. You had no other option. But when you get caught doing good is where that trust is built. When when you seek to do good, you get favor. And that means you have to seek to do good all the time. You can't just do it when people are watching. You have to seek to do good. So she was favored. Diligently seek to do good in your life, and you'll have favor. Not only was she favored, but she followed instruction. Look in verse number ten. We say, Esther had not shown her people, nor her kindred, for Mordecai had charged her that she should not show it. Mordecai said, hey, don't tell them yet who you are. Don't let them know this is probably not going to be good. So you you should keep this to yourself. In verse number 20, we see Esther had not yet showed her kindred nor her people as Mordecai had charged her, for Esther did the commandment Of Mordecai. Now look at that last phrase. Like as when she was brought up with him. So as she was growing up, young people, she learned to follow instruction. She learned, can we put it into Simple terms, she obeyed. She obeyed. She followed instructions. She did what she was told to do. Now I understand, beloved, that nobody likes being told what to do. It doesn't get any easier the older you get. Nobody likes being bossed around. Nobody likes being given instruction. But we've got to be willing to and ready to follow instruction. And you'll find favor. You'll be blessed. This is what she had as part of her life is a is a guiding her, a principle that she just was going to follow instructions Those most familiar verses in Esther chapter 4 verses 13 through 14 where in verse number 14 that phrase where he says, Who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? We have the exchange there between Esther and Mordecai, and you remember uh Mordecai was outside the kingdom or outside the gates. because he had sackcloth and ashes and nobody was allowed to come inside the gates of the king kingdom with uh sackcloth and ashes on. And so a servant went out and talked to her and they communicated back and forth and of course Esther said, What's wrong? And they sh He communicated to her and said, Hey, there's a decree gone forth. All of your people are going to be killed. And Mordecai says to her, You need to go talk to the king. And she replies back, I can't do that because anybody who goes before the king, he could not raise the scepter and they're going to be killed. And Mordecai responds to her, and then Mordecai commanded to answer, Esther, think not with thyself that thou shalt escape in the king's house more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. And who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? So he commanded her. He commanded her. Now there's a push today, a push to question and disregard all authority. It's it's mind-boggling today how much people uh are trying to disregard authority. They don't want to recognize it, they don't want to obey it. It's amazing to me that there's all these these videos on YouTube about people that think they're right. And so they're recording it and they're posting it on YouTube on how they're being defiant against the police. They're just the the police are trying to give them and the police are being respectful. The peace the police are being kind. They are the authority and people are being obstinate. and rude and disrespectful and they wonder why there's problems. You will not have a problem with the police if you're respectful and responsive. As a matter of fact, it'll probably be such a treat to have somebody respond with respect, he'll say to you, hey. Thank you. Have a good day. Yeah. You you uh uh I mean listen, if I had more like you, listen I you're you're You go right ahead. Drive as fast as you want or whatever. I'm just saying you you they've got such a hard job to balance and to deal with keeping the law and and upholding the law and trying to to keep people that are breaking the law from breaking the law, they don't need law-abiding citizens giving them a hard time. We've got to be respectful to authority. You know, just it wasn't long after we were married. Mary and I were driving in Michigan. And I got pulled over by a police officer. I don't remember what I got pulled over for. Do you do you remember? I got pulled over by a police officer. I don't think he actually had a reason to pull me over. He just saw my hot wife in the car And and and wanted let me finish the story Okay, he pulled me over. Listen, I put my window down and he didn't come to my window. He went to my wife's window. Now we weren't I pulled all the way off. I was in a rest stop. We weren't on the highway. He wasn't avoiding traffic. He went to my wife's window. She, of course, rolled her window down, and he was talking to her like I wasn't even there. He was literally saying things that were inappropriate to my wife. He put his arm inside the vehicle on my wife's arm and was saying, Is everything okay, ma'am? I don't remember exactly what he said, but he was hitting on my wife and I was furious. I mean I wanted to get out of the car. I wanted to confront him right there. I was I was just steaming mad. You know what would have happened if I'd have got out of the car? At at best I would have been arrested for assaulting an officer. At worst I would have got tased or shot That was not the thing that but you know what I did? I went immediately to his precinct and I spoke to his superior officer. And filed a report and said that this officer behaved himself in a way inappropriately with my wife Now when I left the police station to be honest, I didn't feel like I had my pound of flesh. I was not that happy. I was still steaming mad. I was still frustrated, but Listen, the time, if something happens there, maybe you were pulled over and you weren't speeding. But the time to deal with that is not with an officer on the street. You be respectful, you you you be obedient, you follow instructions, and we have a course through which you can deal with that in our courts. And yes, it's going to take time, but one of the reasons that we fought the court case we did for so long, and I praise God, we're still living in a country that we can at least address injustice. And the reason we fought that court's case was a matter of principle, that what they had done was wrong. And they had made a politically expedient decision instead of with the law. And I was glad that we were able to address it. And that's how you handle things. Kids, the time to talk to your parents about an injustice, which has happened even in our home. Sometimes I'll come in and I will clean house. That means We have a we have a come to Jesus meeting. And uh then later my wife will tell me. Um Did you know that this and this and this and this? And that's why this happened. And I have to go, no, I didn't know that. And then I have to decide, okay, what do I do now? I'm sure they got away with one or two things. No what I'm saying, people, kids, and and there's been times that I've had to apologize to my kids more than once. That I misread a situation and handled it incorrectly. And yes, they have got away with a lot, for sure, but that doesn't make what I two wrongs don't make a right. We tell them that. We can't have the double standard for us. So I've had to apologize. But what I'm saying is is the time to deal with something with your parents is not in the moment. If there is a perceived injustice, if there's something happens in your home and you don't like how it's going, you need to be respectful, follow instructions, and then later you come back and you say, Dad, can I talk to you? Respectfully say you know, here's here is what happened and this is how I viewed this. Can you help me understand how you saw it? And when you come with that spirit, your dad will talk to you about it. So she learned to follow instructions. I want you to see also that she was fulfilled. She was fulfilled. Look at verse number 15. We read this verse already, but we see here that it was her turn When she was to go before the king, he says there in the middle of the verse that when she had to take for her who, sorry, who had taken her for his daughter, who came to go into the king She required nothing. She required nothing. If you back up to verse number 13, when they were getting ready to go into the king, that verse describes that they said, listen, you're going to go into the king. You can have anything you want. You can take anything you want, you can have everything. And I can imagine these girls, just because, you know, they're girls, uh, they said, hey You can have anything you want. I can imagine some of these girls are like, oh I'll take three or four of these dresses and uh let me oh all these necklaces and and all this jewelry, yeah, take all this and Oh look at let me have this these perfume bottles and let me have this makeup stuff here and oh let me have this oh I need a carriage to carry all this and uh you know just just looking for anything they could get But Esther, she said, I don't need anything. I'm happy. She said, She required nothing but what Hage the King's Chamberlain, the keeper of the women, appointed. She said, whatever you think I need, whatever, I'm happy. I'm okay. She was fulfilled. She what what that is is she was content. With what God had given her. She was content with where she was. She was satisfied and didn't need to be have much to keep herself happy. And let me ask you, if you're at work and every time your boss sees you, you have a problem with something Every time he comes and talks to you, things are not happy at work. Things aren't aren't the the conditions are too poor. The pay is not enough. The hours are too long. There's always something where you're not happy. You're not content. There's something at work where you've got this problem, and it it's like no matter what the job does for you, you can't be satisfied. And then you have somebody else there at that job, and they're just Thrilled to have a job. They're just thrilled to be working. They're just thankful to get a paycheck. You ask y you tell me who is the boss going to want to be around. Who is the boss going to keep when it comes time to lay somebody off? The one who's satisfied, who's content, who's thankful for the job, or the one who is never happy. This thing of contentment for us, beloved, is very important. It's very important. We are spoiled in this country. And it seems like the more we have, the more we want. The less satisfied we are. We got kids that have more toys than a Kmart toy aisle. And they're sitting on the couch saying, There's nothing to do in this house. And you got kids in other countries that are just have have a have a stick and a and a ball that they made out of plastic bags from the trash in the street and they're out there playing ball. This thing of contentment, she was fulfilled. She was content with what God had done and where God had put her and with what God had. For her. We need to be content. I praise God that Mary is not high maintenance. Because I couldn't handle it. She is I I am I'm blessed beyond measure. that uh she is she's happy. Today I cooked some hamburgers for lunch, grilled them on the grill. We were gonna eat leftovers, but Katie came over, so we had to make food So I grilled some hamburgers anyways, got done and and you know, Mary isn't in our typical fashions like, you know, uh uh Hun, thank you so much for cooking cooking hamburgers. And uh anyways what I'm saying is she's just very content, very happy, and and I'm very blessed. There there are some ladies, it's like it doesn't matter how much is done for them. They ain't happy. It doesn't matter how beautiful things are, it's not good enough. What we gotta start looking at is what we've got, not what we don't have. Can I give you an illustration from a number of years ago? See, we we haven't done anything for our twenty-fifth anniversary yet, but I'm gonna tax your memory here. Do you remember what we did for our fifteenth anniversary? Anybody remember? We went up to Niagara Falls. Remember we had that trip up there and we went and we stayed in a hotel up in Niagara Falls and and it was a big thing I planned. And s surprised her and she didn't know what was happening and all that. Well, we went to Niagara Falls and and we stayed in a hotel. And if you've ever been to Niagara Falls, you know that that area is really old. Everything is old. All the buildings are old. We stayed in a hotel that had online it had a five-star rating. This hotel was old. It was nasty. Not only that, they put us in a smoking room. And when I went and tried to get into a different room, they um Said it was it was spring break weekend or something and there was no other room available. So we couldn't get it. So we stayed two days in what is really a relatively dirty hotel. And not pleasant at all. On top of that, in a smoking room, we both had laryngitis when we got when we left. But do you know what? In two and a half days. She didn't say one thing about our accommodations. She was just excited to be out there, to be together, to be to to spend Now I was more worried about it because I wanted it to be special, I wanted it to be nice. This was supposed to be And it was supposed to be facing the water and it wasn't facing it was on the wrong side of the hotel. I mean it's just one thing after the next. They messed up. But she never said anything about it And I praise God for that. But she sets an example for me to be more content. To look at all of what God has given me. We see this character in Esther how she was in a hard situation. She was in a place where things were difficult and and she didn't want to be there. Yet she was pleased. She was she was fulfilled. I'm gonna try and wrap it up here, but I want you to see that also uh she fasted and prayed in chapter four, verses fifteen and sixteen. Then Esther bade them return Mordecai this answer, Go gather together all of the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye for me. And neither eat nor drink three days, night or day, I also and my maidens will fast likewise, and so will I go in unto the king which is not according to the law And if I perish, I perish. So she fasted and prayed. When she had a problem, what did she use to get guidance? What did she use to determine what to do? How what was her code of ethics that helped determine her course of action? She fasted and prayed. That would do us good to fast and pray. And lastly, we see according to this verse that she was fearless. She was fearless. She said, and if I perish, I perish. And I don't think that she didn't have any fear. She obviously addressed that with more chaos. She said, hey If I go to a king, he doesn't raise a scepter, I'm I'm dead. But she knew what she needed to do. And she had courage to go do it. Beloved, it takes courage to serve God. It takes courage to to get out there and and be a witness for Him. It takes courage to to be a testimony at work. You know. I I think it was I hope Mary doesn't mind me telling on her but uh Mary at work and I'm talking about Mary Prinzel now, not my wife. Uh Mary Prinzel at work, uh she was telling me that some years ago she was at w work and these people in her office put up all these pictures, uh lewd crude pictures. So she put Bible verses all around her cubicle, you know? Scripture. And uh then the boss came in and said, You have to take that down. She's like, What? Take the scripture down, but this is okay? And so they all had to take everything down, which is okay. But but just being it that takes courage to be a witness. It takes courage to stand for God. You know, it seems kinda goofy that it would take courage to pass out John and Romans. But you I I You have to be weird if you like walking up to strangers. I mean it's just that's not normal. It's not normal to want to walk up to strangers. And and about anything. I mean I wouldn't want to be selling true green. I mean that I could not be a salesman. I would not want to go up to doors and try and sell stuff. I couldn't do it. But for God, I'll be a witness. I'll go up to the door. It takes courage to be a witness. And as Christians, when we decide on how we're going to live and what we're going to do, I hope we have courage. That we do what God wants us to do and we stand fearless when in God's strength. We don't want to be like the guy that I heard about who was bragging. He was bragging about how he cut the tail of a lion off with his pocket knife. He was bragging about telling his friends, yeah, I cut this tail out with this talking knife. One of his friends says, You got the tail, why don't you take the head? He said, somebody else has already done that Sometimes we have courage when it's not really critical. But we need courage from God to do what's right in every situation. This is some of the things that I see about Esther that that shaped her life and I hope young young and old alike that we'll work to put these things into our life.