We are in the book of Ruth and uh been been studying the book of Ruth. It's been such a fun uh study for me. I don't know that I've ever uh really studied it out. There's certain things that I was aware of before I even started, the Kinsman Redeemer and the idea of the handfuls on purpose and you know some of these thoughts, uh the gleaning and where you where are you gleaning, you know, some of these things are, you know, natural lessons that we learn from the text, but really to dig into it has been very instructional for me. We picked up in chapter number three and we got to see that uh because the the transition there with Naomi and with Ruth and beginning to have hope and look towards the future Uh Naomi develops a plan and lays out a pattern and says, hey, here's what you need to do in order to uh secure for us our future. And uh you know Ruth uh gives a promise and says, I'm gonna I'm gonna do it. She she says, I'll I'll do it. I'm gonna do exactly what you said. And she has a diligent performance. She goes and does exactly as was laid out. She performs exactly what was said and uh then there was a direct proposal and last week we heard that proposal and kind of talked about that idea of her uh asking that the blanket or the uh uh what was the word in the scriptures there. It really was a proposal. It was a request to be married and to be together. And so very direct and you know really laying out there saying what her desire is. We saw that and that's where we left off last week really with her uh kind of eagerly anticipating. I can imagine, you know, kind of just nervous She had really given it, laid it all out there. She had put her heart out there. She had said, This is what I'm here for. This is what I desire. And I'm sure she was looking for a response, and that's where we are right now. We pick up today with the with a delightful phrase in verse number 10. Ruth chapter 3 and verse number 10. And he said, Blessed be thou. He praises her. He says, Blessed be thou of the Lord, my daughter, for thou hast showed more kindness In the latter end, then at the beginning, inasmuch as thou followest not young men, whether poor or rich We spoke to you last week a little bit and talked to you about how tradition tells us that very likely Boaz was probably around 80 years old. Ruth was probably around forty years old, and so quite a age difference there. But he opens with praising her with some compliments. He I want you to know this is not false flattery, but honest praise, what he really had recognized in her, this kindness of her heart. If you read the text you remember how uh several times they noticed how she took care of Naomi, how she was putting forth this effort to care for Naomi, her mother-in-law, in this foreign land, and and uh Boaz recognizes and he sees that care and he sees here her commitment to Pursue this, maybe even in an uncomfortable situation, to secure her future and Naomi's future. And so he acknowledges her kindness, he praises her. But he's also fully aware of the fact that She could have found somebody much younger. She could have found somebody, maybe, from a particular worldly standpoint, you'd say somebody more suitable, but they were not a kinsman redeemer. But he says, boy, this is amazing how you didn't follow after the young men, whether poor or rich. The idea of listen, I know I'm older and uh not all that I was when I was younger and I know youth sometimes would want to pursue the more attractive. Let me just throw it out here before the younger group leaves. Uh listen, don't always go after the most pretty girl you can find, guys It's not all about how pretty she is on the outside. And I tell you that that's going to fade. That's going to disappear over the years, and what really matters is who she is on the inside. What kind of character she has and uh you know there's other things that are far more important than how She looks on the outside or how he looks on the outside, right? Or how how many pounds he can bench press or maybe how big his pocketbook is I mean that's pretty appealing to you got a guy that's loaded, right? You know, he's driving a really nice car. You may find out the bank owns all of it, but what I'm saying is you just gotta be careful about what you see on the outside. And he says, Boy, you were wise not to just pursue the young man. But to pursue uh what would be God's plan and you need to be patient, young person, young lady, young man, and follow God's plan. We note the progression of this relationship, along with its motives, are very noteworthy. Consider this with me. First of all, in chapter number one, Ruth didn't even know Boaz. There was no association there. But as they are introduced, she begins to grow and she begins to understand. She sees Boaz as a generous benefactor. Now track this along with the sinner who comes to Christ. Initially there's no relationship there. But the one that gets saved begins to see Christ as, well, he's my Savior. He's the one that gave me my salvation and forgave me of my sin and and maybe they begin to see him as uh this the one that will supply all my needs according to his riches and glory. And he's gonna he's gonna supply my needs and he's gonna you know that But you know what happens as you grow in your walk with the Lord, as you grow in your spirituality as a Christian, you begin to see him as a friend that sticketh closer than a brother It's not just about him being a benefactor, but he begins to have a relationship that's so much deeper and so much more important. And here we see Ruth taking that next step where she longs for and is looking for this relationship to be all that it can be The progression of that relationship, and I'm just asking you tonight, beloved, do you long to have that relationship with your Heavenly Father for it to be all that it can be? Are you willing to, as she did here, go sit his sit at his feet humbly and request? That that relationship be all that it can be. If we would come to God like that, we could know him as that friend that's closer than a brother, the one that walks with you when you are in the cool of the day or the quiet of the evening, the one that carried you when you could not walk yourself, that kind of a God is one whom you are truly close to. We see that progression of this relationship here. So we have a delightful praise in verse number eleven we see a definitive promise or definite promise in where before Ruth promised she was going to do what she was supposed to do. Now Boaz makes a promise. In verse number 11, he says, And now, my daughter, fear not, I will do. To thee all that thou requires, for all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman. He opens this verse up and he says, Fear not. He says, hey, you need to let go of the anxiety. Let go of all this the stress. I know right now you are fit to be tied. Right now you're you're wondering about tomorrow and what's going to happen and where am I going to go from here? And boy, I just laid my whole heart out on the He says, fear not. You can let go of all that anxiety. I got you. And listen, we know, beloved, that Jesus, our Lord, our kinsman, Redeemer, he tells us, fear not. He tells us that we should not be given, be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer with supplication, we need to, in everything, we need to let the anxiety go. Let the fear go. Because why? Because he's in control, because he can't be trusted, because he has promised us. He gives her a promise, a promise that she can count on. Not the kind of promise like is given a lot of times today I read about a young man who was bragging about his new girlfriend and he was showing his friend some picture that he got of her. She had given him a picture, obviously this was some years ago, because Nowadays it's all digital and everybody would be sharing the passing their phone around. But uh this was a actual photo that uh you know used to be shared. We did that when we were in high school And uh he he had he had this photo of her and he was passing it around and one of the friends noticed some writing on the back and on the back it said this, My dearest Tom, I truly love you with all my heart I love you more and more each and every day. I will love you forever. Diane, P. S. If we ever break up, I want this picture back. That that that's the level of the commitment of a lot of people. Boy, I love you forever. Uh just in case it doesn't work out, I want this picture back. I I want that. That that's the kind of commitment that we see a lot of times, but here we have a promise. That is full and complete, beloved, because Boaz doesn't look at this as a duty, but as a privilege. Yes, it is a responsibility with regards to him assuming this position as a kinsman redeemer, but you know what? He's looking to do it. He wants to do it. He desires to do it. And boy, he makes a promise. He says, I will do. He again compliments her, recognizes that she's a virtuous woman. He says, For all of the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman. It wasn't just something that he thought about. It wasn't just something that he had recognized. But he says, man, everybody knows this. Her testimony had gone out before the people that she truly was a virtuous woman. One commentator in defining this word virtuous here, he says it quite literally means a comprehensive excellence. She was truly a Proverbs 31 woman. A comprehensive excellence. Just an excellence about about her. He acknowledges that. But he explains that they have a diplomatic problem. They have got a problem. Look at verse number 12. And now it is true that I am thy near kinsman, howbeit there is a kinsman nearer than I. He was a little concerned about that. He said, Yep, you're right, I'm a kinsman, and man, do I wish I was the only one. But the fact of the matter is, there is one nearer than I. He knew that there was a complication here. There was somebody else that had what would be a first position, a first opportunity to assume this responsibility. And only in such cases as if they were unable or unwilling, it was legally acceptable for them to pass that responsibility on to another kinsman. He acknowledges this and that this must be resolved. The important lesson for us here, beloved, is that Boaz was going to do right. Even if it meant he didn't get what he wanted. I think Boaz's intentions were clear. I think his desire was to be with her. And he could have, like most people would, justified, well We already love each other. Well, we already are close. We already know this is what we want. There's not even any reason to consider the other guy. Like w let's not even tell anybody, let's just make it happen And here's the thing, he was gonna do right even if it meant he didn't get what he wanted. And young man, young lady, you need to remember that. You do right even if it means you don't get what you want. It might save you from a lot of heartache. It's never right to do wrong. And you look at it and you say, well, we're just you know, he's saying that in this relationship here, we're gonna leave this in God's hands. There's something that's got to be resolved, and we're going to let God take care of it. But too many young people are not willing to let God take care of it. They're going to pursue that person, and they don't care what anybody else says, they don't care what mom and dad say, they don't care what their pastor says. They're in love and nothing else matters. But you see, beloved, it's never wrong to do right. And you can't tell me you're doing right if you're pursuing them against the will of your mom and dad. Can you trust God to fit to work it out? If you say, if you want to look at somebody and say, well, this is the will of God. God wants me to be with this person. But your mom and dad say no? I don't believe you. You won't convince me of it, and I as part of my policy, I won't marry somebody unless both both parents on both sides are for it. I won't perform the ceremony. Because that's the authorities that are in your life right now, and you need to be in subjection to them. And if you can trust God, why won't you just say, okay, Lord, I'm going to leave it in your hands? Would if this is really God's will, then I think God could change mom and dad's heart. God could show them that this is the one. But only if you're willing to submit and do it God's way. To say, okay, I'm going to do what I'm going to honor God by honoring my parents, and then trust God to work this out. Even if it means I don't get what I want. And I know what happens is you get to thinking with your heart instead of your head. And once the heart's involved, all common sense goes out the window. All you just can't even think straight. And that's why you need to rely heavily on the authorities that are in your life to help you think straight. And they'll see and understand some things that maybe you don't understand. But he was going to resolve this and honor God, even if it meant he didn't give what he wanted. And Christians, we ought to do right, even if it means we don't get what we want. That means being honest when it might cost you. You know, that means doing what you're supposed to do instead of rationalizing it and say, well, God would want me to do this or God would want that or you know, we want to explain it because that's what we want to do. We we're good at doing that, aren't we? Naomi certainly knew about this kinsman, this nearer kinsman Bethlehem was a small enough community. There's probably not any way that she did not know that there was a nearer kinsman. Ruth may have not known about it. Ruth may have not known the whole legal aspect of it, like that's this is all new culture to her. She didn't maybe understand those things. She may have been explained to him. We don't know. But Boaz was certainly saying, okay, there's a nearer kinsman. This has to be addressed first The law of the kinsman redeemer, if you want it in your notes, is Deuteronomy 25, verses 5 through 10 with regards to the responsibility of the first the closest, the nearest kinsman to fulfill that role. And then if he was unable to and was necessary, he could pass it to another family member. Then we see his determined pledge unto her in verse number 13. He says, Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will perform unto thee the part of a kinsman, Let him do the kinsman part. But if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee, then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee. As the Lord liveth, lie down until the morning. So he says, okay, if if he won't do it, then I'll do it. Now let's go to bed Do you think she went to sleep? I don't I don't think she went to sleep. I I think she was probably way too nervous. I think she was probably way too concerned about the whole situation to just Uh she lied there according to our story here just before daybreak. Uh but I think she probably was awake most of the night. She was probably very concerned about w exactly what was gonna happen and Was he gonna was the other nearer kinsman uh going to pick up that role or was it going to be able to be passed to Boaz? And what does this mean for me? And I'm sure, you know, her mind was running uh a thousand miles a minute just uh really traveling through all this, I'm sure. But we see Boaz's discreet protection of her in verse number 14. He says, and she lay at his feet until morning. And she rose up before one could know another. And he said, Let it not be known that a woman came into the floor. So she stayed there till morning, just before daybreak, her mind pondering over these many possibilities, but Boaz is concerned and careful to protect her reputation. We reiterate there was nothing wrong or immoral that took place here. There's nothing wrong that those that were around would have said was anything wrong, but You know as well as I do that just because nothing happened doesn't mean that the gossips won't let their tongues wag. And should she have been seen coming out of where he was early in the morning like that Possibly somebody that was completely unaware of the situation just sees her leaving and he's like, wait a minute. We want to do what we can to protect your reputation. Everybody knows you're a virtuous woman. We don't want to damage that And the lesson for us, beloved, is that we need to be careful. We need to be careful what we do. And understand it's not just that you did wrong or didn't do wrong. But what could somebody accuse you of? You need to be careful where you end up in situations that you get into that you protect your reputation and the reputation of other people that you may have happened to be with. It's just smart. You just want to be careful with those things so that nobody can raise a question. Nobody can make an accusation. You strive to protect your reputation because it doesn't have to be true for somebody to accuse you of it. And then once they do, if you weren't careful, you know when I was growing up, I was a teen a teenager, I had a friend who's m mom had been divorced and she was single for many years and then she got interested in this guy and they started communicating and he was from another city. And he would come and he would visit her for two or three days at a time. And the first time he came, you know, he stayed in a hotel. But then I noticed after a little while that when he would come and visit for two or three days, he started staying with her. And you know, they had a s teenager in the house, but uh this is this is not good And they said, oh, w we're we're being good, you know, nothing's happening. Uh we're waiting until we get married. But what do you think all the neighbors thought? What do you think all of her friends or his friends thought? What do you think that you see they opened themselves up for that? Whether anything ever happened or not I remember that as a boy thinking, what in the world? Why would you do this? Whether you are honest and nothing happened or not, everybody thinks it did And just not wise. Just not wise to be you need to be careful. Uh the prudent man foreseeth the evil in hiding himself. And that's I think what Boaz was doing here. He's saying, Listen, let's protect your reputation. So we see uh His demonstrated provision in verse number 15. And he said, Bring the veil that thou hast upon thee and hold it. And when she held it, he measured six measures of barley and laid it on her, and she went into the city. Now this word for veil here uh literally means small cloak. Uh it's not necessarily as we think about a veil like they would wear at a wedding, you know, something to hide your Face uh one commentator said it was even typical of that time, it could have even had like almost like an apron type thing And you've seen many ladies a lot of times that have an apron and they fold it up and throw some stuff in it and carry it that way. So it may have been that way, something like that. They even had like a little waist tie or something on it But uh certainly a small type of cloak or overthrow thing where uh he says, Grab that and hold it out for me. And so She holds it. And he measures out six measures of barley and gives it to her. This is just a small token of what will one day be hers. And he sends her home with it. She's just getting a small glimpse of the result of resting. The title of this section of notes that I've given this here is The Results of Resting. Last week was The Pursuit of Rest, where we strive to find a way to get into the presence of God, to get at his feet, and to rest there. But what is the result of resting? Well, she's just starting to get a picture of what the result is. Because she was willing to do that, he measures out to her six measures of barley. You know, beloved, we can do a lot by our labor. Our work, we can accomplish a lot. But and we should labor. You guys know that I'm certainly driven to work and I believe in labor. And you know, if a man doesn't work, he shouldn't eat. But not we should not labor at the cost of sitting at the feet of Jesus. We should not take our activity for spirituality. Our busyness in place of truly being at the feet of Jesus He gives her here six measures. We don't know exactly what that measurement was. There are people who believe it was exactly double. Because there are certain measuring things that they had during those times and if you take one of the measuring tools uh and that tool, if they use that tool, then it is exactly double of what she received the first time. So if you consider that, then the results of what was accomplished by her laboring in the field. was half of what she got by sitting at the feet of Jesus. I'm just Telling you if I can be honest with you for a couple minutes that as I studied this out, the Holy Spirit got all over me. Because you guys know I I I like to labor. I like to be busy in the work. I find comfort in that. I I like laboring Uh and you know the Holy Spirit is saying, you know, maybe one of the reasons you aren't seeing the results that you could see Is because you're you're you're just doing all this by busyness, by doing so much work. Sometimes I look at it and I think, well, what more could I do? What more could I possibly do? What more could I do that would make a difference? And the Holy Spirit saying you don't need to do more, you need to do less. You need to sit at the feet of Jesus. Because he's the one that does the work, if we would be willing to let him. You know the story of Mary and Martha. Now Martha was cumbered about with much serving. That's me. I'm all about get the job done. And the Holy Spirit's saying you need to be a little bit more about just sitting at my feet. And let me do the work. Because it truly is a spiritual work that God has to do when we're talking about the church. And I wonder, beloved, Are we sitting at the feet of Jesus? Are we seeing the results that we would like to see? And is it because we're not sitting at the feet of Jesus? We see her detailed report in verse number sixteen. She gets this barley, she starts heading home, she's on her way, she makes her way back home in verse number sixteen, and when she came up, To her mother-in-law, she said, Who art thou, my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done unto her. She brings back a report. She gives all the details. The question asked here, who art thou? Uh no there was no commentator I read that really believed that she was asking because she didn't recognize her. Uh the idea here was She was asking, are you still my daughter or are you betrothed? Are you still my daughter or Uh is your last name gonna be Boaz now? I mean she was saying, you know, who who who art thou? Like ha has situation changed at all? Or do we have any good news? That would tend to lend itself to the answer because and she told her all that the man had done unto her. So That question was asked and then Rue says, Well here let me tell you what transpired, giving her a detailed report, sharing with her the exciting news of what Boaz has said and Also the gift that he had given that he had sent with her, and the slight delay due to the nearer kinsman. Oh yeah, and he said there's a little bit of issue we've got to resolve first. And he she acknowledges here a delivered reward in verse number 17, and she said, These six majors of barley gave he me. For he said to me, Go not empty unto thy mother in law. She receives this gift of barley, which I had said already, was a just a picture of what was to come. But I wonder here, beloved, if Boaz didn't have a little bit of humor in his exact wording unto Ruth. You know, he said to her, hey, you you need to go back, but don't go empty handed. I think that news had gotten around And uh Moaz knew that Naomi had said, hey, I went out full, but the Lord has brought me back empty. And so Boaz was saying, hey, don't go back empty. When you go back, take this with you. I don't know for sure what his motivation was, but it just seems uh kind of notable that he used the same terminology. Don't go don't go empty handed. You take this. I think it was just really a picture for them to be able to see. They're not going to be empty-handed anymore. That Boaz was going to be sure that they were taken care of. We see in verse number 18 her dependable rest. Then she said, Sit still, my daughter, until thou know how the matter will fall. For the man will not be in rest. until he has finished the thing this day. So she lays it out for her And she's told just to rest, just to wait, because now there are other people working on your desire. Boaz is at it. Boaz is on the job. He's going to try and resolve this. And what you need to do now is just be still and wait. And I tell you after 25 years in the ministry that it's nice when I communicate with people that are in times of heartache. or trial, or they're carrying a burden, that I can tell them with confidence that God knows. That God cares, that God answers prayer. And when I pray with them for a particular need or Try and comfort them through something, I can do so with confidence because having seen over and over and over again that God is there. And that God does help. He is a present help in our time of need. And when I was a young man, maybe in my heart and mind I knew what I was supposed to say, but didn't necessarily have the confidence in my heart that God could or God would do something about it But I can tell you, it's a whole lot funner now to be able to do that and have 25 years of experience and say, I know God is able, and I know God can. And God will help you. God is on the job. You can rest, you can be confident that He's taking care of it Naomi reminds Ruth to just trust Boaz because Boaz is getting it done. You know, back in chapter 2, Ruth was working for Naomi. But now Boaz has gone to work for Ruth. What a change in the picture of what's taking place in the book. Boaz is a man of character, he's a man of means, he's a man of discipline, and he has made a promise, and it's not an empty promise. He said, I will do this. You know, beloved Christ is our kinsman, Redeemer. He went all the way to the cross to purchase our redemption. The sinner trusts in his finished work. But the saint, we need to be able to trust in his continual work. Philippians 1. 6 says, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it. until the day of Jesus Christ. I'm saying we trust God for our salvation, and then God is still at work for you He is still on the job. He is still working in and through you for your good and for his glory. His finished work on the cross is done, but right now he's sitting on the right hand of God. And the Bible says that he is ever making intercession for us. Romans 8 34 Who is he that condemneth it? It is Christ that died, yet rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession. for us. Here's what I'm saying is that God is going to work for you. And when God is working for you, the best thing we can do is what? Naomi told Ruth, sit still. Be still and know that I am God. That's a hard thing to do sometimes. But that's what Naomi tells Ruth to do is what we need to do. So the results of resting are acceptance. We see that she was accepted. Ruth, the Moabitus, who had no claim, no call to be accepted, no right to be accepted, but she was. When she humbled herself and put herself at the feet, she was accepted. You know, sometimes people are so burdened and broken. They feel like they're not worthy. That they there's no reason that Christ would accept them, but beloved, that we're not ever accepted on our merit. were accepted on his merit because of what he has done. Then she was given assurance because of the promises That he made. He says, I'm going to take care of this. And beloved, we have assurance. I'm thankful for the assurance of my salvation. I'm thankful for the assurance of the uh promises of the Word of God and that are at work in my life. And then he gives assistance. He goes to work on her behalf. God is going to work for us. The results of resting. I wonder, are we truly resting at the feet of Jesus. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Are you trusting or doubting right now? Is your faith strong in his word? Do you believe that he can supply all your needs? Or are you wondering if he's really in control? Maybe we need to get back to the feet of Jesus, our kinsman, Redeemer. As the pianist plays, if God spoke to you, you come.