So hopefully everyone has your sheet tonight, your handout for what we're going to be studying tonight. And tonight we're studying in our Psalm Studies the Cave Psalm. So I will apologize ahead of time. I'm been fighting off a cold and so I think I am on the mend, but I still have a little bit of congestion and such, so I will ask that You bear with me through that. But Psalm 142 is where we're going to begin. And we're going to talk about the cave Psalms. Now, when my wife and I went, uh we took a trip, and one of the parts of our trip, we went and we took a trip into the cave. In and in there was a cave there and there were different sections that were different than other sections in the cave. And some of them were lit. And some of them were a little bit darker, some of them were just lit by the by the sun that was coming in. And you could also tell some of the temperature differences. But it's hard to see in a cave. Has anyone ever been in a cave? Alright, I have a few. Most of us have been in a cave. It's hard to see. Now, the hard thing about being in a cave is that you don't always know what direction you're going You can't look at a stand in a cave and say, all right, I'm going north. I'm going eastward. It's very difficult to find your direction in a cave. There's also some things that are unknown. in this cave at one point where me and my wife went, uh uh it was in Puerto Rico and we went alongside there and there were some people that were looking in one of these holes that was on the side of the cave and so After some people walked by it, I went ahead and I looked in there and I put my phone in there like a little flashlight and there was a big tarantula that was inside of that hole. And it's not like uh the aquarium where you have it behind a barrier. I mean it was right there. I probably could have reached out and grabbed it. But uh uh there's a lot of unknown things in the in the cave And there was another section of the cave that was noticeably as we were walking through, it was noticeably warmer. And it began to have a smell. And it turns out that that was the section of the cave where all the bats lived. And so there's a lot of different things that we we find in the cave. And some things that uh some surprises, some things that we don't know. But here we have David in a cave. How did he get here? How did he get to this cave? There are two instances in the scriptures where David finds himself in a cave. In 1 Samuel 22, he's in the cave of Adolem. And in 1 Samuel 24, we find him in the cave of Engedi. And it's one of these caves that David writes these Psalms. I believe, just based on the description, this is just me personally, that Psalm 34 was written in the cave of Adulla. But how did he end up here? So this is what happened to lead to this situation. This These the we see that Saul, King Saul, was out to re to avenge, he was out to get David. And there were times where even as David was trying to help him in his palace, that Saul was trying to throw a javelin at David to kill him. There was another situation where David was in his house, and Saul sent soldiers into David's house to try to assassinate him, and he had to escape that situation. In 1 Samuel 20, we see that Jonathan and David were trying to figure out how bad the situation was. How much did Saul hate David? So Jonathan went to eat with his father Saul and he told him, he said If it's bad, I'll tell you to leave. So he went there, and the situation transpires where Jonathan and David get together, and Jonathan talks to his father, and Jonathan's father Saul was just completely irate and completely belittling uh uh Jonathan to the point where Jonathan goes to David. David was hiding out in the desert and he said The situation is bad. You have to leave. You can't stay here. You can't stay in the kingdom. You've got to get out of here. So David is sent away from Israel. And he goes to a place called Gath. Now how why is Gath familiar? Goliath. That's where Goliath was from. Goliath lived in Gath. So here David goes and he finds some rep some refuge in the place of his enemies. And he goes to Gath. And instead we see that David becomes afraid of king of the king there. The king's name was Akish. And instead he decides to pretend to be crazy, and he leaves Gath. And then as we get to 1 Samuel 22, we find him in a cave. In a wilderness of sorts. He's a fugitive. David's a man on the run. Now, as I mentioned earlier in our first study, We don't know exactly what order the Psalms were written in. They were put together this way for us. And but we don't know they're not necessarily chronological. But what uh this is just what I think and we're gonna see the progression and we're gonna read them in a backward order. I asked you guys to read Psalm thirty-four, Psalm fifty And we're going to go over those tonight. We're going to begin with Psalm 142, and we're going to see the message of these Psalms. in the cave. So let's go ahead to Psalm 142. Hopefully you're there. And first we see David's distress. David's distress. That's the uh bullet point. That you'll see under your notes there, David's distress. And David's distress, the Bible says this Maskil of David, a prayer when he was in the cave. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, with my voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. I poured out my complaint before him. I showed before him my trouble. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my past. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me. I looked on my right hand and behold, but there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me, no man cared for my soul. I cried unto the Lord unto thee, O Lord. I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. Attend them to my cry, for I am brought very low Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are stronger than I. Bring my soul out of prison that I may praise thy name. The righteous shall compass me about, for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. We see Psalm 142, David the distress, but this Psalm The cave was a place of prayer to God. The first and foremost thing that we see in this chapter, in this psalm, is that it was a prayer. It comes out, it says, a prayer when he was in the cave. Now that first Last week that we talked about the Psalms, I said that we can learn a lot about how to pray when we see how the Bible records these prayers. And here we have David crying out a prayer to God when he was in the cave. Now, when you read this, there was an attitude to this psalm. What do you think David was fe how do you think David was feeling like in this psalm? What was that, Ms. Karen? Depressed. That that really comes out. He was it was a time of distress for him. It was a time where he was discouraged. He was in a trial here. He was in this cave, and what he decides to do is he decides to cry out to God in prayer. So look at the characteristics of this prayer. David cried to the Lord. Verse 1. I cried unto the Lord with my voice. Now sometimes when we pray, we pray silently. And we pray within ourselves and we we talk to the Lord that way because we know that the Lord knows our thoughts and praise the Lord that He does But David was in such anguish at this time that he was in the cave that he it says that he cried aloud with his voice, that he cried out to God And so he was very vocal. He was very loud about it. There as he was in the cave, he was crying out to God. The idea is that David cried unto the Lord audibly with his voice. And it's some it's something to learn from. There are times where we feel so We're having a difficulty and struggling, now we want to cry out to God. And it's okay to do that. We see that here in the scriptures. We also see in verse 2 that David poured out his complaint. I poured out my complaint before him. This word is very is an interesting word. We think of a complaint and we think of complaining negatively. We don't like people complaining. We don't like people whining. But here The complaint, the idea is that it was his musings, the things that he was thinking about, his thoughts, his internal thoughts. These things were what was coming out. He was putting them to God. And you know, it's one thing that when we can complain to somebody, and really they can't make a difference. They really can't change the situation. But understand that we can complain to God because He can do something about it. He wants to hear our innermost thoughts. We think of complaining as lamenting, as something negative, but here we see, and it's something to learn from, that God hears us when we complain. And so it's in i i it's an interesting thought for us to think about, and again, we so many times we think of complaining in a negative way But isn't it great that even in our our struggles, even in our times of anguish, even in our times of difficulty God will hear even our complaint. That's a wonderful thing to think about. So God will hear us and He'll listen to us. What else do we see? We see that He was overwhelmed. In verse 3, when my spirit was overwhelmed, this word, the definition gives us the idea that he felt that he was covered or smothered or being crushed. And he felt this. I mean you you again he was depressed. He was struggling through it. And the Bible is saying that he was overwhelmed. What else do we see in verse 3? In the way wherein I walked, have they privily laid a snare for me. He felt trapped. We see that he felt trapped. What else? Does he go down the list? Look at verses five and six. I cried unto thee, or excuse me, verse number four. I looked on my right hand and beheld, but there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul. He felt lonely. David felt really lonely here. And in this time of loneliness and feeling trapped and feeling overwhelmed, feeling like he was being smothered by this trial. He's crying out to God, he's praying. And the cave is a place of prayer to God We see in verse 5 that he's asking for a safe place. He wants a refuge. We see in verse 6 that he's asking for deliverance. In verse 7, he's saying he feels imprisoned. And isn't it great to know that The man after God's own heart, the king of I mean, this was a man who was already anointed to be king of Israel, and he felt Pains and emotions and the struggles that these are timeless truths. We feel these things today There's times when people can feel imprisoned or people feel like they're uh being trapped or they're feeling crushed by their problems. David was just being honest, but David prayed about these things, and in our times of discouragement, it's important for us to take time to pray. Well you'll you're you're all right, Miss Angels. You'll get through it. It's important to cry out to God. So in this prayer, we also see how David focused on God's goodness. God look at verse 3. Verse 3 says that When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path. God knew David's path. David remembered that God was watching him God or David was seeking refuge in God. David sought satisfaction in God when he was saying, Thou art my refuge and my portion. He wanted that satisfaction from God. So how did David close this psalm as we look at that last verse? Bring my soul out of prison that I may praise thy name. The righteous shall compass me about, for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. There was hope at the end of this psalm. There's a lot of anguish. There's a lot of struggle in this psalm. But at the end he's talking about hope. David knew that he could praise God. David was looking ahead and saying, God, you're going to deal bountifully with me. He was remembering God's promises. That's when his faith was strengthened. That's amazing. So we see David's distress, and in this cave, it was a time of prayer. So let's move on to the next Psalm. Let's turn to Psalm 57, just a few chapters back. Psalm fifty seven. And here we're gonna see data development. David's development. And we see that the cave is a place of trusting God. Psalm 57 The Bible says this right at the beginning to the chief musician, Altiskith, Mikdem of David, when he fled from Saul in the cave. Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me, for my soul trusteth in thee. Yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge until these calamities be overpassed. I will cry unto God most high, unto God that performeth all things for me. He shall send from heaven and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up, Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth. My soul is among lions, and I lie even among them that are set on fire, even the sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows. And their tongue a sharp sword. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens, let thy glory be above all the earth They have prepared a net for my steps, my soul is bowed down, they have digg a pit before me into the midst whereof they are fallen themselves, Sila. My heart is fixed, O God. My heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. Awake up, my glory. Awake, psaltery and harp, I myself will awake early I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people. I will sing unto thee among the nations, for thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let thy glory be above all the earth. As we look at Psalm 57, let me point out a couple things. In verse 1, he asks for mercy. David is not demanding mercy. David knows that he does not deserve it. And we must realize that we don't deserve the mercies of God. But he's asking for it here. And then we see that he also declares his trust. He says, My soul trusteth in thee And as we see this, and as this chapter develops, this is where we see kind of a change happening in David. He's still talking about his trial. He's still talking about the calamities that he's finding himself in. We see that in verse 1. He says, until these calamities be overpassed. He's still struggling and dealing with these, but we're going to see as we go along how this changes. He in the shadow of thy wings He's figuring out where he's going to have a refuge. See, he was saying that he wants the refuge in God, but then he's starting to see a little bit more clearly. He's saying, in the shadow of thy wings. Will I make my refuge? He faced calamity, but he allowed God to take care of his calamity. And we see in this verse here that he sees, he says, until these calamities be overpassed, he realized that those calamities were temporary. He realized that they were going to pass, that God was going to take care of them. And then we see in verse 3 that he expects deliverance. He shall send from heaven and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up, Selah. There's a confidence there. He's saying that he shall, he shall help me. He believed God's promises. He says, the Bible says in verse 3, God shall send forth his mercy. And then he acknowledges his trouble, but in verse five, so he talks about his trouble again in verse four. He's saying, My soul's among the lions. Here I am in this difficult situation. But then what did he what does he do there in verse 5? He It says, Be thou exalted, O God. He praises God. Above the heavens, let thy glory be above all the earth. If you see this, you see this at the very end as well. Verse 11, it's kind of like the chorus to his song. It's that chorus he repeats it over. Now let's look at verse 6. They have prepared a net for my steps, my soul is bowed down, but they have digg a pit before me into the midst whereof they are fallen themselves. Selah. So he's saying they're digging a pit that they're gonna fall in. themselves, that they've fallen in themselves. So he's starting to see a little bit more clearly. His vision is returning. And then we see that word there in verse 6, Sila. There's kind of two breaks in this psalm. Psalm 1, or uh the verse 1 through 5. Is kind of one section, and then there's a break there with the Sila in verse 3, and then verses 6 through 11 are the second section. And then when we have this Sila at the end of verse 6, we have that pause. That Silah where it's pause and think and muse, consider. And then we see this awesome change. David's mindset is changing, it's developing into different something different. What does he say there? Verse 7. My heart is fixed, O God. My heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. So it's something here that his It's not saying that he he fixed it like he repaired it, but it's saying that it's fixed like it's committed And he was saying, My heart is prepared. My heart is ready. So there was a change that happened. He said, Okay, my heart is fixed, O God. My heart is ready I will sing and give praise. It was a choice that he made that he was going to sing and that he was going to give praise And then we he we see that he was stirred to begin praising God in his heart, because he talks about, my heart is fixed. In song, in verse 7, he says, I will sing and give praise. Then we see he also wants the praise in music, verse 8: Awake up my glory, awake salty and harp. I don't know how long it had been maybe since David had not played his harp. It probably wasn't in Psalm 142. He was feeling very distressed. But here he was finally finding the motivation that he was saying, okay, uh I'm gonna praise God again and I'm gonna praise him. I'm I'm ready, my heart is ready, and I'm gonna praise them in song, and then he was talking about music here, awake Sultery in heart, I myself will awake early. So we see here, he's coming out of the cave. He wasn't going to praise God among the nations in the cave. Look at verse nine. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people. I will sing unto thee among the nations. There's a change here. that's happening that David is no longer saying, I'm alone in this cave. He's saying I want to praise your name with the people and with with uh uh among the nations and he I mean we see that he's talking He's coming out of the cave. He's coming out of his trial. There's this change that's taking place that he's developing out of. Look at verse 10. For thy mercy is great unto the heavens and thy truth unto the clouds. When we're talking about the heavens, he's talking about the skies. He's talking about the stars and the clouds that he's talking about here. And you don't see clouds and stars and and the heavens in the cave. You don't see anything in the cave. It's dark in the cave. But here he was coming out of the cave. I can just imagine him looking outside and starting to praise God outside this cave, and he's coming and he's praising God and he's excited. David came out of his distress and his despair by trusting God. The beginning of this passage in Psalm 57, he says this: Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me. For my soul trusteth in thee. That's where he was coming out of the cave, is when he began to put his trust in God. So we have David's distress, we have David's development, and now we're going to see David's deliverance. So both of these Psalms that we just read, Psalm 142 and 57, talk about That they were written by David when he was in the cave. Alright, Psalm 34 does not reference the cave, but we'll talk a little bit about this. At the beginning of verse Psalm, the inscription says the Psalm of David when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away and he departed. Abimelech in the scriptures was a was a term for the kings of the Philistines. It was like a dynasty. And so Akish, if you uh my my Bible has a little reference there that talks about Akish. And so he's talking about this time where he went into Gath and he went uh and he was afraid of King Achish, and so that's the situation that we find himself, and after he changed his behavior, again he acted like a crazy man. He goes into to this the Bible says in Psalm 22, 1 that he went to the cave of Adolam, and then when we put those things together, it's very likely that this Psalm was written in a cave Now, this is just my personal opinion. This is the st the development that I see David take. I see Psalm 142 when he's really looking at his struggle and when he's down and he when he's depressed. And then Psalm fifty seven where we see that a change is happening in David, and then we see Psalm thirty four which is it's a very joyful Uh a joyful song. It's a wonderful song. And we see David's deliverance. It's a psalm of David. It's a psalm of praise. And we'll look at l let's look at some notes here. He blessed the Lord at all times. That's verse one. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. O magnify the Lord with me and let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They looked unto him and were lightened, and their faces were not ashamed. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all of his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them, that fear him, and delivereth them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him, O fear the Lord ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear him. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. Come, ye children, hearken unto me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord. What man is he that desireth life and loveth many days that he may see good? Keep thy tongue from evil and thy lips from speaking guile. Depart from evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous and the ears are open unto their cry. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. The righteous cry, and the Lord heareth, and delivereth them out of all his troubles, all their troubles. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. He keepeth all his bones, not one of them is broken. Evil shall slay the wicked, and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate. The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants, and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate. This is one of these psalms that are called an acrostic psalm. There's twenty-two verses, if you will. And each verse begins with one letter of the Hebrew alphabet. And we see that happen a lot in the book of Psalms. Psalm 119 follows that pattern. Um but it's just something that that uh the the the writers just again it's just something that that is included in this book of poetry. But we see here that he blessed the Lord at all times, we see in the first verse. See, this is one of those situations that we talked about, that there are opportunities that we have to bless the Lord. What does that mean? It means to praise him. It means to honor him. It means to give him glory. And we're to do this. We're to do this at all times. Constantly. See, the Bible says that his mercies are renewed every day, so why shouldn't we praise him for that? Those mercies are brand new every single day, and we should have opportunity to praise Him for that. In verse 2, we see that my soul shall make her boast in the Lord. He's praising God. He's praising. Now we he's praising early on in this psalm. Then we see verse 3, magnify the Lord. See a magnifying glass, and uh many some of you maybe have heard this before. A magnifying glass, if we put a magnifying glass on something, it doesn't make the object bigger. It makes the object appear bigger to the person that's seeing it. And that's what we're talking about, magnifying the Lord. It's not a matter of making God bigger. He was seeing God bigger. His perception of God was changing. And then we see here he says, magnify the Lord with me. He was inviting others to do that as well, to lift up the name of God. How often do we encourage someone to exalt the Lord with us? Then we're saying we're seeing here in verse 4 that he's talking about what God did and how his faith was increased. He's claiming the promises of God in verse 6. The poor man cried and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all of his troubles. Let's look at verse 7. Verse 7 is very interesting. It talks about the angel of the Lord. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. Here he's talking about, hey, we're not alone. We have the angel of the Lord. And when we remember what he was talking about in Psalm 142. He was saying, I look to my right hand and there's no one that would know me, and refuge failed me, and no man cared for my soul, and so he felt lonely and and he was just So down about it. But here, as he's praising, it's a completely different perspective. He's saying, hey, the angel of the Lord encampus. He surrounds us. It's amazing that you're seeing the change in perspective here. Then he says, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. This is some of that poetic language that we see and we even see it ourselves. It's a matter of trying God. Hey, try God out for yourself. See that he's good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. Now remember, what was what does blessed mean? Happy. And the other two Psalms that we see that we read, he didn't talk about being blessed. He didn't talk about being happy. But here in Psalm 34, we see it's changing. He's saying, Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. Then he says, what in verse 10? He says, The young lions do lack and suffer hunger. But they that trust the Lord shall not want any good thing. So he's saying, Seek the Lord, God will satisfy you And then the rest of the psalm is a a s continues as a song of victory. It's a song of praise. He's saying, Many of the afflictions are the righteous, but the Lord delivereth them out of them all. He he's excited and he's Praising God, it's a song of victory. And then even at the very end, verse 22: the Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants, and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate. And so this gives us an idea or an understanding of what it means to be saved, what it means to be redeemed, saying, them that trust in him shall not be desolate. So he's giving us this idea. Where he leads, he's gonna deliver us. And we see here in this psalm, we see David's deliverance. Now another little nugget here we see in verse 20. We see this verse, this psalm of praise. We see this psalm of of joy, this psalm of victory. He's he's written this down and he's excited and he's talking about God's victory and God and his life. And then we, if you really look closely, we see Christ. In verse 20, he keepeth all his bones, not one of them is broken. You'll see that discussed in John nineteen. It's a direct quotation from the book of Psalms. Now, as we finish this up, we'll kind of wrap it up, but one thing that I wrote there in you in your notes Talk about moments in the cave. And I put this list together. It's just things that we saw. in in the in in these three passages, things that I that were able to to to just kind of stood out, something for you to look at, something maybe for you to study on your own. The moments in the cave, we see a time of crying. We see him crying out. We see a time of complaint. We see in Psalm 142, 2, and I have all those references there for you. A time of confusion, because he was saying that he felt overwhelmed. A time of complication where he felt like he was ensnared, like there was a s uh uh a trap laid for him. A time without companions, how he was saying no man cared for my soul. A time of confinement, he felt like he was in prison. He talked about the calamity there in Psalm 142, verse 3, and Psalm 57. And then all of Psalm 57, we see this time of change. And then we see this progression into a time of confidence. A time of comfort, a time of certainty, a time of chorus where he was uh musically praising God, a time of cheer and joyfulness. Then he talks about continually praising God. It was a time of continuing. There was a time of camaraderie where there were other people there around with the psalmist. A time of contentment, where he was satisfied in God, a time of closeness, if you look at verse 18. The Bible says the Lord is nigh unto them that are of broken heart. That word nigh means that he's near. There's that closeness. One of the things that I added, I don't think you have them in your notes. I didn't put them in, but as I was reviewing these, I'll add these. You can look at verse 19. It was a time of conquering. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. And then we see a time of Christ. We just mentioned Christ there in verse 20. And a time of celebration. Verse 22 talks about those that trust in him shall None of them that trust in him shall be desolate. That's a time when we're in heaven. That's a time when we're safe, that we're delivered from all the problems of this world, and that's a time of celebration. And so uh in conclusion, uh again, we know, I mean I get it, caves can be difficult. Caves can be dark. There's a lot of unknowns about a cave. There's a lot of difficulty that we'll find in the cave. Now, the wonderful thing is that we have the benefit of seeing that on this side what God was doing for David in the cave. What God was doing in this cave for the psalmist. He was, we can look at it now and say, man, God was working it all together for good. But I'm sure that those times that he was in the cave, he was struggling. He was having a difficult time. He didn't know what direction he was going, and we see the way he cries out. And so we have the benefit of seeing that. We have the benefit of having that recorded for us in the scripture And we have the benefit of being able to trust God in those times where we feel smothered, in those times where we feel like we're in a cave. Now Most of the you know, when we went to we went to Texas a couple uh a couple years ago to visit my parents and there's a cavern there in that area. And they were talking to us about how they developed this area and and how this cavern how they ended up finding this cavern. Caverns are not You know, you you walk into a cave, I mean they've they've hollowed out a big part of the cave. He showed us what is what he the the tour guide showed us. This is what a cave, the the cavern looked like before it was all excavated. And I mean, it's small little spaces to squeeze through. Or you would feel like you're being smothered where you feel probably like you're being crushed by the rocks and that the whole everything is going to cave in on you. And how wonderful it is to know that we can come out of that, that God will guide us through that. Many times we don't know what God is doing. But and we feel maybe like we're in a cave. Maybe we feel discouraged. Maybe we feel lonely. When we find ourselves in those situations, we should pray like David did in Psalm 132. We should trust like David did in Psalm 57. And we should praise like David did in Psalm 34. See, we can grow from the time in the cave, we can gain strength in the cave, and we can help others in the cave. Alright. Let's go ahead and close with a word of prayer