Doing is as a church is we're going to be memorizing our theme verse for the month, and that is on the first page of each month. This is January, Ephesians 4, 14 and 15, that we henceforth, be no more children, toss to and fro. and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the slight of men and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive But speaking the truth in love may grow up into him and all things which is the head, even Christ. Now the phrasing of that verse makes it very difficult to memorize. It's just not what there's certain things that that uh for us, the conjunctions or whatever that are missing that that make it It doesn't flow in our normal speech pattern, so it takes a little extra effort to because you'll find if you're not real careful, you'll add words to try and uh or you'll jump to another section because of the it doesn't flow in our normal speech patterns today, but I want to encourage you to be to be working on that. This says the first phrase here, that we henceforth be no more children. Tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. Let's say that part together, uh just that first uh section is That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. Let's say that together. That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. So you want to be working on that verse. Obviously if you review it every day as you start your devotions, um then uh by the end of the month you'll have it mostly memorized. It'll take a little bit of extra work because this verse is kind of uh a little harder than our normal praising but some of them will be a little easier this one's gonna be a little harder this morning this morning service I'm gonna be preaching uh on those verses In light of that's kind of our theme for the year. That's where we're taking the idea of growing in truth and giving in love from. And uh so we'll be talking about that in the morning service. This week has been the first week that many of you have uh been reading your devotional. And I haven't had uh there's a couple people that have come up unto me and given me, hey, this is what I got. But I was wondering if there's anybody here this morning that something in your reading this week uh God spoke to you or encouraged you or uh reminded you of a truth or challenged you in some way. I know I'm putting you on the spot here, but whether anybody you want to share something they got from their reading this particular week. All right, well let me encourage you, uh Ms. Kim. Um just the just the uh the looking for wisdom and um and letting that And and and basically that's the basis of of everything. um knowing the right doctrine and basing your life on the Bible and the Word of God and not on every other um you know, like the wind blows to and fro, then you're you're you're based on the wisdom of of God's words. Amen. Um let me encourage you to uh be Reading in light of we're supposed to be encouraging and edifying one another, and uh this is part of what we want to do as as our as our reading. We want God to speak to us as you're reading and say, Lord, show me something in your word. For me today. And hopefully God will give us something and it's not not every day you aren't gonna get up and the windows of heaven are gonna open and bright lights gonna shine and all of a sudden it's gonna be you know you and and And God, and it's going to be glory. Not every day is going to be like that. But as we seek him, some days will be. Very precious times with God. And uh so I encourage you to get in the habit of of sharing with at least with your family, with your mate, and uh with those that you would call friends, uh what God's teaching you. That will be an encouragement to them and uh we'll be doing this together, so we'll give opportunities different times to uh encourage one another even publicly like this. Brother John? I say what I learned is to seek the kingdom of God first and then we'll be adding all the spiritual things. Before I used to look at a lot of things like you have my necessities and all that thing Now I'm looking at it, I'm seeking God for spiritual help, for spiritual growth. Amen. That is my uh life verse. Seek God first. And uh have tried to do that. Mr. Antsi. It hit me, um, when um after I came in the two April, I then called told me that um And then Kane complained to God and said the question was too much. And God gave me believe that said, okay. I'll protect you, nobody will kill you, you put your time and keep and so forth. So it just gives me the grace of God that uh he's very forgiving, he's very loving. And even though okay it had Amen. Amen. That's a good thought. I don't want to steal uh a cura's thought, but in a cura's reading, Pastor Gus shared with me uh something that she got with regarding the story of Cain and Abel. So I would encourage you to ask a cure about it. Uh or ask Pastor Gus. I don't want to steal their thunder, but she was God was talking to her and uh uh God gave her a very good uh spiritual insight. in her own devotional time with regards to that story as well. So turning your Bibles to the book of Exodus. The book of Exodus. Now, I challenged you it's been two weeks ago, but I challenged you to find the key verse in the book of Proverbs in your first week of reading. I don't know how many of you did any study on that, but the key verse for the book of Proverbs is chapter one, verse number seven. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of the of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. That is a theme through the entire book, and that's kind of a The key to unlocking the book of Proverbs. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge and wisdom. What this book is talking about is wisdom. So just giving you that uh has nothing to do with this morning's lesson, but I wanted to answer that because I had told you to look for that in your reading the first week. So this morning, Exodus chapter 20, we're going to be talking about the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments. Now let's review those quickly. We learned them for the most part last year. uh throughout the Sunday school hour re reviewing those if we do the hand actions with it uh number one is pointing towards God and So number one, that thou shalt have no other gods before me. Number two, take two hands, one hand bow down to the other hand. Thou shalt All right, number three is one hand, three fingers to your mouth. Right. Pointing to your mouth, thou shalt Not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Number four, two hands, put them together like a steeple. And remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Number five, take one hand, put it together, and salute. Very good. The hand actions are uh clicking those memories for you. Uh so number six, take five, take one on the other hand and point it Thou shalt not kill. So you shoot the one hand there, so thou shalt not kill. Number seven, take the five, lay it down like a bed. Take the two together. Thou shalt not commit adultery, very good. Uh number eight, uh take the five, put it over the three and pull away. Thou shalt not steal, like you're stealing something. Uh number nine Thou shalt not bear false witness. Um I just the idea of putting your you know I swear to tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth, that um and then number ten is all hands pulled towards you. Thou shalt not covet. So just a review there. Now in Exodus chapter 20, let's read these first 17 verses that deal with the Ten Commandments. And let's read responsibly this morning. I'll read the first verse, you read the second, third, fourth, etc. , down through verse number 17. And God spake all these words, saying Alright, I'm going to read with you on the off verses so that somebody's kinda guiding uh but would you guys join me on uh the even number. So number number three, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, unto the third and the fourth generation of them that hate me, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold Is that him? I've got I've got some notes here that cross that word out. Some reason uh got crazy with my lines, that shall not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God In it thou shalt not do any work, thou neither thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them in Them is, and rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and held it. Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long on the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his maid. Servant, nor thy nor his manservant, nor his maid servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's. The Ten Commandments here. This passage of Scripture, we're going to take maybe a week or so to look at each one of these commandments this morning. I just want to give you some introductory thoughts as we Get into it as we start to look at this. We obviously live under grace. We live under the New Testament. Jesus Christ came and he fulfilled the law. And so what bearing does this have on us today? Uh aren't we able to do what we want because uh you know grace will cover and forgive. We of course know that Romans uh tells us that we're not to control Although grace will abound, grace can cover sin, it doesn't give us a license to sin. It doesn't give us freedom to sin. Grace can cover it, but that doesn't just open the door for us to be able to do whatever we want. We know that. This morning I want to start by showing you a quick video that uh has to do with the Ten commandments, I could say the things uh very succinctly that are in the video, but I think that you would remember them better uh by engaging a couple more senses. You know, the more senses you use, the better you remember them. And uh so I didn't see any reason to reinvent the wheel, but this uh gentleman has put together some good thoughts. Pastor Gus is going to play this video for us right now. I hope. No document in your world history so changed the world for the better, as did the Ten Commandments. Western civilization, the civilization that developed universal human rights, created women's equality, ended slavery, created parliamentary democracy among other unique achievements Would not have been gone without them. As you will see when each of the Ten Commandments is explained. These commandments are as relevant today as when they were were given over 3,000 years ago. In fact, they're so relevant that the Ten Commandments are all that is necessary to make a good world a world free Tyranny and cruelty. Imagine for a moment a world in which there was no murder or theft. In such a world there would be no need for armies or police. Or weapons, men and women, and children could walk anywhere at any time of day or night without any fear of being killed or robbed. Imagine further a world in which no one coveted what belonged to their neighbor, a world in which children honored their mother and father and the family unit thrive. A world in which people People obeyed the injunction not to lie. The recipe for a good world is all there in these ten sublime commandments. But there is a catch. The Ten Commandments are predicated on the belief that they were given by an authority higher than any man. Any king or any government. That's why the sentence preceding the Ten Commandments asserts the following: God spoke all these words You see, if the Ten Commandments, as great as they are, were given by any human authority, then any person could say, who is this man Moses? Who is this king or queen? Who is this government to tell me how I should behave? Okay, so why is God indispensable to the Ten Commandments? Because, to put it as directly as possible, if it isn't God who declares murder wrong, murder isn't wrong. Yes, this strikes many people today as incomprehensible, even absurd. Many of you are thinking, is this guy saying that you can't be a good person if you don't believe in God? Let me respond as clearly as possible I am not saying that. Of course there are good people who don't believe in God, just as there are bad people who do. And many people also think. I believe murder is wrong. I don't need God to tell me. Now that response is only half true. I have no doubt that if you're an atheist and you say that you believe murder is wrong. You believe murder is wrong. But forgive me, you do need God to tell you. We all need God to tell us. You see See, even if you figured out murder is wrong on your own, without God and the Ten Commandments, how do you know it's wrong? Not believe it's wrong. I mean know it's wrong. The fact is, you can't. Because without God, right and wrong are just personal beliefs, personal opinions. I think Juck Living is okay, you don't. Unless there is a God, all around is just opinion and belief. And virtually every atheist philosophy as acknowledgements. Another problem with the view that if you don't need God to believe that murder is wrong is a lot of people haven't shared your view And you don't have to go back very far in history to prove this. In the 20th century, the millions of people in communist societies and under Nazism killed about 100 million million people and that doesn't count a single soldier killed in the war. So don't get too confident about people's ability to figure out right from wrong without higher authority. It's all too easy to be swayed by a government or a demagogue or an ideology or to rationalize that the wrong you're doing isn't real wrong. And even if you do figure out what is right and wrong, God is still necessary. People who know the difference between right and wrong do the wrong thing all the time. You know why? Because they can. They can because they didn't know what is watching. But if you recognize that God is the source of moral law, you believe that he is. is always watching. So even if you're an atheist, you would want people to live by the moral laws of the Ten Commandments. And even an atheist has to To admit that the more people who believe God gave them, and therefore they are not just opinion, the better the world will be. In 3,000 years, no one has ever come up with a better system than the God-based Ten Commandments for making a better world, and no one ever would So that summed up my lesson. So we can just close and be dismissed. Uh but um very very truth uh a lot of truth and a lot of wisdom in in what he said and how he presented it. Uh why are the Ten Commandments relevant today. People don't like to be commanded. Uh the this is not anything new, but the more uh and further we get uh in the world and the further we get from God, the less people like to be commanded, the less they like to be given a uh an absolute and we're in that day and age in which we live today where uh modern society mocks truth. and exalts the lie. Is there more stability today because they say that the uh Ten Commandments are real irrelevant, that Christianity or God does not matter? No. There's not more stability, there's less. Everybody's embracing every kind of uh hairbreen kakamimi idea out there. I mean there's there's people doing just about anything you can possibly think of, uh, and uh it's it's mind-boggling if the things that they're trying or that they're embracing uh to find satisfaction or to experience uh some type of uh spiritualism without God. You see, God made us to need a relationship with Him. That's innate. It's part of man. So man tries to find that and fulfill it in any way he can by Eastern mysticism or by uh you know experiencing some type of spiritual sensation through meditation or uh through you know, sitting in a quiet room with with a certain amount of stones laid around them or you know, there's so many different uh ways and and people try and experience something uh spiritual, they want to do it without God, though. And that's not the way God designed it. Today, Americans believe there's no moral absolutes, not just Americans, but uh the whole world really Um but uh as far as the research goes, I just studied America, so I'll give you some uh points here from America. They believe that uh in moral relativism How many times have we heard statistics like what or or I think ideas like what's right for you might not be right for me? Um anything goes. Nothing's right, nothing's wrong, it's just in the difference of opinion. And uh, you know, that is voiced a lot today. According to the majority of American adults, uh the Pew Research Group said that Knowing what is right or wrong is simply a matter of personal experience. 57% of Americans say knowing right or wrong is simply a matter of personal experience And seventy-four percent of millennials agree with this statement. Whatever is right for your life Or works best for you is the only truth that you can know. Seventy-four percent They believe that what is right and wrong is simply based on your experience. I believe that to be true outside of God, outside of the clear commandments that we have in His Word That we are guided by our experience. And that that's what's going to dictate what we feel is right or what we feel is wrong, our experience. But culture should not determine that. God should determine that. And our culture should line up with God. And our church should line up with God. And our life should line up with God. I'm glad that there is a moral absolute. I'm glad that it's not just a matter of opinion. Because as we lear learned about in this little video, uh that although we could clearly say, hey, murder is wrong and you could walk the streets of America today and probably ninety-eight percent of the people that you talk to would say murder is wrong. That's right. Yeah, murder you can't murder somebody and not answer for it. Well, they believe that today, but we could go back just twenty years ago and say homosexuality is wrong. And ninety-eight percent of the people that you met would say homosexuality is wrong, but that's not what you would find today on the streets. Probably 90% of the people you met on the streets would say homosexuality is okay. Why? Because they have lost the anchor. They've lost the guiding rudder, the fixed point of right and wrong, which is God and His word. Without that, without the moral absolute, it just becomes subjective. Anybody can do what they want to do. And it's all about whatever your culture says is okay. And as we learned about in the culture of uh the Third Reich, m murder was okay as long as you were a lower class citizen, as long as you didn't meet the uh part of the supreme race. And that could come about again. Anytime we allow ourselves to get away from the fixed moral absolutes that God has given us in His Word. That's a fact A major nationwide study has revealed that biblical morality in America is being escorted out of all facets of society while the new moral code is being ushered in to take its place. Well, I just want to remind you that it's not a new moral code. The fact of the matter is, is all the way back in the book of Genesis. Chapter 4, where Cain brought the sacrifice that he wanted to bring, he wanted to do what was right to him. What he thought was acceptable. Well, I want to do it this way. And since from that time until now, there have been people that wanted to determine their own way, the book of Judges is known by every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And that is so it's not a new moral code, although it is maybe a new insurgence of this idea of doing whatever we want to do. But we need to get back to and realize the importance and the relevance of the fixed point of the King Commandments has on life James Madison, our fourth president of the United States, said this: we stake the future of this country on our ability to govern ourselves under the principles of the Ten Commandments. We stake the future of our country on our ability to govern ourselves under the principles of the Ten Commandments. As was stated clearly in the video, that if we would live by these ten guiding commandments Society would be sufficient. I mean, those things alone, the majority of the laws that are on the books, would not be necessary if we lived by the Ten Commandments. We don't live by the Ten Commandments, and therefore more and more and more laws have to be enacted to control the behavior of men because we cease to govern ourselves. The best government is Self-government. When people don't govern themselves, they have to be governed. That's what, and you lose your freedoms slowly the more and more you see. cease to govern yourselves. Ultimately you will end up in prison and every part of your life is governed by somebody else. Because you do not govern yourself I took government in college and that phrase we heard over and over and over again, the best government is self-government. And that's what if you can teach children to govern themselves, to do right, then they can have a lot of liberties. Liberty is liberty to live inside the law. We live in a free country, but does that mean you can run stop signs? No. You have to stop at the stop signs. If you don't stop at the stop signs, you're going to lose your license and the freedom you have to drive. Because you're not governing yourself inside the laws. So the laws that God has given us. Let me give you several things here, and uh we've got about eight minutes So we're going to cover these really quick. The reason for the law. Three things I'm going to give you. The reason for the law. It was not to save from sin. The law was not given to save from sin. We know the law cannot save. Galatians 3. 11 But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident the just shall live by faith. Romans 3. 20. Therefore, by the deeds The law could not save. That was not why God gave the law. God ultimately would send his Son, the ultimate sacrifice, Jesus Christ, and He He would save his people from their sins. Until then, the law showed how man could cover his sins with the sacrifice, sacrificial sacrifice system that God put in place for those in the Old Testament, but it wouldn't save them from their sins. The law was given to reveal God's glory. Deuteronomy 5. 22 If you want to look that up, we're not going to take time to look at it now. The law was given to reveal man's sin. It was to show that man's a sinner. Just like he said in the video, how do you know murder is wrong? How do you know that? Because there is a law that states it, that says that murder is wrong, and we can stand sure on it. Jesus Christ or our God, the Lord is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and since the time that the law was written, it has not changed. And it will not change. We know it's wrong because it's in the law. That's how we know when we've transgressed the law. Because the law is written. Otherwise it's all it's all relative. It's whatever I think, it's whatever you think. I don't think it's wrong to steal from you. I can come to your house and take what I want because I need it. Why is that wrong? Well it's wrong. Who says it's wrong? I say it's wrong. Well who are you? Without the authority of God, it's all subjective. We need that authority. It reveals man's sin. Romans 7 7. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin. But by the law. I had not known sin, but by the law. The law is what revealed sin. It was given to mark Israel as his chosen people and to separate them from the heathen lands. Psalms 147, 19 through 13. And the law was given to Israel to show them how to stand for godly living and how to live, how to live godly Deuteronomy 5. 29. Oh, that there was such a heart in them that they would fear me and keep all my commandments always. that it might be well with them and with their children forever. God said, hey, here's how you live correctly. God told them how to live. And he says, if you live this way, It will be well with you, and it'll be well with your children. So God gave them a pattern for living in the law, which should guide their life, and it would give them what they needed for living. The law, I have a list of things the law could not do. The law could not make anyone perfect. A bunch of references here, but Hebrews chapter 7, 11 through 19. It could not justify from sin, Acts 13, 38 through 39. The law could not give righteousness, Galatians 2, 21. The law did not bring peace, Hebrews 91 See, Jesus Christ brought peace. The comforter he sent that gave peace. The law didn't give them the peace that we have today When we are justified, when we are forgiven of our sin, when our sin is washed and covered by the blood of Jesus Christ, we have a peace that passeth understanding. Those in the Old Testament didn't have that peace. They didn't have that, but we have that through Jesus Christ. The law could not give life, Galatians 3. 21. So there's some things the law didn't go. So the reason for the law, I gave you several things that it was not, and the reason that it was, was to reveal God's glory, to reveal man's sin. And to show or give a pattern for godly living, those things. The relief from the law. The law condemned and offered no hope. Jesus came to fulfill the law and set us free. From the bondage that the law provided. You see, the law showed man that he was a sinner, but didn't provide the solution for that sin. He showed him how to cover it, but didn't uh take it away. didn't uh wipe their sin away as as Christ does. In his life, his death, and his resurrection, Jesus did all that was necessary to set us free So he fulfilled the law, Galatians 4, 4. But when the fullness of time was come, God set forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. God sent his son to fulfill the law. His death fulfulfilled all the requirements. that were needed to forgive man of their sin. If you look at the law, Jesus Christ in his death, a sinless, spotless sacrifice once and for all for us. Then the relevance, the relevance of the law. It's just as relevant today as it ever was. Because God said and put forth this standard for all mankind for all time. Anyone else could question could be questioned. But just as he said in the video, he said this phrase here in Exodus chapter 20. And God spake all these words saying, the very first verse there, that is the authority by which the Ten Commandments are put forth. by the authority of God. And so God gives us that law. Jesus didn't come to do away with the law but to fulfill it. Matthew 5, 17 And eighteen. Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. So God didn't come to destroy the law. Some say, well, we don't have to abide by that. That's Old Testament. That doesn't apply to us today. We're under grace. Jesus Himself said, I didn't come to destroy the law. I didn't come to negate all of that and to say that's irrelevant. I came to fulfill the law. For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall no wise pass from the law till all is fulfilled Very clearly, God said, hey, this is not going to pass till heaven and earth come to fruition. So the whole of the law is summed up in the two commandments that we are giving in the New Testament in Matthew 21. 22 verses 3 and 4. Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him and saying, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and the great commandment. You see, if you fulfill this first and great commandment, you're going to fulfill one through four of the commandments that are given to us. That covers commandments 1 through 4 in the Old Testament. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. If you fulfill the second here, you'll fulfill 5 through 10 of the commandments given to us in the Old Testament, because those are dealing with our relationship with man. And if we treated others as ourself, you wouldn't steal from yourself, you wouldn't kill yourself. You wouldn't well say lie to yourself, because a lot a lot of people do lie to themselves. But if we treat ourselves like we want to be treated. like treat treat others like we would treat ourselves, we would fulfill the second half of the law given us in the Old Testament. So this law that God gave us in the The Old Testament is not ten suggestions, it's ten commandments, and they are applicable to us today. So we want to see uh in the next few weeks we'll be looking at the Ten Commandments each individually and how they apply to us. Except for we take a short break in February, Brother Starr is going to be with us in February. He's going to be teaching Teaching in Sunday school on what he learned as he went through cancer, his fight with cancer, and what God taught him through that time. He'll be teaching in Sunday school on that. The Sunday he's with us. And uh then we'll be doing a little bit of looking at the family. During the month of February, but we will get back to these w after that short break. Well let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Well we thank you for today. We thank you for the law, Lord. It still even today applies to everything uh that we deal with in our lives, even in modern society, Lord, and is applicable to us. And Lord, I pray that we would strive to fulfill the law in our lives and live by the moral absolutes that you've given to us in your word. We thank you for this. Go with us now, be with the morning service, and uh would you bless everything that's said and done in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, we have no choir practice today because we're not singing choir we'll start