I I'm gonna be dealing with a topic tonight and uh so I'm gonna be giving you a lot of scripture. I was telling the church in the Philippines that I typically I give a lot of scripture and I put a lot of my notes in my I put a lot of the scripture in my notes so that I can move quickly through it. However, uh for them I had to slow down. Uh so here I'm not sure I uh as a as a launching point I'm going to begin in Job chapter 1, verse number 1. We began Thursday night looking at the life of Job. studying the book of Job and we introduced the book Thursday evening and we began our study going verse by verse in the first five verses of the book of Job. introduces us to this man. And right off the bat, God seems fit to tell us about the character of this man Job, uh something that is notable. And he said, listen, uh first, right off, before anything else, I want you to know who it is we're talking about, and he tells us about Job. And in verse number one, he says, There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright and one that feared God and eschewed evil. So we began uh and looked at this and we studied out some of these character traits. And briefly on Thursday night I mentioned the idea of that we as Christians should strive to be perfect. Uh that term uh we know does not mean without sin. But it means to be complete. It means to be mature. And so I said I would some other time maybe look at the idea of what does it mean to be mature as a Christian. I said the sad fact is is many times in our lives we see people that have been saved for ten, fifteen, or twenty years, but they're still babes in Christ. They have not matured in their faith. They haven't grown in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. They have not excelled in their Christian life. They're still a babe in Christ. It's like somebody that too took kindergarten. for twenty years. Uh, you know, he never did graduate to first or second or third or fourth or ult ultimately, you know, twelfth grade. No, he's still stuck in kindergarten. And so as Christians we should desire and be moving towards Christ and be growing. And so I wanted to look briefly tonight. I don't expect us to be here very long. Maybe we'll make up for last week where we went really long. But just the idea of what does it mean to be mature, we're going to look at the mature believer this evening. AW Tozer said this. just as a caring parent delights to observe a child developing in all-around maturity of character So God rejoices to see his children growing in the likeness of his son on to perfectly mature saints. So that's what the expectation is that we would be mature believers, that we would be growing and we wouldn't remain babes in Christ. So, first of all, the description of maturity, what we want to try and do is get an understanding of what does this mean to be mature? What does it mean to be perfect? Well, the word perfect means complete. It means mature. When you see that word perfect, if you find it in the Word of God, you can go to your strongest concordance and you'll see there are a couple of different words that are translated uh perfect or perfection in our Bible and they would tend to mean complete or mature. We know, beloved, that absolute perfection only belongs to God. No matter how good you and I might be, we all fall short of the glory of God. The glory of God is his perfection. We cannot ever attain unto that. We have imputed righteousness because of Jesus Christ and what he's done. So we have his uh righteousness put on us. We c even our own righteousness is is filthy rags, the Bible says. And so I'm grateful tonight for the righteousness that we have from Jesus Christ. So we're not talking about sinless perfection. We're not talking about living a life without any error. There are those that teach that today, sinless perfection. I want you to know that is a false doctrine. We cannot and will not, this side of heaven, ever be sinless. Matter of fact, you know, we're supposed to confess the sins that we don't even know that we committed. The sins that are, you know, in our heart and mind we may not even realize it, but we've done some things where we've transgressed the law and uh we've done uh we have sinned against God, and so there are sins that we don't even know that we've done And so we're not talking about sinless perfection, but we're talking about maturing or coming to a the idea of completing a task I'm not going to attempt to say the Greek word because I'm not a Greek scholar by any means, but the word literally means to accomplish or complete. As is found in Matthew chapter 5 and verse number 48, where we are told by Christ to be ye therefore perfect, even as your heavenly Father, which is in heaven, is perfect. I was wondering when I did this study if those two words were different. If the word perfection or perfect in the first sentence was different from that of the second That would have been pretty cool in my mind because the perfection that we we know of in Christ is certainly absolute perfection. But God's expectation of us is not absolute perfection. It is the idea of completeness or of accomplishing or completing the task. Well they are not. They're the same word, the same Greek word, and they combine two ideas, two thoughts. The first is the attainment of a standard. When you think about the idea of coming to completion or of being mature, there is a standard. And the attainment of that standard, well, what is our standard? Jesus Christ. He is the standard. He says, be therefore perfect as your Father which in heaven is perfect. The standard in this verse is the Father. And his perfection. So our goal is to be perfect like he is perfect. And so we see that standard is established for us. Then you have, secondly, the achievement of a goal. So the standard is the Father, and the goal is to be as much like Him as we can be. Well, that means if we're talking about maturity, talking about completeness, being mature believers. It quite literally means to be Christlike. To be Christ-like. Paul's use of the word in Ephesians chapter number four means to be brought to completion. In that passage passage of scripture where he's talking about God had blessed the church and he had given different, you know prophets and evangelists and uh workers for the ministry, he says for the perfecting of the saints. Ephesians 4, chapter 12, verse number 12 through 15. He says, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in the unity of faith. and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man. So you understand and think about the language there, he says, listen, We all want to come in a unity of faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So there is the standard. There is the goal that we would become like Jesus Christ unto a perfect man. Where we measure up to or meet the standard, which is Jesus Christ, in the fullness of Christ. And then we have those verses that were our memory verse some years ago. That we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine and slight of men and cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive, but speaking the truth in love may grow up unto him in all things Even the head which is Jesus Christ, or Jesus Christ which Jesus is the last phrase, I always mix it up backwards. I don't know why, but those verses from our scripture memory, our Sunday school lesson many years ago uh still stick in my mind. But that's the goal. He talks there. What what is it? That we would grow up. That we henceforth be no more children Tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine and cunning crashliness whereby men lie in wait to deceive. So the goal is, beloved, that we're talking about the mature believer. It is somebody that ceases to be as a child, that begins to mature and to grow up, to meet the standard, which is Jesus Christ. So again, put very bluntly or straightforward is that we would be Christ-like. If we're talking about the mature believer, we're talking about one that literally is Christ-like. You and I are mature insofar as that we are like Christ. Understand, beloved, that your maturity as a believer is not established or uh set based off of whether you come to church or not, whether you carry a Bible or not. Whether you wear a suit or a tie or whether you uh you know fit into this particular mold that we would like to describe as Christianity, it is not a matter of those things. The standard is Jesus Christ. And we are mature in so much as we are like Christ. That is the goal, that we would be like Him. You know, I'm reminded of and encouraged by this, and that is that we are not right now what we should be. But one day we will be. The goal is to be like Christ. Well, he tells us in 1 John 3 and verse number 2, he says, Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. The time will come when we're going to be. Conformed into his image, where we will know and be like him. Now we will never be God or as gods. Please understand that is not what I'm teaching tonight. Somebody that teaches that is teaching false doctrine. We're not going to be God or as gods, but we will be like him in so much that we are like Christ, that the areas of good that are in him will be in us. Looking forward to when we no longer are battling the flesh. So we will be made mature But between now and then, it is God's plan and desire that we grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That's the plan. That's the goal. That we would expect any of the young people that as they go to school that they would learn, that they would grow, that they would develop. There's many aspects. You know, one of the things people like to uh knock homeschoolers for is uh because they say, well, they don't develop socially. Yeah, Mar wrong is right. Uh that's that's that's not true. That's it's just that's dependent upon the parents And if the parents allow the child to uh be with other kids and how well they teach that aspect of it, it's not just because a kid was taught at home that he doesn't develop socially It's because the parents aren't allowing that to happen, and there are some that don't, because the parents have put them in a box and locked them away and uh did not allow them to engage or be around any other people. By the way, a church is a great place to get your homeschooled child around other people, to get them involved in activities and to be in Sunday school and to be in nursery and to be around other kids to learn how to interact. to learn how to to deal with the problems of of other kids because kids are kids and they're going to be that way. So let me encourage you to do that. Uh but what I'm saying is ultimately people look at it and say, well, they're not gonna grow socially. They're not that's an area where they're not gonna develop very good. It's not true. It it can they can and do uh grow socially if you uh train them and and raise them up correctly, but the expectation is that our children would grow And not just physically, but that they would grow in their mental capacity. Jesus Christ, the Bible says that he grew in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man. If we're going to be like Christ, we're going to be on a upward path, a growing path. So how is it that this maturity is developed in us? Look at Hebrews chapter 6 and verse number 1. Hebrews chapter 6 and verse number 1. We see this word perfection given to us again here. He says, therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection. Not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God. The idea of going on to perfection, he says The foundation has been laid. Jesus Christ did this where our sins are forgiven. The debt has been paid. That process has been done. We don't need to try and do that again. But the goal here now that we know where sins have been forgiven and that we're on the cr the path of the Christian life, the goal is that we would go on unto perfection unto completion, that we would see the standard, which is Jesus Christ, that we would set the goal, and we would go after maturing as believers. You see, there is a fundamental pattern that is to be part of the life of every believer, and that is a pattern of growth. We are to grow. This is a process of spiritual maturity that takes place over time. Perfection, beloved, is the transformation. That the Bible speaks of in several places. That we are to be transformed by the renewing of our mind You see, beloved, God's purpose for his children is not external imitation, it is internal transformation Here is where some churches really mess up. Because many times we become content if people will externally conform. If they will externally fit into our box, if externally they will make these changes in their life and we look at that and we say, okay, they they fit into what I would describe as a believer and we we we begin to accept that but there has been no internal transformation The internal transformation begins when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. That is the only way the internal transformation is going to take place. It's not just attending church or being in God's house, but it is knowing for sure that your sins are forgiven, that Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior. When you truly are a child of God, you see, I stood on the street down there in the Philippines and I preached, and I said, You know, the Bible says that all that say unto me, Lord, Lord, shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. You may claim the name of Christ, but God may come to you and say, Depart from me, I never knew you. Because it's not just knowing about God, it's having put your faith and trust in His shed Jesus, shed blood on the cross. Having your sins forgiven and knowing for sure that you're on your way to heaven, that God has paid your sin debt, that internal transformation begins to take place. And beloved, that ultimately affects the outside. The outside is changed. But too many are content with just adjusting. It's almost like turning over a new leaf. They've improved themselves a little bit here or there, and they're battling and struggling with the Christian life in such a hard way, and they say, why is it so hard to live as a Christian? Because they're the ones doing it It should be Jesus Christ in you. That both will and to do. That work which He has begun in you, He will perform. If we allow him to do it, it's a work that God does through Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit from the inside out. God wants to transform you. This is not something that we can do ourselves, but he does inside and in us. Here's the thing: as we get a glimpse of his glory, As we sit in his presence, that process of transformation starts to begin. You know, you and I will be like Those we hang around. We will be like those we spend time with. You hang around some people. It's just the facts. You're gonna end up talking about cars You hang around some people and you're gonna end up talking about food. You hang around some people and you're gonna end up talking about chocolate kit cookies. Just it's gonna come up. You are going to end up communicating. The Bible says in the book of Acts, you cannot help but speak the things which thou hast seen and heard. the things that the person that you're around with is going to start influencing your conversation. The person you're spending time with is going to start influencing your life. You're going to start If you start hanging around a lot with people that are in church and go to church and that conversation comes up, you'll be motivated to be in church and to go to church. Because those you're around impact and influence you. What I want you to understand, beloved, is when we spend time in the presence of Jesus Christ, that internal transformation starts to take place. It's maybe not even something that you see or understand on a daily basis or a weekly basis. But if you will faithfully, consistently spend time with the Savior, that internal transformation will take place. The greatest picture of this, and I've I've used it before, but as we're going to spend the next 20 years together, you guys just better get used to it, okay? But but the greatest example of this is if any of you have lived in a particular area for a long time. And when you you go out and you see a little bush or you see a little tree and you look at it and you notice this smaller tree planted or growing here. And then You don't even you don't you don't come out every day and go, man, that tree has grown. Wow, that tree grew today. Wow, that tree used to be right here and now it's right here I mean you don't you don't notice it every day, but every day it is growing little by little and then one day you're gonna come out and you're gonna go, oh my goodness! Like It almost like it's overnight, but it wasn't overnight. You saw this tree that all of a sudden is this massive tree. There's a good example of that right at the bottom of the hill over here by Bobby Bush's house We planted that evergreen there. It was just a little sapling almost in 2012. Now it's probably 30 foot tall. And here's what I'm saying, day by day as you spend time in the presence of Jesus Christ, that transformation begins to take place in your heart. You begin to mature spiritually. You might not even realize it day by day. You might think, well, what's the use? Nothing's changing. I didn't get anything drastically life revelation, you know, life changing this morning. I didn't get anything that that transformed my day right now. No, not every day is going to be transformative in in and of itself, but as you consistently spend time with God, it will transform you inside. And one day you'll look back and you'll say, man, boy, have I grown. Look at what God has done in my life. I now have victory in areas in my life that I thought I would never get victory. I now see myself being faithful in areas I never thought I'd be faithful in. I now am being used of God to do things that I never thought I'd be used of God to do. Beloved, consider this. And please don't shoot me because I understand The whole ramifications of what I'm saying and understanding, I'll try and explain it a little bit, but listen, all that Christ is, the grace of God is sufficient to perform in your life. Now, I am not saying that you're going to be God or like God in that aspect. What I'm saying is all that Christ is, we are to be Christ-like. And all that Christ is in his character and in his person, outside of the fact that he is God, I'm not pushing this that far, but what I'm saying is that Christ-like character, all that is there, is available to you and I. And God wants to perform that and make that part of our lives if we would abide in His presence. He would reproduce those things in us. I think sometimes we try and do these things on our own Instead of taking the time to be in his presence and allowing them to happen in and through the power of the Holy Spirit. As I thought about this and pondered on this idea of this transformation taking place, I thought, you know, it's amazing some people Will spend more time in a tanning bed to see their outside transformed. So that they could have a tan than they will with Christ, so the inside could be transformed. And I thought, well, you know what? Let's just make it this this let's put it this way. Some will spend more time sitting in the sun, S U N. than they will sitting with the sun so in just so that they could have a tan You know, I hate to keep bringing up the Philippines, but it's present on my mind. You know in the Philippines they want to be white. They do. They don't want the tan, man. They go out and they cover up. They cover up everything. Here we have tanning salons, there they have whitening salons. People go there and they get white. They have this stuff they inject in their skin that lightens the pigment of their skin. That cannot be healthy. But you know what? It isn't healthy to be up spit sitting all that time in the sun just to get a tan either. But people will do all that just to change the outside. When if we would spend time with the son S-O-N, he would change the inside. We're gonna be like who we're hanging around. So the mature believer ultimately stated very simply, is Christ-like. How do we become Christ-like? Spend time with Christ. Spend time in His presence. That of course is seen in church and and as you spend time in his word. This is the word. The word of God was made flesh and dwelt among us. Spending time in his word is spending time with Christ, letting that impact us. Lastly, tonight, I want you to see how is this displayed or brought forth? And you can turn to First Timothy chapter four. First Timothy chapter four. How is it other people are going to see this in us? We we like to sing the song I saw Jesus in you. And our goal as Christians certainly should be that people would see Jesus Christ in us. And so how is it they're going to see us, see a mature believer? Well, the Apostle Paul was talking to his son in the faith, Timothy, here. And he was saying to him, Timothy, your age does not have to determine your spiritual maturity. Timothy, it's not your youth. Let me tell you what it is. So in 1 Timothy chapter number 4, looking at verse number 12, he says, Let no man despise thy youth. But be thou an example of the believer in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, and in purity So how is this, the maturity of a believer, how is that seen? Well, first of all, it is seen in your conversation. In your word. What you the way that you communicate. Let your speech be always seasoned with grace How we communicate as Christians should be different than the world communicates. We should be maturing as believers. If I have been saved for ten years, I should not still have a problem with this mouth. And I I'm not I'm not saying you'll all you'll ever get your tongue all the way under control because this old tongue is a you know it's a small member but it has a lot of power. But what I'm saying is there ought to be some growth where I used to uh cuff like a sailor as I've grown in the Lord, I should cuss less and less and less, and ultimately it should no longer be a problem for me That shouldn't be something I'm battling with. That type of language shouldn't be coming out of my mouth. If I've matured, if people are going to notice that I'm mature as a Christian, then how I communicate is going to they're going to see that. Be an example of the believer. The mature believer is seen in our conversation. We also see that it is seen in our conduct. The second word there, he says, be thou an example of the believer in word. That is our communication. But in our conversation, when the Bible uses the term conversation, it is speaking about how we walk. about our life, about our habits. We know that our walk talks louder than our talk talks. So when the Bible speaks of our conversation as individuals, it's speaking about not just what we say, but how we live. So our conduct. So there should be, as a mature believer, uh there's some things that I should not do There's some places I should not go. There's some activities that should not be part of my life and habits of my life. Why? Because I've matured as a believer and I no longer am tempted to do those things I'm no longer drawn towards those. Why? Because I've grown, I've matured, and now I'm more like Christ today than I was when I first came to Christ. And so my conduct is different. The old kid song, the things I used to say, I don't say them anymore. Uh the places I used to go, I don't go there anymore. No way. Right? That's what maturing as a believer is. Sadly, there are a lot of Christians, and this is uh a pattern or habit, certainly in American Christianity, and I imagine it's probably been all of time, but most believers will reach a certain place in their spiritual growth and they will say, you know what, I'm happy here, I'm content here, I I don't need to go any further. And even though God has stirred their heart or challenged them or said, hey, let's take a step in growth, they've said, no, no, no, this is where I want to be. And they've stopped maturing, even though they're saved. But for ten years they've been stuck right here because they've stopped desiring to be more uh conformed into the image of God's Son. They said, you know what, I'm I'm comfortable. Now as much as we dealt with contentment this morning, I want you to know that as Christians And we shouldn't be content, satisfied with our spirituality. There's some aspects of our life that we should continue to push forward and desire to be more and more like Christ. So your maturity is put on display. It's seen in your conversation. It's seen in your conduct. Thirdly, here he says, boy, it's seen in our charity. In our charity. We know charity is love. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one for another You know, love covers a multitude of sins. You know, some of us just need to beg God to allow help us to love. our brother or sister in Christ. Because if you love them like you should, you would get over that petty difference you have. If you love them like you should, their little idiosyncrasy that right now drives you nuts wouldn't bother you. I have got lots of issues. But you know what? My wife loves me. He told Andrew today, Andrew, I want you to know that your dad made all my dreams come true. I said, I don't know about that. But you know what? Why? Because love covers a multitude of sense Love like we should, and we would have a lot less problems in the church. And that's a sign of maturity when we love one another. Your maturity is seen in how well you can love another. 1 Corinthians 13, 13, now by the faith, hope, and charity, but these three, but the greatest of these is charity. We see that maturity is also seen in your concern. He says here, in charity and in spirit. And I ask you, what do men see in your spirit? What kind of a spirit do you have Somebody uh Frank, I was talking to Frank this week, um checking up on him and being prayer for Frank uh with his hip replacement. Um but he said, how did faith in blue go? And I said, Oh, it was a great day. I said we had just a great spirit in the services and the officers enjoyed it so much and it seemed like the Word of God went forth and and uh in a very clear way it just I had liberty to preach and it just seemed to go pretty smooth and so we just praise the Lord for that. But that the idea of that that there was a great spirit in the church among among God's people. What kind of a spirit do you have? You know, sometimes when we're dealing with young people, uh of all uh maybe activities or whatever, we'll Say, okay, now we're gonna play life-size tic-tac-toe, everybody spread out, and you'll have one kid that's like this is a stupid game Who who wants to play tic-tac-toe? I mean just for kids and here we are teenagers and who they think because we're we're standing up that it's better or this is just dumb. Their spirit ruins the whole activity. You know, as believers you can do that in a church service? One person's spirit in the church service can change the how the service feels and how what kind of liberty God has to go forth and to speak to hearts and lives. Mature believer has a right spirit. David prayed and asked God. Search me and try me. See if there be any wicked way in me. He wanted to know that his spirit was right. That he had a right spirit. The mature believer was see his maturity is seen in his charity. It's also seen in his spirit. The things that he's most concerned about. What are you most concerned about? We see maturity is seen in our commitment to our faith. He says, be an example of the believer in word and conversation and charity and spirit in faith. Are you committed to your faith? Do you know the doctrines of your faith? Romans 6 verse 17 says, But God be thanked. That ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered unto you. The doctrine, the faith that was delivered unto you. Do you know what you believe and why you believe it? Are you fully committed to your faith? Or is it just something you do on Sundays Or is it literally part of your life? The mature believer is committed to that. That faith is a part of them, and it is inseparable. We see lastly here the maturity is seen in the choices that you make. He says in faith and in purity. And this wicked world in which we live today, this has to be an active choice that we make to live pure lives. You can't run with a skunk and smell like a rose. You have to make a choice to be pure Maturity chooses that. I wonder how mature we are tonight. Maturity makes the hard choice. It chooses to do right even when it's difficult. The weak or the immature believer tends to find himself continually in messes that he made himself You see the immature believer he he keeps making wrong choices and ends up in the mess that is the result of the wrong choices he made. And then God or God's people or others are called upon to help him get out of this mess or her to get out of that mess. And God's people rally around, but if something doesn't change in their heart and they don't start to mature, they will make those same foolish decisions again. And they will end up in another mess that is of their own choosing. So the mature believer stops making those choices and he chooses to do right even though it's hard. Many of you that are on Facebook, I'm sure you've seen the diagram that's come up in my feed probably 20 times in the last couple weeks of the hard choices. Hard choices, easy life. When you make the hard choices and you climb the mountain even though you don't want to, it leads towards an easy life up here. But you make the soft choices, and it looks like boy I'm going downhill. This is so easy. What you don't realize is you're getting into a big hole. The easy choices, and then you're down in the hole, and it shows that you have to climb up out of this hole back around to get all the way back up here where you should have been And that's the hard life. So if you'll make the hard choices, you can have an easy life. But if you make the easy choices, you have a hard life. That's what we need to choose. Choose to do right, even when it's hard. There's so many directions that we could apply that tonight. I'm talking thinking in my mind, just my mind's racing about family situations. that could gr drastically be changed if we just made the right choice. You know, raising our children, our relationship with our mates and And situations at work and our jobs and these things. Ultimately, if we would do what's right today, it's hard, but it would lead to an easier life later. So this is how maturity is seen in the life of a believer. It's how it's on display. No man despise the youth, but be thou an example of the believer in word, in conversation, in charity. In spirit, in faith, impurity. This is how it's seen. So the mature, the mature believer Let us go on to perfection, pushing towards maturity in our life, being that kind of an example. Example, would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? I'm gonna ask the pianist to come and play a moment of invitation for us tonight