You know, counselor, Prince of Peace, without getting into all of those types of things, but the actual uh proper names that are given to God. We've been studying those. I'd like you to turn your Bibles this morning to Psalms chapter number 24. We are going to look at the name of God, Jehovah Sabbath, today. In Bible College, we would often have missionaries come that would preach to us. Pastors that have been pastoring for many years would come. They would have these men come that had had uh lots of experience that we might glean from their wisdom and their ex life experience and learn. Even just like the missionary Brother Stences we just saw, how he was training these young pastors uh, you know, how to have the Lord's Supper and how to hold a baptismal service and and how to do these things. Well that's what Bible colleges for is to to train like that. And anyways, these men would come and they'd preach to us. And I remember one of the missionaries that we had come, his name was Daryl Champlin. Daryl Champlin served God in Suriname, West Africa. He was in Suriname during the uh great civil war that took place there. And uh during that time some miraculous things happened. Uh as far as missionary stories go uh God using him in miraculous ways. I'm I'm not going to try and tell his stories today, but you can tell from knowing him That he walked with God. He saw God's power in a miraculous way there on the mission field in just unbelievable circumstances where God miraculously did some amazing things. But Darryl Champlin had a way of speaking. He as a person, his demeanor was very humble, but when he got in the pulpit, his manner of preaching was very powerful. You felt as he began to open the Word of God, you really felt that you were walking into the presence of God. And that he was preaching and that God's power was coming through. Now, Darrell Champlin has gone on to be with the Lord. He is in God's presence today. He's no longer here with us here on earth. But I remember Daryl Champlin preaching a message one time, and he said, Young people, our churches are filled. With believers who are in love with the God of Psalm 23. They are what I call Psalm 23 Christians. They enjoy the pastures. They love the idea of gathering peacefully by the still waters. They love that God of peace that's walking with them through the valley of the shadow of death and praise the Lord for such a God. He said, but young people, the fact of the matter is, is the believers who know the God of Psalm 24 are pitifully pew. Pitifully few, there are so few Christians who ever grow to the point where they get past the God of love that nurtures and cares and watches overs them And they get to Psalms 24, where they see Jehovah's Sabbath, where they see the God who fights for them. The fact of the matter is, beloved, is we are in a fight. On Thursday night, I looked at the name that God calls us Christians. He calls us soldiers. because we're in a battle, because we're in a fight. And Jehovah's Sabbath is a God who goes before us, the God who fights us for us, the God who is with us in the battle. Would you look at Psalms 24, beginning in verse number 7, reading down through verse number 10? I'm going to try and read this to you in the manner in which Darold Champlain read it to us. He said, Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be lifted up, ye everlasting doors, and the king of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates. Even lift them up, ye everlasting doors. And the King of Glory shall come in. Who is this King of Gory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of Glory. The Lord of hosts. That title, that name, there, of course, Lord, all in capitals, is Jehovah. That's established. We know that. So the Lord of hosts, that host, that there is Jehovah Sabbath. The God who fights for you. The God who goes before us in battle. Jehovah Sabbath, the Lord of hosts. Jehovah's Sabbath is found 235 times in the Old Testament. This morning we're not going to attempt to look at all of them. We're just going to look at a few. I just want to try and give you a picture of who this is, that we as God's people might grow beyond just knowing this God who cares for us. And know the God who goes into battle for us. We see first of all that his power is over all. If you care to turn, you can turn to Isaiah chapter 14. Isaiah chapter 14 and verse number 24, the Bible says, The Lord of hosts has sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass. And as I have purposed, so shall it stand. God declaring there his power over all, he says, as I have thought, It'll come to pass. As I have purposed, it's going to happen. This is the fact that we have a God who is over all. He is the Lord of hosts. That is an all-encompassing title. I could say tonight that I am the father of children However, everybody here understands that although that is a true statement, I am a father of children, I have five. But I'm not a father of all children. I'm a father of my five children. But God declaration here saying He is the Lord of hosts is declaring He is the Lord of all hosts. Of all of the earth, of all of these things, he is establishing that he is the Lord of the host of heaven and the host of earth. The host of angels are under his command. Psalms 103, verse number 21 says, Bless ye the Lord all ye hosts, ye ministers of his that do his pleasure. The angels, the host of angels that are at his beck and call. They do his pleasure. They perform his will. They accomplish what he has given them to do. He has purposed to use these angels in many different ways. I'm thankful that God has commissioned the angel to care for you and I. By God's plan and God's design, he has given these angels commission and responsibility to care for you and I. In Psalms 91, verse 11 and 12, he says, For he shall give his angels charge over thee. To keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against the stone Can I tell you this morning, you may have thought it was just something that Hollywood came up with, but I want you to know that guardian angels are a real thing. That God has given to us guardian angels. And God has, in his authority over all the host of angels, commissioned an angel to watch over and care for you. God has an angel that's a guardian angel that's watching and making sure you don't dash your foot against a stone that you're kept in all your ways. He's bearing you up when you're weak. He has commissioned the angel to care for you. Especially God has a compassion and a concern for the little ones. He says in Matthew 18, 10, take heed that ye deep despise not one of these little ones. For I say unto you that in heaven Their angels do always behold the face of my Father, which is in heaven. I'd say, listen. They're angels. The angel that I've commissioned to care for Isa. That angel's watching over her And you better be careful because that angel has a direct line to God. And if you mistreat one of these little ones, if you uh hurt one of the little ones. I want you to know that that angel's watching and that angel's got a direct connection. He can get face to face to God and you might not like the results God has these guardian angels that care over us and uh he commissions them to keep us from dashing our foot against the stone and to bear us up. I know each and every one of you here probably could tell stories of in your life of times where you know that a guardian angel kept you alive. That a guardian angel protected you from that accident. That guardian angel somehow uh saved you from something that you would have been in trouble. I remember one time I was walking out in the desert in El Paso, Texas, where I was for my teenage years, and me and my friend were just walking along and just not a care in the world, right? And uh I'm walking, and I don't even know to this day how I responded so quickly, but I'm walking and my friend says, stop And I stopped and there was a coiled rattlesnake right underneath my foot. His tail was wagging and he was up and he was ready to strike. And I backed away. I mean, if I would have taken one more step, I would have been bit by that snake. And we were some ways from home. I don't know what would have happened. I certainly know it wouldn't have been enjoyable. I don't know how far I mean we were uh five miles from the c c city limits, eight miles from the first stoplight. I don't know how long it would have been for us to get any type of uh vaccination or anything Uh I know that uh rattlesnake is not necessarily deadly if you can control it, uh, but it can cause you to lose a limb. But I I just say it over and over again in my life, there's times that I look at and I can see that God's protecting hand was right there. A year ago, October, I was standing on the roof and God told the guardian angel, Alright, he's gonna fall. You better get down there. Yeah, better go. I I I obviously I I wish it was on video because that would be awesome. I could get some likes. Only way I get likes. But I you know, somehow uh Brandon was watching it and Brandon said I did a flip in the air. Like I went off the roof, I did a full flip in the air and I landed on my feet in a flower bed down here And uh, you know, God's like, you better get down there. Yep, spin them the rest of the way, because you know we wanna we wanna minimize the damage. Yeah, set 'em down in that flower bed right there. That that'll be good I'm telling you, you got guardian angels, the host of angels. God is in control of them and he has given them to care for you. Not only has he commissioned them to care for you, but beloved, he's commissioned them to carry you to glory. He's commissioned them to carry you. In Luke chapter 16, verse number 22, we see this in reality when he says, It came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's bosom. The rich man died and was buried. The passage goes on and says, the rich man lifted up his eyes in torment. He woke up in hell, but the child of God was carried by an angel into the presence of Abraham. Carried to glory. Beloved God has commissioned the angels when your day comes, or the loved ones that you've lost, to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And God's commissioned the angels to carry you from here to there. God's done that for us. He's over the Lord, is over the host of angels. Over all of them. This world may think that they're in charge sometimes. You've got nations and principalities and powers. You've got these these different people. They might think they're in control, but you know ultimately the Lord's in control. Nothing can happen except the Lord allows it to happen. It's not that he made it happen. Sometimes we do things ourselves and get ourselves into a mess. God did not cause those things to happen. One of the hardest things that we struggle with here on earth is trying to understand pain and suffering and why God would allow different things to happen. I spoke with somebody last week about the situation, the flooding, all of the lives lost. And and it's just heartbreaking, especially you see so many young and and you say, man, what could God have in his plan? or his cause or why why. I mean I understand the battle or the struggle in our hearts and minds trying to understand that, but we know that all pain and suffering is a result of sin. It is a result of of the damnation that's been put on this earth, even these disruption of things, all the weeds and the storms and the earthquakes and all of this is a result of the damnation put on earth because of sin came into it. But God is the Lord of hosts. He is Jehovah's Sabbath. He is the God over all. I want you to know that he is available to all, his presence, Jehovah's Sabbath, the God who goes and fights, he is available to all. It is amazing that in the Old Testament, as we've talked about the idea of these names of God and how through time they continually were introduced to a new name. And they learned about, you know, they reached a new situation, and then they found out this God is the God they needed. Well, we get all the way to the book of Samuel before we see the name Jehovah's Sabbath. I mean, they have been going for a long time. They have been walking with Jehovah in a theocracy under the care and protection of God and the leadership of God for a long time, and they have yet to meet or to know Jehovah's Sabbath. It's interesting that it is in this book that we learn of him. Could it be because Samuel is that transition book? The transition where the people are moving from a theocracy to a king. Because they're demanding a king. Do you remember what they said when they demanded a king of God? They said, we would have a king. Who would go before us into battle? Do you remember them asking that? You see, all of these other nations had leaders. They had kings that went before them in battle, and so they wanted to be like those other nations, and they said, we would have a king that would go before us into battle and God introduces himself to them and say, I am Jehovah Shabbat, I am the Lord of hosts I am the God who would go before you into battle. You don't need a king. You just need me. And they said, No, we want a king. And you remember Samuel the prophet. He said, uh God talking to Samuel said, hey Samuel, they're going to reject you, but remember they didn't reject you. They rejected me They rejected Jehovah's Sabbath. God was teaching them who he was. And they said, no, we would have a king. In 1 Samuel chapter number 4, verse number 3, I want you to turn to chapter 17, if you would. 1 Samuel chapter 17. We will be there in just a moment. But uh In chapter 4, verse number 3, they're going into battle. The Philistines are coming upon them. And they they lose in this battle. They lose four thousand men And in 1 Samuel 4 verse number 3 he says, And when the people were come unto the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath the Lord smitten us today? Before the Philistines. Let us fetch the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord out of Shiloh unto us, that when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies. You see, the Ark of the Covenant was a testimony, a picture of the presence of God. And they said, let's get the ark. That it may save us. You see, the problem is they wanted the ark of God, but not the God of the Ark. They wanted to reject the God of the ark. They were looking for a king to stand up before them and they were going to get rid of that. But they thought, well, if we go into battle, we'll take the ark because that's the presence of God You know, I think sometimes there are Christians who believe that if they just come to church, that's sufficient, that they're they're they're essentially They have the ark. This is the thing that's going to heal our problems. This is the thing that's going to help us. But beloved, church outside of God is just religion. And religion has never helped anybody. It's a relationship with Jesus Christ. You don't need the church, you need the God whom we gather to worship a church. And church is great, it's a wonderful thing, it's what I've given my life to, and I praise the Lord for the opportunity I have to do so. But beloved, this cannot be what it's about It's got to be about Him. We've got to be looking to Him and longing to know Him and desiring that God, Jehovah's Sabbath, would go before us and fight the battle for us. Israel went into battle with the Ark, and you guys remember the story. They thought, well, this is going to save us. They went into battle with the Ark, and not only did they lose another battle, but they lost the Ark. The Philisees took the ark and hauled it off. But now they they had nothing. They were in great trouble because they chose not to go with Jehovah's Sabbath. But you're in 1 Samuel chapter number 17. This is a familiar story. This is I remember uh uh uh Brother Dave Smith uh He's my brother's father-in-law, but he was here preached for Roundup Sunday a few years ago. Dave Smith said, I've preached more times out of out of 1 Samuel chapter 17 than any passage in the Word of God. He loves that text. But this, of course, is the story of David and Goliath. Look down in verse number 45, if you would. You remember the story of David and Goliath. I don't need to tell you all that, but in verse number 45, then said David to the Philistine, Come to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts. The God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defiled. He says, You come to me with a sword and a spear, but I come to you with Jehovah's Sabbath. I come to you with the Lord of hosts, the God who is over all the armies of the earth. And it doesn't matter how many you have on your side, you and God are a majority. And David all by himself going out before this great uh host of enemy of the Philistines and Goliath, that great man that nobody else would stand up to, David said, Is there not a cause? And he went forward to fight the battle, but he did so, knowing that he was going with the Lord of hosts. Not by himself, but with the Lord of hosts, Jehovah Sabbath. We need the Lord of hosts as we go into battle. We need to know this God and let Him lead us. I would have you see that this God has a plea that he is calling for each and every one of you. In Zechariah chapter 1 and verse number 3, the Bible says, Therefore saith Unto them. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, turn ye unto me, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will turn unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. Three times in that text, he tells us who is talking. The Lord of hosts. And he says, would you just turn Would you turn unto me? The Lord of hosts is calling and saying, will you please don't reject me like the children of Israel? We were he he longed to lead his people. He longed to give them direction. They desired a king, and they says, No, we would have a king over us. We want to be like the other nations. We'll have a king that will go into battle for us. The Lord of hosts calls. He has a plea. He's calling you and he says, would you please turn? Turn unto me, saying, Would you respond to me? Would you allow me to lead you? Would you do something that I'm calling and asking of you to do? Not only does God fight for you, but he fights for you. He fights for you, to have a relationship with you, to know you, to be close to you. The God of the universe wants to know you, wants to be close to you, wants you to lead and to follow his leading. He's calling you. He often reminded the children of Israel, he says, if you'll just follow, if you'll just follow me, I'll fight I will give you the victory. All you have to do is follow. This verse in Zechariah should sound familiar to you if you're familiar with the book of Proverbs, but in Proverbs chapter 1, verse number 23 He says, turn ye at my reproof. Behold, I will pour out my spirit upon you. I will make known my words unto you. You see, he says, turn ye at my reproof. When the Lord gives direction, and he says, this is This is the way you need to go. No, don't go that way. Go this way. And he he says, turn, and God will pour his presence out upon you. My brother used to say, having a relationship with God is as easy as 1, 2, 3. Psalms 123. Turn ye at my reproof. It's as easy as one, two, three. If we would just follow, if we would just turn, when he pleased, when he longs for us to respond to him, if we would be obedient to him, he says he would pour His Spirit upon us. We would have His presence and His power. Beloved, when the Holy Spirit speaks to you, do you turn? Do you do what He says? There's a familiar passage in Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 10 and 11. You'll remember it He says, bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts. He's pleading. He's saying, Here's what I would desire of you, but then look what he says. And see, if I will not open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing upon you, that ye shall not have room enough to receive it. And listen to this God who's going into battle for us. Listen to what he says. And I will rebuke the devourer for you. And he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground, neither shall your vine cast her forth her fruit before the time in the field, saith the Lord of hosts. The Lord of hosts who's going to battle for you, he's just saying if we would respond, he would bless. If we would do as he desires, he would bless. He is the Lord of hosts. He's over all the hosts of the world, but he gives us the ability to reject him or accept him, to follow him, to let him lead us. And it's sad that so many Christians never reach that point where they're responding to the Lord of hosts. He commands the host of all the angels, and they do his pleasure. But what about you and I? Do we do his pleasure? Or do we do our pleasure? What we want, how we desire? Well, it would transform our lives if we would respond to the Lord of hosts. in that way. And let him go into battle for us. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?