Well, in Daniel chapter number five, we see a kind of amazing story. Um have you ever had cause to say They should have seen the writing on the wall. Maybe you've been listening to some news commentator commentating on uh the some boxing match And he would say, well, they should have seen the writing on the wall. The outcome of that match was basically stated or clear before they even stepped into the ring. I mean, or uh some sports teams they were facing off and you'll hear people say, Well, the writing was on the wall. I want you to understand that that Statement, which has become very familiar to where everybody understands what it means, comes from the Word of God. It comes from the passage in which we're going to read today in Daniel chapter five. We're going to look at this chapter uh as a whole and kind of walk through it, but let's read the text here in Daniel chapter five, verses twenty-four through thirty. Follow along with me as I read to you. Verses 24 through 30 of Daniel 5. He says, Then was the part of the hand sent from him, and this writing was written. And this is the writing that was written. Meanie meanie tickle farsen. This is the interpretation of the thing, meaning, God hath numbered thy kingdom. and finished it. Tikel, thou art weighed in the balance and found wanting. Barsi, thy kingdom is divided and given unto the Medes and Persian. Then commanded Balshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet, and put a chain of gold about his neck. And made a proclamation concerning him that he should be the ruler, the third ruler in the kingdom. And that night was Belshazzar, the king of the Chaldeans, slain. This story that takes place here, I don't want to bore you with history, but if I could take a minute and bring you up to speed with where we're at in the Word of God and what's taking place. About 540 years before Christ was born, this story takes place. It was twenty-seven years after the death of Belshezzar's father, King Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar, of course, was a king that was puffed up with pride, and God humbled him. God took the kingdom from him. Well, Bath Shazar is king, is reigning here now for 17 years, and for 17 years he's known great victory. He's had prosperity. He's had success. Uh he's won many battles. He's been victorious in war. And uh as you know Prosperity and success tends to puff up. El Shazar kind of getting a little bit full of himself and Maybe following in the steps of Nebuchadnezzar a little bit and and thinking that he really was all that in a bag of chips, as they say. He really was proud of his accomplishments and he throws a blasphemous banquet and he invites thousands of his lords and Their wives to a great party in which they'll celebrate their successes. Now, Belshazzar had fought with the Medes and Persians and had won victories in the past, but King Cyrus, that famous king of the Persians, vowed to do anything and all that he could to capture Babylon. Now Babylon was a city that was thought to be impregnable. There would no way they could capture Babylon. I mean Belshazzar thought this is impossible. It was a totally secure city. This city was located on more than 3,000 acres. It was surrounded by a double wall 85 feet thick. This wall that was 85 feet thick was also 350 feet tall. Now that's tall. That just seems like impossible. The tallest buildings in downtown Baltimore are about 500 feet. So you're approaching the height of most of the buildings in in downtown Baltimore at three hundred and fifty feet. That's tall. You could see why they felt secure. Oh, this is impossible. Along the wall, there was a hundred towers. In which guards could position themselves and see well in advance any approaching enemy. Why, this was certainly a secure city. Belshazzar felt so secure in all this that in an act of defiance against God, he calls for his servants to bring the vessels. That had been captured out of the temple, the vessels that they had taken from the temple in Jerusalem, these vessels that were to be used in the worship of God, he calls for those vessels to be brought. To use those in this blasphemous party he was serving. He could have used any vessels. I'm sure they had a plethora of vessels. Why would he call for those vessels? Because he was making a statement, I'm in control, not God. Well beloved, I'm reminded of a verse in the scriptures that said, Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. It is in this setting and at this great blasphemous banquet where his guests are dancing and Living large, that God comes on the scene. You might think that you're living it up. But I want you to know God's just around the corner. God's just around the corner And God comes on the scene in a miraculous way. Now, in today's world, we have 3D imaging. In today's world, we can do phenomenal things with videography and with projection. Literally, you can project a what looks to be like an actual thing right in front of somebody and it it it almost is indistinguishable from the real thing. But I want you to understand this wasn't. A trickery. This wasn't something done with video projection. This was the hand of God That appeared in the sight of men and wrote on the wall a message for Belshazzar and the kingdom that day. If you back up in chapter 5 there to verse number 5, the Bible says, in the same hour came forth fingers of a man's hand. And wrote over against the candlestick upon the plaster of the wall of the king's palace. And the king saw the part of the hand that wrote Notice in verse number six the reaction that this king, Belshazzar, had. Then the king's countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubled him. I guess so. If this image appeared in your bedroom tonight, something began to write on the wall, I think we would take notice, right? Like what is going on? He says there, second part of verse 6, he says, so that his joints of his loins were loosed, and his knees smote one against the other. The king cried aloud, Bring the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the Soothsayers. He says, Bring all those that could possibly tell me what is going on here that could maybe interpret this writing on the wall. He was affrighted, as the Bible says. He was afraid, so much so this king of the strongest nation of the world at that time. This king, who was a successful warrior of battle, faced such fear that his knees smote one against the other. There's been times that I've been afraid, but There's only one time in my life that I remember that my knees actually were weak, where they actually smote one against the other. You want to hear the story? It's not what you think. I've never been afraid of heights. Actually I enjoy them. And as a young man, I was climbing out in Waco Tanks in El Paso, Texas. Waco Tanks is like these huge boulders that just up out of the ground and the m flat desert, flat all the way around and this huge massive boulders. You you can in Waco tanks there's probably vertical cliffs a hundred and sixty 60 feet high that you could climb vertical and you also can walk all the way to the top by just going around different ways because it's just boulders on boulders and boulders. And we used to go there and climb, it was just down the road from our house. And I was climbing. And there was a very long, gradual slope that I was climbing up, and uh I lost my footing. And I began to slide down this slope, which at the bottom of, I mean you could s if if you could stop, you could get off and walk off one way or the other, but at the bottom of this slope was a very large drop-off. Probably enough to kill me. And I couldn't stop. And I was doing everything I could trying to get my feet to grab, trying to grab anything I could, just doing everything I could to hold on and I couldn't stop and I was going towards that edge and I was literally about this close to the edge when one of my heels caught a section of rock. And the pressure, the momentum, I was of course laying back, the momentum that I had gained stood me up. And I was looking over this cliff. And I backed up And I went down. I didn't tell my parents what happened But my knees smote one against the other. I literally felt my whole body felt weak. I mean it just just I I just I just remember that feeling and dad was like, you know, hey you want to go climb over here? And I actually said no. I'm gonna just sit here for a little bit. I didn't tell him what happened. But I was afraid. This king was afraid. He had that fear in his heart because God had come on the scene. These divine fingers had written a very simple message. And Belshazzar wanted to know it. He gathered all of his men of wisdom and said, Tell me what it is. I'll give you prosperity. I'll give you promotion. I'll make you third in the kingdom. But uh they couldn't answer. And one somebody there says, Hey, what about Daniel? We've known Daniel to have some great wisdom and to be able to interpret. What about Daniel? Daniel would have been about 85 years old at this time. I'm glad that God can still use you when you're old. Amen? You know, society and others may have written you off, they may say you're done, but I want you to know that you're not done. God can still use you. They called Daniel, who wouldn't have anything to do with this party that they were doing, and they had to go find Daniel, bring Daniel in. And Daniel is able to interpret this for him, but first he tells him a couple of things. He says, I don't need your gifts. I don't need the promotion. I don't need your prosperity. Daniel gives him a little bit of history lesson and he says, Hey Belshazzar, you remember your father? Do you remember Nebuchadnezzar? Do you remember what happened to him when he became puffed up and proud, when he lifted himself up before the Lord? How God humbled him. Belshazzar acknowledges and Daniel interprets for him this thing. Look in verse number 22 of Daniel chapter 5 here. He says, and thou his son, O Belshazzar, saying the son of Nebuchadnezzar, he says, You're his son, Belshazzar. Hast not humbled thy heart? Though thou knewest all this, though you knew all what happened to your dad, though you saw what God did, you still didn't humble yourself before God. Verse number 23, he says, But hast lifted up thyself against the Lord of heaven, and they have brought the vessels of the house before thee. And thou and thy lords, thy wives, and thy concubines have drunk wine in them, and thou hast praised The God of silver and gold and brass and iron, wood and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor know. And the God in whose hand thy breath is The God who holds your breath in his hand, and whose are all thy ways hast thou not glorified. Then was the part of the hand sent from him. And this was the writing. Daniel says, this is a message from that God. This is a message from the God who humbled your father Nebuchadnezzar. This is a message from the God who you defy by drinking from these separated and holy vessels. This is the message from the God who you haven't given any thought to Who you've put out of your mind and you're just living your life and just doing what you want to do. God has a message for you. That God is sending you a message today. He's letting you know, and the writing is on the wall. The writing is on the wall. He says to him here, meeny, meeny, tickle, you farcin. And he interprets for him in these verses that we already read what these words mean. Verse number 25, and this is the writing that was written, meanie, meanie, tigle you farsen. This is the interpretation of the thing And so he begins to interpret it for him. And he says, meaning, and he gives them the definition, the interpretation of what that is. He says, God hath numbered thy kingdom and finished it. God hath numbered thy kingdom. Meanie means numbered. He had numbered his kingdom. Have you ever heard somebody say his number was up? That was the end for him. Beloved, only God knows. When your number's up. Only God knows. Brother Ballier, who is a pilot, was telling some stories about planes and flying. in Sunday school. Reminded me of one man that uh was afraid of flying, which a lot of people are. This young man had gotten saved and he knew the Lord as Savior and one of his fellow Christians said, hey, don't worry about it. God's in control. I mean listen uh you're not you're just as safe on the ground or in a plane doesn't make any difference and you know if your numbers up you're gonna die right here standing here on the ground or in a plane that's I mean God's in control And the man said, Well, you know, I'm not worried about my number being up. I'm worried about the pilot's number being up. And I didn't really want to be in the plane when the pilot's number's up. That's what I'm worried about You know, only God knows, beloved, when your numbers up. But our days, the very breath that we breathe, is in the hands of God. Every breath that we take And you take a deep breath. That was a gift from God. The very breath we breathe is a gift from God, and our days, beloved, are numbered. He says, Daniel says to him, Listen, God has numbered thy kingdom, and it is finished. God is keeping track of the days that you and I live. In Job chapter 14, verse number 5, he says, seeing, his days are determined. The number of his months are with thee. Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass. Beloved, I want you to understand your days are numbered God knows the length of your days, whatever they might be. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know the length of our days, but God knows. We are still as a church reeling from the loss of a dear loved one, a member of our church family. Who we thought had a lot of life left in her. But you see, the number of our days is set, and that's you can't pass it. You can't pass that. You can't change that. God knows the number of your days. He determines it. And our end is not by accident, although at times we call it an accident. But God is in control. Meanie. It's a term which denotes calculation. Calculation. You heard kids say any, meeny, mini, mo. Meanie is it's a calculating term. Determining something Our days are perfectly timed. They're not left a chance. There's coming an end for all of us. It's appointed unto man once to die. That's an appointment we will not break. You might not like it. You might not like to think about it. We certainly do all we can to put that out of our mind. But I want you to know our days are numbered. God said, Belshazzar, I have numbered the duration of thy kingdom and it is finished. This was the last night for Belshazzar. This was the last time that he was going to be. on earth. Beloved, what I want you to acknowledge this morning is that our days are numbered and we don't know how many days we have left. So we need to be living in light of the fact that we don't have many days left. That we don't know how much time there is. I think that if we literally knew for sure, I can guarantee you if today was the last day that you were going to be on earth and you knew that, I guarantee you you wouldn't be fighting with your wife today. I guarantee you if in your heart and your mind you knew you would never be able to hold her in your arms again, that you wouldn't worry about that petty little disagreement. You wouldn't worry about that little thing that seems to bother you over and over and over again because the opportunity to hold her is going to be gone after today You see, we live our lives as though we're going to live forever. We don't acknowledge the fact that your life is but a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanisheth away. And at times like this where we as a church gather and put to rest one of our loved ones, we're faced with the brevity of life. And the fact that our days are numbered, and we don't know how long we have. And beloved, if you knew tomorrow was your last day on earth, you wouldn't be yelling at your kids today. You would take some time and talk to them. You would take some time and let them know you loved them. You would take some time and try and invest some wisdom in them. You would take some time and try and point them and direct them in the way that they should go because it's your last opportunity to do so. We need to live in light of the fact that our days are numbered. Is it sinking in? Yeah. Our days are numbered. His message was written on the wall. And it's written to all of us. He says meany meeny. Tickle you farson. Tickle means weighed and wanting, we see in verse number twenty-five. He says that phrase. In verse number 27, he gives the second interpretation. He says, Tickle, thou art weighed in the balance, and art found wanting. It means weighed and wanting. Beloved, God is the one that does the weighing. You see, we don't get to weigh and evaluate our life based on what we want, based on what we think. God is the one that does the weighing. Proverbs 16, 11 says, a just weight and balance are the Lord's. God's weight is just. It's a balance that He has. God is the one that's going to be on the other side of the scale, Christian. You know, if So Fia came up here and Sophia and I got on opposite sides of a scale. There's really not much competition there. Sophia doesn't have much of a chance. I think I'm probably gonna take it. Um beloved, how how well do you think you're gonna hold up when God's on the other side of the scale? I'm talking about perfection. I'm talking about God. He's the one that does the weighing. In his perfectly measured way. God is the balance. His scale is just and right. There's no manipulating the outcome There's no finagling out of it. It's a personal wing He says there in verse number 27, he says, thou art weighed. It's personal. Can I ask you this morning? If God weighed your life, if God weighed your life, would you be found wanting Or would you be found worthwhile? You see Belshazzar He was puffed up in pride. He could rule a kingdom, but he couldn't rule his own heart. He commanded fear from those that followed him, but he did not fear God, who he was supposed to follow. He had everything that he could possibly want in this life. Everything he could want You see, our lives are so consumed with consumerism. Our lives are so full of gaining things for this world. Belshazzar had everything he could possibly want and then some. And God said, when he weighed him He was found wanting. Because a man's life consisteth not of the abundance of the things which he possesseth. It's not about what you have. It's about your relationship with God and what you're doing for eternity. He was found to be wanting, that is, to fall short. to be unworthy of that which was vested in him. If God weighed you or me this morning, would we would be wanting Would be we would we be wanting. He tells him, you farcin here, which means divided or destroyed. In verse number 28, he says, Eupharson, thy kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and the Persians. The kingdom was coming to an end. That great Babylonian Empire, with all of its strength, with all that he had, you know Just a few weeks ago, Judith was fine. She was okay She was in the hospital for about a month, so let's say a little over a month ago. Everything was okay You see, what I'm saying is we in our lives we think sometimes everything's fine. We got life by the tail. Things are going all right Everything uh this is good. But you see that quick it can change. One one slip, one one fall, one one uh infection, one internal bleed. One blood clot, one stroke, one heart attack. It can change that quick. We don't we don't know That everything that we think we have control over in this life could be destroyed in a moment His kingdom was going to be divided. His kingdom was given to the Medes and the Persians. They were going to come and crush that head of gold, and it was going to be split and divided into the two kingdoms. Beloved, this writing on the wall was not a warning for him. This was a pronouncement. It was an announcement that this is gonna happen tonight. You know, because I know my Lord and Savior, because I've had the privilege of walking with God for a number of years, I understand that I serve a merciful God A God of love. A God of second, third, and fourth chances. So beloved, I I have to in my mo my mind believe that there had to be numerous times in the life of Belshazzar. Maybe God used Daniel and Daniel would come in and say, Belshazzar, you remember your father? You remember how he was puffed up? It might do you good, Belshazzar, to think about the God of heaven and not just rely solely on your sword. I think probably there were some prophets or there were some people that gave some warnings to Belshazzar about where he was at. But he didn't heed the warning. And the night came when judgment was pronounced, and then it was too late. This morning, beloved, the writing is on the wall, but for you it is on the wall as a warning. It's a warning that Your days are numbered, your life is short, we don't have that much time, and we're gonna be weighed in the balances one day. And when we're weighed, are we gonna be wanting? Well, if today was the day you were weighed, would you say, oh man, I would be wanting? Well, hallelujah. Today's just a warning. You can change, you can make a difference, you can start to do something and say, I want to make a difference for eternity. I want to put something on that side of the scale for my Lord and Savior. Today's just a warning. Our days are numbered. One day we're gonna be weighed. That time of destruction is gonna come. Are we gonna be ready? Daniel told him you knew all about it, how God humbled Nebuchadnezzar, and still you defied him. Well, anybody that's walked through the doors of this church for any length of time, for any number of services You know the truth that God loves you, that he sent his son and died for you so that you could go to heaven. You know that truth. And Sunday after Sunday it's been presented where we told you about the love of Christ, and all you've got to do is accept Him as your Lord and Savior. The warning has gone out. Like Daniel told Nebuchadnezzar, you knew. You knew. But tonight it's too late. Beloved, it's just a warning today. The truths of the Word of God that He's planted in your heart, you have time to do something about them today If you've yet to trust Jesus as your Lord and Savior, don't keep pushing him off. Don't keep saying, Oh, I I heard that or I I I I'm not ready to do that yet, because we don't know that the day of judgment could be tonight It could be tomorrow. You don't know how much time you have. Christian. The thing that you've put off doing for God? The changes that you've put off making in your life, getting serious about serving God and doing what's right and following after Him. You say, oh, I'll do that tomorrow. What would you do if you knew today was the last day you had to live? This is just a warning. I pray God gives us many, many more years serving and following and loving Him together. But I hope if he does that we take each day and use it to its fullest for his honor and glory.