Well, we have been looking at the idea of uh our attitudes throughout this month Just contemplating and thinking about our attitude and hopefully motivating us as God's people to have Christ-like attitudes. We began the month with just admonishing the church really to to just consider, to think about, to evaluate, do an attitude checkup. Just see what kind of an attitude have you been having recently. Are you in control of your attitude or are you letting your attitude control you? And uh really just evaluate that and that I found very challenging even for myself in the coming weeks preceding that, how often time situations I was allowing to impact me and I'm saying, okay, Pastor Caleb, time to practice what you preach here. You need to be in control of your attitude. Don't let this ruin your day. Don't let this bother you. You've got you can still have a good day You've got to have a good day, plan to make it that way. And then we looked at the attitude of commitment. How committed are you? How committed are you to your family? How committed are you to your church? How committed are you to following God and to what God wants you to do in your life? To the pursuit of the Word of God and His will for you I mean, is this a passing fancy or is this something that you're really committed to, that you know you're going to pursue? And then we talked about that attitude of Christ, the attitude that makes a difference. Compassion. Having compassion and making a difference, that attitude that goes beyond just feeling sorry for somebody or having a little bit of sympathy or even uh empathy it goes to the point where we make a difference. It's compassion moves you to action. And that's what Jesus Christ did and what we as God's people should do. Last week, of course, being the Sunday before Thanksgiving, we dealt with and talked about the attitude of contentment. How content are you? For it really is only out of the heart of contentment that true gratitude will flow. And so we've got to have that attitude of contentment. This morning, I desire to, for a few minutes, speak to you about the attitude of cooperation. the attitude of cooperation. How good are you are how good are you at cooperating with others Or is it only that people cooperate with you? But are you willing and able and do you cooperate with others? Do you have that desire. You know, the Word of God admonishes us, as much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men. We ought to be able to get along with one another. Amen. We ought to be able to. Well, there was one man who was bragging to his friends. He said, Man, I have a proud fighting tradition in my family. My great-great-grandfather, he stood his ground at Bunker Hill. Then my great-grandfather valiantly joined the troops and fought against those Germans. Oh, my grandfather was at Pearl Harbor and did his part against the Japanese. And my father, he fought the North Koreans, and one of his friends looked at him and said, man, a living. Can't your family get along with anybody? And the fact of the matter is, is sometimes we're given to that. It doesn't matter who it is or where we are, there's conflict. And I tell you, if you find conflict everywhere you go, that it's probably not other people. It's probably not the others. It's probably you that have a problem getting along with other people. We need to be able to cooperate and get along with one another. It's a sad reality that even in the church house, uh there's many times conflict, there's many times problems. We have a hard time getting along with one another. I'm sure that many of you have heard about the man who was marooned upon a desert island. He was there for three years and while he was there he built himself a hut. It actually was pretty nice. And he was in his hut one morning when finally he was rescued. They came in and and they found him there and they inquired of him. They said, Now wait a minute, are you on this island all by yourself? And he said, Yeah, it's just me. I'm all alone. And they said, Well What about the hut that's right next to you here? He's like, oh, that's where I go to church. And they said, oh, okay. Well what about the hut that's down the beach? He's like, well, that's where I used to go. I don't go there anymore I can't go to that church anymore. That's the guy couldn't get along with himself. You know, the the sometimes, beloved, we we have that problem where we lose the spirit and the attitude of cooperation As we looked a few weeks ago at the idea, the example given to us by Nehemiah on his commitment where he told Sambyla and Tobias, he said, I cannot come down. How is it I should come down and allow the work of God to cease while I sit down there and chatter with you guys? He was committed and we saw his spirit of commitment Well I want to look again at the book of Nehemiah because beloved he built the wall. God used him as a leader to inspire, to inquit, to equip, and to encourage God's people to do it. But he didn't build the wall himself. He has a lot of people that were committed to the call as well, and they joined up and they cooperated. So turn your Bibles this morning to the book of Nehemiah and chapter number three. Nehemiah chapter number three. This is where we're going to see this morning the idea of God using a large group of people, committing to and working together to see a goal accomplished. You know, beloved, that spirit, a true spirit of cooperation is necessary for success in anything. Whether you're talking about building a physical structure, There's a whole group of people, those of you that have been involved in in construction, you have all the different uh you know skill sets, all the different groups of people that work together to accomplish the different aspects of construction. You have the electricians and your plumbers and your HVAC guys and and your flooring guys and your your roofers and your concrete crews and you have all these people working together to build this structure, whether you're talking about building a physical structure or whether you're talking about building a church. It takes a group of people working together, cooperating to see that go forward. Or whether you're talking about building a family. You know, if a family is going to be successful, it takes a group of people, the people in that family, working together. Going the same direction, joining hand in hand, cooperating with one another to see that great work move forward We see here, first of all, in Nehemiah chapter number three, as we look at this text, and we are not going to read it all. It really is the whole of the chapter that we are going to draw these thoughts from today, but notice just beginning here Then Eliashu, the high priest, rose up with his brethren, the priest, and they builded the sheepgate. They sanctified it and set up the doors of it. And even unto the Tower of Mia, they sanctified it unto the Tower of Helleniel. And next unto him Builded the men of Jericho, and next to them builded Zekor the son of Imri. But the fish gate did the sons of Hassaniah build, who also laid the beams thereof, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof. And next Next unto them repaired. You'll see through this passage of Scripture that continually you'll see and next unto them. And next unto them, and next unto them, you will see this as there are, I believe, 31 different names and 42 different groups of people that are called upon here, and they stood shoulder to shoulder and they worked together to build the wall. Not nobody did everything, but everybody did something. They all got involved. They stood shoulder to shoulder. You'll see in this group and these forty-two different groups of people that there was in fact there was some skilled people, some people with some trade skills, some ability in construction. This was their field and people may have said, well of course they're doing it, but I want you to know there was also priests. There was also noblemen. There was also women. There was also people that didn't have any particular skills, but they said, I want to get involved. I want to do my part. I want to jump in and participate where I can. You know the Bible says God sought for a man among them, one that would stand in the gap and make up the hedge. Can I tell you that it takes everybody standing shoulder to shoulder to accomplish the vision to do the task. And we have got to get over ourselves and start having a spirit of cooperation if we want to see the work of God move forward. If you want to see your family move forward in victory or success. You have got to cooperate one with one another. You have to have a united effort. These were all united They had a united effort. They were all participating in this work to see it move forward. One of the most powerful examples of cooperation is seen in God's own description of the church. You guys know what he talks about. The church is described as a body. Don't turn there, but let me read for you 1 Corinthians chapter number 12. The Bible says, for the body is not one member, but many. If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, it is therefore not of the body. And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body. Is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling But now hath God set the members, every one of them, in the body as it hath pleased him. I mean you talk about the aspect or the idea of cooperation. God, the creator of the universe in his skill and in his masterful wisdom has designed the human body. This body that works together in intricate detail to accomplish even the smallest of tasks. You know, my eye can see that pecan pie. And it can make the it can it can I can see that and it can create the desire in me like boy I would like a piece of that But I need my hands to pick it up. I need my nose to be able to smell it. My taste buds to be able to enjoy it. Those of you back were going some years ago, but I know some of you are still a little bit in that. You guys went through COVID and sadly you lost your taste buds. And for a while it's like I might as well be eating cardboard because I can't I can't taste it. It's like I don't want to go spend money on nice food because it all tastes nothing. There's no taste to it. You need the taste buds to be able to enjoy it. This body works all together in intricate detail to accomplish its person purpose. And God said that he has put every member in the body as it pleased him. Beloved God puts the church together. He fitly joins the church and every member serves a purpose. Can I tell you that nobody is the appendix? Now I know that doctors have in bygone years believed that things like the appendix were uh not necessary. You know, science has finally caught up with God and they they they understand that the appendix is crucial for the immune system. That when now you can live without it But your immune system is depleted. It it you don't have the strength that you once did because you're missing that part. And ultimately I believe that God knew what he was doing when he put the body together. I know they say you don't need your tonsils. But I think God had a plan and there's a reason that they're there. We might not understand it all, but uh you know there's a reason that is there. Of course the problem is as many of the educated doctors believe that, you know, we came through evolution and that there is no God, and so therefore, just like they think your tail tailbone is just leftover remnant of the day that you used to have a tail. And so you don't really need the tailbone, even though there's muscle structures connected to it. They say, well you can live without it, so it's unnecessary. But I believe God had a plan. He put the body together as he wants it to be. And I'm thankful that even in that You know, I mean, hey, we have a backup liver, amen. I'm glad that that there's things that God put there for a reason, and that, yes, we can live without them, but it's not God's plan that we should live without them And God put the church together so it would work together. Do you realize, beloved, that there is over thirty-two bones, fifty muscles, and forty tenon ten tenyons that are involved in just That action right there. Just that. We could multiply that number by hundreds if I put it down here. Set it, set it down. Just reaching down to pick something up, that simple action, there are I think it's thirty-two bones in your hand. Those of you that are scientific can tell me, but just this I I know from watching the development of robots, uh that the hardest thing to develop is that function right there. To be able to reach and grab something with the right amount of pressure. They don't just crush it. that it knows whether it's picking up something solid steel that's going to be heavy or whether it's picking up a flower. That that action is very, very hard because all of those muscles and tendons. They're right through your forearm right here. There's numerous tendons that travel through your wrist to make that action of being able to squeeze possible. What I'm saying is cooperation. Everything working together. That's the picture that God gave us for the church. We are supposed to be working together. Can I tell you that we work together on what God left for us to do and that's the Great commission. Our mission as a church is the Great Commission that God left us. The salvation of souls and the strengthening of the saints. That's our job in every ministry, every song that's sung in the service, every gathering together, every activity that we have, all of these things working together for the salvation of souls and the strengthening of the saints. That we can accomplish this together as a church. Do you share the vision? Do you share the mission? Are you part of it? Let me ask you this morning, do you have a shared mission in your home? You've got to be unified in your effort. What is the mission of your home? Hopefully, if you have children, to bring your children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. To have a home that is a correct picture of how the husband loves the wife like Christ loved the church and died and gave himself for it. And the wife is a picture of how the church is living in submission to the Savior, the wife submits to the husband, having that picture which brings honor and glory to God, which is our calling in life to honor and glorify God. Your goals, your ambitions. It doesn't work. Your home's not going to succeed if he Or you, husband, have one particular set of goals, and your mate, or you, ma'am, have another set of goals. You've got to be working towards the same thing. You've got to have a united effort. You need to decide together what that effort's going to be and work towards it faithfully. Only a shared mission leads to victory. There's nothing wrong with wanting to be happy. With desiring in your home to want to live together in joyful harmony. That's one of the greatest blessings of having a home. But you know, in order for that to happen, you gotta get over yourself and start living for each other. Start desiring to please the other. Live for the whole, not for yourself. And you'll know and experience true joy. You see, they had a singleness of mind as they worked to accomplish this mission Philippians chapter 1, verse number 27 says, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. Stand fast with one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the face of the gospel. That term analogy there, the striving together is an athletic term. It has it the idea of a team that's striving together, that's working together to see uh uh an accomplished goal, whether that's getting a uh football to the end zone or a or a or a basketball through a hoop, uh whatever the goal is, the the the teams working together They're striving together, and beloved, the church, the home, you are to be striving together to accomplish that purpose. Do you have the attitude or the spirit of cooperation? Or is it, well, bless God, whatever they want to do, they can do. I'm going to do what I want to do. You won't be successful that way. They had a oneness of mind. Romans chapter 12, verse number 16 says, be of the same mind one toward another. Whose mind are we to have? Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus We are to have the mind of Christ. We're talking about Christ-like attitude, the attitude of cooperation. I'll tell you what, we would all be on the same page if we all had the mind of Christ. There's great power in cooperation. You guys ever seen the Amish put up a barn? That's phenomenal. That doesn't happen if one guy's over here like, well, I always build it like this, and the other guy's over here, no no no, I always start like this and This is how my dad used to do it. No, they have a spirit of cooperation. They get after it, they work it together, work together, and they put a barn up. It's an unbelievable thing because they're striving together to accomplish the goal. I know you guys have seen the Example or heard the example of geese that fly together in a V formation. They fly together that way because With each flap of the wings, they create uplift for the one behind them. And the one out front is enduring the brunt of it and working the hardest. But every time he flaps his wings, he makes it easier for the guys behind them, and they work together, and after a set amount of time, the one in the front moves to the back. He gets to draft off somebody else and another one moves to the front and carries the weight. Do you know they increase their ability, their distance to fly by over 70%? If you've ever spent much time riding a bicycle, you understand that concept because you can draft off somebody else and it's a lot less work. You're not fighting the wind. If you get right in behind somebody, you can draft in their their their draft would actually pull you along. It's much easier. You feel it when you as soon as you drift out from behind them, you feel that wind hit you. But you can draft behind them and it'll kind of pull you along. That's working together. That's striving together to accomplish the purpose. Boy beloved, we need to be united in our effort, have the spirit of cooperation. We see they are unselfish in their engagement In Nehemiah chapter 4 and verse number 6, the Bible says that the people had a mind to work. They had a mind to work. They were ready and willing to get after it. They were unselfish in their engagement. Can I tell you that true cooperation requires humility? It requires humility. Only by pride cometh contention But when we're humble, when it's not about us When it's not about my way or the highway, when it's not about just what I want, when we're really willing to cooperate with one another, that true cooperation, there's power in that. But we have to be unselfish. Are you willing this morning to let the whole be more important than yourself? Than your own ambition? Then your own goals. Philippians 2, verse number 3 says, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others. better than themselves. It's living for somebody else. The vision and what God wants to do is more important than what I want to do. It's a little bit foreign today. People tend to kind of think, well, what I want to do is most important. And they can do what they want, but I'm not going to be a part of it. Wait a minute. You're hindering the whole when you're unwilling to be unselfish and be engaged Can I tell you in the home this is vitally important? You know, husband and wife, if if the husband and and I don't know anybody here in this place So I'm not that's dealing with this. I'm not talking about anybody, but let's let's just say the husband wants to get debt-free. And the wife doesn't. The wife doesn't care. So he's saving every penny, or vice versa. You can move the couples around. I don't I don't care who the one being responsible and the other one one being selfish. You can put whoever you want in that spot. Don't want to cause any fights this morning But listen, you've got to be unified. If you want to be victorious and come to the place where you are living debt-free, you have to be together on it. You have to both be striving together. You've got to be working to accomplish this goal. You can't have one person say, well, go ahead. If you want to work towards that, I mean that's great. What if in Nehemiah's day there building the wall there was a whole group of people that thought, man, that's great. That's a good ambition, Nehemiah. You go get 'em, buddy. That a boy. Wow, that's imp that's going to be nice when you guys get the wall done Let me know, I'll enjoy it. Uh no. It would have never got done. They had to engage. They had to put their own ambitions and diers desires aside and sometimes in the home you have to say, okay, I I want this new thing, but right now we're trying to get that free. So I'm going to put my ambition aside and I'm going to work to Together with my husband or with my wife, and we're going to accomplish this, we're going to get out of debt. We're going to work on this together. It's important. Sometimes it feels as though we are the one on the front of the bicycle. There was two guys riding a tandem bicycle one day, we had one of those growing up. Any of you guys have a tandem bicycle in in your life You know, riding two you can ride two people on the same bike and one person can do all the pedaling, the other person can just ride, right? You're supposed to pedal together. That's the plan Well there's two guys riding a Tampa bicycle and they're they're going up this rather steep hill and it just kept getting harder and harder and they're just you know laboring so hard and they finally get to the top and The guy on the front of the bike says, Man, eleven, that was hard. I mean, wow, I I didn't know if we were gonna make it. The other guy says, Yeah, I was concerned too. I was afraid if I let off the brakes, we were gonna roll backwards The problem is a lot of times that's the situation in the home. You got one person pedaling as hard as they can, the other one's riding the brakes. You won't be successful in the home that way. You won't be successful in the church that way. We've got to strive together. We've got to have the spirit of cooperation to try and accomplish the goal. Failure is just around the corner for people who begin to live for themselves. When you disengage and refuse to be involved, You're sacrificing the whole on the altar of your own ambition. Let me just throw this out here for those of you that have Children. This spirit is learned when they are kids. When you allow your kid to be selfish Let me give you an example. O one of your children, everybody else wants to play this particular game. And this one doesn't want to play it When you allow that child to have a bad attitude and to not engage in the game, you are teaching them it's okay for them to do what they want and everybody else can just suffer Who cares about what anybody else wants? I'm going to do what I want to do. And you say, oh well, you don't you don't have to play if you don't want to. No, you need to tell them you're gonna play the game with everybody and you're gonna have a good attitude about it. And if you don't we're gonna we're gonna go in the other room and we're gonna adjust your attitude. And then we're gonna come back and you're gonna play this game. Because they need to understand that life is not about them. That sometimes you engage in something that is not necessarily what you want to do. But you're doing it because everybody else wants to play and you're going to have fun and you're going to enjoy it. By the way, when you let your kids stay home from a youth activity that they're not really excited about, you're doing the same thing. Like, oh, I don't really like roller skating, so I'm just gonna stay home. You're sinning against your child. You need to look at them and say, you're gonna go skating And you're going to have a good attitude, you're going to participate in whatever's going on. Why? Because we're part of the team. Because we're part of the team And maybe this is not your activity. In a few months you're going to have another activity that you're all excited about. Maybe they're going to go skiing. And you really want to go skiing. But what if half of the youth group said, well, I don't really like skiing. I'm not good at skiing. I'm just staying home. That's good preaching whether you like it or not. That's the fact. And you need to stop letting your kids rule the roost and you start telling them what they're going to do and how they're going to enjoy it. Don't let them have that attitude because what happens is they grow up and they become a church member in a church like this and they say, Well, I'm not buy I'm not being involved in that. That's not I'm not what I like. It's not what I want But if they started to learn as a child that it's not about them personally, it's about the accomplishment of the mission as a whole, and we're going to work together to succeed, we begin to have the attitude of cooperation. Now I know that was real preaching for just a minute, not just teaching. But listen, we need to hear this. We need to understand that if we're going to have the attitude of cooperation, we've got to get over ourselves, stop being so selfish And allow us to be involved in and participate in some things that maybe it's not our cup of tea. Maybe I don't really like, you know, this or that, you know, why do we have this activity or that activity or why do I do this? You know, the day will come and we'll do something that you love. And you want people to be involved in it. You want people to participate. So why don't you participate in something that you're less excited about? That's a good thing. Amen. Let's move on. So we see thirdly here the unseen enabler. Look at chapter six in verse fifteen and sixteen. Chapter six in verse fifteen and sixteen. 16. We see ultimately here the wall was finished. So the wall was finished in 20, in the 20th And fifth day of the month of Eloh, in fifty-two in fifty-and-two days. And it came to pass that when all our enemies heard thereof And all the heathen that were about us saw these things, they were much cast down in their own eyes, for they perceived that this work was wrought of who. What does it say? Our God. Can I tell you this morning that you have an unseen enabler? That the work that you're invested in, that you're involved in, you know, maybe you don't have the skills, maybe you're like some of those people in the list, and if you read through there, you'll see people that don't necessarily have the skill set to be working on building a wall, but they said, hey, I can help remove some rubble, I can carry some concrete, I can carry a brick, I can do something, I just want to be involved And they they didn't have a lot to contribute, but they contributed what they could, and maybe sometimes when in the whole you feel like, man, I don't have a lot, but listen, you're part of the team You're part of the team and when everybody participates, many hands do make light work and the work gets done when everybody gets involved and we see the un Unseen enabler is there making up the difference for us. He's the one that's working in the background because ultimately this is the work of God. It's not the work of any one man. Hey, Nehemiah didn't accomplish this vision or goal by himself. Nehemiah didn't even have the vision or goal. God birthed it in his heart and gave him a burden to see this done and he was able to help equip him by sending the king and the king sent him down to do that and he gave him all kinds of uh uh possessions and and gold and and supplies to rebuild the wall and sent him to do that. God in each step of the way made up the difference. I tell you, you may not feel capable, but God will enable. 1 Corinthians 3. 9 says, we are laborers together with God. We are laborers together with God. Amen. He is there making up the difference. Stephen, do you know how to play chopsticks? Anybody know how to play yeah, chopsticks? Do you know how to do it? Timothy, come here, I want you to play chopsticks for me. So go ahead, sit down and uh w there was huh No, chopsticks of the on the piano. Anybody know how to play chopsticks? On the piano? I mean Sh you're ruining my illustration. Okay. Alright, we'll do it without anybody playing chopsticks. So The great pianist. I don't know if his name is Padov Padowarski, the great pianist? Something like that. He had a concert that he was going to be playing, the Tacked House, great Coliseum, full of people. And uh the crowd was eagerly anticipating him coming out and playing. They had been, you know, they had gathered, they had paid, they were waiting. And down towards the front, there was a lady who was there to see him play the piano and she had with her her nine-year-old son. They didn't really start on time, they weren't quite ready or whatever, and and this nine-year-old boy was getting a little fidgety and And she's distracted talking to people and they're engaged, just waiting for Kadawalski to come out and play. The nine-year-old boy, as nine-year-olds are tend to do, begins To wander. So the nine-year-old boy walks, gets up on the stage, and begins to play the piano. And people began to yell, get off of the piano! Who let this nine year old? Who let this kid on the stage? What is he doing? He's just playing, he's not he's not really even hearing him, he's just playing chopsticks. Well, Pedorski backstage heard the crowd in an uproar about this nine-year-old playing. And he came from behind the curtains, came up behind the boy, reached around him, and began to play. A complimentary medley that was so powerful and so beautiful, the crowd hushed their murmurings. And in his in the ear of the little boy, he whispered, Don't quit. Keep playing. Keep playing, boy. Keep playing. And he was playing and Padowowski began to play even more and more vibrant. Everything based off of this little metal that this this little chopsticks uh song that this nine year old boy was playing. He's saying, keep going, keep going. And what I'm saying to you is that sometimes in your life you may feel like all you got is a very basic Chopsticks, you really don't have much to offer God or much to do in the church of Jesus Christ. But you know what? You're there and you're playing chopsticks in the arms of your Lord and Savior. Reach around you And God begins to play a medley that's beyond comprehension. And he's using you to do it. And he's saying, keep on, keep on, don't quit, don't give up. Let's do something marvelous together Because he is your unseen helper. He is your unseen helper, and he will do through you what you cannot imagine if we will let him take even the simplest of our offerings. We see lastly this morning that they had a universal enrichment. Look in chapter 4 and verse number 6. So built we the wall, and all the wall was joined together, unto the half thereof, for the people had a mind to work. Would you turn to chapter number 12? Now we get down to the towards the end of the book here in chapter number 12, verse number 43 We see here, also that day they offered great sacrifice and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy. The wives also and the children rejoiced, so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off. They had a universal enrichment You see what happens when we stop living for self and start engaging in a spirit of cooperation, everybody gets to rejoice. Everybody sees the accomplishment. Everybody experiences the victory And some people whose participation and level of involvement was maybe very minimal because of their place in life or their capacity or their ability, but you know what they came. and they did what they could and other people who who did what they could and everybody did what they could and when we all do what we can do the rest God does the rest And then we stand back in awe. And God used us, but we say, look what God did. And you can see that in the church. There's illustrations coming to my mind, things that have happened through the years where we sit back in awe at what God did through us. But what can I tell you that this is possible in your home? as possible with your mate, with your family, you'll stand back and say, look what God did if we would trust him and have the attitude of co- Cooperation. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Lord, we're going to have an invitation here. God, you know what you might have done in the hearts of these your people. Lord, I pray that we would truly have a heart of cooperation. would allow our pride to be put down and to come with humility and be willing to Esteem others better than ourselves, whether that's our mate we're talking about, or our children that we're serving, or the church of the Lord Jesus Christ that we're living for, to see the work of God move forward. Lord, we're together in this and we want And I pray, Lord, that you would be magnified, that Lord, you would be honored, and God, we would stand back and rejoice at what you've done. Even through this time in your word today. In Jesus' name. Amen. As the pianist plays, if God spoke to you, you come. Do what God wants you to do.