So turn your Bibles to Philippians chapter four, if you're not there already, some familiar verses this evening, uh this passage, really Philippians four. uh as a whole is a very familiar text for anybody that's been in church for a number of years. I have preached from these and the preceding verses uh a number of times But we're going to look at this in light of our study and just go verse by verse down through this. The title that I've given this tonight is The Gentleness of the Christian. And uh we could have titled this uh anything. Uh you know, as far as you'll see in my notes, I could have given it any any specific note uh because the gentleness is actually really found in verse number five, but uh you know, we could look at the gladness uh which we'll see in Verse number four and and we could get do several things, but I'm just titling this The Gentleness of the Christian and so we don't get bogged down and teach an entire lesson on just one verse. We're going to uh cover this evening verses four through seven So follow along. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God which passes all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. We have the gentleness of a Christian, which is a thought that is going to have to kind of develop as we walk through this, and you'll see it. This text uh has at its root the peace that dwells in the heart of a Christian, the peace that we have, and I believe The gentleness that's supposed to be seen by all men, that's supposed to come out of our heart and out of our life, I think is rooted in the fact that we have that peace. When you are in turmoil, when you are frustrated, when you're at your wit's end, that's when you lose all gentleness. That's when you lose your cool. That's when you uh you know blow your stack, as it were, and you you fly off the handle. The evidence of road rage in society today is just mind-boggling. It's just, you see the videos and you think, how could somebody lose control of themselves that much over just if somebody honked at them and they're ramming their car into them, they're driving through bushes and I mean just crazy stuff because somebody honked and you're thinking, what in the world did that accomplished? And I'll tell you what, it ought to be a defining characteristic of a Christian that we handle ourselves in a different way. And we have that peace of God, that peace of God that is in our hearts and dwells there. Peace is something that everybody wants, but seems so few have. This world look for it in every type of amusement. And quite frankly, as with all the lies of Satan, them apples are full of worms. The Satan promises one thing. Satan promises fulfillment, promises satisfaction, promises joy, promises relief from the pain, promises peace, but doesn't deliver any of that. As a matter of fact, what a person has when they pursue that route is usually 90% of the time or more, and I don't even know if I should put a percentage on it, but what happens is Your problems are just compounded. The situation you were dealing with that you were trying to escape by participating in or going down this particular road is now compounded with the problems you just heaped. upon that problem. So what is it that a Christian does? How is he to have this peace, this mindset that God gives us even in the midst of the worst of tragedies? We'll uncover that as we walk through here tonight. Allow God to give us some insight from this passage of Scripture, these familiar verses. He says here, first of all, which is see the gladness is required. He says, rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. Rejoicing is a choice. that the Christian makes. It is a decision. I I'm not going to take time to belabor this tonight. I think I'm dealing with a crowd that for the most part is relatively mature in your faith and you understand that Happiness comes from our happenings and when good things happen or bad things happen our happiness comes and goes. But joy is something that comes from God and it dwells in our heart. It's something that's present regardless of the happenings. And we have that choice. We have that choice. We make that choice to follow God. Can I remind you that this book that we're studying, the book of Philippians, has as its theme the idea of joy? You'll find joy or rejoicing or a word of that connotation, I think, eighteen times throughout this passage. It is a focus of Paul. He says to them, even though there's opposition Even though they they were concerned about Paul and Paul's situation, and even though we just read last week about these two ladies in the church who were having some turmoil and He's saying, hey, there's a little problem here that needs to be dealt with. Even though these things are happening, you can still have joy. You can still rejoice. You can still have the joy of the Lord in your heart Habakkuk 3,17 and 18 says, although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall the fruit be in the vines, the fig shall The labor of oil shall fail. The field shall yield no meat. The flock shall be cut off from the fold And there shall be no herd in the stalls. He is describing a a famine. He's describing one problem after the next. You've got stalls, but there's no herds there. You've got labor that you're investing to bring forth oil, and no oil's coming He's describing one thing after the next, but in verse 18 he says, Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. Do you have joy tonight in the God of your salvation? Do you fall back on that in the midst of a storm? Do you see that as hope even in a trial? Beloved, rejoicing is rooted in the Lord. He says, rejoice in the Lord. In the Lord. He didn't say necessarily re rejoice in this particular circumstance or rejoice in that situation or rejoice in a in a pay raise or rejoice in in uh something great to happen to you. He says, rejoice in the Lord. Our rejoicing is to be rooted in Christ. That's where the joy is supposed to come from. And that's why we can have it even in the midst of a storm. An attitude of rejoicing demonstrates a positive Christian spirit regardless of the circumstance. Our circumstance come and go. Good things and bad things, the ebb and flow of life. They happen to everyone. I remember talking one week about something that happened to me. I don't remember My car broke down or the radiator or the uh water heater went out. I don't remember what it was, but somebody after church came up and they said, you don't know how much that encouraged me. And I'm like, you were encouraged because my water heater went out. And they're like, Well I just thought that maybe I was the only one, that it only happened to me, you know. That it uh I was just glad that It happens to you too. Well it does. It happens to me too. That's part of life. Those things happen But we can rejoice anyway because God is faithful, he's dependable, he's loving, he's wise, and he's powerful. Beloved, if we rely on our circumstances to make us joyful, you're going to be disappointed. You're going to live on a roller coaster of emotions. Because our circumstances are a roller coaster. We have high days and we have bad days. And and if if how we feel and the joy we have in our heart is is simply dependent upon that We're gonna be like this. Just so far up and so far down. But you can have the joy of the Lord every day in every situation. It's a gladness of heart that's required for the Christians. If you have that joy, you will display a level of gentleness. In verse number five, he says, Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Well, what Paul is saying here, when you and I think of moderation, we think about eating five chips instead of the whole bag. We think about, you know, having one scoop or two scoops of ice cream instead of six scoops of ice cream. You know, we think about that idea of Moderation and it is certainly a application. And I have used this text and have preached this thought from this text and and that we as Christians should exercise self-control and temperance and that is a truth taught without question in the Word of God. But this word here quite literally interpreted liberally in it literally and giving the interpretation of this text Means gentleness. This word means gentleness. Let your gentleness Or sweet spiritedness. Let your gentleness, let your sweet spirit shine through. Let it be known unto all men. He's saying if you think about the context, these two ladies that were having this issue in the church, whatever it was, the disagreement that was obviously known. If he knew about it all the way in Rome and and he's writing back to them in prison and saying, Hey, uh word's got to me that there's some kind of hustle or or bustle going on here. Uh we need to settle it down. And he kinda he he says, Hey That's not how Christians should be acting. You should be letting your sweet spirit shine through. That spirit of Christ should be evident. That gentleness, how you respond and how you act and what you do ought to be visible to other people He says, let it be known unto all men. Beloved, it's not as important as what happens to us that counts. But it's how we respond to what happens to us that counts. Like I said, it rains on the just and the unjust. Good things happen and bad things happen. But how we respond is what makes us different. We're not going to drive our car through the shrubs and across somebody's lawn and smash into somebody because they honked at us. You know, you just don't respond that way. Let your gentleness be seen. They ought to see it. They ought to realize that this is how you want us to respond. I read this week about an elderly man. Who was in the line at McDonald's and he was taking too long to order his meal and the car behind him didn't like it. The car behind him started honking at him So he repaid their rudeness. When he got up to the window, he paid for their meal. And as they moved up to the next window, they obviously got the news from the worker there that the car in front of you paid for your meal. And so then they were kind of like, oh, oh those sheepish, they were waving and saying thank you and and you know, a little bit embarrassed about what they did. And then the older man in the second window handed the receipt, both receipts, to the t to the worker, and took both meals. So when the car got up there to the next window, they had to start all over again. They had to go back through the line So it was not really what he was trying to do. He was you know, uh it hit me when I read that, I thought, man, what amazing thing. Repaying that rudeness with kindness. That was nice. But he had an ulterior motive He was he he got him, you know. They they certainly had it stuck in the and you know the caption was don't honk at rude peop don't honk at older people. Uh don't be rude, you know, because they they might take a little time, but they've been through it. So but that that's not necessarily how Christians should act. That shouldn't be how we respond. Maybe maybe you would pay for the meal. But don't do the next one and take the meal too, okay? How he respond, it's amazing what a little kindness. This scripture says a soft answer turn it away wrath. And just responding that way can make such a huge difference. I I remember one time in Kansas, we we were pouring concrete. And we had uh I don't know, probably twenty yards of an eighty yard floor poured. And uh we had all this concrete done and the inspector got word from somebody that we were pouring concrete and he didn't get to inspect. And he came out cussing, mad, screaming and yelling, shut this job down. I mean he was You can't do this. You can't pour one ounce of concrete until I say you can pour concrete. And he was cussing up a storm and just mad as can be, we stopped the trucks And uh of course it was only parti part of the floor was done, but we didn't know that there had to be an inspection of the rebar in the ground before you pour. You know, and i we didn't know. So I mean we thought everything was ready, we're ready to go, and we started pouring the concrete. And uh so but you could still see The rest uh all the rebar coming out of the concrete that was poured, you could still see the rest of the floor, all the how every piling was structured and all that was still visible, but he was so mad And uh I said to him, I says, listen, whatever whatever you want, we we made this error In in honestly, I mean we didn't we're not trying to do something. I I know that there are guns that you can use to see through concrete and and see what rebars there. I said, but listen, you want us to tear it out? I said, I got a backhoe right over there. Uh I told one of the guys, go get in that backhoe and bring it over here. I said, we'll we'll get the concrete out of here. Still wet, we'll just get it out of here right now. You can see you can see whatever you need to see. And when I responded like that, he was like, no, no, no, that's not necessary. I can kind of see what you got here. And and he walked around and ultimately left and we poured the rest of the floor that day. But it was just that scriptural principle, a soft answer, turneth away wrath. If I wouldn't have responded that way, If I would have m you know given what I got, we would have been tearing that whole floor out. It wouldn't have taken much for that go the other way, and he would have said, tear it all out. We'd have lost all that concrete. We'd have lost several days in work. A lot of the metal would have been torn up. Soft answer. Let your moderation or gentleness be revealed. Let your gentleness be revealed. Let people see that you're different in how you respond to life's challenges. And why do we do that? The Bible says because the Lord's at hand. The Lord's at hand. He's right here. He's at hand. He is of course watching all we do. It's visible to him. He sees it. He knows it. We know it. Now obviously his coming is at hand. It could be at any moment. But we of course know his presence is at hand. The Lord is at hand. Then we see gratefulness as the result. He says in verse number six, be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. You know here, I believe everybody here knows that this word careful for nothing is actually dealing with the word worried. Don't be anxious, don't be worried, don't be too concerned about things. Right off the bat, Paul makes two statements that to us seem completely unrealistic. He says, be careful for nothing. So Paul's telling me not to worry about anything. Well that's kind of unattainable. And then he says, pray about everything. Well come on, Paul, we can't do that either. I mean two things are contrasted there, but they go hand in hand. I think quite literally it could be viewed as Carrying your burdens to the cross. Worrying to God. Letting the Lord hear about your worries instead of you carrying your worries. People this world are worried about many, many things. We've got lots to worry about. Quite literally, as I was studying this yesterday evening. I had just driven back from the hospital, uh, where Joe was taken. We weren't sure how bad things were going to be. Of course, here we are on vacation, having a good time. Everybody's enjoying themselves. We're relaxing for a couple of days and In a split second, one one small error. Joe collides with another motorcycle, flies over the handlebars. Somewhere on a way up, those that watched or saw it believe that his shin hit uh the the handlebar as he was passing it. And he had a compound fracture. The bone was through the skin. We were miles from anywhere. We're out in the middle of nowhere. I mean the ambulance couldn't get to us. I mean we were up riding, you know, and we had to find a way to get him back to civilization with a compound fracture without getting him too much pain and get him to the hospital and all that. We the Lord helped us do all that. But I came back and I sat down and I started studying this and I'm like Man, what are the chances that this is the verses that I'm supposed to preach on tomorrow? Be careful for nothing. I'm not supposed to worry about anything Here here I am worried about so much. I literally you can't make this stuff up. I'm studying this, and I get an email from Pastor Gus. That uh Baltimore County wants to come and do an inspection on our water system. I don't have any idea why Baltimore County wants to come and do an inspection on our water system So then I'm trying to study this and I'm worrying about Baltimore County and what they're what are they doing? Why why are we what brought this up? In my mind, you know where I'm going. And I'm like, I'm like, Lord, and he's saying, you're gonna preach on this tomorrow. And I'm thinking, this is not fair. This is not fair. I mean mom I literally laying down at night and and my mind is going through all these things. I'm supposed to be going to sleep My kids are doing pretty good staying awake. They've had three days sleeping in a tent on the ground in the rain. And uh you know that does you don't get real good sleep in those situations. But I couldn't sleep because I was worrying And in my mind is this message. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known unto God. Say, man, that's hard. That's hard. Just bring it to God. Just turn it over to Him. Say, Lord, we don't understand why this happened. Doesn't make sense what the purpose is yet. But I know there's something. I was talking to Davy about it and I said, I don't I I I wish we had hindsight. I wish like this next year, see Joe is supposed to be playing on the basketball team and he's supposed to be playing in soccer. Soccer practice starts next week in college. And he none of that's happening now for him. And supposed to get to play on the basketball team with four of his cousins, they're gonna be five five uh At least guys that were are related. Uh maybe get to play all all together. They would have been so much fun for all that. They've been looking forward to it. And you're like, Lord, why? Why'd this happen? But God's in control. I told Davy, I said, you know, y we don't we we can't see into the future. But there may be something that was gonna happen this next year that now Joe is kept from. And we won't know till we get to glory what God maybe saved him from. We look at it right now as an accident and we say, how could this happen? And life's not fair and and this is so inconvenient and all of that But do we trust God or not? And that's where last night as I was studying saying, listen, life throws you curveballs. Life throws challenges at you, but how are we going to as Christians respond to those things? Worry comes from an old English word which literally means to strangle. Doesn't worry do that? It just strangles you. It like cuts off your ability to function Somebody said, what does worry do? It does not empty tomorrow of its sorrow, but it certainly empties today of its strength. It never allows you to escape the evil, but it makes you unfit to face it God gives us power to bear all the sorrow if we do it in Him with His strength. You know, he says here, let your request be made known unto God. The idea here is he says, pray over everything. And I just dissecting this verse a little bit, but in everything by prayer, I look at this as our communion. Our association with God, just spending time with God, letting God lift that burden, carrying your burdens to the cross, letting Him carry that, communing with Him. Letting him carry that burden for you associated with him. And he says, and in supplication, let your request be made known. It's this supplication is asking. It's okay to ask God for what you need, to describe and tell Him the burdens and the struggles and the pain that you're facing. But then he says with thanksgiving, and that's appreciation. Appreciating what God has done. Appreciating who God is. Last night as we got back, all of us, of course, a group went to the hospital to carry Joe to the hospital and We stopped in the pouring down rain. We're standing outside. I said, let's just stop and thank God that it wasn't worse. Thank God that there's doctors and medical personnel that are going to be able to help. That he'll be out of pain in a few minutes. When I went and saw Joe in the hospital late last night. And uh he said that or as soon as they started giving the the pain meds, he said, I I felt it going away. The pain going away, you know. He knew it was broken. Soon as soon as it happened, he's like my my b bone is is in half. He could feel it. So we thank God. We prayed for him in the rain. Just carried it to him, asking. But then appreciating God. So thankful, God, that we can come to you at a moment's notice right now and call on you and know that you hear and know that you have power to answer and do great and mighty things. Worrying is sin. Most of the time Satan is the one behind it. Peter said, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. You know, I think what it boils down to is our confidence in the provider. Our confidence in the provider. When we have a need or a problem. If we have great confidence in the provider, we're not worried about it. You know, if you look let's say uh Eli was out in the parking lot after church kicking the ball. And he had the best soccer kick of his life. And he dented for the Moti's car. Now he's got a very bad problem. And little Caleb came up and said, Eli, don't you worry about a thing. I'll take care of this. I I'll cover whatever cost there is. I'll fix the problem. Don't you worry about it. I think Eli's still gonna be worried. I don't think the confidence in little Caleb is gonna quite carry that away. Now but if Brother Greg came up to him He said, you I I fix problems like this all the time. I know it was an accident and your dad's probably going to kill you. But but don't worry, I can fix this. Eli would say and and and Greg's like there's not gonna be any cost. I'll even talk to your dad for you. Uh you know that would carry the worry away, right? Because of the confidence in the provider. Alright. This is where that song fits in. What were the words of the chorus? What's the what's the words of the chorus? Take him at his word. Trust fully on his promises. Prove him or and or. Okay, your confidence level grows the more times you prove him. You prove him o'er and o'er. And then he says, Lord Give me grace to trust you more and more. This is where that peace comes from. Because you've proved him more and over. You have confidence in the one that's providing. The reason a lot of Christians don't have any confidence is because they don't know the provider. They've been saved, but they haven't proved him. They haven't walked with him. They don't know their Lord. They don't know what he's capable of. They don't understand how he can come through in such a powerful way. And so they're carrying around that worry. When if they had confidence in the provider, they could say, Lord, I know that you can take care of this. There's no question in my mind. So I'm going to give it to you, and I'm going to have the joy of the Lord regardless. The guarantee, beloved, is real. In verse number 7, he says, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. This is a guarantee from God. It's a peace that comes, that passes understanding. It's a peace that can't be manufactured. It's a peace that cannot be earned. It's a peace that's given to us from knowing. The provider, We're not going to turn there, but you could talk to Romans, turn to Romans chapter 5 and talk about the description of the difference between uh knowing. the God of peace and having peace with God. Of course, peace with God comes first. We know that. We've got to be saved. We've got to have peace with God, and then the peace of God can come into our hearts and lives. The world says, don't worry, be happy. The Christian says, Don't worry, pray. God's peace can help you I know, beloved, that every problem is major. It's the same situation with regards to surgery. What's a major surgery? The one you're having. That's what it every surgery's major if it's on you, amen. And that that's the same thing. Problems are the same way. We look at those and say Other people's problems are minor and easily solved, right? But our problems, those are big. Those are things worth worrying over. But the peace of God is there for us. You know, one of the reasons that I think we deal with so much uh with a lack of soundness of mind, we deal with so many mental issues today. It's people don't have the peace of God. He says here the peace of God, and he gives us this promise, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus That anxiety, that worry, that stress is just tearing people up. But if you have that peace of God in your heart, it will keep your mind and keep your heart. From bearing that, from carrying that. And it's a promise from God. Again, it goes back To how well do we know the provider? How well are we taking a hold of what he has available to us? It's a guarantee that's real. I hope your gentleness is visible to this world