Turn your Bibles to Luke chapter 15. Luke chapter 15, this passage of scripture that we looked at a couple of weeks ago took a break because of last week. But here, look down in verse number 8, Luke chapter 15, and verse number 8, we have the second of these three parables that are here. He says Either what woman, having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house And seek diligently till she find it. And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. Here in this passage of Scripture, we have the second of the three parables given to us in Luke chapter 15. This the lost silver, better known as the lost coin. You'll see it as a lost coin in most places. But this second parable is in response to the Pharisees' accusation. The Pharisees said unto him that, hey, this man receiveth sinners And he even eateth with them, and they accused him of spending time with sinners, and Christ of course replied to them these three parables in a row. Now this third parable was this just, or second parable here, was this just uh to be a exercise in verbal eloquence? Was Jesus just repeating a parable and very similar idea just for the sake of doing it? I think that you're with me that you believe that Jesus, if he gave a second parable, there was a reason for it. That it wasn't just a, you know, that it needed to be said, you know, just repeated but that there was things that needed to be taught. There was some secondary things that need that that people needed to be understood. Now some believe that there is quite possibly a reason for telling this second parable might be to reach a group or a segment of those that were listening to him. that weren't so directly impacted by the first parable. The first parable of the shepherd uh and losing his sheep, it's quite possibly that the ladies there maybe weren't involved in tending the sheep and And weren't weren't the ones that would go out and search for a lost sheep. And so maybe Christ was trying to impact those, the ladies of the group and saying, hey, here's something that the ladies would understand. and tell the parable like this because they would understand the value of this dowry that this lady had and how important it would be to her and how she would diligently seek for it. This, but there was definitely some principles that God wanted to teach, which we'll see. The first is the progression of value that is seen here. The progression of value, and I've mentioned this or talked about it in some weeks in the past, that there's a progression of value. First of all, you see out of the parable of the lost sheep that God values one out of ninety-nine. There's the one out of 99, and we're going to go get that. Then there's the one out of ten in this the parable of the lost coin. And then the lost son is one out of two. that God is is worth just wanting to go get. You see a progression of value uh placed here on the parables that are that are taught When talking about this second parable, Lockyer, who is a great author, he's written a series of books, and if you have a chance to get any of them secondhand, I would encourage you to do it. It's all the alls of the Bible. His series of books is all the parables, all all the men of the Bible, all the women of the Bible, all the uh places of the Bible, all the I mean he's got like fifteen of 'em. And very, very good books for research and study. But anyways, him commenting on this parable, he said it is like this. As the shepherd, we see his divine tenderness. And as the woman with a lost coin, we see his divine earnestness. That he loves every sinner and willing to earnestly search for just one. So we see a different characteristic of the nature of God in the two different parables that are taught. Did you notice that I didn't give you any blanks this week? Are you glad or no? I I I don't know, some people are like they don't want to bother with the blanks. So you don't have to write anything, you can just listen. But there is room on the paper there if you want to make some other notes jot down anything that I don't have there because I certainly uh have other things that are not on your paper, but I didn't give you any blanks, so you you you don't have anything you have to fill out. But we see first of all the telling of the parable, the progression that we've followed through all these parables that we've looked at is understanding the context. We of course know from having looked at these other two parables in this text that uh this is dealing with the same problem that the that Jesus received as sinners, his attitude towards uh the lost And understanding that, Jesus uh wanted to teach the scribes and Pharisees about how he loved the lost and was willing to search for them, and he in response told the parable of the lost sheep. The lost silver and the lost coin. You have the characters of the parable, those people or the the things that Jesus was using, the instruments Jesus was using to teach the parable. First of all, there's the woman. Um this lady would have is believed to have lived alone. She very likely was beyond the age of being in her parents' home, um, but not yet married because this coin uh necklace uh that she had that she's lost one of her coins out of uh is believed to be a dowry, uh a something of great value, much like a wedding ring would have been or an engagement ring uh to a young lady. Not quite married. She's got the engagement ring and it's supposed to happen and the excitement that's there and looking forward to that. I mean you can imagine a young lady having lost her engagement ring. That certainly would would bother a young lady. And it might bother the guy that paid for it too, but but they uh she probably lived in a house that had a dirt floor. Um very likely and typical of that time period. The dirt they had a dirt floor and they would use uh a type of thatch or straw and lay it on the floor to hold down the dust and that thatch and straw would be changed out during the rainy season. during the time they use that to control uh dust, but when it got too wet or or muddy they would switch that out and put some new that down. So you understand having dropped a coin in an environment like that uh that it might be hard to locate. uh there's uh you know all of this uh straw or something on the floor blocking the ability. Also the homes are not like our homes. You know, we uh Put all these windows in to allow all this natural light in. But with all that natural light comes a lot of heat. But that's okay because we have air conditioners and so we turn the air conditioners on and of course we have double pane and triple pane glass which uh holds all that out but in this day they wouldn't have had that except for Joe and Kim. They don't have that They still have to turn their glass over every every year because it's running, you know, the you know glass used to actually be liquid. It wouldn't fall and they had to the panes would get really thick at the bottom and really thin at the top and they actually had to turn the glass over This is back in early America, you can look it up. That's what they did. So that's that's free. Uh I don't know where that came from, but anyways, what was I talking about? The windows, they had windows. Well they wouldn't have had windows in this day and age. Very, very little, because they were trying to build these uh huts to be a little bit cooler. So they might have one window that they could allow to uh they would actually put a shade tree or something outside to block the sun, but would allow some air to pass through. But again, they're blocking the sun because that is their only refuge from the heat of the day And so the house, even in the midday, in the bright sunlight, probably would have been dark and hard to see. And that's why you have the illustration of her lighting a candle Even in the middle of the day, she would have had to have lit a candle to see, to be able to see in the corners of this house. When she finds it, she calls her neighbors and her friends, and they rejoice in in the same way that they did in the over the lost sheep that was found. Then you have the coin. This coin was a believed to be a Roman der denarius, uh not worth much in value to us today would essentially be about the value of a quarter. Um now, you know Over time value of money changes. Although it's a quarter, a quarter doesn't buy what a quarter used to buy. And uh so a value in time or in effort is believed to be about a day's wages. So it'd be about what you could earn in a day during that time. Um and so as far as the value of the coin it was not uh an exorbit amount, but certainly worth something. But the value was not in the fact that it was uh monetary value, the value was the fact l of the intrinsic value of it, the value it meant to the person, like a ring would be to a young lady. That coin was something that represented something far beyond just the silver it was minted on So then we see the the home that they were in and the the the lamp I talked about the home already kind of what that would be like the lamp there uh I I I look at this and I think about the idea that she was willing to invest or spend money to try and find this. She was willing to i i exert some energy. It costs money to buy candles and I'm sure in that uh situation uh you know how uh Greg's always telling us turn the lights off, turn the lights off, you know Uh and that cost money to turn the lights on. Well the same thing for for them. That candle represented an expense that to burn that candle and search through the house costs money. And she was willing to do that because of the value of it. And then the friends, the friends that are that come to on the scene to rejoice with her So the truth, the truth of this parable. Now I don't have the paragraph that I wrote and gave to you guys. Somebody mine uh okay. The paragraph I gave to you here, I have a I've got a page of information, but it's not this. So the truth of the parable, this parable clearly teaches that Christ is not willing that any should perish, the value of one will cause him to expend great effort and cost to find just one. And there is great joy over the one that is found. So that's the pair that I gave you. Now we're going to talk about that pair, break it down into several different things and give you a few thoughts This clearly teaches God's love for the lost. There's joy over one. In verse number seven of our text, this is the first parable, the conclusion of it, it says, there's joy in heaven That phrase is used, that there's joy in heaven. Do you know how uh when you're around somebody that's just excited, that's just on top, that they're just thrilled about the day, and I mean they, you know, just happy. You know how that rubs off on you a little bit? You just kinda you you feel that excitement and you start to get happy. And I think about that in heaven, about them rejoicing over one that gets saved, and it's kind of a uh uh a virus and it's just spread through heaven with the joy as one person re uh gets saved and repents And that that that joy spreads through heaven. And then in verse number 10, the conclusion of the parable that we just read, he says there's joy in the presence. of the angels. Now I believe that the angels are have joy as well, and we're going to look at a little bit of of that in just a second. But joy in the presence of the angels. Now who's in the presence of the angels? Jesus is in the presence of the angel. God is in the presence of the angels and he rejoices. Now we don't think about that necessarily so much about him rejoicing, but it says there's joy in the presence of angels, and God rejoices over one that repenteth. Write this reference down if you would like to, Isaiah 62, verse number 5. Isaiah 62, 5, he says this. And as the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee. As the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee. God's going to rejoice over thee. And then in Zephaniah 3. 17 he says, He will rejoice over thee with joy. He will resist He will sorry, he will rest in his love. He will joy over thee with singing. God rejoices over us. You know, in just the same way, I think about the fact that At our salvation, God has joy. He rejoices that we got saved. But as I pondered this text, I wondered, how many Christians that that is the only time in their life they bring joy to God God rejoices because of the decision that they made and they trusted him as their Lord and Savior, but we have the ability to continue to please the Lord and do what God wants us to do and continue to bring joy to God. But just like a father whose child is wayward, who's not obedient, who is going against his his his own dad, my the heartache that brings and the pain that that brings And I think many Christians are bringing that to their Lord and Savior. But we have the ability to bring joy to God if we do what God wants. And I hope that in my life that the only that there's been more than just when I got saved. that God's been thrilled with me. I hope so. God re God rejoices. The angels also are happy. They are interested in uh people being saved. Look in uh First Peter uh chapter one. Let's turn over to First Peter chapter one. I'm just gonna show you one verse, one reference here. In 1 Peter, it might be easier to turn like to Revelation and flip back a few pages because you'll get to 1 Peter. But in chapter 1 of 1 Peter, verse number 12. He hears talking about reaching the lost, about preaching, about teaching, uh in the first previous verses, and he says in in Let me make sure I'm in the right place here. Verse number twelve. So he says, unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us, they did minister. The things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven. This last phrase here, he says, Which things the angel desire to look into. The angels desire to look into. The angels are interested. When somebody's preaching the gospel, the angels are on the scene. The angels are interested in what's taking place there. They're looking and seeing. Is there somebody ready to accept Christ? They're looking into it and ministering unto people. And I mean, weren't the angels there at the birth of Jesus Christ? Singing? Hosanna in the highest and announcing the birth of Jesus. So the angels have been interested in the truth of the gospel and the reaching of men since the beginning of time. The angels are very interested. And God Himself is not willing that any should perish. It's amazing all of the truth that's in the Word of God about God's love for people. and God's concern for people and hi the the way that He hasn't provided for people to escape the punishment of eternity in hell And yet people say, oh, uh, I don't want to have a God that's a god like that, a god of judgment, or a god that's going to send people to hell. I mean, if he's going to do that, then he didn't do that. We choose to do that ourselves. It's like a child that uh wants to stick a butter knife into a plug And mom and dad say, you know, don't do that, don't do that. And and trying to protect him from that, but the child just wants to do it And as soon as mom and dad aren't looking, the child sticks it in there and he he finds out real quick why mom and dad said no. And God is trying to protect us from the place called hell and he's provided the way, but people reject it and continue to go their own way. God does not want any to perish. He said in Ezekiel 18, 23, have I any pleasure at all that the wicked should die? Ezekiel 1823, he said, Have I any pleasure at all that the wicked should die? He doesn't take joy in that Saith the Lord God, and not that he should return from his ways and live. He said, I uh my desire is that he would return from his ways and live. I don't take any pleasure That the wicked die, that the wicked perish. I want them to return from that. God's not willing that one would be lost. He wants them to come back So then we see the translation of the parable. The translation of the parable. Some uh believe that this is uh you know in what is an allegorical look at this parable. uh stating that this here is dealing th with the Holy Spirit, you know, looking. The lost sheep is dealing with the Son, the the lost Son is dealing with the Father, the lamp is represents the gospel. They kind of break it down in an alleg allegorical fashion. And uh that's not really what this is teaching. Um here this translation of the of the parable, the woman is representative as God the Father. When you look at these parables together, you have to take them in in order. He's he's the one problem was raised, the the accusation that Jesus spends time with sinners, and then God answered that problem with three consecutive parables. The truths of the parables are going to be consistent through all three of them They're not going to change in the middle. And so in light of that, in in the parable of the lost sheep, the shepherd is is God looking for the lost sheep. And in here you have the lady who is earnestly seeking for the lost coin as represented by God as well. Then the coin is a lost sinner. The lost sinner. Now we can learn some things here about this lost sinner. It's some some amazing truths when you think about this. The coin represents this lost center. Um this is this is good. Are you awake? This this is rich. I was sharing this with Pastor Gus yesterday and I was like, isn't that good? You know? And then actually on Friday. I was studying this on Friday. Yesterday I was preparing for the next service. Think about this. The lost coin, although it had monetary value, was not just a chunk of metal. The lost coin had been fashioned. It had been made into something. Not only that, the lost coin had in it stamped the image of the king. Aren't you and I fashioned in the image of the King? We have been made in his likeness. We have been fashioned before we were ever born. We are fearfully and wonderfully made. God fashioned you. God made you. God made you just like you are. And stamped in you is the image of the king. And my how hurtful it is to the king. To lose that which he has fashioned, that which is in his image. Another neat thing, amazing thing is that when the coin is lost, it was lost down into the filth of this world. It was dropped onto the ground, into the dirt and the mire and the clay. The coin had no ability in itself. to be found. The coin had no ability in itself to get up and clean itself out off and to become a shiny and useful coin again. It had to be found. And the same is true of you and I. We have no ability in ourselves to just turn over a new leaf and achieve salvation. No, it's only through Jesus Christ and his love for us. Through the love of the Father that we can be found. Another thing is the coin, once it's found, has all of its original value. All of its original value. Once the coin is found, it didn't lose its value for having been lost. Once the coin is found, immediately its value is restored. You know, y you may have made a mess of things and your life might have spent a a tremendous amount of time down in the the pit in the miry clay. But when God finds you, He can restore the value that He has for you and what He wants you to do. That can all be restored. Amazing, amazing truth. Just this week, uh my kids well my there's been a dryer in the basement over there in the in the parsonage that's been broken for a long time. And uh we use it when we have guests or the ensembles come through or whatever. You guys can go down here. Well this dryer's been broken for a long time. And so this week I th I told Mary, I said, I'm gonna go down and see if I can fix that dryer. If I can't, then we're gonna get rid of it It's just sitting down there taking a space. If I can, then it will be you know it'd be usable. So I went downstairs with Caleb and Melissa. Of course the older three are gone, so Caleb and Melissa are my helpers. And so we went down and we took the back of the dryer off and and laid it down on the ground and then we took some screws out and we flipped the top of the dryer up and the top of the dryer standing up and all the wires are still connected. I didn't want to take all that apart, so I told Caleb, would you stand here and hold this And he said, sure. So I went around the front and took two bolts out of the front and we dropped the front of the dryer, took the belt off and took the drum out so I could get to all the innards. So now I'm down inside this dryer. And uh Melissa, she was uh holding well before I put the drum off, uh the drum was like wanting to fall out the front, and when I pulled the front off the drums kinda wanting to fall When I pulled the front off the drum was about to fall. And I told Melissa, hold the drum up. So she's she's holding the drum up and she looks down and she says, Hey, there's a dime. And she reached down for it, she picked up the dime And then she said, There's another one. And she reached out and she picked up another one. And uh then when I took the drum off, she found another one. Well Caleb had been given the job of holding the top. And he didn't feel that it was fair that he had to stay there and hold the top. Well she found the loot, you know? And so He found he he uh the the top of it had some some metal brackets on it and he leaned it down against these metal brackets and came around the front and now both of them are in the dryer, you know, trying to find these coins. And I thought, well, this works out good. The bottom of that dryer had nasty lint. Uh, I mean not just dusty lint, like you get it was like sticky and yuck. And so I brought a vacuum in and I said, Hey kids, you guys clean that out and you can have whatever coins that you find in there. They were all about it. They said be glad to. They vacuumed it out and they accidentally vacuumed up a couple of coins. And so they asked me, Dad, can we take the vacuum apart and get the coins out of the vacuum When it was all said and done, they each had almost three dollars in coins that they found on the bottom of this dryer. Now these coins were kinda dirty and nasty looking. Some of them you couldn't tell whether it was a dime or a penny. It was so dirty. But we set 'em in some vinegar overnight and in the mor in the morning they wiped them off and shined them up again and they have all of the value that they had when they were dropped in there. And uh so if you're looking for change, look in the bottom of your dryer. The value is restored. Who knows how long they've been in there? Actually I should look at those coins and find out. Some of them might be quite old. But that value is restored. The home. The home is a picture of the environment in which the coin was lost. She wasn't out stretching through the mud. She wasn't out working in the field. She wasn't out in the world, but she was in a controlled environment. The principle here, the idea, is that somebody can be lost even in a good environment. Somebody even coming into church and here in the church house and we've got our kids that are growing up in church. They might be in church every Sunday. They're in the right place. But they can still be lost. The environment's not what determines whether they're they're saved or not. The lamp, a picture of the expense that was that was uh used or spent to try and find the lost coin, and the friends those that rejoice. Now the teachings of the parables. Now I've got That clock's a little bit fast, so I do have enough time to get this done. The teaching of the parable. Clearly, this is teaching that the there are people that are lost. When we're born into this world, we're lost. We are dead in our trespasses and sin. This is the starting point for everybody that enters the world, is every person is lost. We are born and in our sin and lost until we respond to the gospel. God the Father is not willing that any should perish. He wants all to be saved. Many people stay lost today because of rebellion. They reject God's call. They just don't want to do it like a child who wants to stick that piece of metal in the in the plug Told and told and told and told that that's not good for them and they shouldn't do it, and they do it anyway. And many people have been presented with the truth of the gospel and the call has gone out over and over and over again and they still reject it. And because they want to rebel against it, or some people because of self-righteousness, this was the problems with the scribes and the Pharisees, is they were self-righteous. They felt they didn't need it because they had their own uh way of salvation, and that of course does not get them there. They're lost without the Father. Lost sheep don't find themselves, lost coins don't find themselves, and the lost son had no claim to the rights of his home. Unless the Father forgave him. You think about the story of the the lost son? He was you know the Bible says he came to himself in the pig side there and he says even the servants and I'm gonna go back and I'm gonna say I'm not worthy to to uh even be a servant in your house, but would what I could I come and just be a servant in your home He didn't have a right to his home, did he? He didn't have a right to come back and say, well, this is my home, so I'm coming home now. No, he had lost that right But he came back to the Father, and the Father forgave him and restored him back as a son. And we, of course, know to as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. So, what is our attitude towards the lost? This is the what is teaching here, Christ's attitude towards the lost, and so for us, what is our attitude towards the lost? Some despise them. The self self-righteous have this problem. They despise the lost, the the those that are doing wrong, and they feel they're so much better than the lost. And I'm glad that I'm not like them despising them Some disregard them. This is the problem of the Laodiceans, the the lackadaisical attitude, just disregard them, just Let them be what they're going to be. They're going to go their own way anyway. We're not worried about it. We're just going to do our thing. Let them do their thing. Just disregard it. But some have a desire to see them saved. And as Christians, we should have a desire to see them saved. We should have a desire to want to see them saved. We're doing all right. Four minutes and I'll be done Alright, we we should have a desire to see them saved. What is our attitude towards them that repent? To the one that comes back, to the one that's saved, we know in the last parable we see the attitude of the older brother who wasn't very happy about the one who repented. That's a major truth of the next parable, but we should have a joy. We see here there's joy when one repents. I like Jonah. Jonah who was told to go. We're gonna look at Jonah we read Jonah this week and we're gonna look at Jonah in the next service, but not like that. He was told to go and and when he went and they repented He thought, oh man, I was hoping they were going to get judged. He did he didn't want them to repent. But they repented and God in his mercy forgave them. What about you? Some are indifferent to those that repent. Some are skeptical. How many Christians have you have you have you met who are skeptical over Man, Brother Glover came back and he repented and got right with God. I don't believe it. I don't think so. I mean anybody can say they're sorry, but you know, just skeptical. Just don't don't believe a repentant heart Somebody come back. God the Father, there's joy in heaven over one that repents. How many of you said, oh, they got saved? And and I don't think so. That kind of that person wouldn't trust Christ or they wouldn't get saved. I don't I don't believe it. Skeptical. Our attitude towards those that repent. Some are judgmental, but some will have joy, and that's what we should have. We should have joy. Maybe you're here this morning and you're in need of repentance. You could bring joy in the presence of the angels if you repent today. Just because the coin was lost, she didn't lose her right to it. It was still hers. The lost are still his. God is still the creator of this world. And he still loves each and every one of them, even though they haven't repented and come back to him yet. We are created in his image. God is seeking for us. And he uses the church today as the instrument. That goes and finds the lost. Let's be an instrument to be to draw lost people to Christ