But I think we're okay. Turn your Bibles this evening to First Timothy chapter number one. First Timothy chapter number one. Over the last couple of weeks we've had uh For one reason or another, in different messages, it's been mentioned uh of how big of a sinner Paul was. And uh you know that's it's a true statement. Something to think about. He says in 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse number 15, This is a faithful saying and worthy of all expectation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Of whom I am chief. You know, Paul is literally describing here the reality of how he feels. I suppose that it would probably go without saying that in the estimation of man, as man pondered man's works, His good deeds and his evil deeds, that man would probably evaluate the situation and say, Well, Paul, there are many who are a lot worse than you. But understand this is the reality of how Paul felt. Even in the midst of his service, even in the midst of his love and his follow following of Christ and his passion for serving the Lord, he Felt in his heart, he's like, you know what? Jesus came to save sinners, and I'm one of the biggest ones. And Jesus saved me. You know, I would tell you you're in pretty good company tonight. And you're in a pretty good place spiritually when you feel that way. When you feel like you know I'm really not that good. I'm really not all that. I I I just am thankful for the grace and the goodness of God and his forgiveness because I certainly know I don't deserve it. I want to speak to you on this verse. We w won't be long tonight. I suppose I was probably ten years old when I heard it the first time. Some preacher said, Well, I'll say to you what Henry VIII said to his fifth wife. I won't keep you long. So Yeah. We we won't be long. Look at this one verse quickly As we talk about the chief sinner. The chief sinner. First of all, beloved, I want you to see that there was a certain message. He said, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. Paul, beloved, is writing with the authority of the Word of God. Declaring with the certainty that we have in the scriptures, and I don't need to re-preach or elaborate on that fact that we dealt with that this morning in Sunday school, that this is indeed the Word of God. And can I tell you that It's been almost 2,000 years since Paul pinned this, and it is just as faithful today as it was then. This is a faithful saying. That means it's something that can be counted on in this world of uncertainty that we looked at this morning in Sunday school and and the idea that there's not much you can count on. The fact of the matter is Paul is saying, hey, in this world where men have all of their own ideas and all their own philosophies and everybody has an opinion about this, that, and the other, the fact of the matter, here's something that is faithful. Here's something that you can count on. Here is a certain message, a faithful saying, something that is worthy of all acceptation. It's faithful. Of all the heresy that was out there, there was a message that was something that could be counted on. You know, Rome taught that might makes right. That the emperor was God. Oh, the Sadducees believed that death was the end. They would have said, There's nothing after. There are many that believe that today, that once you're dead, your body goes into the ground, and that's the end. There's nothing else. The laws of God are written on the heart of men. And doth not nature itself declare the handiwork of God? And I can tell you, beloved, that everyone in their heart of hearts, when they lay their head on their pillow at night, regardless of what they say as they boast to their friends at the bar. Their mind is pondering eternity and what happens after the grave. The Sadducees wanted to say there's nothing after the grave. But we know according to the word of God that there is. The Pharisees believed that their eternity was secure because of self-righteousness. As long as they adhered to and kept the laws that were established and as they as a group designed and added laws and said, Well if you keep these then you can be assured of righteousness and you'll be okay. The Greeks were perverse and wicked people, worshipping a plethora of fabricated gods that set themselves up as the you know almost uh the organizers of earth and basically the gods would play with humankind and just like toys and and they they they believe this and and so many things they work to try and please these gods in marry various methodology in in so many perverse ways But I'm saying is it's no different today than it was back then that there are a thousand opinions out there. But this is the faithful saying. This is something that can be counted on. It is a certain message. Paul said, Listen, whoever you are, wherever you are, whatever you've done, Jesus came into the world to save sinners Here's something that you can count on, and that is the message of the gospel. The scripture demands that we have faith. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Putting our belief and trust in Christ is literally the message of the gospel. It's not faith in ourselves, not faith in what we can do, but faith in what God has said. That faithful saying. Beloved, when doubts, go back to the book. When you begin to struggle, go back to the Word of God and realize this is a faithful saying, this is something that can be counted on. And put your rest and your your strength in that And know that it's going to be what God said. Beloved feelings come and go. Some days you feel like you could just. Storm hell with a squirt gun. Nether days you feel like you've never had a victory in your life. Feelings come and go. But this is a faithful saying. The word of God is something that we can count on. We see He gives us here a certain message. Secondly, we see the compassionate mission. The compassion mission is that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners. This is quite literally the gospel. It was the mission of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He came to earth on a mission. Beloved, this was something new in that time period. This was something new in the world. This is not the same old religion fabricated out of the heart and minds of men. Where they they set up whatever means of rules and and areas where people have to uh abide by or be consistent in or do these particular things. No, uh the fact of the matter is is this was Different. Jesus Christ loved the world so much he gave himself and he died for the world. That is what gives us the possibility of a relationship. He came with power and he came with a purpose. He left his mansion in glory and came to a manger on earth. Lived a sinless life and gave himself a sacrifice for us. He gave up all of his adoration. Around the throne room, as the angels sang his glory to be assassinated here on earth by his creation. Beloved, he understood as he did it, without question or hesitation, that we were unworthy. That we could, and uh in and of ourselves we would never be worthy. But he loved us anyway, and he came to save us Even the chiefest among us. Can I tell you this evening that he came all the way to you? No, God never asked that man meet him halfway. It's kind of man's philosophy idea, like, you know, okay, you give 50%, I'll give 50% Yeah you come along and you know meet me halfway and and and we'll somehow line it up and and make it equitable. God gave it all. God did it all. He's not asking anything of us. I was encouraged tonight to hear the testimony of those that were sharing the gospel with those they've come in contact with as the Lord prompted them. I want to ask you, are you on a mission? Jesus came on a mission to seek and save that which lost, and he left a commission to you and I to go into all the world and preach the gospel. Are you on a mission? Do you have somebody that you're praying for currently? Somebody that's on your heart or you would love to see come to the saving knowledge of Christ, somebody you would love to see uh understand their need of a savior, and have you Made that a matter of prayer? Have you sent them gospel tracts or made an effort to try and present the truth of the gospel to them? Do you have any loss that you're trying to win? Well you see Paul here has a very clear meaning. When he considers and ponders himself, he says, Of whom I am chief. He says, Man, I'm the biggest sinner of them all. Paul recognized in himself not his own goodness, but his own sin. We've got to be very careful today. Because we certainly like to see our own goodness. Note, beloved, that he does not say whom I was chief. This is after he had come to Christ. This is after his sins were forgiven. This is after uh all that was done before his salvation was under the blood and he was serving God with his life now. Yet he still looked at himself and said, Boy, I'm just a sinner saved by grace. I'm the chiefest of sinners. Beloved, for who for those who would like to talk about sinless perfection, and I've heard it. There's preachers and teachers who believe that in this life you can reach the place where you no longer sin. This is the Apostle Paul talking after salvation in the midst of his ministry by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, and Paul says, Hey, I'm the chiefest of sinners. He's not talking about what he used to do. He's talking about where he's at, that he is just a sinner saved by grace. And beloved, it would we would do well to remember that we literally are just a sinner saved by grace. You and I have done nothing to earn the righteousness that we have. Our righteousness was imputed to us, granted, and given to us freely by the Savior who died for us. That means we have nothing to be proud of. We have nothing that we can pat ourselves on the back for, or that we should be exalted for, or lifted up for. Which means, beloved, we have nothing to be offended over. Romans 12 verse 3 says, For I say, Though the grace given unto me, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man a measure of faith. These words spinned by Paul as well. Realizing he's just a sinner, he says, you know what, you gotta be careful, you don't think too highly of yourself. Gotta be careful that you don't look at what you've done or accomplished and rack it up to your good deeds or to your good nature or to your kindness or to your consideration or you know whatever it is, but we certainly like to feel good about ourselves But when we do so we get hung up in pride. And the testimony of Paul is let's not think too highly of ourselves. Let's just remember that, but for the grace of God, but for the goodness of God. We would be anywhere, even uh amongst the greatest of the sinners of our days. Because of his goodness, we know the truth of the gospel, and we put our faith and trust in him. We've been allowed to, by His grace, to do something for Him. Galatians 6. 3 says, For if a man think himself to be something when he is nothing He deceiveth himself. The warning is very clearly to guard against pride. Pride causes us, beloved, to think that we as individuals are special. Pride causes competition as we're driven to compare our successes and our failures with others. Pride pushes that spirit of competition. That comparing ourselves among ourselves. So scriptures tell clearly that that's not wise. They did this or I did this or I'm I'm better than them because of this or or whatever. Beloved, we need to guard against that. Paul looked at it and said, Boy, I'm I'm just a chief sinner. In Romans 12, 3, we're exhorted and encouraged not to think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think, but to think soberly. According to as God has dealt to every man the measure of faith, he says, think soberly. You see, we're encouraged to again control what we're thinking about. Don't think about how good you are and how kind you are and how much you do for everybody or or what you uh have done good for God. But to remember who we are, and anything that's been accomplished is who we are, according to the book Ephesians, in Christ. What Christ has allowed us to become, and recognizing that. And what that does is it guards against us being puffed up in pride. And when we're not full of pride, then we don't get offended. Then we don't get been out of shape when something doesn't go our way. You wonder if you have a problem with pride? You say, well I d I don't think so. Let me ask you, do you get defensive when you're corrected? And somebody corrects you, do you get defensive? That's pride. Because you think you're above it. You couldn't possibly have made a mistake You couldn't have done that. It's not my problem, it's that's pride. Do you consistently feel like you deserve more or something better? Is that a spirit that comes in your heart often? Life's not fair to you. I deserve this to be better. I should be treated better. This should happen better That's pride. And that's where we've lost a correct biblical perspective. We should be like Paul and recognize who we are. And any good that I am is because of the grace and the goodness of God. And it all the glory goes to Him. And I'm just a sinner saved by grace. As one good old boy in Lawrence, Kansas used to say, it's just one pile of dirt talking to another pile of dirt. That's all it is. That's all we are. This is a pile of dirt. We're we, you know, from dust and back to dust until we get called up into glory. He reminds us, beloved, that the faith we have is what's been measured out to you and I. God has chosen to gift us in some particular way, then we ought to praise him for it. What hast thou that thou hast not received? Your ability that you have, that God has given you to serve him or work or do or accomplish whatever capacities those are, understanding that all those gifts came from God and the ability to think through it and the ability to accomplish it and to see it It all came from God. Not everybody has those skills. Not everybody has the skills you have, but the skills you have were a gift from God. And we need to remember that. Beloved, we're not in competition in the church. We're contributors together. in the work of God. Everybody just doing their part. Everybody doing whatever they can to further the cause of Christ and accomplish the work of God. And we're not doing it to be recognized or praised of men, but to bring honor and glory to God. He sees it all and he will reward us accordingly one day. But here's the message for tonight. I don't know if there's anybody here that's lost, but if you're lost, if you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, listen, the gospel message is for you. To trust Jesus Christ. This is a faithful saying. There's a lot of opinions out there in the world, but one you can count on is the one that Jesus Christ gave, and that is He came to save sinners. And God wants to forgive you of your sin and give you a home in heaven. For the saves, we need to remember on our best day, we're just like Paul. We're the chief of sinners. And that only by God's grace that we are able to accomplish anything for him and just give him the honor and glory for whatever has been done. At the same time, let me just say, don't let Satan say you're worthless. God created you and you are fearfully and wonderfully made. in the image of God. And God has a plan for you. And sometimes you know we we look at the message and we hear the preaching and The the preacher's really getting on the fact that, you know, we're we're all just sinners and you know there's not a a good bone in this body. But at the same time God uses the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And that you're made for a purpose. And God made you and God doesn't make any junk. So what I'm saying is that God has a plan for you So let's live out God's plan, but let's do it in humility and in gratitude for the work that He is doing in our lives or through us. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Let's live on a mission, like Jesus did, on a mission. To win the lost, to glorify God. Simple thought tonight If you're not saved, get saved before it's too late. If you are saved, let's remember who we are. And then it's all about him and not about us. As the pianist plays, if God spoke to you, you come.