Um of course we're looking at the intertestamental period. I hope everyone was able to get a copy of the notes out in the lobby. It would have been last last weeks, two weeks ago set. All right. And then this week's set. So should have somewhere in the ballpark of five pages total. But of course some of these are front and back. We're looking at the area of Judea, we're looking at God's chosen people, and we're looking at what happened to them during this time of upheaval right after the death of Alexander the Great. Now, we ended our lesson two weeks ago with Alexander's death. He went on this whirlwind spree of of conquering nations, of conquering the Persian Empire, expanding its borders, securing it it internally, and he ends all that with coming home, not even home. He doesn't he never return home. home really coming to the city of Babylon, making it the capital, starting to establish things and reform the government, and then promptly dies. Leaving who as his successor? Well, he had a child, but they were very young and half Persian, so the Greeks were not happy with that. And supposedly upon his deathbed, once again, legend, hearsay, they asked, who should we leave who who are you leaving the kingdom to? And I don't know, but supposedly they said, to the strongest. To the strongest. Well, the successors of Alexander would fight for the first 40 years after his death to determine who was the strongest And locked in the middle of that are the God's chosen people. Locked in the middle of that is the region of Judea because it's smack in between two of the strongest of the successor kingdoms. and that region was going to be warred over for the next hundred and something years, as we're going to look at here. So as we keep moving forward, Alexander's kindness, though, to the Jewish people while he was alive gave the Jewish people pro-Grecian sympathies. Okay? They he l gave them citizenship status. because they had surrendered to him without a fight. He uh uh uh preferred them, he elevated them into positions of power, he gave them local autonomy, and so the Jewish people were receptive The Jews who remained outside of the promised land who didn't return, we also know from last lesson we called them the diaspora, the spreading out of the Jewish people, they embraced Greek culture. They embraced this modernization. And even though they took that on, they began to speak Greek right Greek. They still did hold to their one true God. And we see that all the way even in Acts chapter 2, where people were returning from all across what we would call the Middle East. and returning back to Jerusalem for the high holy days. Even though they were embracing the culture around them, they still were maintaining That Jehovah was their God, and they were still making that journey home to every year as needed to make the necessary sacrifices at the temple These Jews, this is the term that we use, they were Hellenized, meaning they took on the Hellenic, the Greek culture. But many still traveled to Jerusalem for the high holy days. Upon Alexander the Great's death, his empire was split basically among four of his top generals, each at the helm of their own successor kingdoms. There's a fancy word here in your notes at the start of the next line. It says, these diadochi. This was a very specific term. Meaning it was a position of power that these men temporarily took on, but then became permanent. Isn't it funny how in government, Pastor, temporary things often become permanent very quick? Alright, oh this is a temporary measure. It's a temporary thing. And the next thing you know, 100 years later, this guy and his family are still in charge. Okay, so uh these Diadochi would go to war with each other and outside invaders setting up. But there was one in particular who stood out as the most stable and the most successful, and we'll get to that in a moment. I was able to find here a rough map of this, of how these kingdoms split up. If you'll notice, it really looks like the one in yellow got the uh got the lion's share, right? But you need to understand that these were Greek men who were ruling over a lot of not Greek people. And generally speaking, especially for the one in yellow, the Seleucids, it became very difficult to hang on to the nation. They were dealing with more internal conflict than external stuff almost the entire time they ruled it. Alright? It was very difficult to keep things in check. Down in Egypt, you see the purple, the Ptolemies. These were the ones who initially controlled Judea. They were the ones who controlled the promised land. And they were very, very pro-Israel. They supported the Jewish people. It was a little bit of a scuffle at the very beginning, but then they had a very favorable rule and the opinion of the Jewish people. We have the kingdom of Pergamon, which was up there at the top of Asia Minor, a lot of modern-day Turkey and Thrace, and then we have the Kingdom of Macedonia. So out of these four Very quickly, I mean within basically 20 years, one of them is eliminated already. They do not last long, and that is the one in the SMAC center, the Pergamon, the one in orange there, they do not last long Their leader gets the grand idea that he's going to reunify the empire. Well, I don't, I'm not too, you know, I'm not the best with mass pastor, but three versus one does not sound like winning odds. And his uh reign ends with his death and his entire family being eliminated along with his kingdom. So very quickly we go from four to three. But that kind of sets the stage for the things coming up. This is just a summary of everything I just said. It's in your notes In fact, your notes on paper are more detailed than this. I tried to trim down what was in the slides so that you could see that we have the names of the leaders, but the most important ones, the ones that are relevant to us, are the Ptolemies. Uh this man, Ptolemy Soder, was a leading general for the Greek army the entire time under Alexander the Great He was in charge of one of those giant phalanxes of pikemen. He probably had over a thousand men under his command. He was always in the thick of it, always in the fight. He would often lead from the front, just like Alexander He was known for his bravery, for his dedication to his troops. So it's not that surprising before Alexander's death, Alexander elevated and put him in charge of Egypt kind of as a minor king. Hey, you're gonna go rule Egypt for me. And then Alexander dies. And then Ptolemy just gets to keep it. Ptolemy manages to get the Greek, uh to get the Egyptian people to ritualistically make him the Pharaoh. He becomes the pharaoh of Egypt. A Greek becomes the pharaoh of Egypt. And they worship him just like they start to worship the old pharaohs, maybe not to the same extent. But he is able to establish himself as the leader of this nation. And uh, you know, just being aware of our map here, what's right next to Egypt. The Promised Land, Judea. It's one of the first targets of his conquest. Initially, he forcefully takes Jerusalem on a Sabbath day I think they were aware of the Jewish custom. They march into the city, take a hundred thousand people as captives, as slaves. He enrafts another thirty thousand. to man fortifications of the area. Why is he being so harsh if they have a pro-Jewish sentiment? Well it's simple. He's at war. He's at war with everyone else. He needs to secure his territory as quickly as he can. But as his position becomes more secure. He relaxes those laws, begins to release some of those people back, begins to pay the draftees, all right, and he kind of moves towards a more friendly position . . towards the Jewish people, if you will, almost emergency war powers. He did what he had to do to secure his nation. And then once he felt secure enough He began to relax his attitude towards the Jewish people. His son, Ptolemy Soter's son, Ptolemy Fidelphius, would redeem the Jews enslaved by his father with his own money. And give gifts of gold and jewels to the temple for the temple furniture in Jerusalem. I mean, you can't get more pro-Jewish than that buys them back with his own money, sends gifts to the temple. He's doing everything he can to help the Jewish people. He also commissioned a translation of the Pentateuch from Hebrew to Greek, the work we know today as the Septuagint. The Septuagint. The Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament. They brought that into Greek the original work that he commissioned was very accurate and very well done, but the work dragged out almost over 70 years and the quality got less and less kind of as they went The Septuagint was even in use in the days of Christ. We of course hold that the King James Bible is the Word of God that we use for you and for me today. It's the most accurate English version possible. It is the word of God in English. Say it that way. It's the word of God in English. Well, to the Greek people Greek-speaking people, which was the majority of the world, what did they have of God's word? I mean they had it in Hebrew, or they needed something, so they translated it into Greek. He commissioned that work. He also commissioned in the libraries of Alexandria. I did forget to mention this in the last lesson, but when Alexander first came to Egypt, he established the city of Alexandria. I don't know if you caught that name name. He liked to name things after himself. In fact, there's in the ballpark of 30-something cities he founded with his name attached to it. Fun fact. But he wanted to fill those live the special library at Alexandria. He commissioned other Jewish literature. to be written these books during this time, some of them would be included in what we know as the Apocrypha today. But let's be very clear, these were never considered to be scripture They were never to be considered part of God's word. Some were collections of Jewish myths and legends, some were uh brief little histories of their people, but they were not ever under any circumstances considered actual divine scripture given by God. Okay? But these were written during this time period, some of them. Some of them would come a little later. We are getting on in history now. Ptolemy Yurgettes, I only mention this man because of the fun situation with the Jewish people surrounding this. A Jewish high priest. comes into power, and I say that comes into power because the position of the high priest is beginning to be politicized. The position of the high priest is no longer just a religious ceremonial position, he essentially becomes the governor of the country as well. That bonding and merging of church and state is not good. That corruption that begins to come with that position leads to problems. And the high priest who was in charge during this time Refused to pay tribute to the Ptolemies. I don't know his reasoning, we don't understand why, but this Ptolemy, Ptolemy Jurgedes appoints a tax assessor by the name of Joseph, the nephew of this high priest, to go and begin collecting this tax, we see our first publican. Our first publican Someone collecting the tax on behalf of the government, a Jew taxing other Jews for the government and lining his own pockets while he's doing it. He had a retirement fund that he was slushing some of that money into. And you know, it's it was the same thing that happened when Jesus came, but what are we? We're almost 200 years before Christ would come on the scene. The Jewish people were well used to their government uh officials, even Jewish ones, being corrupt. Double dipping. It was something that they were just used to. This hatred for the publicans, this hatred towards the tax collectors, was not just a new thing in Christ age. It was probably something that was going on for centuries. So this man had this situation going on and it was a problem. But note the year, 247 to 222 BC. During the same time, and I know this is we're we're putting sort of Bible history with history, but putting it together, this is happening in the Middle East. In the West, what we would consider the West. Italy, North Africa, kind of that region. Rome is ascendant. Rome is beginning to take on the Carthaginians in the Punic Wars and beginning to really establish a foothold and make themselves known. They went from being a backwater little village to conquering all of modern-day Italy, to now they're starting to flex their muscle and take on someone four times their size. The Carthaginian Empire, and they're duking it out over in the West right now as these things are going on in the East. Why is that important? Because not too long from now, the Romans are going to come knocking on this side of the world So I'm just letting you know, putting that in your brains. While this is all going on here in the east, if you will, in the west, Rome is starting to raise their banner and make progress. The Seleucids are now going to take over the promised land. You can see how large and to the extent they've extended their kingdom. You see it even reaches down there into the Judea region, the Seleucid Empire. Yes, ma'am? I know I'm moving fast, I apologize. So the Ptolemies, um it it goes with their culture. The Ptolemies was the name that their dynasty then became known as. um kind of like Julius Caesar. Caesar was actually more of like a family name, and um it became so important that it became almost like a position, a title. You wanted to become a Caesar. It was a position, even though it was named after someone. Um the Ptolemies reached that level of deification of importance and their line would continue all the way even to Cleopatra. Cleopatra was a Ptolemy, I mean hundreds of years later. So, you know, these these things lasted for a very long time. Good question, Mr. Trudy. Thank you very much. And so the Seleucids now are going to expand and begin to take the territory of Judea and they are not as nice as the Ptolemies. We'll just That's called foreshadowing. Okay, uh the Seleucids wrested control of Judea away from the Ptolemies in 198. B. C. So almost exactly 200 years before Christ, but in 198 B. C. , they wrested control in a series of invasions under the dynamic leadership of Antiochus III. He was called the Great as well. He was Antiochus the Great of the Seleucids. He managed to win a series of lightning wars and conquered this region. Eight years later He was defeated by Rome. So see, Rome is coming on the scene. And they levied a heavy tribute against him. The only reason I mention this is because we know this temple later in the New Testament, right? The Temple of Diana in Ephesus. He went there to essentially steal their money. All the silver that they had to make the idols. And they murdered him. They isolated him inside the temple. They got him alone and Boom. Dead. This is the same temple of Diana in Ephesus that Paul was going to be dealing with in the future in the New Testament hundreds of years later. There's a reason they were so proud and uppity and thought they could do whatever they wanted. They literally killed a king in their past, in their history. No one's gonna touch them. No one's gonna mess with them. But of course Christ was going to in his own way in the future. So fun history fact there. I mean these places existed and were around and had a history way before Christ came on the scene, but it's just it's interesting how it all fits together. And I thought I would at least include that. Uh evil has a face, and it ain't pretty Okay, uh this is the man uh who is a type, a picture of the Antichrist. This man, who we're going to learn his name in just a second. is going to do horrendous things to the Jewish people. Even the stuff I list in the slides, there's more that I don't even feel comfortable talking about. It's it's bad. It's very bad. The little horn, Daniel chapter 8, verses 9 through 14, 23 to 226, they discuss this little horn arising out of these great horns. Remember the four horns that split the four kingdoms, and one of these, a little horn arising out of that one, and how the the The destruction that's going to be brought, the pain that's going to be brought, the desolation that's going to be brought to the temple, all of that is found in this man. Antiochus IV, Epiphanes. You might an Epiphany. An Epiphany. What is that? It's like a thought, right? That enters your mind. Well, the Greek origin of that is a thought given to you by the gods. You didn't have that realization. A God gave it to you. Well, he gave himself the title Epiphanes, meaning the gods manifested me. I didn't just appear. The gods made me what I am. Crazy, okay? Delusional, all right? Murderous Horrible. This man, Antiochus IV, now seized the throne. He attempted to restore Seleucid prestige with a successful war against the Ptolemies. He says, listen, the Romans might have beat us under my brother. But I'm going to bring back the the glory of the Seleucids and he goes down and he smacks the Ptolemies around. But then He stopped. This is a very famous story from history. It shows Rome's power. There was an ambassador from the Romans there in Egypt. And as the Seleucids are marching in, and here comes the king demanding their surrender, this ambassador of Rome comes out. And in the dirt draws a circle around Antiochus and says, before you leave that circle. You decide whether you're going to go to war with us. The Egyptians are under our protection now. You give me an answer right now. If you're coming this way, it's war with Rome, or you can go home. He leaves. He leaves. He's learned the lesson. And this does not put him in a good mood. What is right on the way home from Egypt if he's going back up into modern-day Turkey? Israel. And he's mad. He's been disrespected. His plans have been smashed. And instead of external problems, now he's going to focus on internal problems. These Jews haven't fully accepted our ways. These Jews being here worshiping their strange God with their strange hair, with their strange habits, with their strange food. I'm going to make them Greek and that'll make me feel better. Incensed by his defeat, he turned his eyes towards these inward problems, he begins a reign of terror. And I use that phrase exactly as I mean to imply it, like Joseph Goebbels Reign of Terror in Germany, the reign of terror against the Jewish people. He considered himself the manifestation of God and viewed all gods, including the real one, as beneath him. He did not fear anything. He came into Jerusalem. I know this is very small, so maybe consult your notes. But he plundered the city, tore down the walls. Desecrated the temple, abolished the sacrifices, rifled through the Holy of Holies, sold women and children to slavery, killed thousands Banned circumcision upon pain of death, burned all copies of the scripture wherever they could be found, and rededicated the temple to Jupiter. And even more that I don't feel comfortable listing on there. He sends agents out throughout the countryside to do the same thing in every Jewish town they can find These men go to the town, have the local priests, and say, renounce your God, make a sacrifice to a Greek God, or we'll kill you. And we'll torture some people, just to make our point. Massacring Jewish people left and right, enslaving people, not a good time This, of course, does not sit well with the Jewish people, and it leads to a revolt They've been under Seleucid rule for only 20-something years, and already they've had enough. A priest in a small village by the name of Mattathias refused to be cowed by the agent that came to his town. He famously said, I obey God's law, not yours. And the agent Says, okay, you, mayor, you make the sacrifice then. And the mayor agrees to. The mayor starts towards the altar And Matathias grabs a sword and kills the mayor and kills the agent. The town starts to rally around and realize what's going on. And Mattatthias realizes this is going to bring the weight of the government down on them. So Mattathias gathers his five sons, five sons, whoo, and they head out into the bush. And they start to gather a force together. Mattathias and his band of misfits, he very quickly realizes, hey, he's uh up there in years, maybe not the best leader of a rebellion. Okay? And he quickly appoints his son Judas, the oldest, as the leader of the rebellion. They go on to win a series of I mean they are impossible victories. We're talking about taking on war elephants with slings. We're talking about a couple hundred versus tens of thousands. We're talking of the stories of David and and Saul and the the establishment of the kingdom. I mean these men win miraculous battles. They really do. And they manage to retake and recapture Jerusalem. They make it there. They managed to kick the Seleucids out in 164. They managed to purify the temple. This is where we get the holiday of Hanukkah. They, according to legend, according to this history, God is supposed to have performed a miracle by making olive oil. They had ceremonial olive oil that could only be made a very specific way. And they only found one case of it That had been saved in the temple. The rest had been defiled. They had either poured it out or used it as chamber puffs. And they found this one jar. It was enough for a day. And they had to perform the ceremony of purification for eight days. And they did not have enough time, it would take months to make the oil properly according to the way they were supposed to. So supposedly they they let The candle, they used the oil, and that one day supply, miraculously, lasted for eight. I God is in the business of miracles And even though he was silent during this time, he certainly wasn't slumbering. Okay. Just because God wasn't giving scripture and telling people to write down what was happening does not mean that he was not performing miracles. I would even go as far, I mean my wife reminded me of this that Jesus himself participated in the ceremony in John chapter, what was it? It was 10, honey, right? The holiday, though not prescribed in the Old Testament, was then recognized and became a part of the traditional Jewish series of holidays and holy days. And it's even practiced to this day, obviously, Hanukkah, right around Christmas time. So this is the origin of that holiday. I have had people ask me before in Bible classes in high school and stuff like that, well, where does Hanukkah come from? It's not in the Old Testament. This is where it comes from. This miracle that God performed, allowing this candle to be lit for eight days instead of just the one that was supposed to, God allowing for the purification of his temple. Obviously, I can only say it with 95, 99% that God did. Why? Because he doesn't address it specifically. Even though Jesus participates in the holiday and that's fantastic. Nowhere in written scripture does he address it and say, Yeah, I did that So I go with the same assumption that that they make, that God did it. I'm okay with that. You know, I I can't, you know, I'm not gonna die on this hill of God actually did it. Okay, but I mean I'm pretty confident he did Alright, it's it's not worth uh it's not worth that. But the results of this, once again I know this is pretty small for you guys, I would ask you to consult with your notes. Um the results of this and I should point out their last name was Maccabees. That's why this is called the Maccabean Revolt. This is why the Maccabean period is attached to this. In fact, there are even two books of the Apocrypha you might I don't know if you're familiar at all with it, but there's first and second. Maccabees. They do not claim to be scripture, but they do cover this time period in greater detail. I hesitate to ever tell anyone to read anything from the Apocrypha because some of it is out there and even contradicts. established scripture, but first and second Maccabees are just a retelling of these events. That's all it basically is. It's a history of those two things. And that is where the name comes from. He was Matthias Maccabean. These were the Maccabeans. What they did. Religious liberty was secured by Judas Maccabeus. He managed to do this, but he was later slain in fighting still against the Seleucids. It was his brothers. Jonathan and Simon that secured political independence from the Seleucids. They managed to carve out an independent nation They did not establish themselves as kings. They didn't go that far. They did not. They led as governors, as counselors, as whatever you want to call it, but they did not name themselves kings They had a good territorial expansion following the independence with the nation, almost reaching the borders of David's old kingdom. So they were doing pretty good. They managed to carve out this chunk of territory, make it their own. The Ptolemies weren't messing with them, the Seleucids weren't messing with them, and they finally had this measure of independence they haven't had in Centuries. But then some problems start to happen internally The Samaritan temple on Mount Gerizim was destroyed by John Hiercanus. Simon Maccabees' son in 107 B. C. So you see how close we're getting to Jesus now. 107. We're 100 years out. 107 B. C. this temple in Mount Gerizim is destroyed. Does anyone remember that conversation Jesus had with the woman at the well? And where she mentions, my, you know, our ancestors used to worship in this mountain. Yeah, key word is used to. The Jewish people destroyed that temple, and it said it was done so thoroughly that someone passing by wouldn't even know that a town existed there at all. Leveled. Gone. Removed. Wiped out. Why? I thought they were kind of at least sort of getting along. There was some tension there. When the Seleucids began persecuting the Jewish people The Samaritans got right in line and not only gave into the forced Hellenization, they helped persecute the Jews. So once the borders were secured, once the nation was established John Arcanus, which is only, you know, he's the son, but he was alive to see this, said, I remember you, Samaritans. I remember how we had to run from you just like we ran from the Seleucids. I remember how you helped them. I remember how you persecuted us. It's time for you to get yours. So they leveled that temple. I think that kind of fed the feud. It fed that animosity. There is a reason the Samaritans and the Jewish people by the time of Christ do not get along. And it wasn't just one thing, it wasn't just two things, it was a long running feud of tit for tat of I mean, hey, I mean yes, the the Jewish people you know, obviously did not like having these foreigners there and the Samaritans of them had a counter religion and everything was was animosity and but this did not help. The Samaritans, in this case, they started it. They're the ones who pulled out the knives. And the Jewish people are the ones who turned around when it was over and said, okay, it's time to settle this for, but it was just escalating, escalating, escalating, escalating, escalating, escalating the feud. to the point of course of Jesus' day where you see a Jew if you're a Samaritan you spit on him. You can't if you were a Jewish person You didn't travel through Samaria, even though it was in the middle of your country. You went out into the wilderness and went up and around to get to Galilee. And there was a reason they hated each other, and it was decades, centuries of feuding and stuff like this That's why. My final slide here, and we'll be done. Some problems were arising, and I already alluded to them. The high priest wasn't just the high priest anymore. He was the governor. He was the ruler. This wedding of politics and religion, this combination of church and state, and I use the term church just to refer to organized religion, okay? Obviously, they didn't have churches yet, but this organization wedding together this led to rampant corruption and internal problems. Through the years, the office of the high priest became the de facto political leader of the nation It's resulted in heavy corruption. This corrupted position opened the door for state interference from outside nations. Why? Appointing of a governor, a high priest by outside forces. This is setting up for my final lesson, exactly how the Romans took over. You could argue I know in our terminology they didn't even fire a shot, obviously they have firearms, but they took over Israel without a fight, excuse me, because Of the own internal politics and issues that were going on with the position of the high priest. They strolled right in to a civil war happening over the position of the high priest. And just backed their candidate. And won. And just like that, the Jews lost their independence again. Because of their own internal fighting, because they made something that God established the high priesthood something it wasn't supposed to be. The governorship. Things work when you follow how God outlines them. But when you start to change it and twist it and make it something it's not supposed to be, even though it started off well You're going to run into problems. It goes the same with a church. It goes the same with anything that God has established. When it starts moving outside the bounds that God gave it, you're going to have problems. Human government, the family, the church, these are institutions that God has established, and they have defined boundaries. When you start reaching outside of that, problems. Anyway. This great evil of politicizing the office of the high priest, making it subject to barter and bribery, led to the eventual situation in the New Testament. where we see two living high priests during the life of Christ. Why? Because the position was bought and sold. Instead of holding it till their death like they were supposed to, well, I retire and got a large lump sum from so-and-so Not good. Not good. So our final lesson for the intertestamental period. We're getting real close. How did the Romans take over? And then we're going to do a final wrap-up summary of what Pastor mentioned at the very beginning, the establishment, the preparation of the world for the coming of Jesus Christ. and the New Testament. Thank you all for your attention.