Uh we are in the book of Jude this morning. The book of Jude, So hopefully you can find that in your Bible. This book, obviously, right here, right towards the end, has been called The Vestibule of Revelation Uh this book, The Vestibule of Revelation, the Book of Jude, just such a small book, uh one chapter in total length, but a powerful book. uh very strong uh Bible teaching found in this book. And so as we're concluding our New Testament survey, kind of just going through a survey of the New Testament, we're getting right down to the end I don't know how many weeks will be on Revelation. Jude here we're going to uh knock out here in one day. But uh it was written in A. D. 67, 68, uh right right around that period there This vestibule of Revelation, the aim. Such a small book, yet the aim uh hits on its purpose and what it was written for and the power that's present therein. First of all, to call all believers to contend for the faith. That's found in verse number three, obviously. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write Write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. Beloved, this idea of contending is really, this is a key verse for this short book, this one chapter. That's really what this is about, exhorting and encouraging the believers to contend. to contend for this con faith. To continue to struggle. Contending is the idea of struggling and continuing to struggle. And the i it it is a uh sad and hard reality of life that we're in a battle. It's a spiritual battle. And we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and rulers of darkness. And the fact of the matter is when you cease to contend You start to drift. It's an inevitable uh path, it's an inevitable end to someone who ceases to contend. That means when you're not living life on purpose, when you're not on purpose pursuing God and heading towards him, it's like you just shut the motors off and you're sitting in the water. Uh i it's mind-boggling how far a boat or a vessel can drift, or even a kid on a tube, sitting in the water not really realizing how far he's drifted, and some of you probably have seen in recent days uh notices of of young people who were just playing around in the water and hanging on a tube and they didn't realize they actually drifted a mile or more offshore And did you know trying d oh they they they got pulled out and they didn't even realize it. Uh and now to try and get back. Uh I read one, they th they spent many hours out there. They were miles and miles offshore by the time somebody found them And they were rescued, but beloved, the Christian life is like that. And when you cease to contend, you begin to drift, and before long you won't even realize how far you've gone. You may look back and think, wow, the shore is a long ways away. Where I used to be, I'm a long ways from that. And that's why he challenges us here to earnestly contend for the faith The opposition that we're contending against is anything that would stand against sound doctrine. Anything that would corrupt sound doctrine. Anything that would come in and uh you know Have you ever been in a restaurant and found something in your drink? Uh I was I can't remember who it was. I was listening to somebody this week and they were talking about he was a bus boy. His first job was a bus boy in a restaurant and he said the owner of the restaurant looked at him and said Whatever you do, don't talk to any patrons. You go out and bust the tables, don't talk to anybody. So he said it was his first day being a bus bus boy and he went out and he grabbed a plate full of dishes and he's heading back and uh somebody at the table says, Sir, sir, he's like, What am I supposed to do? Ignore 'em? I mean He said, the manager just told me don't talk to anybody, but I'm like, what can I do? So I looked at him and the he said the man looked at me and he said, Sir, there is a hair in my food. And he said the only thing I could think is to tell him is, well there's no prizes for that. Sorry. So I think the manager knew that he was not the guy to have talking to the patrons, right? Uh but what I'm saying is you look at that and you're like, why uh w I can't have that in there. Why is it we would be okay we would be stand so strongly against something showing up in our food, but something showing up in our doctrine that's not supposed to be there we put up with That's what he's saying. He says you need to contend against that, just like you would contend to have a clean plate and expect to have uh a drink without any floaties in it. You know, uh y you should contend for your doctrine, for your sound doctrine. Anything that would corrupt that, we don't want to have. Not only was it to call all believers to contend for the faith, But it was to alert the church to the character and the conduct of ungodly men. Basically, he's wanting to describe unto us Give us some examples that we might be able to understand and see, listen, this is ungodliness. This is something that we should contend against. Here's an example of those things. And he describes several levels or different ungodly men that are present. In verse number five, he talks about unbelief. He says, I will therefore put you in remembrance. Though ye once knew how uh that the Lord having saved the people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroyed them that believed not. He says, boy, he he Judge them for that. Because why? Because they believe not. We, you know, this is the Word of God. And we can't look at it and say, well, I believe it as long as it lines up with what I think. No, it's the Word of God, and we ought to believe it and accept it regardless of what we think. We need to change what we think to get in line with the Word. Instead of the opposite. But there are many today who, boy, this is the word of God, I love God's word. But whenever it contradicts what they think what they feel, they would they would change the Word of God. Or they would say, Well, I don't really believe that. We don't have the liberty to pick and choose. This is all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine for proof. All scripture We quote that and we believe it, but do we really practice it? Unbelief. He talks about men of rebellion in verse number six. He says And the angels, we're giving the example of the angels, which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved an everlasting change in utter darkness. G God says he f cast them down and they spend an eternity in the place that God prepared for them. Uh for The devil and his angels, that's what hell was prepared for. It was not prepared for for humankind, although some may choose to go there because they reject the love of salvation, the the gift of God's forgiveness But you have men of rebellion. You have men of immorality in verse number seven. He says, even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in like manner. giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh and setting forth an example of suffering the vengeance of eternal life. He he said there's immorality. This is something that should be stood against. And it ought to be stood against in the church today. Well, fornication is still wrong. Adultery is still wrong. These things are not to be practiced and held up in the church or to be allowed in the church. The the the church the Bible makes uh provision for what is called church discipline. When the church family uh You see something in the church, you have somebody maybe involved in continual uh unrepentant fornication or somebody involved in adultery or somebody shacking up. Listen, these things aren't acceptable And the church is supposed to contend against that. They're supposed to be, you're supposed to go to them and say, listen, this is not right. You cannot live like this. The Bible says this, and I want to encourage and exhort you In in all long suffering, but I want to exhort you that y you need to change this behavior. If they don't change it, you go back to them with a a witness and you say, Listen I've let you know about this. This is the testimony of the church, the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we can't have this. And if they still will not hear you, you bring it before the church. And the sad thing is that the goal is that they would repent and be able to return. It's not to be done in anger, it's to be done out of love. But the fact of the matter is, we're to contend against immorality. There's far too many places allowing that to continue without addressing it. The sin of immorality, the men of self-will. In verse number eleven. Woe unto them, for they have gone the way of Cain. What was the way of Cain? Let me a ask you, see if we can get any feedback today. I know you guys are used to just listening to me, which Pride. Pride. Worshiping God in your way. Worshiping God in your way? That's that's what Cain did. He he said, well I know God said bring a blood sacrifice. But I'm gonna bring him the you know my my things I grew. I'm gonna bring him this. This is not acceptable And so it's self-will, just doing what we want to do. That's a uh a testimony or a picture of ungodliness. And so he addresses that. So not only to call believers to contend for the faith, not only to alert us to the character and conduct of ungodly men, but to inform true believers. uh to be committed to spiritual duties regarding themselves. The fact of the matter is, is we've got some duties. We've got some responsibilities. and some spiritual things that God requires of us. And these things are addressed here. This is the aim and the focus of this short book that contains so much truth. So we see the author. The author is Jude. We know that. Obviously his his name is on the title of the book here. But Lockyer informs us that Jude is the English form of the name Judas. And looking at the scriptures, Lockyer says that there are five other names of Jude or Judas found in the scriptures. That name is found with five other men, uh besides Jude here himself. First of all, it is the disciple surnamed Iscariot. Uh that Judas which betrayed Christ and went out and hung himself. That that Judas, which we're familiar with. That and then you have the apostle known as Thaddeus, found in John 14, 22. Now some believe this to be the same as Judas Isariot. Uh Lockier was not 100% sure and so he chose to keep them separate. He noted them separately We'll find out in glory for sure. Um but since Latiar left them separate, I went ahead and left them separate myself as well. Then you have uh Galilean who stirred up sedition after the birth of Christ in Acts chapter 5 and verse number 37. And one whom Paul lodged with in the street called straight in Acts 9. 11. You can read that story there of Paul after his conversion in Acts 9. You know that's when He's on the uh road to Damascus and God's light comes out and knocks him off his uh animal and he he you know, basically is blind and God tells him where to go and uh he lodges there in Acts chapter nine with a man named Jude. And then The prophet, surnamed Barnabas, sent with Silas to Antioch in Acts 15, 22. So these are the other men or places where the name appears, and uh then you have here Jude, the half-brother of Jesus the writer of the book of Jude. This book that contains his name, we learned several things about him. First of all, he was a servant. He was the servant of Jesus Christ. He he could have led with the fact that he was related to Jesus. It'd be like somebody You know how you people like to name drop and and you know, oh I'm friends with so-and-so or I just spent time Oh, here's a good example for you. I'll drop a name. I ate lunch yesterday with James Bossey The owner of Jehovah Gyre that gives away five hundred thousand dollars a year to churches. Yeah, I had lunch with him. Yeah, yeah. I didn't even know he was there. I was cooking brisket for another church and I'm serving I'm serving brisket and he comes through the line and I said, Brother Bosse, how you doing? So after I got done serving the ladies were like, Okay, Pastor Caleb, you're done, no more work and they they filled a plate and handed it to me and said, Sit down so there happened to be a spot next to Brother Bossy and he said hi to me, you know Um but that's what you know people like to na drop names, you know. They like to oh I I'm friends with so and so or I'm related to so and so. I mean he could have done this. I mean can you imagine being rel related to Jesus You know, Jesus, he's my brother. Yeah, we grew up in the same house, yeah. Uh you know, but he didn't do that, no. He didn't even mention that. He says here in verse number one, Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ I mean that would be like Timothy saying, Timothy, the servant of Caleb. I mean what brother wants to be a servant of his brother? You know, I mean no, no, that's not happening. Uh that's something notable about his character. He was a humble man. You'll know as the James also, that James opens his book the same way. Noting that they were servants of Jesus, the impact that Jesus had. We see the description of this family and know that they were related because of Matthew chapter 13, verses 54 and through 56, he says, And when he was coming to his own country He taught them in their synagogues insomuch that they were astonished. And they said, Whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works? Is this not the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary and his brethren James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? So this is description there they're the brothers and grew up in the home with Jesus yet still Leading with the fact that they were servants and have come to acknowledge who Jesus is, and they just chose to serve him. He was a bond servant. A bondservant is one who has been freed, who does not have a requirement by law to fulfill servitude, but they choose to. They decide and say, I want to serve you. And that's what they did. They chose to be a servant of Jesus The audience, who was this book written to? We see first of all that this is a general epistle, much like the book of James or 1 and 2 Peter, this general epistle, which kind of means that it is generally for everybody. It wasn't necessarily written to a particular church or a particular group a uh an individual. It was written To all of us. We know all scripture is profitable. We know that it is written to all of us, but specifically initially, it was not necessarily written to a particular group. But he notes here In a general way, noting who it was written to, we see first of all, he says, Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James, to them that are sanctified. So are you sanctified? Or are you sanconious? Uh are you sanctified? Is that I know it's a process. I know I know none of us could ultimately say, oh, I'm fully, completely, I have reached sanctification. That's uh what what people, you know, b believe that they can reach a point of sinless uh behavior. You know, they think, oh, I can g get to the place where I never sinned. I don't believe that's the case. I think we still have this old flesh. And uh we still have a sin nature. And uh Paul himself uh said the things that I would, I do not, the things that I would not, I do. Why? Because of that battle between Between the old man and the new man and uh needing to surrender to the Holy Spirit. Uh but it's a process of sanctification, but that's what he's talking about, those that have been set apart. Those that have uh the process of sanctification of being conformed into the image of God's Son, if that's if that's you, the book's written to you It was written also to those that are sanctified, but to those uh that have been covered. And called. He says there, and God the Father preserved in Jesus Christ and called. Now we're preserved. I'm glad this morning that my salvation is not dependent upon the performance of Caleb Atrell. I certainly wouldn't have it more than a few hours. I mean on my best day I might be able to hold on to it for a little while. I don't understand Living in a in a condition or state of constant fear of losing your own salvation. You believe that your performance is what's going to secure your salvation. I mean we don't know but that on the way home today, not even your fault, somebody could run a red light and strike your vehicle and you would go off into eternity. And who's to say that You didn't sin against your your loved one this morning on the way to church because you were driving down the road and your wife goes, Oh And and you jumped. And you're like, what? What was it? And she said, there was a cat walking in the yard. It was so pretty. You're like you screamed for a cat? You you you like made my heart jump out of my chest because you saw a cat in somebody's yard, you know? And and you get a little irritated and get cross with her because of that? Now I'm not telling you anything that happened this morning with us. Okay. I might be alluding to things that have happened in the past. But what I'm saying is, I mean, come on, any of us know that in a moment's notice we can we can Think a thought we shouldn't think, or we can get involved in an activity that we shouldn't be involved in. And man, I'm glad this morning that I'm preserved by God and the performance of Jesus Christ, not my own performance. He says, you've been preserved. We are in the hand of Christ. Amen. John ten twenty-seven and twenty-nine says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. We have been covered. In the hand of God and preserved until the day of redemption, where he is able to bring us. Now praise the Lord for that. Not only that, he says you're called. Called. Beloved, God has a plan for you. And this book describes some of that plan, gives us some example of things that we should contend against and some of the responsibilities that we should have as believers and followers of Christ. So he has a calling for you. You know, oftentimes it's really not that hard, but it is important. That we fulfill that call. That we do what God would have us do. Too many people make it uh this hard, unknown thing like somehow to know the God the will of God is so difficult and how do I know what God wants me to do? If you would just do what you absolutely know You see, we're too worried about the unknown that we're ignoring the known, that we're forgetting what we do know But beloved, if if you know on Sunday morning that God wants you in church and you just say, okay, I'm going to go to church and you do what God has told you to do, you will be in the will of God. This more this week I was talking to somebody, a representative from a college, and he was looking for a reference for somebody and I I just described and said, Listen, uh I for me, God has never led me by, hey, you're gonna be a preacher one day, or or you're gonna, you know, at 10 years old, God called me to do this, or whatever. God has always led me one step at a time. Now uh there are many people God gave them that direction in their life and they knew that from a young age. I didn't. I mean it just one step at a time. I was literally Until a few months before I went to college, I wasn't going to go to college. I have no interest in pursuing any further education. I mean, why in the world would you force yourself to that kind of torture? I mean, forget that. As soon as I got out of high school, I was done. And I actually had con my my parents always said I had to go to college and I convinced them that it was not for me. And they finally said, Okay, you don't you don't have to go to college and I'm like, Victory, victory, hallelujah. And then then the Holy Spirit got in and said, You need to you need to go. And I'm like, uh So I surrendered and went to college. God directed me to that step. I graduated from Bible college a number of years later. And uh Uh when I graduated from Bible college, I literally was graduating. I was all the way done and I didn't know what I was gonna do, but since I was a drywall contractor, I stayed in the area and then a church called me and says, Hey, would you would you pray about coming and being my assistant pastor? Uh uh I said, Well, let me just let you know up front that I can't say in my life that God has put a call on my life to pastor or to preach. I just want to serve the Lord. I said, if you can live with that I can live with that and I'll pray about it. And he said that's I I can live with that. I I somebody's willing to serve. I I'm okay with that. And uh I I often have said that outside of the woman that I married That I knew that this was God's will for me, that I knew when I took that step and moved to Lawrence, Kansas, I knew as much as I knew I was supposed to marry her, that that was where I was supposed to go. God settled it on my knees in in Saturday men's prayer meeting and I knew that that was the step I was supposed to take. Stop worrying so much about the unknown and just do what you know God wants you to do today and God will direct your step Five years, ten years, fifteen years from now, you just do what God wants you to do, one step at a time. He has a calling for you. Some key words that are found here in the book. keep or kept important words in the context. Beloved. I like that word. You guys know I like using that word. Beloved. Uh a word of of concern and compassion and referring to those whom he cares about. Three times that's found. Ungodly. Obviously we're dealing with uh contending against ungodliness and so ungodly is used numerous times. Uh these ungodly men. They lived here and in literally you could say in in view of the cross, but they refused to bow to it in submission. It's a travesty that they turned the grace of God into lasciviousness. Licciviousness is the unrestrained lust. And it's the idea of uh shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. We we can't, we shouldn't. But so many would use the grace of God and turn it into uncontrolled lust, just freedom to do whatever they will. And he addresses that with these ungodly men. And then he talks about judgment, uh the word found two times from verses six and fifteen. Some strong truths that are shared with us here. First of all, every believer should contend for the faith. That is the focus and the theme of the chapter. Given to us very directly, without question. To contend is to fight. Is to battle, is to strive for. Are you contending for the faith? Are you strenuously pursuing God? That's what contending is Or are you passively hoping to get more of God? You see, when I was in college, that's how I was hoping to get through. Passively. I was hoping that via osmosis my notes would sink into my brain and somehow I would understand. Now I understood obviously that wasn't gonna happen. Uh I'm a little bitter against my wife because uh she is a student, student, and uh a teacher's teacher and you know we would be in class together in college and I studied all night, literally never went to bed, just so I could pass this test. I mean, just pass it. And then I would ask her, I said, did you study? And she's like, I'm studying right now. Like five minutes before class. And she walks out and goes, Another hundred I walk out with my eighty six, you know Like praise God, you know, uh at least at least to see, right? Uh and uh just laboring as just a difference in us. Now yesterday I did fix our stove. So I can't do that Amen. So we each have our good compliment to each other, you know. She helps with that and and very often I will ask her Bible questions. I'll I mean in my mind I know this like something And I'll say, Hey, where where is this or what is this? Because she's got it up there. I'm gonna have to go look it up. So it's a blessing to have my own encyclopedia Amen. Yeah. So we're supposed to contend for the faith strenuously. What I'm saying is it takes work. The last verse you memorized. When's the last Bible study that you did? I mean, taking a word study or a topic study or a chapter study or a book study, I mean literally I was talking to John about that this morning. We're just talking about studying the Bible and he's got a a study Bible he's using and and uh I mean that's the thing beyond just casual reading, hoping that somehow you'll get inspiration. How about digging in and ask God to show you some truth? Study. Dr. Gill says this. The person's Who are to contend with them are all saints to whom it is delivered, which they may be doing by an experimental testimony of it By praying for the continuance of it, by seeking for the success of it, by standing fast in the spirit of it. By dying particularly for it, by preaching it boldly, by opening it fully By faithfully continuing it, by disputing for it, by writing in defense of it, by laying down their lives for it. What is it? That you earnestly contend for what? The faith. The faith. Earnestly contend for the faith. Beloved, without Bible believing churches contending We will be overtaken by ungodly men. That's what happens. Stephen and I went this week. I don't remember, was it Monday or Tuesday? We went to a a Bible conference up in York and uh Dr. Mike Allison was preaching and Um he's one of my favorite preachers so I wanted to go up there and uh it was also at Brother Sterling Walsh's church and Brother Sterling Walsh came to the Marriage Matters Conference and led our our songs, so I wanted to to support their conference. Anyways, Dr. Allison preached the entire message, not from this passage of scripture, but the entire thing really was, listen, we're in a battle. We need believers to stand up for the Word of God. To stand on the Word of God. This is the Word of God. And uh you know he he he said that uh since they started writing revisions and giving you new versions. And and you know they they decided that their goal was to make it more understandable. But since they've done that, they now have over a hundred versions. That are available for people to read and they still haven't accomplished their goal. Because they keep making more versions, so they still haven't accomplished their goal. He says why how about instead of trying to find a a book that's easier for you to understand, why don't you read the book that God wrote? We need churches and people to contend for the Word of God, to stand for the Word of God. We need people churches to stand for morality and pure living. We need churches to stand for for holiness and and righteousness. We need churches to stand for the right kind of music. Boy the music's on adrift today and Church is embracing and bringing in the world's music to try and win the world's crowd. However, you got them is the only what you're gonna have to do to try and keep them. We have people come here and visit often that come from churches that that have that level or the world's mentality and philosophy and they say, you know, I'm just uh I just looking for something more. I want something a little bit deeper. I want to know more of the Word of God That's what we're supposed to do is contend. It's faith. What is the faith? It's our doctrine. It's our belief. It's It's not the the the saving faith that we talk about where we put our faith and trust in Christ, but the word contend for the faith is the whole of the doctrine. It is the the what we believe the Bible teaches. uh uh a one word that contains all all of what we believe with regards to the word of God and the Trinity and the blood of Christ and the virgin birth and uh all of those things Tied up into that one word, our faith, what we believe. And this is to be done earnestly, earnestly is with great zeal, eagerly. Beloved, current apostasy is not new. It's not new. We're to look all the way back here to the pages of Scripture. And it was prevalent then. It's been in every age of society. And oftentimes we talk about uh things that are that are current, but you know what It's the it's new faces and new places, but the same the same needs. Because we're dealing with sinful man. H. A. Iron said this. H. A. Ironside said this. He said, It shall be cause for thankfulness That so far as error or heresy is concerned, there's nothing new under the sun. Every form of evil teaching now current Was exposed by the inspired writers in apostolic days. Therefore The need to contend earnestly for one's faith is to contend for that which was once delivered. What he's saying is what we have here has been delivered. What was once delivered What was delivered to us is what we're supposed to contend for. We're not supposed to change it. We're not supposed to modify it. We're not supposed to adapt it to be culturally relevant. You're supposed to contend for the faith that was delivered to you. The same commit thou to faithful men. The same thing that you've been given. You continue and give to faithful men. So we see the judgment, another truth is that the judgment of the ungodly is certain. There are six examples of this given to us in the text here, and I I read a couple of them, and we talked about them, and we're talking about some of the truths earlier on, but he gives us six examples of the ungodly men. And then speaks of their judgment. You know, God's going to judge the ungodly. The psalmist tells us: listen, don't get too discouraged, don't worry too much about the fact that they appear to be prospering. And sometimes we we look at that, we think, man, um I'm being faithful and I'm serving God and doing what's right and I can't make ends meet at all. I mean, some guy was proud because he drove a car for a year and never had a wreck. But I've been driving a wreck for years and never had a car. That that's how some Christians feel. They're like, you know And but he says, listen, don't look at the don't worry about the world because God's gonna judge their wickedness. He gives us an example there of the angels that rebelled. Remember we read about them. You remember the the example he gave us of Sodom and Gomorrah? The un and the ungodliness? So he six times he gives us an example. The judgment is sure. Not only that, we see that the keeping of the godly is secure. Look at verse number 24. We're getting all the way down to the end here. He says, now unto him that is able. to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. Hey, he's able. We're covered and kept in the hand of God, and we're going to be carried there, and He's able to keep us until we are presented faultless before God. Not faultless because we are sinless. But faultless because we stand covered by the blood of Jesus Christ and clothed in the righteousness of Christ, not in our own righteousness. And beloved, if nothing else, that truth should make you respond in adoration. We see in verse number 25, to the only wise God our Savior. To be glory and majesty and dominion and power both now and forever. He closes out and he says, listen, in the midst of it all, all I can do is praise him. To be glory now and forever. That's what it is. That's the truth of it. And we respond in adoration to a holy God. I've given you there an outline by J. Vernon McGree McGee. You can look that up or read it. It's not, I just copied it so you would have it as far as if you wanted to get a study and look into that a little bit further. That's the book of Jude Now next week we have no Sunday school because of Easter, and then we'll come back and get into Revelation after that. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we love you. We thank you for today. We ask you to Bless us this week. Help us to contend for the faith. Help us to realize it's something that has to happen on purpose. We need to purpose in our heart to pursue you and to live and do what's right Lord, I pray you'd give us the courage and the strength to do so. Bless us as we go into the morning service and ponder and reflect upon the great sacrifice that Jesus gave for us. On this palm Sunday, as we look towards the resurrection next Sunday, Lord, I thank you for the time in your house today. Would you bless us in Jesus' name? Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed.