Therefore the redeems of the Lord shall return and come with singing unto Zion and everlasting joy shall be upon their head. Amen. Great singing this morning. Very well done. Yeah, a fun fun song there. It's always in good to sing on Sunday morning first thing songs that are a little more upbeat, help you wake up, you know. Help the get the blood flowing a little bit. Of course we provide coffee and donuts for those that like to get the blood flowing that way, you know. It's uh Pastor Derek walked up to me this morning and said, You need me to get you a cup of coffee Uh which of course you know that I don't drink coffee and Pastor Derek knows I don't drink coffee. But uh he's like, I'll get you one if you'd like. And I said, No, I'm fine, appreciate it. Uh But turning your Bibles to uh Exodus chapter twenty, we've been looking at the Ten Commandments and uh studying those and good to have uh faith here with Nick and Amanda and appreciate her coming. Coming and being with us here even in Sunday school hour. And uh as we've studied these Ten Commandments last Sunday we started looking at the sixth commandment, which is what? Which is the sixth commandment? Thou shalt not kill, correct. So uh this morning is Pastor Tom's church uh in uh York there, starting in York. This is his second Sunday. So So the second Sunday they're meeting. Uh they're actually meeting for their evening services in a uh hotel in a in a meeting room, and that's the service that they're trying to Trying to recruit or get as many people out to as they can and the Sunday morning and Wednesday nights they're meeting in Pastor Tom's house uh until the building that they're uh renovating gets gets ready and uh Professor Derrick and I went up on Tuesday and spent some time there working with him trying to help get the building ready. They've got a lot to do that yet in order to get occupancy to be able to meet in there. Uh but they're working on it and in in interim time their services are being held. I think it's at the Comfort Inn uh there right off of Market Street in York. And uh they're the church Last week uh they had a little over sixty people in attendance and uh was very good, very good services, and he's just praising God. But if you think about it today, pray for them as this is only their second week. And uh You know, it's amazing the uh when you're in that, it's all faith at that point, you know. Uh Pastor Tom said last week he was he was standing there in the lobby of the hotel and he just wondering, you know, is anybody gonna come, you know, is there anybody gonna show up? And he said he's just waiting and waiting. He said, Man, when that first person walked through the door, you know, he's like, Yes, praise God. Somebody came and if you know Pastor Tom, he's pretty energetic and uh excited about things anyway but he says oh man how was you know somebody's here you know so they had a good day and uh looking for another Another one today, I'm sure. But uh in Exodus chapter twenty, I'm not gonna reach teach the things that we did uh cover last week, but just to lay the groundwork, we talked first of all about the concern. Understanding that there is a concern for this commandment. Of thou shalt not kill, uh, really, people today have lost uh all sanctity of life. There just seems to be almost no sanctity of life today. And we talked about that a little while, gave different illustrations and examples of that fact that people just don't uh value life, whether it be young or old. Or the rates of murder in our country and so on. We spent some time looking at that. Then we looked uh started looking at understanding the conflict. And I explained that with this particular command, which is very clear I mean, how much straightforward straightforward than that can it get? Yet there is a lot of conflict around this verse and it comes with the interpretation of the verse and what is the verse teaching. And we talked about it, but the T verses teaching thou shalt not kill, just straight face value like that, and you don't take the rest of the scripture into account, then we are all here for uh guilty of having killed uh something. Uh you would be guilty of having broken this command if you killed a mosquito. Or you know, swatted a fly. So it obviously does not mean straightforward thou shalt not kill as in just like you have to interpret scripture with scripture. So you have to look at the rest of Scripture and see what is it actually teaching. And we talked about that, and then we got into the fact that the Bible teaches that that what this is saying. Is thou shalt not murder. There's a difference between taking a life, killing something. I mean, if you've ever had uh chicken like we're gonna have for anniversary Sunday, you're guilty of breaking this command because that chicken had to give his life so you could have uh chicken for dinner And uh but that's okay. That's okay. There's a difference between the taking of a life and the immoral act of murdering somebody And so you know when you swap the fly, you don't say, Oh, you just murdered that fly. You know, you you don't do that. And so there's a difference between the just the act of And we talked about that and uh a little bit on trying to understand the conflict that arises around this verse and some of the areas that there is conflict. And so we looked at, first of all, capital punishment. Capital punishment's an area where some people would say, well, the Bible says thou shalt not kill. And so we can't do this. And they want to try and use this verse to stand and say that you shouldn't kill anybody. But capital punishment is taught very clearly in the scriptures. I get told you about the uh eighteen other places in the scriptures where uh the children of Israel had crime. that were punishable by death. God set the law up and very clearly said, okay, if uh if man does this by man Blood uh sh shall his blood be shed. And so very clearly teaching capital punishment. Um and in In Genesis 9, 6, Whosoever sheds man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. And uh so very clearly God is saying, if you're going to do this, you your life should be taken. But we talked about that it has to be uh an approved source. You can't just uh take law into your own hands. It has to be a government a recognized authority. That's administering this. You can't just decide for yourself, well, uh God believes in capital punishment and my neighbor deserves it, so uh we're gonna take We're gonna take care of this. Uh you know, that doesn't give it. Then we talked about war. War is another one that creates a lot of conflict uh because thou shalt not kill and how can we go do that? How can war be okay and how can we go take all these lives wrong? Well, you see clearly in the scriptures uh God uh allowing war. many times sending his own people into battle, sending them, here's what I want you to do. You need to go do this. Whether that was for protection of them as a nation. Here, you're going to go do this. Utterly destroy them. Why? Because if they didn't, they would rise up again and come back. And he said, you guys go in and destroy them. For protection of them is an And we talked about what what is a justifiable war. Many many years have been kind of a standard for making a war justifiable, and we talked about those last week. We're not going to go back through that. Um, God did not have a problem with Israel Being in war with the Ammonites. He didn't have a problem with that. But what God had a problem with was when David sent Uriah the Hittite back to the front lines and had Uriah killed on purpose They were in war, and there's nothing in the scriptures about them being in war and how that was wrong, but it's very clearly illustrated and shown how David, through his actions I mean he didn't even kill him. Somebody else killed him. But it was a result of what David did in putting him on the front line and telling his soldiers to back away, understanding The inevitable result is that Uriah would be killed. So David had his blood, Uriah's blood, on his hands because he killed Uriah the Hittite. by his actions. So s the act of war is not what was wrong, but the immoral act of taking Uriah's life that way was wrong. And we see that very clearly through the scriptures many, many, many times. Then another area of conflict for some folks with regards to this verse is the killing of animals. Killing of animals. Now, killing of animals is accepted and uh for necessity, uh for uh needs, whatever they might be. Uh In Genesis 9, verse number 3, the Bible says, Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you. That means provided for you, given given to you For a need, uh to meet a need. Even as the green herb have I given all things to you. So he very clearly saying, just like I gave you the the fruit of the vine, I gave you the apples to eat, and I I gave you the carrots that grow out of the ground and I gave you potatoes and I gave you all of these uh things that you eat, the green herb. I also gave you the animals, every living thing. And so he has put those under us as humans, and they are there for our provision. And we it's okay to take a life. God took the life of an animal to make a covering for Adam and Eve. All the way back in the book of Genesis at the very beginning. Beginning, when Adam and Eve were not clothed after they fell into sin, God took the life of an animal and made a covering for them. And covered them. So very clearly seen that I mean Even for the necessity of clothing, it would be okay to take the life of an animal to provide for yourself or for your family clothing. Um Jesus himself in the New Testament He ate fish. So it it's okay to eat fish. Um to take the life of that animal. You say, oh, it's a living thing, and we can't do that. I mean how come you're better than that? Today's world is getting so upside down and we're raising raising the creation above the creator. And This is one of the inevitable results of teaching evolution because it puts us on the same level as an animal. And all of a sudden now we are equal here on earth. And the ant walking on the ground has just as much right to live as I do. The Bible doesn't teach that. The Bible teaches that The animals are put here for us. Whether that be to provide clothing or food, it's okay to take the life of an animal for protection. If you've got uh a a wolf uh or a mountain lion Or maybe around here, let's let's let's get it close to home. Let's say you got a fox stealing your chickens. It's okay for you to kill the fox. That's all right. And and it's it's it's justifiable and understandable. Um now we don't kill needlessly. We don't kill for sport or entertainment. God has put these animals here and we're to respect them and we're to care for them. We're to To have some sanctity of life and understand that God gives life and we're to value it. So we've got to be careful about this thing of just shooting just for fun. And the Bible says in Proverbs 20, verse number 10: A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast, but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. Even the mercies of the wicked are perceived to be cruel. And so a righteous man regardeth the life of his beast, saying, Hey, you care for your beast. your animals, whatever they are. I mean you shouldn't mistreat your dog. You shouldn't, you know, kick your dog in the side just 'cause he uh chewed a hole in your shoe. I mean you oughta train your dog like any anything else. You need to don't let him chew your sh chew your shoes But you don't break his ribs for it. You know, I mean you don't treat an animal that way. And the same thing with a horse or whatever. And uh Uh you know, we need to care for the animals that God has given us and and have that kind of respect. Um in in in Genesis, well we're not taking questions right now, okay, Harry. Let's get to the end and we'll see if we have Time, all right? Alright, thanks, Harry. Um in Genesis 2, 7, God breathed into man the breath of life, and he became a what? Living soul. He became a living soul. That is the only creature that God breathed the breath of life into and gave a living soul. Animals don't have a living soul. They have life that God gave them. God gave them life, but did not Breathe into them the breath of life. That didn't take place anywhere else in the scripture for any any other creature on earth. Uh they don't have a living soul. They're not in danger of judgment. An animal's not going to go to hell if he doesn't trust Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior. They don't have a soul. But I know it makes some of you sad. If if a if a dog is not in danger of going to hell because of his sin, then he's also not going to be going to heaven because he's good. Okay. Yeah. So uh you know I I'm not saying there's not gonna be any Animals in heaven. I don't know for sure on that. I just uh know as far as a soul, that animals don't have a soul. And uh so that's not something that we can count on or say uh with regards to that only man was given a soul. Only man was made in the likeness of God. In God's likeness. That's the difference. In Genesis 9. 6, when he talked about uh the The who sheddeth man's blood by man shall his blood be shed? The following phrase is, for in the image of God made he him You see, man was made in the image of God, and man was given a living soul, and we have a soul, and therefore the act of taking man Life uh unjustly becomes murder, and that's what this is talking about. So understanding the command. Several people had good questions last week as we got into this uh at the conclusion of the lesson. different things and uh they were good questions. One of them got into this area. I said, we're going to cover that, but that's a very, very good question. Understanding the command. This was not given for us to understand that it's okay or when it is okay. Okay to kill a life, but it emphasizes the sanctity of life. This is showing and teaching the value of every living thing, every human especially. Plan for one of his great battles. And his associates came to him and they said, This will cost you one hundred thousand men to accomplish this. And Napoleon said, A hundred thousand men? What is a hundred thousand men to me? He did not value the life of even the men that were going into battle for him. Uh this is teaching the value of life. And it's wrong to commit uh homicide. It's wrong to commit infanticide The taking of a child's life, whether uh in the womb or out of the womb, it is wrong to commit suicide. Now suicide is not the unpardonable sin, as some people believe, uh that if you commit suicide you're gonna you're gonna go to hell because you took in your own life. That that is not The unpardonable sin, and that's not taught in the scriptures. Now it's wrong to commit suicide. 30,000 people in America commit suicide every year. Because they can't go on. But you know, suicide is the easy way out. Suicide is the selfish way out. And you know what? They think I'm just going to end it all. But you know suicide doesn't end it for you? And suicide doesn't end it for your loved ones. Because that pain and hurt is still gonna go on with them. And even for you, it's just the beginning. Whether that's a beginning of an eternity in heaven or an eternity in heaven. hell is but it's not going to end it for you. And suicide is is just as wrong, even the taking of your own life. You should God gives life and God takes away life. And that is in his power, and we need to let him take uh us as he sees fit. And uh sometimes as we get into the the latter years and dealing with the uh sicknesses and things that we have today, the the modern technology that we have They can keep you alive indefinitely by hooking you up to machines and so on and and indefinitely keep you alive. I want you to To understand that it is not taking your own life or killing your loved one if you say, take him off the machine. Because God gives life and God takes life, and the life Now if there's a chance by having him on this machine that his his uh like sometimes they'll put people into a an a coma to uh allow their body to heal and then their plan is to bring them out of that a coma uh once they've healed some Uh and you know if that's the case, then but once a person has uh reached a certain point, there's nothing more that can be done, and you as an individual or your loved one should not Feel guilty or feel like it's their their fault or that they killed their mom or dad or they killed their brother or sister. That's not a weight that's on you. Life is in God's hand. And uh you need to be able to let that go at that time and uh don't don't carry that burden. I know sometimes family members do and they're like, I just can't I just can't say to Disconnected because then I did it. No, you didn't. God did, and it's his time, and we need to be willing and ready to let go. Understanding this command is uh Not only do we not kill, but as Christians, we take it a step further You see, we are to treat our neighbor as ourself. And Matthew 22, 39, and the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. The scripture tells us in Matthew chapter 5, verses 21 and 22, that even to think of murdering somebody, to have that kind of wrath, makes you guilty. of that act. You see in Matthew chapter 5 it also talks about the sin of adultery. And it says, hey, if you looketh on a on a woman to lust after her in thine heart. You've committed adultery already in thine heart. And as Christians This command of thou shalt not kill or thou shalt not murder is taken a step further. Just don't be guilty of the act of taking a gun and shooting somebody, but don't even be guilty of the act in your heart saying, Man, I wish he was dead. You don't ha you don't have the means or or you don't want to actually go do the act, but in your heart you you wish you'd get hit by a car or you wish you'd fall off a building or whatever. Whatever. God says you're guilty already of having taken that person's life because in your heart you wanted it to happen. And so as Christians, thou shalt not kill gets a whole lot more personal with us. It goes a little further. We've got to control our spirit, control our heart. Don't let that kind of vengeance or or anger or attitude grow up inside to where we get to the I just can't even fathom that in my mind. I can't even comprehend it. Getting to the point where you're so angry with somebody that you would want them dead. I mean that's uh just you you've let it go way too long. And you gotta get right with God and let those things go much earlier. Or else your heart is going to convict you of that sin. You see? Mark 721 says, For from within, out of the heart of man, proceedeth evil. Evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications. Murders. Out of the heart proceeds those things. That's where it comes from. We've got to guard our heart, protect our heart. Don't let it uh don't let it get that far down the road. And so lastly we understand the commitment. Understand the commitment that we're making. We're making beyond Beyond just the act of of going and saying, okay, I know I'm not supposed to murder anybody, so I've got that one settled, I'm not gonna murder anybody. But Are our emotions and our heart under control? Are we able to keep sh keep that correct? Life is precious. It's precious because of the source of life. All life is a gift from God. All life is a gift from God. God gives life and God takes life. When an individual embraces the religion of evolution, we take that out of the equation. We take the fact that life came from God. out of the equation. And puts us all on an equal uh equal plane with the with the fish or the ant or the the stray cat Just getting in your trash every night. Uh whatever whatever it might be. Evolution puts us all on that same level and we all came from this came from the same thing. And so we just developed over time and we're taking God out of the equation. And this affects us. And it we'll get to the point Point where your dog has just as much rights as you do. And it shouldn't be that way Because he's just an animal. You might love him, you might care for him, and that's great, and we ought to take care of the pets we have. But he just an animal. It's just a dog. The fact that you that you can go to jail for putting your dog to sleep is ludicrous It's an upside-down crazy society. Now you can take them to the Humane Society and have them do it uh legally and and and they document it and all that You know, maybe I'm just a little bit old fashioned, but on the farm they used to just take care of that themselves. They didn't have to pay two hundred and fifty dollars to do it. It was a twenty cent bullet Or three cent bullet. Yeah. Uh you know, but now you can get in big trouble for that. And that's a upside-down society because we have put so much uh uh uh importance on the animal instead of the human Once we break this command, it can't be undone. You see, if you go steal something from your neighbor, thou shalt not steal. You can take that and return it to your neighbor and say, man, God convicted me of this and I'm so sorry But once you kill somebody, it's done. You can't go undo it. You can't take it back. You can't say you're sorry and and make everything better. You can't restore it. Once you break this, it's it's a done deal. So we've got to be extremely careful that we in our hearts control it. You know, the fact of the matter is, as much as I think that it's impossible, in my mind, I can't even comprehend wanting to kill somebody. The truth of the matter is, is everybody in here is capable of doing that, including me. Under the right set of circumstances and letting ourselves letting ourselves go, letting our heart go, not yielding to the Spirit of God. When things arise, you know something somebody did something to my daughter Alicia? I can tell you what. pretty quick get into the kind of spirit that would make me want to take a life. So under the right circumstances, we could all end up breaking this command. And uh we've got a guard guard against that. It's the disobedience of this command that that shows us the complete and utter depravity of man. In Hosea 4, 1 and 2, the Bible says, Hear the word of the Lord, ye children of Israel, for the Lord hath a controversy with the inhabitants of Israel. Of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land. Does that sound like a land you know A land where there's no mercy, no truth, no knowledge of God, by swearing and lying and killing and stealing. And committing adultery, they break out, and blood touches blood. These things are what show the depravity of man And as we get this world waxes worse and worse, we'll see more and more of this depravity come out in the act of killing. is why you know the murders are so prevalent today, which is why as a nation uh you know many places are uh Embracing Dr. Kvorkian ideas and the taking of the elderly because they're no longer a benefit to society or because they they want to uh In their lives, and uh this the taking of life will be more and more prevalent as this world waxes worse and worse. But as Christians, we should still value it. The sanctity of life from the fact that it's all a gift from God. What this world needs is not more laws, but more Christians who are Christ honoring. Christian living that teach and give the truth to those around them. So people know and understand the truth. That's what we need. More Christians that are doing what Right and proclaiming the truth and impacting the world around them. Because you can't change people from the outside in. God has to change their heart. And that only comes through knowing the truth. All right, now we are done a couple minutes early. Would anybody have a uh question? There were several questions at the close of last week which were very good. People ask them individually, but with regards to this commandment, uh Harry just uh stepped out, so we're not gonna get his question, I guess. I'll I'll talk to him in a minute, but brother Joe? Genesis was uh about the animals. You just you just quoted it to eat animals are here for us. Oh, that animals are that you were given they're put for you. Uh let me look here Everybody write that down that I can look. Genesis 9, verse number 3. So just a couple of verses before Genesis 9, 6, where we hear about taking man's life. So Genesis God knows your heart. He absolutely knows your heart and knows the world before you Right. So it's like when we don't think he knows our heart, we'll name he knows everything. Yeah. And that's where guilt David was still guilty of that sin of murder, even though he's not the one that did it. And that's where we get into the New Testament and we see, according to Matthew chapter five, when when you want to kill somebody in your heart You become guilty of that even though you didn't do that. Yes, if we confess our sins. Amen. Keeping a short account with God. When I get that policy the same time where they have like the people that divorce that when it and shoot the club or something. That's a paper where they think they're doing right by showing the club Right. That is wrong. That's not God doesn't uh condone that or want that and by no means Is that what what God would want? We want to save the life we can of every baby that we can, and we certainly don't want to uh uh embrace a b abortion but the way to stop it is not by killing somebody. The way to stop it is by teaching the truth, changing hearts, changing electing the right people into office that can change the laws of the land. And hopefully if people enough people were saved and followed the book, they would change what they believe. Brother Wayne, did you have a question? Yeah, or a comment? Said that there were 30,000 suicides a year that were not before there are. But an additional part of that is that 5,000 of those are teenagers. Wow. And so you do the math and how many teams this day will take their own life and put themselves probably almost In all cases it will cost us if I think that's a good thing. It is that's an amazing thought All right, well this has been a good study. We have next Sunday is Easter Sunday and then anniversary Sunday. Remember on anniversary we don't have Sunday school. We come in just for the morning service. We so give you a little extra time. So well let me close this in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for today and uh your word. We thank you, Lord, for these Commandments that uh Lord have stood the test of time. And uh what an amazing thing if a society or a group of people just lived within these ten laws. Lord, how much better life would be, how much better society would be. And uh we appreciate uh you showing us from your word these truths and I pray Lord you'd help us to implement them even all the way down to our thought life and our our heart and what we uh are thinking or doing in in uh inside of us that nobody else knows about. Because as uh Brother Rich said, Lord, you know our heart. You know what what what's going on inside. And all we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, you just missed. We have service in about twenty minutes. Yeah, I hear you. And I don't have ignoring links.