Alright, thou shalt not bear false witness. Very good. Um let's say the second commandment. That's third third question. We've got about half half right a couple uh third commandment is thou shalt not take the name of the Lord God in vain, remember the three to your lips. Second commandment is yeah that's right. That's not set up to the any graven image. Um so very good. We uh obviously are looking at the fourth commandment. We began digging into that last week and uh did not get done. So we're going to look at that again this week just to uh conclude those thoughts. Uh we spent a little bit of time introducing the idea, talked about how that it's a very debated and and discussed commandment, unlike the others, because nobody's debating about whether you should kill somebody or not. We obviously know that that command still stands And uh so but the the day, we talked about the day, the day of the Sabbath. What does that mean? We talked about the Sabbath day and of course we meet on the first day of the week. We meet on Sunday, but the Sabbath is Saturday. And uh so we talked about that day, Saturday, the Sabbath, the conflict between those two um that that happens. And uh what the Sabbath day means. It's uh it's a day of sevens on the seventh or a day of rest. Uh the idea of observing the principle of rest that God knows uh what we need. God knows that our uh bodies need rest. They were building a pipeline in Scotland and this pipeline they were bringing this water from uh up high on the mountain, this fresh mountain spring water, and they decided to pipe it and bring it right down into the city and they built this pipeline from the top of the mountain down into the city. And when they turned it on, the pipeline, about two-thirds of the way down the mountain, just exploded. The pressure just from gravity of that water flowing down and building great getting greater and greater burst that pipe. So what they did is they set up reservoirs at stations coming down the mountain. The water would flow down a pipe into a reservoir and it would rest. And then it would flow down another section of pipe into a reservoir and would rest. And that's how they overcame that problem. And we uh God knows that we as people need rest. Our body needs rest. And we talked about that and gave some different examples of people that tried to do without it. And uh understand the body functions very well on a seven day week. Uh people have tried to do different things, ten day week, uh you know, uh other things and it just doesn't work. The body seems to function very well on a seven-day week. Um and so we need to be observing rest. We talked about that. Um we talked about the different Sabbaths that are found in the Bible. The first Sabbath was observed at creation And uh we know Jesus God rested when he created the world. We talked about the Sabbath of commemoration. That's the Sabbath we're looking at now in Exodus. uh where we remember what Christ did for us, uh what God did for for them. It was remembering what God did and r freeing them from Slavery. Uh we talked about the cultivation sabbath, and that was the land was supposed to rest every seven years, supposed to let the land rest for a little while. We talked about uh the celebration sabbaths that are found in Leviticus 23. Um And that is the Feast of the Trumpets, the Feast of the Tabernacles, and the fact that every uh Saturday is the Sabbath, but not every Sabbath. is a Saturday. And there are times uh in the Bible that people are asked to observe the Sabbath that is not on a Saturday, uh such as the fifteenth of the month. And we We know the fifteenth doesn't and can't fall on Saturday every month. And so again, um every Saturday is a Sabbath, but not every Sabbath was a Saturday. And uh some people get uh very hung up on on that idea. Then we talked about the development um The Old Testament, we we just started to introduce this. What what is it that brought about the change from uh the Old Testament where everybody observed the Sabbath on Saturday? to where we in the New Testament or in the church today observe the principle of the Sabbath on Sunday. That's where we got to last week, and I introduced this idea with the first thought With regards to our command here, it starts out to remember the Sabbath. And so the idea of remembering what was done for us. And we know that this group here in the Old Testament were remembering the day that they were freed from slavery, that they were brought up out of Egypt. That's an example that's given to us here in in our text. So let's read this together. Exodus chapter 20, verses 8 through 11. We're not going to read the whole thing, but let's read verses 8 through 11. This is what it's dealing with the Sabbath day and this commandment for us. Starting in verse number eight, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. and in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in the sixth days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them is, and rested the seventh day Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. So the Sabbath day is a day of rest. And Remembering what was done. We talked about that and I left off with that last week. Now again, as we're looking at what is it that made that change for us? Why do we observe the principle of the Sabbath on Sabbath Sunday. First of all, the idea to remember what was done. What was done for us was done on the cross the day we were freed. from the bondage of self and sin. Secondly, the absence of this command in the New Testament. All the other commands that are in Exodus chapter 20, the Ten Commandments can be found in the New Testament in one way or another, except for remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. So we don't find that principle or that uh command given to us in the New Testament. Then we look at the example of Christ, the example that Christ gives us in the New Testament with regards to observing the Sabbath day. And I talked to you a little bit about this last week that Jesus was always in conflict. With the Pharisees over this principle. You know, Jesus never broke the Sabbath because he lived a sinless life. But he continually uh was in conflict over the Pharisees and the rabbinical laws that had been put into place about the Sabbath. and what they could and couldn't do on the Sabbath and what was was, you know, legal under the law and what wasn't legal under the law. And uh Jesus continually had conflict with them And although he never broke the Sabbath, they felt he did because uh he had broken their laws that they had put up in observing of that. So the example we see of Jesus in the New Testament Let's just know that he freed us from that. Um The resurrection was on the first day. The example of Christ. The resurrection of Jesus Christ when we were freed from our sin was on the first day. In Matthew 28, verse number one. The end of the Sabbath. This is what it reads, Matthew twenty eight, verse number one, in the in the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week. So as Saturday came to a close, as it dawned the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see. the sepulchre on the first day of the week. Jesus rose. In Mark 16, verses 1 and 2, and when the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Solomon came, had brought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him. And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. So Jesus rose on the first day of the week. So if we're going to remember what he did for us, then it would make sense that we would remember that on the day that it happened. Um then we see that Jesus worshipped with the disciples. on the first day of the week. We're talking about the example that Christ gave us in the New Testament about why we have church on Sunday, why we observe the principle of the Sabbath on Sunday and not on Satur Saturday, because Jesus Worshiped, gathered for worship with the disciples on the first day of the week. In John chapter 20, verse number 26. And after eight days again, the disciples were with uh within and Thomas with them, then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. So after eight days, after we get through one week And then the first day of the next week, they gathered to worship. And he gathered with them there. So the example of Christ. Um we know that Jesus came to abo not to abolish the law, but to fulfill it. In Matthew 5, 17, think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophet. I'm come, not I've not come to destroy, but to fulfill. And in Colossians chapter 2, verses 14 through 17 He says, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that were against us, which is contrary to us, and to look out of the way. Nailing it to the cross. So he says, hey, we're we're blotting out the handwriting of the ordinances, the things that were given to us before, these ordinances, these laws. that war against us that m that are hard. The people were finding it very hard to observe the Sabbath because of all the laws that had been put into place. And he says we've nailed it to the cross, having spoil Excuse me, having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphant triumphing over it Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of a holy day, or of the new moon. or of the Sabbath days. That's Colossians 2, 14 through 17. He says, hey, let no man judge you in a in a holy day. The day that you want to observe the Sabbath or the principle of the Sabbath or even in the Sabbath day itself. It's clearly given to us, clearly taught there. So we have the example of Christ very clearly by following Christ's example, he worshiped, gathered, and fulfilled on the first day of the week. then the example of the early church. We the example the early church gives us of meeting on the first day of the week. If you would think there was ever a group of people that would be close to the law, that if it was necessary. You see these people, they were freed from the law. They they lived under the law And then Christ came and fulfilled the law. They trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. They believed in Him and were freed from the law. And if ever there was going to be a group of people that would observe the Sabbath, you would think it would be them. But the early church met to worship on the first day of the week. So in Acts chapter 20, verse number 7, and upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bed, Paul preached unto them. Ready to depart on the morrow, he continued his speech until midnight. So Paul preached unto them, and they were ready to go in the morning. They were going to go wherever they were going. And uh Paul said, well, he he's just gonna preach unto their Peter said, I'm gonna preach till midnight. Uh so aren't you glad I'm not Peter? We're not gonna preach we're not gonna preach till midnight. We don't stick around that long. Uh but they they met on the first day of the week in uh Corinthians sixteen verse number two, upon the first day of the week let every one of you lay by him in store, as God has prospered him, and there be no gathering, that there be no gatherings when I come So again, when we're talking about the principle of tithing, the he says, hey, you're going to bring your tithes into the storehouse on the first day of the week. Very clearly again teaching that the church is going to gather, going to get together on the first day of the week from the beginning, from the beginning of the church back all the way in the New Testament. So well let me let me have wait, Harry. Let me get through this and then we'll see if we have time for questions, okay? Um So let me give you the last thing, the devotion here. The devotion. How do we observe this principle of the Sabbath? Uh e whether we do it on Sunday or another day of the week. We as we are given this command in the Old Testament. to remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, but we don't even observe the Sabbath as far as Saturday is the Sabbath, not Sunday. So but we observe the principle. So how do we do that? There's a couple of things that are important for us to remember And we observe this not by doing a list of do's and don'ts. Uh some there's so many funny things that they the Jewish people or those that wanted to observe the Sabbath couldn't do. You know, if you had a flea biting you on the Sabbath, you couldn't find it. because that was considered hunting. You had to let it bite you for the remainder of the day, uh because it was breaking the law, the law of the Sabbath, to hunt for the flea to get it off of you. on the Sabbath day. Um it was okay to pull your burden behind you. You could get a rope and you could pull your burden. But it was against the law to bear your burden on the Sabbath day. So if you had a backpack full of stuff, you couldn't carry it on the Sabbath If you were on a trip, you could you could walk, uh then the Sabbath day came, you could drop your backpack and tie a rope onto it and drag it. That way you're observing, you're keeping the law. But uh still doing what you want to do. So many times they weren't even observing the principle of the Sabbath Even though they were dead sure they were going to observe the Sabbath. So we need to keep it in perspective for us It's a matter of keeping the principle, regardless of what day you do it on. Romans chapter 14, verses 5 and 6, give this to us. He says, one may esteem one day above another, another esteem every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. He that regardeth the day regardeth it unto the Lord, and he that regardeth not the day to the Lord, he doth not regard it. He that eateth eateth to the Lord, for he giveth thanks. And he that eateth not, so Lord, eateth not, and giveth not thanks. So whatever day the church chooses to observe the Sabbath, the principle of the Sabbath, to gather together, to take a rest, to rest from our work. We can do that any day of the week. It doesn't matter what day. We could start a new movement. The church that meets on Tuesdays. It wouldn't matter. Observing the principle of the Sabbath could be done any day of the week. With regards to this, Martin Luther said this The people must have a day of rest and refreshment, a day in which they assemble to hear the and to desire to to Hear God's word, to praise God with song, and to gather in prayer. That day could be any day, but from ancient times, Sunday has been designated for this purpose. And there is no reason to change it. So with regards to that, since the since the New Testament, the church gathered on the first day of the week to observe this principle of the Sabbath. and what day is not necessarily critical but that you gather together and that you do that you do it. So that's why we observe that. The the principles are to rest and to remember. There's uh inescapable connection. between the ceasing from work and worship. And those two are are together and what God wants us to do. It is not ceasing from all work, from any work. But from ceasing from that normal work that you do. Would it be a sin to mow your grass on Sunday? There are those that would say yes. I disagree. Some people enjoy mowing the grass. They they're goofy that way. They it's a break for them. It's relaxing. Of course today you get on a riding lawnmower and drive around, you know, it's not quite the same as the old the old push mowers, the the reel mowers that you had to cr you know, that was work. Today you get on the lawnmower. I mean Would we mow the church's grass on Sunday? Probably not. But it wouldn't be a sin. Because uh i the idea is that you uh that you cease from that work that you normally do to allow your uh body to rest. And if you're normally sitting at a desk all day, you know, uh writing or or working at a computer or whatever, changing what you do, ceasing from the normal work, not from all work. We're not called to complete inactivity, but we're called to actively seek him on the Sabbath. So it's it's not wrong to, you know, if you get a flat tire to change your flat tire. Well that's work. We can't do that on the Sabbath. You can, it's okay. We're observing the principle of the Sabbath. We need to remember to worship. The first Sabbath day, observe the finished work of creation. That's the example that's given to us in our our text. He says, hey, the Lord created the world in six days. On the seventh day, he rested. The second Sabbath, or what we observe on the first day of the week, observes the finished work of the cross and what Christ did on the cross for us. And a lot of Christians have forgotten what it means to worship. And they ask themselves, what did I get out of this morning's service? Rather than what service did I give today? People in churches today come and And want to have all their emotional needs met. They want to be fed spiritually. They want to come in and and sit and get from God's Word and But you know, worship is actively seeking Him. It's doing a measure of worship is also service. If it wasn't, in order to observe the Sabbath, I couldn't do what I do. Because my busiest day of the week is Sunday. It's the the longest day that I have all week long. But as part of observing the Sabbath is serving, is service. of giving service to our Lord. Some would say, I don't have time to rest or go to church. I don't have time. Life is too busy. You know that you'll get more done in less time. If you observe the Sabbath. If you it's it's the facts are that God blesses those that seek Him first. And our bodies are designed in such a way that we benefit in our health. in our body, in our strength, when we rest. There was a group of people back in the gold rush days there that wanted to get out to out west. and there was two wagon trains that were leaving at the same time and both of these wagon trains had gold fever and they wanted to get out west and they wanted to get there in a hurry and uh one of the tr wagon trains, th their leader, the guy that was organizing the train and putting it all together uh felt that it was important that they weren't just going out there to get rich, but that they remembered God and that they served God and that they honored the Lord. And so he purposed in his wagon train, he said, We're going to bring a preacher along and we are gonna stop on Sundays and And rest our animals, and we're going to observe uh the principle of the Sabbath. We're gonna have a time of rest, and we're gonna have some services, and we'll gather and sing, we'll we'll we'll round the wagons up and have some church. And uh the other group said, We're gonna get there and we wanna get there first. They were both leaving at the same time and the s the second wagon train said we wanna get there first. Well there was some in the group that was stopping on Sundays that said, man, the other group is going to get there. They're going to take all the good claims. We need to go. And the leader said, No, we're going to observe the Sabbath. We're going to uh spend time and worship and honoring the Lord. And we'll get there when we get there. We're just going to trust God. And they stopped every week on their several month journey to get out west, whatever it was. And you know they got there first? The group that wanted to get there in a hurry that was pushing forward, they pushed themselves right into a storm and had to go through a storm. and experienced several broken down wagons because of of pulling it through the har uh the uh mud that had gathered and animals that had gotten sick because of going through these situations. But the group that stayed back were behind the storm. They didn't have to deal with that. You don't know in your life you think, oh, but I gotta go, I gotta go, I gotta go. You know you'll get more done when you put God first and trust Him for the outcome. And in hindsight we can look back and we can say, Oh, see the result of that? But those people in that wagon train that day by day were sitting there and they and they're thinking about the other group that went on ahead and thinking, man And they're gonna get there, they're gonna take all the good claims. I'm not gonna have anything, we're not gonna have any gold left when we get there. Sometimes we're like that in our life We think, oh, I gotta get this done. I can't stop. I can't take any time for rest. I can't take any time for worship. But if we by faith follow the principles of the Lord. And observe a day of rest. Our bodies will be stronger for it. You're gonna push forward and you're gonna sp send spend three weeks on your back sick because your body didn't get the rest it needed. Whatever it might be, you'll get more done following God's plan than anything else or any other way. So what is it worth to you to observe the Sabbath? And to get that time of worship to remember the Lord. This uh is the principle of the Sabbath and why we meet on Sundays. instead of Saturday. Now I will ask you if there's anybody that has a question. I know Harry has a question. Yes, Harry? Yeah he was really about corrective First two, but what's that year for our F and a part to allow first two into a second Well let's see here, Harry. I have eleven pages of notes, so but I'll see if I can find that reference for you. Did you got it? Upon the first day of the week let every man lay up in store of God as race. Oh yeah, I am but it's very true. Okay. Yeah. Uh yes, Ms. Daley. Oh, that's it. Oh yeah, I have a question, I don't have a comment. my mother tell me that you never on Sunday we weren't president. She didn't she didn't really believe the Bible the way we do. But she was saying but anyway, she believed that on Sunday if it was like Sunday morning and you were and you were pitching on shipping off all of them like after like happy Sunday morning you had a stopped dip in and you you had a like vision like this and And she further laid out, she do you know she never said we're trying to error. And it's not a function. And I said, you know what, maybe my grandparents can do it. I mean my great great grandparents went in In uh in New England, um in the very early days of our country, New England was very uh religious. And uh there was a sailor who was coming home from having been gone for several months. And this wife of the sailor who was coming into shore. They knew he was coming into shore or uh somebody had said the boat docked and this lady ran to meet her husband at the shore, who had been gone for all these times. And she was promptly put in jail for breaking the Sabbath. In America, uh because of a confusion about this day in the Sabbath and what it means. So some people do have some funny beliefs. Any other questions with regards to the Sabbath? Um brother. I'm not sure about that. Um not that I know of. You know I don't there's some people that play with numbers and they really get into the numbers and they try and look at the generations. and how many generations we've had and what that's going to equal and that that will ultimately they can come up with that, but I don't see it taught in the scriptures. I think sometimes people can extrapolate out the numbers and you can try and get them to say things. But I'm not big on numerology to try and get doctrine. I was just thinking for a SAP three thousand year manifest one. Is that considered the rest period war in group? Right. Um Well we obviously will be a time of rest. The Bible does talk about how we will be ruling with him, so we will be serving um you know but uh I I'm not positive biblically I don't have something on the top of my head that comes to mind with where I would teach that, but I have heard something about that before. And any other questions this morning about the Sabbath? Yes. I think uh we are telling me that the customer chose from these code that you satisfying and otherwise it's trying to raise those But I think uh there may have been something like that, but uh really we've we've as I've given the examples of the New Testament and how uh you see what happened on the first day of the week. Um and the church obviously chose Sunday, but Christ rose on Sunday. Christ by his example met with the disciples on Sunday, the first day of the week. So you kind of see that principle being started there. Um So I don't know if it was necessarily a matter of hey, we want to separate ourselves from that uh as much as that was kind of the example that was set by Christ. And we wanted to observe. It's kinda like it didn't matter what day it was, but hey we met last Sunday, let's meet again and it kind of developed into uh into what we do now. All these You know how how things get started and all of a sudden they're the rules. So um there may have been some people that wanted to do that but I like the idea of it being the example Christ set, opposed to being differentiating from another group. Um but any other questions? Alright, we're done a few minutes early this morning, so you get to fellowship for a little bit. And uh we're gonna have we've got about uh twenty-five minutes till the morning morning service but let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed Lord, we thank you for today and uh for your word and how it teaches us. And Lord, I pray that we would not be caught up in uh the day or or Lord the the observance of it in a ri ritualistic fashion, but that the principle of it that we would be able to rest and remember what you've done, spend some time in worship and thinking of you and praising you and singing to you. And uh Lord, that's what it's about. Observing that principle. We can have our own Sabbath any day of the week where we rest and remember And uh Lord, Sunday's the day we choose to gather together as a church and and to remember you, and I pray you'd give us a great day in your house today remembering what you've done for us, and we'll see you Thank you, we ask this in Jesus' name.