Kind of a different message. I'm not sure how much preaching I'm gonna do, how much teaching I'm gonna do. I'm not really sure how it's gonna how it's gonna flow. Um but I really believe this is very important for us. I want you to understand, although I'm going to be dealing tonight specifically with the dynamics of a family relationship. This is Mother's Day, and I'm going to focus on the dynamics of a family relationship. that the principles and truths are are applicable to work situations. They're applicable to s Sunday school classes, they're applicable to any place where you're really interacting and dealing with other people, especially when you're when you're investing or training uh or building lives. And uh so I'll let you apply it to your heart and life where you're at and and how you're dealing with things. Uh I'm not going to try and take time to hit all the different situations because it is Mother's Day. We're going to try and apply this. uh specifically to the family. Uh but the title of the message this evening is The Folly of Favoritism. The Folly of Favoritism. Look in Genesis chapter 25. We'll begin reading in verse number 19 and read down through verse number 28. uh where we'll see our text verse for tonight and the this story takes place between Genesis twenty-five and Genesis twenty-seven. And uh you could even go a little earlier and a little later. So we're not going to read all of the text, we're going to read this beginning portion and uh get kind of a picture of what's taking place and then move on from there. He says Beginning in verse number 19, and these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son, and Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to his wife, the daughter of Bethuel. the Syrian of Pandanniram, a sister of Lebanon, the Syrian. And uh Isaac entreated the Lord for his wife because she was barren, and the Lord was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived And the children struggled together with her, within her. And she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to inquire of the Lord. And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy vowels, and the one people shall be stronger than the other people, and the elder shall serve the younger. And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold there were twins in her womb, and the first came out red all over like an hairy garment, and they called his name Esau. And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel, and his name was called Jacob. And Isaac was three score years old when she bare them. And the boys grew, and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field, and Jacob was a plain man dwelling in tents. And Isaac loved Esau because he did eat venison, but Rebekah loved Jacob. Isaac loved Esau because he did eat venison. That was I I just looking at the the reason, the motivation for for loving your son. Yeah, gotta love him. He likes your meat, amen. I don't know. Uh but that's what the scripture says. I think the idea, of course, as you read the story and you get the full picture of it, is uh there's a lot more to it than than just that. But the the right from the get-go you have here this this uh the beginning of favoritism that takes place in this home where Isaac uh was leaning towards Esau and Rebekah was leaning towards Jacob. This favoritism was present. Why? Why was there favoritism? I mean I think everybody here knows that children are different. Every child is different. Uh, you know, and it doesn't matter if they are twins or not. They're different. They're different personalities. They're different to different character traits. And uh that's usually it's it amazes me even after all these years of of uh raising my children, you know, Andrew's eighteen Um, you know, it's just a matter uh that that they uh to uh by and large they are still today the same personality that they were when they were three, by and large. Now you work with them and and strive to help them overcome some things and and but you can still see those character traits in them And they're present there. And uh as parents, it's our job to try and notice those and help them overcome weaknesses and and to uh try and build strength where they might be weak and try and hold back areas where they may be ready to to go and they shouldn't go. But that's what we as parents do. We work we work with them. But kids are different. Jacob and Esau were twins, but they were different. With this set of twins, I don't think anybody was accidentally calling them by the wrong name. I don't think anybody was mistakenly looking over and saying uh Esau to Jacob Uh sometimes twins do appear enough alike that that people get them confused. And uh I think that twins enjoy doing that to people. I think it's kind of part of their uh you know, they just they like putting people through that anxiety of, okay, which one am I talking to? Uh trying to get that right. I I don't know. It's that's just my own personal insight, it's not Bible, but uh I seem to have noticed that. But Jacob and Esau were very different. Esau, of course, was like his dad. You know, he was a Harry Hunter. He was a a getter-done kind of guy. He was just a grab and growl. I mean he was that kind of guy. He was like his dad. And Jacob was like his mom. Jacob was uh we you know we would today we would call him a mama's boy. Jacob was one that liked being around the tent. Jacob was one that liked playing on the carpet instead of the dirt. And uh, you know, that's just the way it was. Now in in our heart and mind, some some might say, well You know, they're both boys and and you know boys are to be boys and we want them to go out and we we look towards Esau and say, man, Esau was a man's man and and there's something about a man you like that But let me remind you that Esau was the one that was profane. He had no interest in the things of God. He had no interest in doing right. He was uh given towards the things of this world and didn't worry about spirituality, Esau was more concerned about his belly than he was his birthright. Where Jacob, although he was a supplanter, although he was a trickster, Jacob at least was able to try and do what God wanted him to do, and ultimately you remember he's the one that prayed and said, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. Jacob did have a tendency to try and have a more tender heart towards the thing of God. I'm not here to this evening uh draw lines in in the differences here, but there's a natural tendency as parents for us to gravitate towards the child that is most like us. That's just a natural tendency. The one that maybe for you, Mom, the one that enjoys cooking She really likes it and she can get into it or he likes it. I like cooking. You know I gotta be careful cooking's a better way. That's the word. We just figured it out, kids, cooking People ask my kids, what does your dad like to do? And they say smoke. That doesn't that that doesn't work. You know, and then they have to explain. He likes to smoke meat. Uh so now we can say he likes to cook. There you go, that's the way to do it. So You know, I don't know these these things that uh kids have the the natural tendencies that are like you and and y they they gravitate towards you or you gravitate towards that and and that obviously is the case here And maybe for you know Rebecca and Esau uh not Esau. I I'm gonna end up messing these names up as I'm going through these tonight, but if I throw the wrong person in there, you know who I'm talking about. Maybe for them it wasn't on purpose. Maybe it just kind of naturally happened and mom and dad thought, well, I mean Rebecca has Jacob and she's investing in Jacob and spending all her time with Jacob and I have Esau and I'm spending all my time with Esau and there's only two of them and there's only two of us so what's the hurt But I want to show you here there's folly in favoritism. There's great folly in favoritism, and we've got to guard against that. The problem, beloved, is not that the children were different because children are different. The problem was is that the parents allowed the difference to determine their love. And we cannot do that. Maybe you are a getter done kind of die guy. You you like getting greasy. I hate getting greasy. I mean I like working. You know I like to work, but man, I don't like getting dirty. And uh we're we're you know maybe you like getting dirty, you're like Esau, man. Get just And you have one of your sons that's a little bit like me and he doesn't like getting dirty and that bothers you. And that if you aren't careful, that'll you you'll allow that to you you'll start to push them away just a little bit. You've got to be careful that you don't allow their difference to determine your love. You see, Isaac and Rebekah had to make a choice. They are the ones that chose sides. Had they continued to trust God and follow Him like they did when they prayed, you remember Rebecca was barren And she was looking for a child. They wanted children. They loved each other. They wanted to raise a family. And they're praying and seeking God together for the Lord to bring about a child. And God answered their prayer. And the child came, and if had God even told them what his plan was, and had they continued to follow and trust God's plan, we wonder what the difference would be in this family. Although we probably will never know. Instead, we see the results of favoritism. I want you to see that favoritism breeds division in the home They were a family. You remember the story? Uh How Isaac's father sent his servant out to find his son, a bride. And he went looking and and he know he didn't want a bride of of the people in the land in which they dwelt and he said, Go find a bride from my father's family, and he went and you remember he went to the well and he thought, Well uh if she offers to Give water to the camels, then this is the one and and how God miraculously worked that out and she did and she fed fed brought water and drew water out for all the camels as well and They went to the home and ultimately he thought, well, she's your water, but who's to say she'll even go with me? I mean, I'm asking her to leave her family and everything that she's ever known and come to a heathen land and and Who's going to say she'll even surrender to that? But she sees the hand of God in it, and her and her family agree, and she goes and she marries Isaac, and they are in love. They were a family. They loved each other. They wanted God's will. But somewhere along the line, as we saw there, that there a measure of favoritism began to creep in, and I don't know where it started, but somewhere. That division began to grow. That weed, that wedge began to grow, that division between the family because of this favoritism. Maybe one parent, you know, maybe Esau was out playing the dirt and Isaac wanted Jacob to play in the dirt. And he starts really pushing Jacob to come get in, you know, come on, play with your brother. Play get get out here. And then mom feels like she's got to protect the one that she's raising. And so she says, no, he doesn't have to play in the dirt just because Esau's playing in the dirt. I I don't know where it started, but somewhere a little bit of division started there. That was evident in the home. And that division ultimately grew even in the heart of the children. Look in chapter 25, if you would, and verses 29 through 34, Genesis 25, 29 through 34. We see here the story where Esau was out. hunting and Jacob had made him made himself some pottage and Esau came in from the field and he was faint and Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with this same red pottage for I am faint Therefore was his name called Edom, and Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die. And what profit shall this birthright do to me And Jacob said, Swear to me this day, and he swear unto him, and he sold his birthright unto Jacob. And Jacob gave Esau bread and potted of lentils, and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way. What's the last phrase there? Thus Esau despised his birthright. You see that spirit between them. I mean really in brotherly spirits Your brother comes out of the woods hungry, I mean you oughta feed him, right? Ough to just say, hey, yeah, I got some extra. Uh, you know, I was just planning to be me, but let's split it. I'll I'll I'll split it. I'll give you half of what I got, you know. We can eat, we'll get more later when we get home or whatever. But there was a division there. There was that barrier between Him. You know, you could go forward a generation. Don't turn there, but if you went up to chapter 37 of Genesis. You see in verses 3 and 4, now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. That was there. That wedge. They hated their own brother because of what was taking place there. You know, one of the lasting results here, we see this division continues even on to the next generation. And one of the lasting results Parents is that our kids are very likely to repeat our faults. I know our goal is, our hope is, is that they would get all the good parts of us and and leave all the faults behind. But they're very likely going to repeat our faults. We've got to do all we can to fight against them. Somebody kid somebody said kids rarely ever misquote a parent. In fact, they're very likely to repeat word for word what you wish you hadn't said. They're going to repeat it. They're going to repeat our faults, and this is what we see here. Favor favoritism also breeds deception. It breeds deception. Maybe when they were infants There was only one loaf of bread. And they decided together that they were going to leave that loaf of bread until tomorrow. And yet one of the parents thought, oh well, Esau's a little hungry so I'm just gonna take a little of the bread and give it to Esau but not give any to Jacob. I'm not gonna tell anybody else This favoritism breeds deception in the home. Rebecca went from the place where she loved her husband. To where she was willing and ready to undermine his authority to get what she wanted. You see, they had completely different ambitions. They had completely different goals. They wanted to they they were headed in completely opposite directions now You know, a home cannot exist where deception is prevalent. Deception of any kind, it cannot continue. You've got to be careful. It could be deception where mom is spending on the credit card and getting it paid off before dad knows about it. It could be deception where dad is making purchases that mom doesn't know about. And and it's not that you can't do that, but the idea is that we're trying to hide it from the other The deception that's there. You got to be careful. I've seen this many times where mom will allow a kid to stay home from school and tell the child, don't tell your dad you stayed home today. Wow. Or dad will take the child and they'll go do something and they'll say, Don't tell mom that we did this. Now it's one thing if you're joking like you guys go for ice cream and you say, okay, don't tell mom we had ice cream because she you know we we're gonna go eat and we don't want to ruin our dinner, you know. I mean that kind of thing in fun is okay, but they're literally trying to deceive. You gotta be careful with that. You gotta be careful with that. So be careful not to deceive each other. Don't allow deception to grow in your home. They Rebecca and Isaac weren't they just weren't together as in there's a lack of communication. Like they just weren't they weren't talking enough. They were at odds. They were going different directions. Turn to Genesis chapter 27, and here's the heart of this. Favoritism and what takes place here. I'm not going to read the whole s the whole story, but in Genesis 27 And it came to pass that when Isaac was old and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau, his eldest son, and he said unto him, My son, and he said unto him, Behold, here am I. And he said, Behold, now I am old. I know not the day of my death. Now therefore take I praise thee thy weapons, thy quiver, and thy bow, and go out into the field and take some venison Take me some venison, and make me savory meat such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat, that my soul may bless thee. And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son, and Esau went to the field to hunt for venison and to bring it. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee. Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats. And I will make them savior meat for thy father such as he loveth. And you know the story, it goes on, but he plotted. They together plotted to deceive Isaac. And he questioned and said, Oh, how but he's gonna know it's not it's not me. And of course you know she took the hair of the goat and put it on his hands and put the hair of the goat on his neck That's pretty hairy. If you can if you can be deceived by like the goat of the hair of a goat, man. Uh Put it on his neck to deceive her own husband. Now she knew the promise of God. God had said that the elder would serve the younger. She could have left it up to God in God's control. But they together plotted to deceive their father. Favoritism breeds a dissatisfaction that doesn't go away. Your kids will get to the place where they won't want to please either one of you. If you allow favoritism to r to continue in the home, if you look in Genesis chapter 26. Verse 34 and 35, we see Esau at 40 years old marries women of the Hittites. Verse 35 says, which were a grief of mind to Isaac and to Rebekah. They get to the point where they don't want to please either one of you because favor favoritism has been allowed to continue in the home. This dissatisfaction will infect the entire home. One mother whose story I read confessed She said that sadly her marriage experienced extreme discord and favoritism was the cause She said, my husband favored our natural child over my son from a previous relationship. Which led to a deep rift that deepened year after year. My son felt increasingly rejected, so that he began to hate his sister He expressed to me years later how he felt that he always had to work for his father's attention. The home ultimately split up and they're no longer together. There's a dynamic here that's even harder when you're talking about a blended family. Putting that together and trying to balance not being showing favoritism in in that situation. That's hard. That's a challenge. It's hard enough in your own home with your own kids that aren't they don't have that to plague on their mind. But this favoritism here breeded dissatisfaction that ultimately destroyed the home. If you look in chapter 27, verse 34 through 38. You hear the heartbreak in Esau's voice when this took place. And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry. And he said unto his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father. And he said, Thy brother came with subtlety, and hath taken away thy blessing. And he said, I and he said and he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? For he hath supplanted me these two times. He took away my birthright, and behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me? And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy Lord. and all his brethren have I given to him for servants, and with corn and wine have I sustained him, and what shall I do now unto thee, my son? And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father! And Esau lifted up his voice and wept. If you look down at verse number 41, you see that Esau hated Jacob. He hated Jacob. This dissatisfaction led to that hatred. I'm just warning you today to be very cautious and careful about favoritism. Now it's one thing if it's a joke, there's actually a long-standing running joke in my wife's family that Joanne is the favorite. And uh it's almost not a joke. Uh it's really strongly, yeah, Joanne's probably dad's favorite. Um this is true, but at the same time Both Steve and Mary would never hesitate to call their father up in a moment's notice and know that he would be there for them without question. They joke about Joanne being the favorite, but he also loved and cared for his other children. You've got to be careful that you keep this balance. And I want to try and give you some simple thoughts about how to avoid favoritism. As we wrap it up here, first you need to be consistent. You must be consistent with all of your kids. Now I didn't say fair. Life is not fair. And we're doing our children an injustice when we try and make everything fair. Life is not fair, but you must be consistent with them. You know, you gotta be consistent with your rules. If a rule applies to one, it must apply to all. You can't let this child get away with it and this child not get away with it. It has to be consistent. It has to be consistent. The rule has to apply to everybody. Be consistent in your rules. Be consistent in your discipline. I've been in situations, whether that was in school or college, where It was very evident to me that there was not a consistent application of the rules. And when there's that not a consistent application of the rules, that breeds hurt, that breeds bitterness. That's going to cause that and and and we'll get to the kids in a minute and how you deal with this thing, but uh you've got to be careful that you have a consistent application of the rules. Now you understand that parents aren't perfect. And that not everything that a parent does is going to be exactly correct. But we have to strive and try to be consistent in our application of the rules and our application of this discipline. Be consistent in your expressions of love. You know, you have you may have one child that's more affectionate than the others, one child that loves hugging and and he just likes to cuddle. And your other child likes to be a little distant, you need to bridge that gap and put your arm around and hug the child that likes to be distant distant as well. You can't say, oh, well, I'm just hugging them because they like to be hugged. And you never hug the other child. Although this child understands and knows there's that there's some measure of that that, well I don't like it, they at the same time long for it. And they won't aren't going to say anything, but they'll start to see it. They'll start to notice that. And it will create a problem. Be consistent in your expressions of love and your affection. If you tell one that you love them, you need to tell the others that you love them. You need to be equitable in your praise. Look for opportunities to praise your kids. As parents, it is our job to correct their problems That's our job is to correct the problems. We need to look at and see and figure out and to correct the problem. We do that enough That it would behoove us that we need to look for opportunities to praise them. Children long for praise. They they look for that. They enjoy that. Andrew's eighteen years old He still enjoys it when I look at him and say, son, I'm proud of you. You did good. You d y you you I was very impressed by you I'm forty six. I still enjoy when my dad calls up and says, Hey son, I I was watching your service today. Couldn't be more proud of you. I'm thankful what God's doing in your life and what God's doing there at Hunt Valley Baptist. You know kids Enjoy that. We need to praise them and we need to be equitable in that praise. We can't always be praising this one and never praising that one. You say, well it's easier to praise this one. I like this one better. That's exactly what we're talking about. You have to fight that. There is natural tendencies where the one child is more like you than the others. And and maybe there is that affinity there. But You have to fight against that to be equitable, consistent with all of your children. McDowell says this, each of us is more like Esau than we might want to admit. Yes, deep within the heart of every person is a longing for parental approval. From the preschooler who calls out from the sandbox, Dad, look at what I made, to the young child who fidgets nervously as mom reads the report card to see the latest grades To the high school student who appears in the kitchen dressed up and says, how do I look? To that grown adult who can't wait for mom and dad to see their new house. Or their new car or their new baby. Parental approval is a universal longing. It's a fact. So we've got to look for opportunities to praise our children and seize them. Seize them. Uh kids, how do you live with perceived favoritism? How do you live with it? You say, man, there's favoritism I'm dealing with. How do you live with that? Let me tell you something. Two wrongs never make a right. Two wrongs never make a right. You as a child must do right even if you are in an unfair situation. You can't just blame your parents for your bad decisions. You tell me, kids, where the Bible tells you that when you stand before God You're gonna be able to say, but my dad was unfair and that's your excuse for the decisions you made to go do the wrong things. That's not gonna work. Now as a parent God holds God holds me responsible for my actions and what I do as a parent. But you know that God holds you responsible as a child individually for what decisions you make and what you do. And so two wrongs never make a right. And if you are in a situation, understand your parents aren't perfect. They they they are gonna make mistakes. That's the way it is. We can't buy into the philosophy that's given today where psychologists are passing out free passes to every one every kind of wickedness because a person's childhood was less than ideal. The Bible still says, honor your mother and father. But he's not fair. Honor your mother and father. But she can't cook. Honor your mother and father. But but honor your mother and father. You see, God will bless you for doing right. You are held responsible for your reaction. Jacob dishonored his dad when he took part of deceiving him. You say, but his mom led him to it. His mom encouraged it. What does the Bible say about obeying God rather than man? We obey the authorities that are over us as long as they're not causing us or telling us to disobey God. But if they're going to tell us to disobey God then we have to disobey the authorities thereof. When I was growing up my best friend's father was a drunk. And uh We were at his house and and it was not uncommon for his dad to tell his children to drink whatever he was drinking. You know, if they were well he would just do that. Well, as the kids got saved and started coming to church and and growing, they were like, what should we do? And uh they started to refuse that. Obey God rather than man. I want you to remember, young people, that you reap what you sow. If you know the story, if you wanted to read down through the book of Genesis a little bit further. You remember when Jacob found a girl that he loved and he was really wanting to get married? And he began to work. He said, okay, I'll work seven years And he worked seven years for the love of his life, and on his wedding night he found out that he had been deceived. And was actually married to Leah. Had to work another seven years. We could read down a little bit further and we could see we're actually the blood of a goat. Sound familiar? Rebecca said, go out and get me goats. I'll use that skin and put it on you. I'll use that meat and cook it up, make it look like venison, will deceive your father. Well you remember down later when they use the the blood of a goat to put it on that coat of many colors? to deceive their father. But what happened to Joseph. You see you need to remember you reap what you sow. You reap what you sow. Keep that in mind. How do you live in an unfair situation? You do what's right. Because God holds us as individuals accountable.