When I was in college, we had a school administration class. With Dr. Barns, he was uh US Marine and he felt like he was still enrolled, you know. He liked to be a drill sergeant, you know. He liked uh driving his class that way. Anyways he used to tell us if you're gonna be a successful school administrator You need to inspect what you expect. You gotta doesn't matter uh what you lay out for the teachers to do or what you set as the schedule for the year or ultimately what what what is supposed to happen. It it takes leadership, it takes organization, it takes some follow through if you're gonna succeed in in uh administrating and and leading a school. And He tried to drill that into us because human nature desires to get away with whatever it can. Human nature is to do as little as possible. Excuse me, that is our uh our go to pattern just because uh that's who we are, but We know that in and through the power of God we do all that we do with all of our might, and we do it as heartily as unto the Lord. Amen. We know that that is the nature of man, especially if you have kids. You you see that come out uh in their in your children and you try and raise them and train them. uh to do things uh to the fullest of their ability, not just with what they could get by with, just to get by. Well, we're going to look this evening in the Word of God. You're in Luke chapter number 12. I'd like you to look beginning in verse number 35. by way of intro this is coming into the t what we're going to be looking at for a text this evening. But he says, Let your loins be gird about and your lights burning, and ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their Lord. when he will return from the wedding, that when he cometh and knocketh they may open unto him immediately. Blessed are those servants whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching That's all of us, beloved. We are all servants and we should all be watching. Amen. We should all be waiting. We should all be ready for when the master comes. Verse number 37 there, he says, Blessed are those servants. whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching. Verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself and make them to sit down to meet, and will come forth and serve them. And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find him so, blessed are those servants. Blessed are those servants. This evening in our text the word servant has been used a couple of times We are going to move into the second half of the text this evening, and we're going to find there the term steward used A steward is simply a servant who has been given a position of leadership or oversight. He's been given some responsibility. He is an overseer of some portion or some lot of the master's home. Many times the steward would actually be the overseer or the leader of other servants They would be the steward and to make sure that things are prepared and things are ready and we're all going to do this together and get ready because the master is returning. Tonight I would like to speak to you for a few minutes on the message, the servant of servants. The servant of servants. You see, when we understand our role correctly in the kingdom of God, we realize very quickly that we really are just all Servants. We're all servants and God has chosen to take some servants and Say, hey, listen, I want you to take care of this responsibility, or this is going to be your role. This is going to be something that you're supposed to do, but we're all servants So we see the steward this evening, and we're going to call him the servant of servants. In our church, when one is put in charge of a ministry, you have a position. You you y you may be over the nurseries or serving or working in that capacity and and and so you have some other servants that you're helping to organize and and working together to make sure that the nurseries are taken care of. But we're just servants serving one another. You know, we like to talk about leadership today. It's certainly a buzzword in the corporate world. Leadership. We have big leadership seminars and men aspire to be great leaders. But do you know the word leader is only found three times in our Bible? But the word servant It's found many, many, many times. Jesus Christ came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. And if we are going to be like Christ, we need to rightly understand our role in this thing is to really to be servants. We're too caught up in the position or the title of leader today When the Lord talks about Moses, that man who was called to lead this great group, this great multitude, God's people. He doesn't say, Behold, my leader, Moses. No, you look it up. He says, Behold, my servant, Moses. So you see, beloved, we are all just servants called to serve the master. This evening, I want to make it clear that I believe that my role as a pastor is but to be a servant of God's servants. I count it a privilege to serve the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Called to fulfill this role and provide leadership and guidance. But I'm just a servant of God's servants We read in these verses that we read already, verse 35, down up through 40, it's a parable about the servants who should be watching. And that's all of us. We should all be watching. And then Peter asked in verse number 41, look back in your text there. Peter asked of the Lord, he said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us? Or even to all. Peter was asking, he's saying, hey, is this something that you're telling us for for everybody? Is this something that all people, or is this for us? The group that's here with you now, is this for us that have been called to be uh stewards? Or is this for us the group that has had the privilege of of walking and talking with you and you instructing us directly, or is this something for all people? And the Lord encourages him maybe to take a good look at whom the Lord calls a faithful and wise steward. Every one of us is here here is to be a servant, a servant for our Lord. But there are some who are servant of servants. Your role is to provide leadership. I want you to see several things in these following verses about this servant of servants. First of all, I want you to look at the placement of the servant. We see in verse number 42. He says, And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward? What are the next what is that? Five words? Whom his Lord shall make ruler. over his household, whom his Lord shall make ruler. What I want you to understand, beloved, is that the placement of the servant is something that the Lord does. The Lord calls people to fulfill a particular role. The Lord calls servants. And especially when we're talking about the position of pastor or a missionary that is called to go to a particular field. I believe that God has a plan and that God fitly joins the church together, that God has a man for a church and a church for a man. and that God calls that person to those people for that time. God puts him there. He says, who is it? That the Lord Shall make ruler. The Lord is the one that does this. It's a position given by God. God places a man in that place. God leads a man to the church. You know, we shouldn't be I know this is not something that maybe affects you directly, very few of you, but I want you to know the pastor should never just be looking for a job. It's not just what place can I go and get a decent pay and Does the church provide some type of retirement and do they provide housing for me or all of my needs met? It's not a job, it's a call of God for you to go to a place and fulfill God's call on your life. And and you trust God to take care of those needs, whatever they might be. God's the one that places them there And I tell you that Pastor Derek, when he went into the pastorate, that he did it correctly. You know, he waited well over two years before he took that step. He was ready. We talked about it. We said, okay, let's look at the church calendar. Let's look at where we're at as a church. And we began talking about him going out into the pastorate before we were ever done with the court case. And we we agreed that listen as long as the court case is going on, we're not in a place in the church, I think it would be bad for you to head out. I think you should stay. And he said, okay. And he he said, we'll stay, we'll keep serving, and he kept serving, and uh, you know, we said, okay, we're out of the court case, now when when can I go? And I say, well, let's look at it. Let's see. Let's look at a time frame and and okay, we're looking at this. You know what? And then Amy threw a monkey wrench in the plan She we're getting ready and then all of a sudden Amy's like, oh uh by the way I'm getting married and I'm leaving and and of course we're excited for her but that was kinda like I said told Pastor Derek, I says, I don't want to have a a one-two bam bam, you guys are both leaving in June, you know. I said it would help if you could hang out a little longer maybe even to the end of the year. She's leaving in June. Could you stay until the end of the year? I said, but you need to start getting your name out and we'll trust God for the timing of it But we worked together, we prayerfully looked at it and looked for God's place for him, and he had other churches he looked at and some he thought were good, some he thought, no, this is not a good fit for me Uh but God leads. God calls a man to a place and you follow God's plan. But I want you to know that he also calls even amongst the servants of the church, I believe that he looks for people to fulfill roles in the church. to teach Sunday school. God burdens the heart of the pastor to go talk to you, you know, uh many times in uh in, well actually in when we did the farewell to Pastor Derek. Many of you uh gave testament to Pastor Derek and and you know you said man Pastor Derek, he you know, he came to me and he said, I think you should you know help in this class or you should do that. You know, you know who told him to go talk to you? The pastor. We met and I said I think it's time that this person gets involved. You see, God leaves And and I then then Pastor Derrick said, Okay, so he went and he approached you and says, Hey, what do you think about doing this? What do you uh it God looks and he sees where people are at spiritually and where where they're ready to take a step of growth or to move forward for the Lord and be used in a greater capacity or a greater way. And God wants you to do that. Sometimes Y maybe even with some apprehension. I remember in Kansas I was the Sunday school administrator and I went to the pastor and uh we we had a uh guest speaker come through town and He he he spent just a couple days with us, but he was very good at reading people and he he told the pastor, he said, uh this guy in your church would make an amazing 10, 11, and 12-year-old boys Sunday school teacher. And you know, we're th he never taught Sunday school before. He was kinda quiet. We're we never even thought about it. Pastor started praying about it and he says, you know what, I think I think he's right. Let's let's talk to him. So I was the Sunday school administrator. So Pastor came to me and he says, Hey, I want you to go talk to this guy about being a Sunday school teacher, 10, 11, 12-year-old boys. And I said, okay. And I went to him and approached him and he was just like floored. He's like, I could never do that. What? Teach boys? I I don't know. I said, you need to pray about it I'll help you. We'll get you the lessons. I'll show you exactly what to do. We meet every Sunday night. You know, walked him through it. But do you know what? He took that class. And that class just blossomed. I mean those boys just loved him to death. He loved teaching that class. I mean he thrived in that place. It was where he needed to be. God knew. God knew exactly. I want you to see another point that's relevant here with regards to this verse. He said he was made ruler over his household. I want you to understand this is the Lord's church. This is God's church. It's not it's not Pastor Caleb's. From the pastor all the way down to the person who carries out the trash, we're all servants of the Master. This is God's church. You're not my people. You're God's people. I try and be very careful about saying saying that, you know, uh my people or But the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. The people that God has brought together. It's his church. You know we need to remember that, not just from the pastor, but all the way down through the ministries, the Sunday school. the nurseries, uh everywhere. You know, sometimes we can get a little possessive. This is my bookstore Don't don't touch these things. Don't move this. You can't do that in here. I'm in charge of the bookstore. No, it's God's. Okay. This is my ministry. What? You can't change the schedule? That's my ministry. No, it's God's. We're all just servants. We've got to be careful not to get too possessive. to hold on to something like and listen we ought to take ownership of what we have and and have vision and and go forward with it but we need to remember that it's his amen We're just servants, serving him and serving each other. I want you to see the practice of the servant. Verses 48. I'm sorry, 42, 43, and 44, we see the practice of the servant. He says here, and the Lord said, Whom then is that faithful and wise steward? The practice of the servant, the servant's going to be faithful. Are you faithful? Can you be counted on to fulfill your role, to be in your place, to do your job? There's somebody always have to fill in for you. Somebody we always got to find somebody to cover for you because this, that, or the other. I know there's lots of different things, but it's just a matter of being faithful. Being faithful. Being faithful. We also see that he says that whom the Lord shall make rule over his household to give them their portion of meat in due season, blessed is the servant, whom his Lord when he cometh shall find. So doing. Just doing. Doing your job. Doing what you're called to do. It's not about a position. There's a difference between somebody who comes and says, boy, I would love to serve. I would love to help. I want to just do whatever needs done. That kind of person, you know, God will pick them up and use them. But you know, I've had people that can't even be faithful to church on Sunday morning talk to me about teaching Sunday school. They can't even get here faithfully every single Sunday and they want to be given a position of leadership. Well, it doesn't work that way. The Bible says he that is faithful in that which is least shall be faithful in that which is much. When we get faithful to just do what we know we're supposed to do, when we get faithful fulfilling our roles and being in our place, listen God's gonna pick you up and use you. It's just gonna happen. You're not you're gonna have more to do than you want to do Okay, if you just start being faithful, just start just start being there, start showing up and being on time and and and just faithfully, faithfully, faithfully doing that. You say, well, if I had a position, I would be faithful. It doesn't work that way. Not with me. I don't give out positions to try and motivate faithfulness. I think we ought to be faithful to the master and let God give us places of service. They're not positions anyway. They're just places of service because we're just servants serving each other. Amen. We see that the practice of a servant here. Who is the faithful and wise steward? Who is God going to make ruler over all that he hath? The one whom the Lord finds so doing. You see, God calls to service from service. From the one You see, if you take those verses together, who is the faithful and wise steward? Whom the Lord shall make ruler over his household? The one whom the Lord shall find doing. He's the one. You know you've heard it said you need something done, find somebody that's busy. You don't find the guy that has nothing to do, the guy that's sitting over here, because he's got a lot of stuff he should be doing and he ain't doing it. You find somebody that's already busy and almost can't get everything done, but you see they find a way to get it done. And you give them a job and they'll find a way to get that done too. Because they are workers, because they're doing. You see, God sees his servants and those that are serving and those that are doing, and he says, Okay, I need you to be a steward. I need you to take this ministry. I need you to lead these people. I need you to oversee this responsibility. I need you to now be a servant of the servants. Places of service. If you're not a servant now, God will not call you to be a steward later. See, people want to be the steward. I'll be the steward. But they're not the servant now. You see, God looks amongst his servants. And he says, I need you to be a steward. Would you take this? That's how God works I want you to see the portion that's mentioned here. We need to be aware of and realize how important it is. If we have any responsibility of stewarding or leading people in any way. We have a responsibility, he says here, to give them their portion of meat in due season. The thought and the idea here is that God has prepared and given you as a steward a portion of meat to give to others. So if you have any position of stewardship, if you have any position of leadership, if you are a servant of servants in any way, and that means whether you're working in master clubs downstairs or whether you're teaching in a Sunday school class or where you're you're serving in a discipleship ministry and you're you're uh discipling others one by one, you see God has a portion That he wants you to give. And you've got to get that portion from God to have it to be able to give to the other servants. That, of course, is one of the very large responsibilities that I have as a pastor, is to get in the Word of God and get that portion of meat that's due for the season. That's due for each day. I prayerfully consider who who's going to speak. You know Brother Reardon's here. I could have had Brother Reardon teach Sunday school today and and preach tonight. He would have gladly done that. But I I I pray about anytime we have a guest speaker here, Lord, you want me to preach or you want them to preach? What do your people need right now? Don't think I just carelessly just, oh hey, Brother Reardon's here, so man, I'm gonna have him preach today, then I don't have to. I don't approach it that way I prayerfully asked God, who do you want to preach? And there's been times that men like Brother Reardon who would do an amazing job are here And I say, listen, I believe it's the Lord's will that I preach it. Is it all right? And of course they're sure whatever, you know. Uh and and I'll go ahead and preach. But there's some times when They're here and I believe the Lord would have whatever whatever God has given them is what the people need right now. And it's that portion that God has for that time. And I believe it's important that we give it to the Lord. Not only that, I want you to know that if you miss church, it's very possible you're going to miss the portion that you were supposed to get. It's that portion that's for you. That God had prepared and ready for you. Tonight we're going to go over to the house and we're going to have some good food. We got some portions that are made up for you guys. Those that don't come or can't make it, they're gonna miss it. It's the same way in church. When we miss church, sometimes we miss the portion that God has just for us. Lastly, this evening I want you to see the punishment of the servant. We see this in verses 45 through 48. He says, But, and if that servant say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming, and he shall begin to beat the manservants and maidservants, and to eat, and to be drunken. The Lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him, and an hour when he is not aware, and he will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion with unbelievers. And that servant which knew his Lord's will and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. But he that knew not and did not commit things worthy of strife shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whom much is given, of him shall be much required. And to whom men have committed much of him, they will ask the more. We see here, beloved, that that's why in the book of James, chapter 3, I think it is You know, sometimes people looking looking for position of leadership, you don't understand. You The Bible says, be not many masters, for that they have a greater condemnation. It's a greater weight. It's a greater responsibility. Because to whom much is given, much is required. If we've been given any position of leadership, any position of of ability to serve other people, well we better take it seriously. We better not relax and he says here, hey the Lord's the Lord's not coming back for a while I can just take my ease and I think the implication here is beating the man-servants and maid servants, the idea of making the other servants do all the work You know, no leader should be making his followers do something he's not willing to do. Sometimes he can't do it. But he shouldn't be making people do something they're not willing to do. Are you willing to do it? I strive hard to be a leader that leads by example. To be there with you, to be out front. One of the harder things for me to do is to to not be out there where because I need to be with people or I need to be studying or I need to be in prayer and I would rather be working with my hands. I'd rather be digging the ditch But as a leader, we need to be willing and ready to do whatever needs done and realize we have a greater condemnation and God's going to hold us accountable for all that we've been given, all that He's appointed us Pointed to our care. You've been entrusted with this responsibility. Been given this job. How are you handling it? Are you fulfilling your role? The servant of servants. We saw the placement and the practice, the portion, the punishment there of the servants. It's my privilege to serve Hunt Valley Baptist Church, to be a servant of the servants. I hope that you see that spirit in me as I lead the church. But I hope we all maintain that spirit, even in our respective ministries, in all the different areas of service, whatever privilege we have to serve God, we're just servants of servants. Ultimately serving the master