We have been studying the names of God. The name of God Elohim was introduced to us really at creation We see him as the Creator, God who is over all of the earth, the universe really. He is in charge of all of it. And that name uh really uh is who God is, Elohim, right? But then uh we are introduced to the name Jehovah when he begins to deal with people. His crowning uh creation that human that he desires to have a relationship with the one he wanted to fellowship with he walked with Adam and Eve in the cool of the day in the garden and fellowshipping with the crowning achievement of his creation, man. And uh we are introduced to the name Jehovah that at that time. Then as we go down through the beginning years of history of the children of Israel and of God and creation, as different circumstances arise, That name Jehovah is compounded with a secondary name where we learn a little bit more about him. Uh you obviously are here today, you see that I'm speaking, you might assume I'm the pastor, so I would be a pastor, but Over time you might learn about me that at one point I was a drywaller. And so you'd find out, oh, he he's a drywaller. Uh I do not do drywall anymore, just so you know. Uh uh no, it seems like you can never get away with it w away from it. Once you like a mechanic, y it's like everybody has a car for you, right? You know, it's so it seems like that happens a lot But that's okay. So you you learn a little bit more about the person. You you get around them longer and you find out they have some other skill or their their life is shaped by something. So the more we see of God, we are introduced to these names, and these names give us a broader picture of who God is and who He should be for us. We are introduced here in this story, which is a story we looked at last week really with in relation to fathers. We looked at Abraham and how he was a father and the characteristics uh of him and how we should uh implement those things in our lives. But now we're going to take it and see where Abraham introduces us to another name for our Heavenly Father I want you to see this. Look in Genesis chapter 22. We're going to begin reading verse number 3. We have in this passage of scripture one of the most moving stories in all of the Bible. Follow along with me as I read to you verse three through fourteen. And Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled an ass, and took his two two of his younger men with him, and Isaac his son. and clave the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went unto the place of which God had told him. Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and he saw the place afar off. And Abraham said unto his men, unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac, his son, and took the fire in his hand, and a knife, and they went both of them together. And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and he said, My father, and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood. But where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb. For a burnt offering. So they went both of them together. And they came to the place which God had told him of, and Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order. And bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I And he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing that thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns, and Abraham went and took the ram and offered him for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place. Jehovah Jireh. As it is said to this day in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. We are introduced here to the name Jehovah Jireh. Jehovah Jireh means the Lord will provide. The Lord will provide Jehovah Jirah because God provided a lamb to stand to be offered as a sacrifice in the stead for his son. We want to look at this name, Jehovah Jair, today, and think about it as it applies to you and I in our lives now. I would like to begin with talking about or at least illustrating, expressing the problem that we have. I just want us to be reminded of the fact that we all have some needs. We are all in a place where we have a need for a God who provides. We are all in that place. There are for us those needs with which we really do focus most of our attention. They might be what we would call our core needs. These are the basic day-to-day needs of life that we have. We tend to focus all of our attention in that area. We have the need to eat. We need some food on the table. Uh we need clothes on our back. Uh we need a roof over our head. You need a job to be able to provide these day-to-day necessities that we have and uh you know these types of things that we have. You know, we need some health, good health in order to care for uh all of these other needs. These were the core needs, the basic life-to-life, day-to-day things that all of us have. We have some needs. Sometimes those needs are greater than others But uh, you know, I think we really do spend an inordinate amount of time concentrating on those needs. When those needs really are not the most important needs we have. You see, beloved, you can know that that's the case if all you do is look at your prayer list. How many of the things on our prayer list are for the basic needs of life? When the really important things are the character needs Uh a lot of times if we have problems financially, it's because there's a problem in the character. You're not a very good steward of what you had. You've had some money, and you know it really doesn't matter how much money you make, you never make enough. How many of you understand that? That's just the y you know you could go from making twenty-five thousand a year to fifty thousand a year and within a year or so you no longer are making enough money You could be making $150,000 a year. There's people that call into Dave Ramsey's show all the time, making it in in excess of $200,000 a year, and they're living paycheck to paycheck. They're in debt. They don't own their house and they don't own their cars and they they got thirty thousand dollars on credit cards and you're like, How in the world Because it's a character problem. It has nothing to do with how much they make. The problem is is too many of us are buying six dollar coffees at Starbucks. And we got subscriptions to everything under the sun, robbing us uh blind every month. Instead of being careful, what I'm saying, beloved, is sometimes the core needs the things that we invest all of our time in and all of our energy on. Those really aren't the most important things. The the character needs is what we need to be praying about. You've got relationship problems. Sometimes there's a struggle, there's a battle in some relationships. You know, only by pride cometh contention. Beloved, there's a character problem. When there's a relationship problem, and I'll tell you this morning that the relationship problems are a whole lot more important than a money problem. Money problem is easy to solve. Just go see Bob, he'll give you some. Bob's like, Bob who? Is there another Bob here? There must be a rich Bob. Let me meet him. I want to meet that Bob. Yeah, no money problems are you know I mean all you gotta do is work some more. Money problem's easy to solve. Relationship problems are far more important than money problems. And man we need God to do something in our life when we have a relationship problem. We got a struggle or a a situation here. But sometimes those problems are called a cause because character problems. Maybe you have a problem with temper, sir. And you can't control your temper. You can't control your anger. This is creating problems in the home. And you're like, man, if she would just, wait a minute, what about me? We've got some character problems, beloved. We need to be going to God in prayer. We need a God that provides to come on the scene and meet that need that is so much more important than just what am I going to eat for lunch today. But you know, beloved, we have also a chief need. Every single man, woman, and ever born has a chief need. Unless we need a savior. It doesn't matter how good you are today, you're still a sinner. And we have for us in this story, which we just read, a picture of a lamb that was sacrificed in the stead of Isaac. And that Lamb of God which came to take away the sin of the world has offered himself a sacrifice for you so that you could have a Savior. So that your sins could be forgiven, so that you could know you're on your way to heaven. So you could be restored into a right relationship with your Heavenly Father. And beloved, we have a chief need, and that need is to be forgiven of our sins. Every single one of us have, and we need a God that provides to do it. What a savior. Every single one of us were born in sin. Nobody has to teach us or train us how to sin. Sin comes naturally. Why? Because it's our sin nature Beloved, our greatest need provoked God's greatest gift. We have in this story, Isaac is a type or a picture of Jesus Christ who gave himself a sacrifice for us. You see, we saw there where Abraham took the wood and laid it upon his son Isaac. And Isaac carried the wood for his sacrifice up into the mountain. They laid the old rugged cross on the shoulders of our Savior, and he carried that cross up the mountain. It also is pictured because of the fact that they were both in the mountain. They went up into the mountain here, and Jesus Christ was crucified on Mount Calvary. It also the picture, the type continues in the fact that we just read it. It was a three-day journey For them to get to this place. For three days Isaac was probably in his heart and mind wondering, uh, where's the sacrifice Where's the Lamb? Who is the Lamb going to be? There's nobody else here. What are we going to do? For three days he was in that place, and we know that Jesus died, and for three days he was in the grave But he rose again on that third day. The type continues as we see that Isaac willingly laid himself down on the altar. Jesus Christ laid himself down a sacrifice for you and I. Nobody took his life, he gave his life So that we could know the salvation of the Lord. Christ gave himself a sacrifice for you and I. What an amazing picture we saw in verse number eight. And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself. A lamb for burnt offering. Truer words have never been said. You could not have phrased it any better. God Himself, God will provide Himself a lamb. In the way we think about things, we think, oh, God's going to get himself a lamb. But no, God himself is going to be the lamb. God Himself is going to be the Lamb, and God the Father sent His Son, God the Son. To be a sacrifice for us. God came in the flesh, dwelt among us. And ultimately went to the cross for us as a sacrifice for our sins. Dear friend, can you imagine with me? The joy in Abraham's heart when he was there, having done all that God commanded and prepared the altar and I can imagine the pain in his heart and in his mind as he's thinking about what am I doing? Isaac is my only begotten son. He was a gift from God. This is He he is the the the promised child and and oh I'm supposed to sacrifice him the whole time he's building at this and Isaac the whole time wondering what in the world and then and then dad looks at Isaac and said Isaac God has told me that you're the sacrifice. Most of us would have been not today and took off. Isaac said, Okay, Dad. And he bound him. And laid him there on the altar. And you can imagine Isaac raising up his or Abraham raising up his arm with a knife to sacrifice his own son. And God stopping him. And saying, wait, I've provided a substitute. I've provided a ram that's been caught in the thicket. He turns around and there in the thicket is a lamb. Now a few minutes later, when they put that that ram, that lamb down on the altar and they shed his blood. Can you imagine the joy in Abraham's heart as he looks at that and says, That could have been my son But what about the joy in Isaac's heart as he looks and he says, That could have been me? And beloved Jesus Christ came and he died on an old rugged cross and he took upon him the sin of the world. And he died and went into hell for you so that you and I don't have to go to hell, so that our sins can be forgiven. He died that you could know the salvation of the Lord Christian, we ought to have that kind of joy in our heart as we think about what Jesus did for us and how he paid our sin debt. That could have been me. That could have been me. That image probably written on the heart and the mind of Isaac for the rest of his life, thinking about the facts That he could have died there that day, but he was saved by a substitute. And can I tell you, beloved, that there's no way we can pay for our sin ourselves, but only through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, and he died for you Beloved, I don't know what you're trusting in today, but I would certainly rather trust in the shed blood of Jesus than my own works. I could never be good enough to pay my own sin debt. But Jesus paid it for me. He is a God that provides, and so we see not only the explanation or expression of our problems, but I want you to see an elaboration of his power. This literally, the name Jehovah Jireh, is an elaboration of what Abraham experienced. He went through this situation where he was supposed to sacrifice his only son and he said, wait a minute, God has provided. He said, He is a God that provides. He has provided my chief need. He's provided a sacrifice for me. But beloved, he goes beyond that and he provides needs that we have for our character and person and changing us from the inside out so that we can be the kind of husband we're supposed to be, so we can be the kind of wife that we're supposed to be, so we can be The kind of Christian God wants us to be. He is the provider. Yes, He is. Can I tell you this morning that God is conscious of your need? He knows. He is an omniscient God. He knows all. And he is conscious of your need today. He is a God who sees. In verse number 14, Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Jireh. As it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord, it shall be seen. God is one that sees. God is one that knows. He is conscious of every need that you have today. Whether that is a great important relationship need, whether that is a character need in your life, whether that is a uh something maybe uh as as small as as a bill that has to be paid that at this point you don't know how you're going to pay it. He sees, he knows every need that you have, every burden that's on your heart. Can I ask you, have you ever been at your wit's end? That's a phrase that comes right from the scripture in Psalms 107, verse number 27. He says, they reel to and fro. And stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits' end. Saying life has thrown so many curveballs, they're just going all every which way, they don't even know which way to go. They they've they've got come to the place where they don't even realize which way's up. Have you been there? Have you felt like life is throwing you one curveball after the next and you as soon as you turn around there's something else You you feel like, man, I I I've just got this under control. If I could just take a breather and then there's something else? You get to your wits end Well, verse number twenty-eight says, Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he brought them out of their distress. God is a God who provides. God is not only conscious of your need. Can I tell you he's concerned about your need? He's concerned about it. He loves you with a perfect love. And he has concern for what you're going through. Whatever it is that's in your life, maybe nobody else knows what it is Maybe you've been battling with something all by yourself and nobody else is aware of the struggle that you have, but can I tell you this morning that Jesus is aware? He's conscious and he's concerned. He loves you I'm sure on this journey, Abraham the whole way, he knew that Isaac was the promised son. He was moving forward in faith that he thought, man, God's got to provide something. God's got to do something. I don't know what God's going to do But I trust God. God is concerned with your need, the burden that you're carrying. And the exciting thing is, beloved, is God is capable of meeting your need. God is capable. You may have some needs this morning. You may come to me and you say, Pastor Caleb, I've got this situation or I've got this problem. I'm certainly going to pray with you about it and I'll try and give you some biblical advice. I'll try and help you wherever I can. But can I tell you if I'm honest before you and God that many times when people bring me needs for myself, I look at it and say, Lord, what can I do? How can I help these people? How can I make a difference? Their need is great. This is important. And all I can do is carry it to the throne of God and ask him to help me be some form of encouragement, but I know that ultimately God's the one that has to do it. And I'm not capable, but God is capable. God can do it, and He is working on your need before you even realize it. You see, beloved, here before they even got to that mountain, maybe even a day before they got there, God said, Okay, uh, hey, Ram. But time for you to get lost. You're gonna get separated from the herd. Want you to make your way up this trail over here and I want you to go this direction. And he sends that ram a day ahead of time on up the mountain there. He's just moranding around. And then ultimately he says he says, I'll bet there's some good food right in there, Ram. Why don't you check that out? And the ram gets stuck in the thicket Ready and waiting for to be the substitute for Isaac. You see, God is working before you even know it. A week ago in Sunday school we were talking about the miracle of uh Jesus telling Peter, hey, uh I don't really need to pay the tax, but I'll pay the tax uh so that I'm not an offense to anybody. So Peter, why don't you go and and catch a fish? And the first fish you catch, I want you to pull it up, and there's going to be a coin in there. And the coin in that fish's mouth is the exact amount to pay your or my tax. Go pay the tax. Peter goes to the lake and throws that. You know, sometime a day earlier, some 10-year-old boy was fishing and lost his coin. And he was not very happy about losing his coin. That fish saw that coin flipping through the water and thought, wow, that looks delicious. And he runs and grabs that coin. And then God had to take that fish and say, I want you to come over here on this shore. Hey, see that hook? Grab that hook. And pulls him out. What I'm saying is God's capable. He can do things that we can't even understand. He's working in the background to perform a miracle for you that needs to take place. Maybe you need a miracle in your home. Maybe you need a miracle to take place at your workplace. Can I tell you that God is capable? To meet that need. He is the God that provides and he is capable to do it. But my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. I'm glad we have a capable God today. Amen. Thirdly and lastly, I want to just talk to you about how do you experience God as the provider? You say, man, that sounds amazing. How do I get a relationship with Jehovah that He is my provider? How do I have a relationship with Him? How do I know and experience Him as Jehovah Jireh? He is the God that provides. Can you imagine I can only think that Abraham had to have told Sarah, Sarah, listen, this is what God told me to do. I don't know what's going to happen. But I need you to pray. I need you to talk to the Lord because God's told me to sacrifice our son. And Sarah, you know I'm going to do what God said. I'm going to do it So Sarah, you need to pray. When they left, they were three days' journey away. Can you imagine Sarah's broken heart during all that time? Thinking about her son being gone? Can you imagine her sitting there on the porch waiting for her husband and those two men to come back and Fully expecting not to see her son, for her to have said goodbye to her son already for the last time, and she's sitting there on the porch and There comes around the corner at the end of the drive down there, there's four people walking and they move just a little bit further and she thinks, surely not, but that guy sure is walking like Isaac And she's watching, looking a little bit closer, and she thinks, that's that's Isaac. That's Isaac, he's still there, and she runs down to the end of the driveway, and there's her son. She throws her arms around her son Isaac, my only son Isaac, and she loves him. She's holding him close, and I can just picture her looking over Isaac's shoulder into her husband's eyes and kind of whispering, what happened? What happened? I wasn't expecting to see Isaac again. And Abraham looks at her, looks at her and says, God provided. God provided. He didn't have to give all the details, he didn't have to explain exactly how it happened, but he said, God provided. Can I tell you this morning that in your life God wants to and God will provide You can stand with a testimony and say, listen, I can't explain exactly how, but I can just tell you that God provided. God worked the miracle that I needed in my home or with my family or for my kids. The miracle I needed for my loved one who is ill and in the hospital. God provided. God provided You can experience him as God, the provider. First, you must put your faith in him as Savior. God has provided our chief need, and beloved, that chief need must be met first. You must put your faith and trust in the Savior. Hebrews 11, verses 17 through 19 says, By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. And he that received the promise offered up his only begotten Son, of whom it is said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called, accounting that God was able to raise him up. even from the dead, from whence also he received him in a figure. He says he believed God. He had faith in what God said He went and he was going to go and sacrifice his son. Why? Because he had faith that he knew what God said, and even if God had to raise him from the dead, that's what God was going to do, because this is what God had said And beloved, what I'm telling you this morning is you're going to put your faith in the Savior, you need to believe what God said. Believe that God sent Jesus Christ to die for your sins. There's a lot of people and there's a lot of religions and there's a lot of things out there that tell you how you can have a better life or how you can get to paradise or how you can know uh or experience the good things, but I want you to know that it starts according to the word of God and according to God who is Elohim, the creator, Jehovah God, who is a Jehovah Jireh, the God that provides. He provided a lamb To die in our stead. And all we have to do is put our faith and trust in that, acknowledging the fact that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead. God the Father raised him, God the Son from the dead. Thou shalt be saved. God sent his son so you could know the forgiveness of your sin and have a home in heaven. If you're here this morning, you've never put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, beloved, I would rather trust Jesus on his worst day than me on my best day. I know how weak and anemic and and and poor of character I am. And if you feel like you're doing pretty good, you you certainly have fooled yourself. On my best day, I'm still a poor husband and a worse father. On my best day, I'm not a very good worker. On my best day, the Bible says that your righteousness is as filthy rags. Compared to the purity and the holiness of God. Beloved, I'm just imploring you, and I don't know who all I don't know everybody here this morning, but I just want to tell you if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, He died for you and once you to provide salvation for you, wants to provide heaven for you. And I couldn't put it any straighter or any plainer that all you got to do is trust him. Just like I'm trusted on this platform. There's no question in my mind that this is going to hold me. I have put my faith in this I can stand here. You can put your faith in Jehovah Jireh, the provider who provided for you and I, a Savior, that Lamb that came to take away the sin of the world, Jesus Christ. I would implore you today, if you haven't done it, do too, do it today before it's eternally too late. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. You don't know that you'll be on earth tomorrow, and if you die before you trust him, it's too late. You gotta put your trust in him as Savior. If you want to know the provider. That's how you do it. Trust him as Savior. If you want to experience him as provider through your life, you follow the scripture. You follow the scripture. We see in this story of Abraham that he did, he performed exactly what God told him to do. Every detail of it. He went to the exact mountain that God told him to go to. He went to the exact place where God said, This is where you're going to offer the sacrifice. Abraham's following matched his faith. He had faith in God, so he trusted him. So he said, you know what, I'm gonna follow God. He did exactly what God told him to do. I wonder of us I wonder how many of us want to adjust these commands. We want to follow God as long as He's the provider. But when He says to sacrifice thy son, thine only son, you're like, wait a minute, no, that's not what I signed up for. When he says to be in church, to worship me, you're like, oh, I can take it or leave it. I'm okay, one way or the other. It doesn't really matter. When he says, raise up your children and nurture an admonition of the Lord. When he says, as a father who knows God, it is your responsibility to point your kids to Christ. And you say, oh, well, that's okay. I mean that's a good thing. If we can make it to church, you know we'll let the kids go to Sunday school if we can make it What I'm saying is uh how much are we following this? If we want to know him as provider, we've got to be like Abraham, who followed what God said, what God had instructed him to do. He did exactly that. The Bible tells us that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. It's all profitable. Not just the John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Not just the you know, herein is love. Not just the golden rule, not just a few things that we enjoy, but all of it. Are we following it today? How are you doing on following it? You see, beloved, if we want to experience God as provider, we must put our faith in him, but we must follow him. I'm gonna bring this to a conclusion by telling you a story. In 2008 Hunt Valley Baptist Church was in a small storefront on Timonium Road. In April of 2007, we began a Sacrificial giving program where that small group of people that gathered in that storefront. We we began a build building giving program where we're gonna give and and we're gonna sacrifice and we needed to get out of this storefront. We needed to get a building that was our own and we had a dream and we had a vision and We believed that God wanted to do it, and so we started a giving program in April of 2007 and we started praying that God would provide us a place. And we didn't know how many years it was going to be. We really didn't know when or where that was going to happen. But you know what we understood is that Our small little group there, our five loaves and two fish, was not going to be sufficient to feed the multitude. We weren't going to be able to make it happen, but that God could do it. And so we started a campaign called If We Do It We Do, God will do the rest And we just started trying to do what we could do as God's people and started sacrificially giving and and saving and putting away what we could and we started looking towards the future and dreaming about what might happen, about what might God do. Well, we had faith and we had fire. As God's people, we were excited about the work of the Lord and what God wanted to do in our midst. This is back in 2008. In 2008, Brother Cusimano, he heard about a church that went up for sale. It was actually on April 15th, a Tuesday night, he heard the church went up for sale. So he called Dave and said, Hey, the I I heard about this building. This church building is going for sale. So Dave on Thursday morning drove out here to this location. And he looked around the property and it didn't look anything like this when at that time. But uh he looked around the property and he's knocking on doors, he's trying to find something, he gets around the into the building over there and there's a small man door on the far side and he's he's kind of banging on that and he's just wondering is there anybody in the building and and he opens the door or or Miss uh comes and she opens the door just a little bit and she's like, Yeah, uh can I help you? And he says, Well, I heard that your building's for sale and wondering if we could look at it and maybe we'd be interested in buying it. And she looks at him and says, What? We just voted last night as a church on the 16th to sell. Cristiano heard about it on the 15th. David showed up at the door on the 17th. She's like, wait a minute. How in the world did you hear about this? We we just voted as a church twelve hours ago. He's like, well, do you mind if I look around? And she's like, well, I guess you can look around. So he looks around and We as a church begin looking at it and we come over with all the men and and uh we just kind of take a look around and see what what it is and we're like man this is great we could do this we could do that we began kind of casting the vision and deciding about getting this Well we made an offer to them for nine hundred thousand. They rejected our offer and they put this they put this building on the market for two point two five million. We thought, man We really felt like this is what God wanted, that this was God's will. So we decided we're we're going to begin praying. And there was 20 men and That that twenty people that decided to start praying and fasting at least one day a week. That was pretty much the whole church. I mean I think we might have thrown a few church mice in there for that twenty of people that were that were praying. We were we were there was twenty twenty people praying and fasting at least one day a week that that if it was God's will, that he would tell Pleasant Hill Chapel that it's God's will. And we began praying and for six months we prayed at least at least one day a week that God would tell them and convince them and the the church was on the market for two point two five million for six months and so as God's people we prayed at the end of six months we resubmitted our offer of nine hundred thousand. They came back a few days later and said, Well if you would be willing to come up to one million, an even million, we'll we'll give it to you. We thought, well, we don't have 900,000. Well, what's a million? I mean, what's another hundred thousand? So we said, God can do nine hundred thousand, God could do a million. So we said, well, we'll we'll take it So we went to the bank to see what God could do. Now, beloved, this was in 2008. You guys know that financial crisis that took place in 2008, which was brought on because of bad mortgages. Banks weren't lending anybody money, let alone a church. A church is by nature a bad investment. I mean that's sad fact, but that's the fact. Banks don't like loaning money to churches But we found a credit union and said that well we we'll loan you the money, but you need to put two hundred and fifty thousand dollars down Now our church had scraped and sacrificed, and over the last year we had, I mean our small group of people, we had saved and put away $100,000. We had $100,000, and we're like, praise God, look at this And the bank looks and says, Well, okay, well, you're going to need 250,000 by this date. So we began scraping together. We thought, well, we could scrape together another 50,000, but there was a ministry out there that Help churches get into their first building. So we applied for a grant from them. Now their average grant was $25,000. That's the average grant they give. A little bit less, a little bit more But what we needed was a hundred thousand. So we thought, well, why not? Let's ask him for a hundred thousand. So we said we applied for a grant for a hundred thousand, and we're praying that this grant would come through, that we would get this hundred thousand given to the church. Meanwhile, the bank's wondering where's the money going to come from? Literally, the banker comes down to the church and meets with Dave and says, Okay, I've looked over all your financials and I see you have this hundred thousand dollars in the bank. I want to know where the rest is going to come from. He says, Well, we have faith. And the banker the banker looked at him and said, uh, that's fine, but we don't work off of faith. You've gotta have you've gotta have two hundred and fifty thousand dollars by Friday at three o'clock or the loan's done. You're you you're not getting a loan. We, of course, were praying that this would come through. Now, the founder of the ministry happens to live in Bowie, Maryland. And the group decided that they were going to give us a hundred thousand dollars. But the thing is because normally what they would do is they would send out a letter and say you've you've you know you've been awarded this grant, this is the amount of money, you're gonna receive a check, and then they'll send a certified check in the mail to the organization But because he lives in Bowie, Maryland, he thought, well, I'm just going to drive it over. Of his own will, of his own, all of his own idea. He calls up Dave and says, Hey, I want you to know that you guys have just received a grant for $100,000 and I'm on my way to deliver it to you Friday at 12 o'clock. He gets to the church at one o'clock on Friday with a $100,000 check. At 3 o'clock on Friday, the banker comes in and says, Well, I guess it's not happening. And Dave says, Well, here's a check for $100,000. The banker said, Look what's happening in God's economy. They were shocked, and so were we. But God provided The name of that ministry that helps churches like ours get into the first building is Jehovah Jireh. God will provide. And God used them to provide exactly what was needed on the day that it was needed so that Hunt Valley could purchase this building. So we could be in this location. And beloved, if we would have faith and follow God, we could see Him do miracles in our lives. As a God who provides. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?