You guys know we are in the book of 1 John. It's been a fun study for me. I've enjoyed it and uh hopefully you've enjoyed it. Uh you know it's amazing to me each week. I don't really have a plan on how far I'm going to get. I just start studying and see. how things are are grouped or put together in the passage. And then I do want to kind of go verse by verse so that we're just learning what the t text is teaching us. And uh so this This evening we are in 1 John chapter number 2. We're going to look at verses 12, 13, and 14. Follow along as I read those. The Bible says, and I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father. I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one. I'm going to preach this evening on these verses and uh would have never titled it this way when I first read the text. But after digging into it and studying the title of tonight's message is The Sanctified Life. The Sanctified Life. The process of maturity as a Christian is not just growing older. It's more than that. It's more than just learning about God. It is becoming more like God That is God's plan, and to use a biblical term, it would be sanctification. John addresses three different groups of people here. He lists the progression Of sanctification in the Christian's life. He deals with all three groups, the different areas of growth that a Christian should have, from the new birth to the old man. These thoughts are at the same time addressed to individuals as they are to the group at large. Now he's not leaving anybody out. He's not leaving anything to chance. He's kind of nailing each particular group down, as it were. Oftentimes uh public speakers and preachers are criticized for repeating an address to different groups or saying the same thing different ways You know, uh somebody might say, well, I want every woman here tonight to understand, and every mother here needs to understand, and every grandmother here needs to understand, and every girl needs to understand And people are like, those are all the same people. Why do you gotta list all of them? You know? You know, you y we're not just filling time, but the fact of the matter is, is human nature, beloved tends to think that the message is for somebody else. That's the fact of the matter is. Human nature is for people just to always think, well that's good, but it must be for him. It must be for her. And so John here is saying, listen, uh he's addressing each of these groups. He's saying the young, you know, the the young men or uh the little children. He begins out with little children And you know, kids oftentimes, human nature is for them to say, well, I'm just a kid. That message is not for me. That's not something that applies to me. I'm just a kid. I'm nobody Uh that must be for people that are older, for people that have gotten married, or people that are out of the house, or people that are their own man or own woman, as it were. That's not applicable to me So easy to just pass it off. But then you have the young man and the young man of course he's his life is full and he's very busy and surely the pastor is not preaching at me, a young man in the church. I mean, I don't have the time to the youth have to be invested in all of these things and and and you know or uh I don't have the means or capacity to do things that uh some of the older members of the congregation have. That's certainly not for me. It must be for somebody else. And the fact of the matter is, is the older members of the congregation, which I am quite aware is a large group of you tonight, but the older members of the congregation really are the worst at this because they uh attribute their number of years to the amount of wisdom that they have. And they think about, well, I I have rode I have hoed that row already. I've walked that road. I've put in my time. I've done my duty. I've done, you know, I I That certainly is not for me. Amen and and cheer the pastor on the whole time believing the message would be for the younger generation, those that still have energy and the capacity to go and do the work. Well, John says, hey, I'm just gonna nail each one of you tonight. I'm gonna start with the little children. We're gonna talk about the young men, and then we're gonna talk about those fathers or the older men. That's kind of how he's addressing this here. So we're going to begin. That's our points. Little children, young men, and fathers. Little children is the new Christians He says, I write unto you little children because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. And then we see it repeated in verse number 13. He says, I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father. A few thoughts with regards to children. We see first of all the the energy and the the the uh excitement of youth. Boy, they're full of life and full of vitality. Can I tell you that a church needs youth? It is important that a church have the younger generation, that a church have those kids maybe a little short on wisdom but but long on energy, amen. They're ready to get in there and and uh sometimes You know, I've always appreciated John. John, he's uh well he wasn't sound booth. Where is he now? He's out oh he's on security. Uh John, I mean he's always ready to work, always ready to get in there and do something But John's a pretty big guy. John's pretty aggressive. He's pretty strong and and you know sometimes, especially when he was an intern and such, you know, uh we would have to hold him back a little bit and say, okay John, we don't want to break it. We just want to move it, you know. We just wanna we we we gotta be careful John. I mean he's all about the energy and let's get it done and we're like, well we want to keep it, you know When we're done with this and and but we need that youth. The church needs the youth and the excitement that they have, the energy that they have. And I know sometimes we lose our patience with them, uh, because I raised five kids. I know you can lose patience with the young ones sometimes But we need that energy. We need the youth that they have. And let me say this, that a church needs new birth. A church that doesn't experience new birth is going to die not very long down the road. You've got to have new life coming into the church. Baby Christians that have just come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, that are hungry for the sincere milk of the word, that desire Maybe they don't know everything and they don't do everything right yet, but boy they're excited about what God's doing and I appreciate Bo. Bo's excited about learning the Word of God. He emailed me this week and said, hey, Peter, can you answer this question? Well, he sent me a text and I answered him an email because text was too hard for me to try and reply. Uh but I I gave him an email back and said, Yeah, I'll dive into that passage of scripture for you. He just hungry to learn the word of God. And that's the way Christians ought to be. But sometimes we've been around a long time, you know, we we're not quite as hungry as we once were And boy, these young people, they need we we need them as a church, and they need the church. Newborn babes are are vital and they're important. We don't need to overwhelm the young with the heavier things of the church. You know, you don't start a first grader out with calculus. And I just want to encourage you some of the older saints, we have somebody new to the church, maybe somebody that just got saved, and you see them carrying an NIV. And listen, I believe that we ought to use the King James Version of the Bible. I believe that this is God's word preserved for us, the English-speaking language today, and I think it's important. But you know his second Sunday in church is not the time to go to him and say, What? That's not the word of God. Bless God. I mean uh how could how'd you even get saved with that? You need a Bible, amen That's not the time to beat them over the head about some of the things that, yes, they can learn, they can grow, they can know those things over time. But we've got to let them grow a little bit. Uh, you know, one of the things that's very hard, different uh different dress standards I was talking to somebody in the hallway here on church on Sunday and and they just commented on how most ladies here are wearing dresses and I said, listen, that is not a requirement to come to church here We want you to come to church and learn the Word of God and have a relationship with God. That's a personal decision that you make between you and the Lord and Savior, and we're glad to have you. You come in whatever you are feel best in, but you we want you to be part of the church, and that's not a qualifier here. And you can even become a member of the church. That's something that you do between you and God. There's not any pressure from us in that. I want you to understand that. And we've got to be careful because otherwise we we end up making our We become just like the Pharisees, and our religion is all about what we do or don't do instead of the relationship that we have with Christ. And we've got to be very pointing people to Christ and not pointing people to our laws. Newborn babies in Christ are vitally important. We've got to be careful that we give them time to grow. Boy, sometimes uh young babes in Christ, they might have some ignorance. They might have some things that they don't know, and it's our job to try and protect them. One of the hard things today uh for as a pastor is the the prevalence of false doctrine that's out there that everybody can get their hands on. You know, in my dad's day, I'm saying when my dad was my age and he was pastoring, if he led somebody to the Lord, the only place that guy had the abail the availability to learn anything about the Word of God was in his local church. That was pretty much it. I mean there was no other place you were going to go unless you found you got part of some book club and you might be able to order a book and have it mailed to you or something. But nowadays, readily available on the internet is every kind of harebrained scheme and idea you can think of, and some of them sound pretty good. And it's our job to protect the young, those babes in Christ who haven't grown yet, who don't necessarily know the difference between false doctrine and true true doctrine And we've got to guard them and protect them. And I worry so much about what people are consuming out there on the internet. You know, YouTube's a great source to learn how to uh Work on your brakes. Hey, great, whatever you need to do. Just talking to uh Gus's parents about My four wither that I need to fix has been broken a long time and and uh his wife looks at me and she says, YouTube it. I said, There you go. That's what you do today, right? You YouTube it. But I hope people aren't YouTubing their doctrine I hope they're not getting their doctrine from there. You need doctrine not from somebody that just has a uh a large audience or group of people because you know what? You can you can get a big group of people together for anything. But are you learning the truth of the Word of God? Galatians chapter 1, verses 6 and 7 says, I marvel that ye are so soon removed. From him that called you into the grace of Christ, into another gospel. The apostle says, hey, I marvel. You're so quickly pulled away. But why? Because they're babes in Christ, because they still need to learn. About the truth. One of the big problems with the Billy Graham Crusades is that they left so many babes in Christ out in the cold. There was many, many people that came to Christ through the Crusades, no doubt about that. My my wife's grandparents were one of them. But they would go have these big crusades and People would get saved there at the crusade and then they would say, Okay, go back to the church you came from. Well, if they came if they came from a Catholic church, a Catholic church they've been going there for fifteen years and they never learned how to trust Jesus as their Lord and Savior. That's not where you want to go. They need to go to a place that's teaching the Bible, the Word of God. But in those big crusades, they could never say that. Because then they couldn't have those big crusades. Somebody from the Franklin Graham Crusades came by here. Three times they've been by here uh and want they want us to come and participate and be part of uh Franklin Graham's crusade he's gonna have in this area. And I said, Listen, I can't do it. And they're like, can you tell me why? And I said, Yeah, because I believe the Bible is says, uh come out from among them and be separate, saith the Lord. I believe the Bible uh teaches ecclesiastical separation. I don't think it's right for me to go uh hold hands with somebody that would have a uh transvestite on the stage I don't agree with what he's teaching. I can't stand on the same platform with him even for a good cause. I'll set my my own platform up and we'll preach the gospel, but I can't stand there. Somebody's going to teach somebody there's a way to heaven. is uh by uh being a good person. That's not what the Bible says. The way to heaven is through Jesus Christ and Him alone. I said, I know that's your message you're gonna tell people. But I'm not gonna I don't think it's right that we stand on the platform with a bunch of people that teach false doctrine and say, hey, we're all we're all good friends, kumbaya. I think that's hurting the cause of Christ. And he's like, Oh, okay And then he left. The next time he look came back he looked for somebody else. And he's like, Is there somebody else here? Obviously he got Pastor Derek the next time he came. And so that was even w that was even worse. But Um Pastor Derek talked to him for about forty five minutes. I mean what were you trying to do? Win him the Lord or what? What's the what were you doing there? But Now I I'm taking too long here, but uh he teach he gives us two notable thoughts about these young. First of all, he says, remember the forgiveness that you've experienced. He's saying here is where the Christian life begins. It begins with that new birth when you were forgiven of your sin. He says, remember that. Think about it. In John chapter 3, verse number 7, he says, Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. The Christian life begins with a new birth. And it's not just doesn't just begin because you turned over a new leaf or because you started going to church or you started carrying a Bible or reading the Bible. Those are all good things, but it has to be a new birth, a place in a time when you realized you were a sinner You put your faith and trust in Christ and repented of your sin and asked him to forgive you and to save you from your sin. And that's what Jesus Christ does, the new birth. Do you remember, beloved, what it was like when your sins were forgiven? When you were no longer guilty before God? When you were no longer standing in judgment of his wrath, no longer condemned for the sin that you knew was in your heart. What an amazing thing. He says, remember that. He says, think about it. Remember the time when you were in bondage and without sin and without hope. You know, one of the greatest offenses against Satan is remembering who you are in Christ, that you've been forgiven. Just as Nehemiah, when they came to him and asked him if he would turn tail and run, when they tried to get him to come down from the work, when they tried to get him to quit. He said, should such a man as I flee? Should such a man as I flee? That would make a powerful message. Should such a man as I flee? Well who am I? I'm saved. I'm bloodbought. I'm born again. My Lord and Savior died for me. And he put it But allowed me to put my faith and trust in him and him alone. Should such a man, a man that's been forgiven, allow Satan to pull him away and tempt him to fall into this sin? Should such a man turn away from the truth of the doctrine that he's been taught? Should such a man flee from these things? No, I can't. Why? Because I've been forgiven Because I'm saved, he's saying, Remember when you were saved. Remember what God did in your heart. Remember that And you'll be able to stand against Satan. You've got cause, you've got reason, you've got purpose to stand because Jesus has forgiven you of your sin. Listen, at salvation you are positionally sanctified. But we know that the process, the the practical sanctification takes time. It happens over time as we have fellowship with the Father. That's the second thing that he says to remember. He says, remember in the second statement there that you have fellowship with the Father. What an amazing thing that our Father wants to fellowship with us. Beloved, this is something that we should and must make time for. You know, often the young are running to and fro, so busy with this and that, that they haven't time for the old. It's so important that we take time for them. But how much more important is it that we take time for the Father who wants to be with us? When it comes to the Father, we can't afford to miss it. There's no one person or thing more important to the success of the believer than fellowship with the Father. You know, beloved, there are some people that when you get around them, it's easy Let's say let's say it's easy to laugh and have a good time. When you get around that person, it's just easy it's just something about their personality. You just laugh and you have a good time with them. Nothing wrong with that. That's great. You know, there's some people when you get around them, it's easy to do wrong. You know that that's the case. You know when you're around them that you're probably going to be tempted. You're probably going to The conversation's gonna lean a little bit further away from the Lord than you would like. It's it's gonna it's just it's just easy to do wrong But you know there's some other people that when you're spending time with them and you're around them it's easy to do right. You know, beloved that's the kind of people you need to be around. You can say, well that person's not as much fun as this person. Yeah, but that person's gonna help you, this person's gonna hurt you. But beloved, there is nobody that'll help you more to do right than spending time around the Father. than spending time with the Father. We don't have time to look at them. You can look them up. Nine times in 1 John, he says, little children. And he has a message for the little children. Two of them are found right here, but there are seven others, and we're not going to take time to look. I have them here, but I'm not going to give you time. We don't have time to look at it tonight. I want you to see the young men. We see the first of first of all these little children, those are babes in Christ. Those are new Christians. Young men. Those are growing Christians. He says in verse number 13, he says, I write unto you, fathers, because you have known him that is from the beginning. I write unto you, young men. Because you have overcome the wicked one. This is the process of a young man that's growing in the Lord and going for God. He he starts to experience some victory and starts to overcome the wicked one. Then we see again in Verse number 14, he says, I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one. This, beloved, is the natural progression of life as long as you uh continue to eat and you know, don't step off of a building or anything like that. You're going to continue to grow physically. You take a newborn babe and You you feed them the correct food and and you give them a little bit of sustenance and you take care of them a little bit, they're gonna continue to grow, right? But this is a natural process that should take place in a Christian's life. It's by design, it's God's plan. But the problem is, is many, many Christians get saved. And then they don't ever take sustenance. They don't ever spend any time in the Word. They don't ever have some of that bread of life. They don't ever spend time doing spiritual things, and so they're not growing spiritually. They might have been saved for ten years, but they're still a one-year-old. Because they're not growing spiritually, but God's plan, beloved, is that we would grow spiritually. This is what's supposed to happen in the Christian's life. If you continue to eat the right food, if you continue to get exposed to the light, you're going to grow. And much in the same way, beloved, that it will hinder you or stunt your growth physically if you eat the wrong foods. You take a young, you know, i the there's a lot of discussion the last few years and maybe it's something that's always been in discussion, but they're always talking about the lunch menus at the schools, right? They want to have the right kind of lunch menus so the kids are eating healthy food and We're giving them too much junk and we can't have them they can't have red Kool-Aid because that destroys brain cells and whatever else. I don't know what all, but they always want you've got to have a balanced diet. And uh it's important that kids are eating right because you can stunt their growth You can damage their teeth. You can uh hurt their intestines. I mean y you can't live on ice cream. Mostly you can, but that's right. I mean, uh I love ice cream, man. I would I would have ice cream every night, especially that Ube. Oh ube ice cream, oh that's delicious. If you don't know what that is, see Ms. Lisa. She'll tell you about it. But yeah, I I love ice cream, but you can't live on it. And that's the thing. The problem is a lot of a lot of Christians are living on the wrong thing and they're stunting their growth. Oh, I'm in church on Sunday. Yeah, but what are you consuming the rest of the week? What is it that's stunting your spiritual growth? On Sunday, you're just trying to clean a little bit of the junk out you put in there all week I'm not sure. Would that would that work? If I eat one healthy meal a week and then I eat junk food the rest of the week, is that gonna work for me? Uh I don't think so. I can guarantee you I wouldn't be going the direction I want to be going. That's why that's why I buy suited lines in them. Like, oh did you lose weight? No, I just got a tailor. Uh but you gotta eat the right thing. You know, beloved, you and I have nothing to do with our positional sanctification. I don't have time to really teach on that, but you understand that salvation, that's not something we had anything to do with. Jesus Christ sanctified us. He set us apart because we were God's Christ's righteousness was imputed unto us. That was given to us as salvation. We didn't earn our salvation. There's nothing we could do to get it. That was all on him. He positionally sanctified us, set us apart. gave us the righteousness of Christ, but our practical sanctification, that is, the life that we live from now until God comes calls us home, is something we do have something to do with. We need to be careful what it is we're doing and how we're living. Beloved, your practical sanctification is through the grace of God working in you and you working out your own salvation Philippians 2. 12 says, Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. This is a passage I've loved to ponder. Brother Taylor and I have had some conversations about this passage that working out, we don't work for your salvation, but you work out your salvation. And you know, Brother Taylor, just this week as I was pondering this, an idea came to me. You know, when a child is born A parent is putting everything they can into that child, and the child begins to grow. And then a child starts to work out Who they're gonna be. As they grow older and older, when they're young, they could decide in school, you know what, I ain't gonna try and learn this stuff. And they're going to graduate and be ignorant if they graduate. But they could say, you know what, I want to learn this. I'm gonna learn how to spell, I'm gonna learn how to write, I'm gonna learn this this area of study. And they they may, you know, some people they really enjoy it. They're working out who they're gonna be. Some of them are given to classroom study and and they're really books smart and that's what they do and they go off into a field that uses their brain. Others are more like me, they use their hands. And you know what? Classroom I do what I do to get through, but boy give me a shovel or give me a saw and a hammer and I'm at home and ready to work and And and that's what I'm gonna they they work out through their life as they're growing up where their skills are, what gifts they have, what ability that God's given them, and they work out who they're gonna be. Well the apostle here says, work out your own salvation. God has a plan for you, he has something he wants you to do. And you need to work that out in your life. Work out who God wants you to be. And let it happen. It comes from walking with Him, from being what He wants to be. But sometimes young adults are consumed with their own pursuits and they forget Uh who they are supposed to be. They forget the excitement they once had when they were younger. I mean you think about the youth. They're excited about any activity. It doesn't matter what it is. An activity of church, all right, let's do it. And now we get a little bit older and activity at church. Oh no. Man, I don't have time for that. I got this going on, got that going on. We kind of lose that excitement. And uh you need to apply these spiritual things. I think of a child, how he openly and unashamedly shows affection for his mom and dad. They just love the idea of going out with mom and dad or being with mom and dad for anything. But you know what, as they grow older That tends to go by the wayside a little bit. They you know the older kids aren't as comfortable with that showing affection. Oh Mom, you know, what? You know, they just th they're they're losing a little bit of that desire. And we need to be sure we don't lose it. He says here a couple things to him as well. First of all, he says, remember the victory you've experienced. It's a promise of God, beloved, that you are going to be a victorious Christian, or at least you can be So the question is, are you experiencing victory? You see, as you begin to grow in the Lord, you learn the lies of Satan. And then you look at him and say, Satan, I'm not buying what you're selling. You start to learn and experience and know victory and you can look at that and realize that victory is yours. Can I tell you that the process of sanctification will give you assurance of your salvation? This process of sanctification is God is changing you and molding you and making you into his image, there'll be no question in your heart and mind that you are not what you were This book we know that we talked about the reasons that it was written. He said, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. He said, One of the reasons I wrote this down It's so you could know. A large part of this book, and I gave them to you last week, there's 13 checks that you can know if you're saved by looking at those things. Well, one of the big things for having assurance is are you growing? Is the process of sanctification taking place in your life? Are you a better Christian today than you were last year Can I encourage you and tell you that it does get easier? Believers who have walked with God faithfully over a long period of time have learned how to overcome the world. They've learned how to overcome the temptations of the wicked one. He says that twice in this text. He said, you've overcome the wicked one. You've experienced that victory and you know that it's possible. Can I encourage you, beloved, that it does get easier if you're young in the Lord or young in your faith and you look at it and you say it's so hard It's non-stop battle. It just never quits. And I just don't know if I could keep this up for the rest of my life. It's so difficult just to do right. Can I tell you it's easier? If you do right. It gets easier to do right. And then you keep doing right and it gets easier to do right. You're g can I tell you you're gonna fight the biggest battles you're gonna fight spiritually when you're a babe in Christ. When you just come to the Lord. You look at the life of David. He fought a lion, a bear, and a giant when he was still a kid. And I I have a whole message on you'll fight the biggest battles when you're young. I'm not going to preach tonight, but I want you to know that if you'll win those battles for God You'll get stronger and you'll get stronger and life will get easier to do right. Now Satan's still there and he's still an enemy and we have to keep our guard up, but it does get easier. Some of the older folks in here, you know, I mean you remember the day when it was hard just to go to church? Just to go to church like such a battle, like Satan just beats you up just to go to church. It's not hard. Never a thought. No, no, I mean, is it hard to go to church? It's just not it's just there's no battle there. There's no struggle there. It is for a young Christian. But when you win that victory, there's so many things like that, and I don't have time to preach on that, but I just want to encourage you, it does get either easier. Remember the the vitality, the strength that you've been given by God. He describes this strength that you have and why do you have this strength? He tells us in the text there, there's a reason that you have this strength. Did you see what it is? You guys tell me. I want to engage your brain. There's something in you. Huh? The word of God. The word of God is in you. He says, you've got this strength, you've got this energy, you're going to experience victory. You've learned how to overcome. Why? Because the word of God is in you. Beloved, strength and stability comes from knowing the Word. We've got to know the Word. We've got to memorize the Word. This is one of the reasons why we believe the king's kids is important for the kids downstairs to learn the Word of God As you grow as a Christian, you become more confident in the truth that you know and understand. You're not as easily turned aside. You're not as easily turned away from your faith. You've become grounded in your faith because the Word of God dwells in you richly. And you're not gonna be pulled away so easily. Siri. Yeah. Alright, so the third one, let's move on. We're gonna wrap this up in About six minutes, I hope. Uh fathers, are they are mature Christians. He says, I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. Then he repeats that. I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. There's an interesting study if you want to do it. You can look into these verses and look at the difference. See in the first one there, he says, I write unto you. And then in verse number 17, he says, I have written unto you. He does that with all of those. I don't know if you caught that earlier, but uh you do a study and look into why those are different. And that'll be the fun little study for you. But what I want you to see, beloved, is with age comes wisdom. Life experience, beloved, is what shapes us. You know the idea what doesn't kill me will make me stronger. Yeah. Some people said I'd just soon not be so strong. Amen. But I guess that's why wisdom comes at great cost. Because of what you've had to endure, what you've had to go through. You've learned some things through life. Not not just older in in age. I know there's a number of you here that are we've got a few years on me anyway. But I'm not just talking about physical age, I'm talking about spiritual maturity. Could I encourage you, don't lose the virtues that you learned when you were young. Don't lose the virtues that you learned when you were young. Hold on to them. Don't retire on God Don't stop. I mean so many times it happens, you know, oh I I did that already. I put in my time. I did teach Sunday school class. I used to go to all the services. I used to do this. Sometimes we get to a certain agent physically, especially, you know, in the evenings, driving after dark I understand, especially the challenge that I've had with my eyes in recent years, how, especially on this road, it's not lit, how hard it can get here maybe for an evening service where it's dark out. I understand there's some limitations like that, but a lot of people use it for an excuse just to stop being what God wants them to be. They just want to take it easy now. Too many churches, instead of being filled with God's chosen, are filled with God's frozen. And that's not what we want. Beloved, it's possible that the last few years of your life could be where you make the biggest impact for God. You know you have the wisdom. You've got the years of experience to learn and to know and to do what God wants you to do. You know, the longer you have an employee, the far more effective they are. When we were in college, we were taught, as uh in Dr. Barron's class, he always said, he's like, listen. The first year you go to a church to work, you're worthless. You cost the church more money than you're worth. The second year, uh, you're worth about 50% of what they're paying you. The third year you break even. The church doesn't start to actually get anything out of you until your fourth year Because you have to learn the people, you have to learn the ministry, you have to learn the area. I mean he sends you to the store to pick something up and you don't even know where it is You know, it all of that stuff you gotta learn. But the longer you're there, you learn, you know these things. Oh yeah, I know who that is. Oh yeah, I remember that person that came to church a year ago and you know, this happened and that. And so you really start to become more and more valuable. Well, beloved, the older members of our church, I want to tell you, your life experience, what you've endured, what you've been through makes you very valuable. Makes you very valuable to the church. What you bring is so vital, so important. And let those years, those concluding years Make the greatest impact. If anything, it should be a motivation for us to push a little harder. I remember. Years ago when I used to run now I don't run unless I have to, right? Uh when I used to run, but you know, we w we would run pretty regular. I ran three days a week for a number of years. And uh anyways, that, you know, you're finishing up a three-mile or five-mile run and you're coming in for the last quarter mile. You've been running for five miles. You got a quarter mile left. And there's just something in you that says, you know what, I'm just going to push a little bit harder for this. That's just a quarter mile and I'm done. Now I wanted to quit on mile two and on mile three and on mile four. And then you're like, okay, it's the last one. But then now you're the last one. You're like, I want to push a little harder. I know I'm tired, but let's just push a little bit more for that last quarter mile. And I would encourage you, maybe you're in the last quarter mile. Give it a little bit more for what you've got. Beloved, the idea here is that a long relationship of faithfulness to God And you know him and have a relationship with him that can only be had through a life of faithfulness to him. Now think about the relationship that Mary and I have after 27 years. There's nothing else that could possibly begin to describe the depth of our relationship. Without that time, without having walked that life together. And only when you've walked with God for a number of years do you really start to know the depth of that relationship. The young people, those of you that have been married for a lot of years and and you know somebody gets married and they walk down the aisle and you look at them and you say, you think you love each other right now. You don't even know. Why? Because that love grows. If your relationship is right, it grows stronger and stronger. And when you walk through life's challenges and you And you experience joy together and you experience heartache together and you go through all those things. Beloved, it's a a depth of relationship that's only had from the length of time that you've walked together. And so I look at the older members, those That are described here as fathers, the mature Christians, as those that have walked with God for many, many years, and that faithfulness has developed a depth to your relationship that can't be described any other way. You've learned some things about God. You've learned how to walk with Him. You've learned how God directs the steps of men. How God provides comfort in your hour of need. How God meets needs when you don't know how it's going to happen. You've learned how God carries you when you can't walk. You've become the wise man who built his house on the rock. You've become that disciple who continued in his word in John 8. You've become the men who have learned the power of the resurrection, Philippians 3. You've become the one that's not ashamed. Having known whom he believed in that only comes with time, the mature Christians. This process of sanctification. Positionally, we're sanctified at salvation through Jesus Christ. The process of sanctification takes a life of walking with God and doing right. We start out as little children, newborn babes Through the progression of time, we become young men, we become grounded in the word, we become strong, we've experienced victory over some sin. We start to know how to answer men with the word of God. The word of God dwells in us. And as we continue, we become the stalwart pillars of the faith. That have maintained that relationship for so many years, the mature Christians, the fathers. Where are you tonight in that process of sanctification?