We're going to have a little bit of a Bible study this morning. I hope you have your Bibles with you. I would encourage you to mark in your Bible if you carry your Bible with you. Uh you can mark things and you'll learn you will have them and you'll have them forever. Uh how many of you that were at the Marriage Matters Conference and heard Pastor Hank's teaching on prayer From the Lord's Prayer, how many of you were listening to that and thought, boy, that sounds familiar? How many of you Okay. Uh that's because in the margins of my Bible, uh what I have taught on that I learned from him. And uh so he was teaching through the Lord's Prayer and what it means and how that is an example for us to pray. And uh that is what I have shared here on more than one occasion, but I learned that from him. And I have those notes in the margin of my Bible that I got from him many years ago. And so if you'll keep make notes in your Bible, um I have Here a uh the we have these pins in the bookstore. Uh this is not a promotion for the bookstore. I don't care where you get it, but you ought to Use the right kind of pen in your Bible because some pins will bleed all the way through and they'll they'll hide the text from the other page, uh and some pins or pencils will be gone in a very short time. So these we have these in the bookstores specifically because they do not bleed. They won't bleed from one page to the next, even on very thin paper. They do not fade. They're guaranteed to last forever. You mark it in there, it's going to be there forever. And there's multiple colors. In my Bible, I have verses underlined in green. Those are verses that I have committed to memory. Anything in my Bible underlined in green is a verse that I memorized. And then anything written in blue is part of a message, something that I've preached. All of my notes with regards to messages that I've preached are written in blue Then my general Bible study is all in black. And I have black for that. If I have general Bible study, I'm learning something. I'll mark that down in black. And it helps things really jump off the page when you're reading it for your devotions. I would encourage you to do that. And you're going to learn some things this morning I believe that will be a help to you. And uh if you'll follow along and note some things in your Bible, it could be a blessing to you. We are in the book of 1 John. Did I tell you that yet? 1 John. Go to 1 John. We're gonna pretty much stay in the book of 1 John this morning. Now it's first on chapter number five. The Bible warns us about people that profess to be believers. They profess Christ, but they do not possess Christ. They even in their own minds may feel that they know God, but the Bible is very clear that they do not know God. They maybe even go to church week after week, or they have a Bible and maybe have committed verses to memory. But the fact of the matter is, is the Bible warns us that there are those who do not know God, even though they say they do. Let me read you're in 1 John. We're going to be there in a minute, but let me read for you Matthew chapter 7 and verses 21 through 23. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. He that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven, many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name have done many wonderful works, and then will I profess unto them. I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. The book of James gives us a very similar admonition. The fact of the matter is, is there are many people who would claim the name of Christ, who maybe would talk about or uh decide in their knowledge and their words, they would say, oh yes, I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian. You ask people all over, they would say, yeah, I'm a Christian, but God says there will be many people in that day. And what a sad thing, beloved, come on, what a sad thing that you would go to church week after week after week. And that you would get all the way to judgment day, and you would look unto the eyes of Jesus Christ and you would say, Lord, and he would say to you, Depart from me. I never knew you. What a sad thing that would happen to many people, and it's going to happen to many people. But in our text, beloved, in our text today, the Bible tells us very clearly that you don't have to wonder You don't have to hope. You can know that you know that you're saved. Look what the Bible says in 1 John 5 and verse number 13. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life And that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. So he has written down for us on the pages of Scripture truth. that we may know who God is and that we could believe on him. And having believed on him, we would know that we have eternal life. I growing up ministering to people, this is less applicable today because we don't use maps anymore. But there's been many times in my life that I literally held an atlas in my hand And I held it before somebody and I said, Rand McNally could say right here in the front of this, I wrote this down so that you could know how to get to Texas You don't have to wonder when you get on a road or you get start heading in a particular direction, am I going to get there? No, because somebody wrote down how to get there. And the fact of the matter is, is God has given us in his word exactly what he expects And there are many people who are going to claim the name of Christ who think they're on their way to heaven, but they haven't met God on God's terms They've met God on their own terms. They have religion, but they don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ. And when they get to heaven, the sad reality is when they stand before God at judgment day, God's going to say, Depart from me, I never knew you Now that is is brutal and a harsh truth, but it is reality, and I'm preaching it to you this morning, so that if you're here today and you in your heart and mind are not 100% sure What I want to speak to you about this morning for a few minutes, and we probably won't be very long, is the signs of salvation. If you were going to say, well, the Bible tells us very clearly, by their fruits ye shall know them, the Bible says to examine yourself and see if you're in the faith. to examine yourself and know, am I in the faith? So you don't have to wait till judgment day to stand there and say, okay, I hope I made it. No, the Bible says you can know that you have eternal life. You can know your sins are forgiven. You can know you're on your way to heaven. So if you were to examine yourself, if you were to look at yourself and say, okay Did I make it? Am I on my way to heaven? Are my sins are forgiven? Well, there are some signs that God gives us in 1 John. There are others in the New Testament that could be used, but we're going to try I believe to stay in 1 John here and just see the signs of salvation. If you look at yourself and you say, I know for sure, I don't have any doubt This can be a reminder to you and it can give you the tools to help somebody else who is wondering. I don't know for sure. I don't know for sure. If I'm saved, if I'm on my way to heaven. Well you can see here in these texts, right here in 1 John, if you'll mark them down, the signs of salvation, how you can know. I'm going to give you five tests that you can test and know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that you're on your way to heaven. There's several things that I want to share with you. Would you turn back in 1 John to chapter number 2 now? 1 John chapter number 2. We're going to see the first one. He says in 1 John chapter number 2 and verse number 3. And hereby we do know. Okay, these things have I written unto you that believe on the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. We're turning back to the beginning now. We're going to see what 1 John, we're going to see what he says to us here. Hereby do we know. What is it we know? Hereby do we know. You may want to underline or circle that word. We know. That we know him if we keep his commandments. The first test, beloved, is the commandment test. Follow along, let's read a couple more verses. He says, He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word in him verily is the love of God perfected, hereby know we that we are in him He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk even as he walked. Beloved, the fact of the matter is, as a very first task that we can take, is there is a desire to keep his commandments. Now I'm not saying that you're going to do it right every single time. The Apostle Paul himself said, Boy, the things that I would I do not, and the things that I wouldn't, I do And the fact of the matter is we still have an old flesh. We have a sinful nature, and we have to fight against that. But there is a desire in your heart to obey and follow God, to keep God's commandments. There's something wrong when somebody wants to say, well, I'm saved. I'm a Christian, and they don't have a desire to follow God. They don't have a desire to be obedient to his commandments. Now people uh there's a lot of people that would call me a legalist. They would say, you're adding something to salvation. You're saying this is necessary. I want you to understand, beloved, you don't work to be saved. You work for God and obey his commandments because God, in his mercy and his grace, gave you salvation. Amen. And there's a problem that when somebody wants to profess Christ, and that's one of the things that that I have a real problem with these social influencers and rock stars and these people that want to stand up and on news they want to claim the name of Christ and call themselves Christians because it's popular today But they live a wicked lifestyle. They're not following God, they're not obeying God's commandments. Can I tell you, beloved, by their fruits ye shall know them? And the Bible says that kind of a person is not saved What does he say here? What does he call it in this verse? It's been very clear, verse number four. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, what is Is a liar. He's a liar. So it doesn't matter if you carry a Bible around. It doesn't matter if you want to stand up and say, Jesus He is amazing. Jesus is so good. Jesus is wonderful. You can say that as much as you want. The fact is, if you're not striving to obey what that book says, you're a liar. You do not know Jesus Christ because there's something that takes place in the heart of somebody whose sins are forgiven. They do not want to keep sin upon sin. They want to stop sinning. They want to start serving. They want to do what God says. The Apostle Paul, as soon as he was saved, as soon as he met Jesus on the road to Damascus, he looked up and he said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? That is the heart of a believer. Are you guys paying attention today? You guys with me? That's the heart of a believer is to say, Lord, what do you want? I want to do that. You tell me I need to be serving. I want to serve. You say, hey, uh My mind just went blank. Um Was it the Ethiopian eunuch that said, Uh, here's water, what what doth hinder me from being baptized? The Ethiopian unit. As soon as he got saved, he said, boy, here's water. I'm supposed to get baptized. I want to get baptized. That is the heart of somebody that got saved Somebody that has followed Jesus Christ immediately desires to obey and follow him. Lord, you want me to be in church? I want to be in church. You want me to read your Bible? I want to read my Bible. You want me to love my wife like Jesus loved and gave himself for the church? I want to love my wife like that. You want me to submit to my husband? I want to submit to my husband. You want me to honor my mom and dad? I want to honor my mom and dad. What I'm saying is there's a desire in your heart To follow God, to be obedient to God, the commandment test. And if that desire is not there, then I would question whether you're saved or not. Because beloved, the fact of the matter is if you have a commandment test, he says if we keep his commandments, hereby we know. Boy, in 1 John 2. 29. He says, if ye know that he is righteous, ye know that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. He says, hey The fact of the matter is, is the one that's born of him, you know he is born of God. Why? Because he starts to act like a child of God. Because he starts to live like that. He starts to do the things that God would do First John chapter 3 and verse number 24. Look at that. First John 3, 24. And he that what's the next three words? Keepeth his commandments, dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us. How do we know that God abides in us? Because we keep his commandments. Beloved, it doesn't get much clearer than that. Our love for him is demonstrated by our obedience to him. In the book of John, not first John, but in the book of John, I think it's a chapter five, he says, If you love me, keep my commandments That's a fact of matter. So there's a commandment test I would say that's the beginning. Not that you're perfect. Not that you're without sin. Boy, I wish we could I wish we could live without sin, but the fact of the matter is, is there's at least a desire in your heart to do what God wants you to do. We see secondly the charity test. Look in 1 John chapter 2 and verse number 9 Beginning in verse number 9. We're going to read 9, 10, and 11. No, we'll come back to that. Look at 1 John 3 and verse number 14. 1 John 3 and verse number 14. This is this states it more clearly, more succinctly. 1 John 3. 14, he says, we know, you may want to underline that, that we have passed from death unto life. How do we know that we are alive, that we've passed from death, we're no longer dead in our trespasses and sins, but we are alive unto Jesus Christ? How do we know? What does he say there? Because what? We love the brethren. So you may want to circle that, underline that. How do you know? How do you know that you're on your way to heaven, that your sins have been forgiven, that Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior? Well you want desire to obey his commandments. Secondly, there's love for the brethren in your heart. There's charity. It is the charity test. Do you find that love? Now look in 1 John 2 and verses 9, 10, and 11. This states the same thing, but not as succinctly. He says, He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes Beloved, he's saying, listen, if you don't have love for the brethren, you are deceiving yourself. You are not in the faith, because if you're in the faith, you're going to love your brother. That's pretty clear. There's a charity test. If you on your way to heaven you love the brothers, listen, if you're more comfortable Being around the crowd that's down at the bar than you are being around the crowd that's at church, there's a problem. There ought to be something in your heart that kind of starts to disconnect from that crowd. And no longer I don't really have much association with them. I don't have anything in common with them. I don't longer have things to share with them. That's uh But you find at the church house with God's family that you're strengthened, that you're encouraged, that you're challenged, that this is where you want to be. You have love for the brethren. The charity test 1 John chapter 4, look at 1 John 4, verses 7 and 8. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God, and every one that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not, what does it say? knoweth not God. So you say, how how do how do how do I know that when I stand before God one day and he looks at me and he's gonna is he gonna say, Depart from me, I never knew you, or is he gonna say, I know you, you're a child of mine, he tells you right there How you know that. You've got love for the brethren. That's a test, a charity test that you can check yourself and see do you have love for a brethren? Thirdly, I want you to see. Look in 1 John 4 and verse number 13. 1 John 4, 13. You may want to underline this. Hereby know we, you can underline or circle that. Hereby know we That we dwell in him and he in us, because he what Hath given us his Spirit. So we have what I'm going to call the conviction test. The conviction test. The Holy Spirit of God is not going to allow you to sin without impunity. You are not going to be able to go and enjoy the things that you used to enjoy because they're not pleasing to God, they're not honoring to God, and there's a Holy Spirit that comes down and convicts your heart And tells you you shouldn't be doing that. You know, beloved, when I was a I grew up in a pastor's home. I went to church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, and every Wednesday night, every week of my life. And e every night of revival, every week of my life, unless I was on death's door. I mean, we used to go to church sick. It's not not like today, and I'm not saying it's better or worse, but I mean You know, somebody said I I've got a drug problem. My dad drugged me to church every Sunday. You know. Uh that was my problem growing up But here's here's the thing. I made a profession of faith as a young man, but as a young man, as a teen, I've told you a few things to to my shame. I was a little bit wild and I I wanted to go out and live my own life. I wanted to do my own thing But due to the testimony of my older brothers, I decided to give God a try. And at seventeen years old, when I went to Bible college Uh I I had just turned seventeen and went to I I decided, you know what, I'm gonna go to Bible college. Can I tell you that I was listening to the world's music all the way up until I drove onto campus I mean I was in the car jamming, man. I was living my life. I was, you know, enjoying everything. I pulled on to Bible college. Here I am gonna go into class and study the Bible and uh But I stopped at the entrance of the college and I turned that world's music off and I said, God, I'll give you one year. If you're real, if you're powerful, you need to change me If you don't change me in this year, I'm going to go live my life and I'm going to do what I want to do. But in all sincerity, God, I'm I'm right now submitting to you, you change me. And I tell you it wasn't but a couple of months later that I was in a service and an evangelist was preaching and obviously I had been battling with sin and doing my own stuff my whole life. I I I I I literally as a teenager Did not experience the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God. I could do what I wanted to do, and the only thing I was worried about is getting caught I came forward and there's an evangelist there. He's well known. He's gone to heaven now, but he was preached all over the world. Very powerful, very popular man, but he was approachable. Here I am in an auditorium with excess of fifteen hundred people probably. And I walk down front and I get the atin the attention of that man and I said, I need to talk to you for a minute. And we we stopped right here. The evangelist stepped down. He sat down right on this seat And I sat down on the seat next to the the bench next to him there, and I began to tell him about my life story. And after about 20 minutes of us talking, the auditorium was clearing out. Everybody's leaving. I grew up in a pastor's home. I had taught Sunday school and preached junior church and ran bus routes week after week after week. He looked at me and he said, Caleb, maybe what you need to do is get saved. He said, you know, basically what he's saying, he says, You're you you profess the Lord, but you don't know the Lord. And I and and I looked at him as a young man who had led be led people to Jesus Christ. I had stood at people's door and showed them the Romans road and said, you just need to pray and trust Jesus Christ to forgive you of your sin. And I had been instrumental in seeing other people saved, but I didn't know Jesus is my own Savior. And that day I bowed my head and trusted Jesus Christ there on the on the steps of that altar. And the reason I know that that was the day that I got saved and not some day when I was a teen and I professed Christ and got baptized and all that Can I tell you I know that was the day because that's the day I started experiencing the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God. When I started doing wrong, man, the Holy Spirit came down and pushed on my heart. He started nailing me. He said, you can't do that. You can't talk that way. You can't respond that way. Beloved, if you know that you're on your way to heaven, if your sins are forgiven, the Holy Spirit, you may not like it, but you ought to be thankful for it. Because that's a sign, a test, that you know for sure that you're saved because the Holy Spirit of God is coming and is convicting your heart of sin. The spirit that God has given us that dwells in us now. He is our comforter and he's our helper and he's our guide. But he convicts us when we're doing wrong And when you feel that conviction, you know, yeah, I know I'm saved. Oh, I'm still a wicked sinner and I still need to repent and and confess my sin and he's faithful and just to forgive me of my sin and cleanse me from all unrighteousness, amen. But I'm being convicted. We have the conviction test. Let's go on. I want you to see. The conquering test. 1 John chapter 5. 1 John chapter 5, we see in verses 4 and 5. He says, For whatsoever is born of God. So whatsoever is born of God, that is, if you have been born again, and I don't have time to teach on this, but you know, he says, you know, hey And I wish I had a better mind. Nicodemus. And he says, oh boy, what am I what Uh can a man be born again a second time? You gotta be born again? No, that which is born of the flesh is flesh and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. That's the verse I was trying to remember. And the fact of the matter is we're born physically, all of us one day, right? But you've got to be born again You've got to be born of spirit. So he says here, how do you know that you've been born of the spirit? Whatsoever is born of God, how do you know what is the next three words? Overcometh the world. There's a conquering test. Have you been experiencing victory in your life? Has God enabled you to overcome You know, you you used to fly off the handle and get angry and and throw things, but somehow, you know, you had that problem for years, but somehow with the Spirit of God and the strength of God You have been able to bring that under subjection of the Holy Spirit and no longer you're flying off the handle? You used to have a potty mouth, you used to just talk filthy and and cuss and you used to say all kinds of things that the world said, but now for some reason your mouth has been cleaned up and you you find that you're not really talking that way anymore. Beloved, that is conquering We are to be more than conquerors through Jesus Christ who saved us. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God. Look at 1 John 4 and verse number 4. 1 John 4 and verse number 4. Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. The fact of the matter, beloved, is that we ought to be experiencing victory in this Christian life. Again, you're not going to get it right every single time. Anybody here that's honest is going to admit that they stumble, that they fall, that often uh they're they're right there with Paul and they're they're you get mad at yourself for messing up one more time But the fact is, is that as you yield to the Holy Spirit of God, who convicts you of sin, you begin to be empowered by the Spirit of God to have victory over sin. Are you experiencing victory? I'm giving you some tests this morning, and I don't know every single one of you, even if by your profession of faith, maybe in the past, you you would have told people, yeah, I'm a Christian. I know the Lord, but I'm asking you this morning, could you apply these tests to you? Do you do you are you experiencing victory? Have you seen the conquering victory of Jesus Christ in your life? A true child of God is an overcomer. He is experiencing victory over his own faults and failures. Lastly, this morning we'll be done. We see the confession test. Look at first John chapter 2 and verse number 23. 1 John 2, 23, he says, Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father. And he that acknowledges the Son hath the Father also. He says, if you are ashamed of Jesus Christ, If you are afraid to confess him before men, if you would deny him, he's saying you you have not experienced his forgiveness. Because he wouldn't deny him. But he that would confess him hath the Father also. Matthew 10, 32 says, Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven. What I'm saying, beloved, is that You can go through the pages of scripture and you'll see over and over again people that believed on Jesus Christ, the woman at the well. As soon as she believed. But she she ran and said, come see a man that showed me all that I've done. She confessed him before men. Over and over again on the page of Scripture, people believed on Jesus Christ and immediately went to tell their family, went to tell their friends, went to confess him before men. Here's the sign that you know that you're on your way to heaven, that your sins are forgiven, that Jesus is your Father. Do you confess Him before men? Or are you ashamed? You see, somebody that knows Jesus, that their sins are forgiven, it's not just playing for them. It's real. It's a difference between an eternity in heaven and an eternity in hell. Between knowing that your sins are forgiven and that you can have victory through God or living a defeated, destroyed life. For that person it's real. And they want to confess him before men. Now I know that in this world, listen, they rejected him before they reject you. And I know there are times that it gets discouraging when you speak to so many people and they reject and it's like they're not interested and some may even mock And so Satan uses that to discourage you and tell you, well, they don't want to hear it. I don't want to share. But you know what? There ought to be a desire in your heart to confess Jesus before men. That should be present in the heart of somebody that knows that their sins are forgiven. Because people are dying and they're on their way to a devil's hell. And God said He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God wants every single person, man, woman, boy, or girl, to know for sure that they're on their way to heaven, for their sins to be forgiven. We've just got to tell them. We've got to point them to a Savior. Some signs of salvation today. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Listen, I hope I hope that you learned something. But not just that you learned something, I hoped you were assured in your own heart and mind. That you know without a doubt that you're saved and on your way to heaven. Let me ask you this morning, if you say, Pastor Caleb, you've gone through that list today and All that did is just reassure me that there's no doubt in my mind that I know that my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Would you show me by an uplifted hand and say, Pastor Caleb, that's me, boy. I praise God that I know I'm saved today Okay. Thank you. You can put your hands down. Now let me ask you if uh you don't know. If you would say, Pastor Caleb, I don't know for sure. I mean you've gone through that list and I understand it. It makes sense to me, but I'm not sure that that's me. Pastor Caleb, would you pray for me? Would you be willing to show me by an uplift of hand and say, Pastor Caleb, I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven. Amen. Thank you. I'm going to pray for you right now, and I want you to know that any one of us, it's not just a matter of going to church, it's not just a matter of carrying a Bible, but to know Jesus Christ and know your sins are forgiven. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. Lord, we come to you right now and we humbly submit ourselves to you. We ask you, God, that this day In this service, Lord, nobody would leave here without making sure that they know for sure that they're on their way to heaven. We thank you, Lord, for your word that guides us unto all truth, that shows us that we can know And Lord, I pray that you would give strength and faith to those who do not know today that they would come forward, allow us to take a Bible and show them how they can know. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. As a pianist plays, I want to ask you if God spoke to your heart, you come. You pray. Seek the Lord. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that you're on your way to heaven. You can come and take me by the hand and say, Pastor Caleb, that's me. I don't know 100% sure, but I would like to know