Cool to I get to know all y'all and um I was talking with Lisa the other night and um we were just talking about how friendly y'all are. And uh it's just a blessing to uh be in a church, it's very obvious that you have the love of Christ and the hospitality of Christ. And um often when you travel you have the the very extremes. You have the churches who are they're just there. And And you're like, okay, I'm high, you know, and then you've got the churches in the middle, and then you've got the churches like yours that are just friendly and just love the Lord and it's obvious you want to grow and know him and you care about missions. And so we're we're excited. Um let's open our Bibles to Matthew 9. Matthew chapter 9. I'm gonna you preach or teach from a familiar passage, and I don't I honestly I don't think there's anything new I'm gonna say, okay? But I think it's a reminder for us every time we come to Missions Conference I forget who said it may have been Oswald Chambers who said that missions conference or mission revivals are the business meeting of the church determining the fate of the world. And so that is something that we we've got to keep in our minds. Okay, we we're coming, and the reason why we're gathering is to determine what we are going to do for the fate of the world. But I want you to what I want to do today is also take a step back a little bit. So we have this broad view of the world. But let's take a little more step back and look at, okay, but what about Hunt Valley? What about Maryland? What about your neighbor? What about your coworker? Your your classmate or or whoever it is, your family member? What about them? They need the gospel as well. They need to hear the gospel just as much as the heathen across the land need to hear the gospel. Let's look at Matthew chapter 9. I want to turn this on real quick. Matthew chapter nine, verses thirty five through thirty-eight. The Bible says, and Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease. among the people. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Then he saith unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, Lord of the Harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his Harvest and let's pray. Father God, we ask that you would use today God, that your name would be glorified, magnified, that your word would have free course. And Lord, just not in this class, but Lord in the Sunday school classes and the hour to come in the junior church. Father, if there are those here that don't know you, Lord, I pray, God, that you would begin to, and as you already have, to convict them of sin, of righteousness, of judgment. And God, that they would see you high and lifted up as a Savior who is kind and gentle and Lord who loves them and who desires to have a relationship with them. Lord help us as we look through this day at the plight of the lost. God, may we be burdened for those around us, those across the sea, across the state, across the country who don't know you. And Lord, give us the passion, Lord, as you have for the lost. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. We live in a fallen world. The world lost in sin, blinded by darkness, and the ruler of that darkness. And Christ gave us a commission. to go and be light in this darkness, to shine his glorious light. Yet interestingly enough, it's not said of the modern day church, with all of its supposed ability to preach the gospel These that have turned the world upside down have come hither. If you read the book of Acts, a group of 120 people turned the world upside down. They took the gospel to the outer regions, as far as Europe, and as far as Asia. But can we say that about our modern-day movement? Now I have no problem. I used to have a problem with technology. Okay, I'm gonna confess I am a Luddite. Okay, at heart if you remember history class, right? Luddites were those that were just against all technology and anything new, okay. I live amongst the Amish. I could probably live the Amish and I would think it was the greatest thing of all time. Okay. That's just who I am, okay And I remember one day I was just kind of complaining to the Lord, like, Lord, this is not, you put me in the wrong generation. And the Lord said, no, I didn't. I put you in the exact generation I wanted to put you in. Now use the technology that I've given you for the furtherance of the gospel. And so we have all the technology. We have live stream, we have Facebook, we have Twitter and WhatsApp, and we can send emails within seconds and text messages within seconds But yet we still haven't turned the world upside down like the first century church. Because honestly, I'm getting ahead of myself. I think we've relied on that. More than we've relied on the power of the Holy Spirit. And if we're truly honest with ourselves, not only have we not turned the world upside down, We haven't even turned our own cities upside down for the gospel. Nothing's changed. And so, by way of introduction, I want to share some statistics with you. I like statistics. There's something I enjoy. And so I want to share some I read with you recently. Okay. Christians make up 33% of the world's population. But receive fifty-three percent of the world's annual income and spend ninety-eight percent of it on themselves. What do you mean by that? Okay. So we're a small group, 33%, which is a shame, but we're 33%. We receive more than half of the income, and we spend it on ourselves, meaning we spend it here. In the in the inward church. In our in our ministries, in our areas, we don't send it out. Okay. 98% of it. So 2% of what comes into the church is spent an outward evangelism. The rest of it's spent on building or pews or technology or whatever it is. And those are fine. We need those. I'm not saying let your church go to pot. Okay, I'm not saying that at all. But it's just an interesting interesting thought. For every $100,000 that Christians make, they give $1. 83 to the unreached. That's That's a little crazy, right? For every a hundred thousand dollars we're only giving a dollar eighty-three to the unreached A recent missions think tank director observed this. He said, Americans have recently spent more money buying Halloween costumes for their pets than the amount given to the unreached. Now when I was in college it was buying pet food. I remember hearing this from a missionary, we spend more money buying pet food. Now we're buying costumes for our pets. Help us. In the year 1900, nearly 900 people had little or no gospel access. In the 117 years since, so this was done in 2017, okay. That number has grown to 2. 1 billion people, or 29% of the world's population, had in 2017 had little or no access to the gospel. By 2050, researchers project it'll grow further still to 2. 7 billion. Have little or no access to the gospel. You say, how how how is that possible? Have you been to Asia? Have you been to Africa? I I imagine, Brother Mickey, there are entire countries, entire villages, entire people groups that have just unreached, that have no access to the gospel We have that in Asia, entire countries with very little or no access to the gospel According to a recent book written on personal evangelism, 95% of all Christians have never won a soul to Christ. I didn't say like in the last week or the last month or in the last year. Things happen, right? But have never won a soul to Christ. Eighty percent of all Christians do not consistently witness for Christ. Less than two percent are involved in the ministry of evangelism. Seventy-one percent do not give toward the financing of the Great Commission. This is a broad scope. This is evangelical Christianity. We're not just talking about independent Baptists. We're looking at a broad scope of evangelical, those who believe in salvation by grace through faith alone. Um when asked if they have a personal responsibility to share their faith with others, 73% of born-again Christians said yes. Okay, that's That's good. But only 73% said it was their personal responsibility. That should be 100%. Okay? We're like, oh, it's more than 50. No, it should be a hundred percent. When this conviction is put into practice, however, the numbers shift downward. So they'll say, yes, I have a personal responsibility. But only half, 52% of born-again Christians say they actually did share the gospel at least once this past year to someone with different beliefs in the hope that I might accept Christ as their Savior. Not this last week, not yesterday, in a year. So ask yourself the question. In the past year have I Actively given the gospel to someone with the hopes that they will accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Something has to change. In our text, we find the ingredients to reach the world, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And spoiler alert, it's not more programs. To understanding missions and not just around the world, but across the street. Because if it's not done here at home, it will not be done across the world. So the first ingredient we have is compassion. Look at verse 36. Bible says, but when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. Jesus went everywhere, preaching. He didn't just confine himself to major cities or even to his own town of Capernaum, but went everywhere. But didn't stop there. He didn't just go, he saw. But what did he see? He saw a multitude. There are millions, even billions, who are without Christ. And we go in the world, do we see the multitudes, and are we moved with compassion? Because Christ saw them and was moved to compassion. But how did he see them? What caused him to be moved with compassion? He saw them as they were fainted. Look, the Bible says because they were fainted. He had compassion on them because they were fainted. Isaiah 55, 22 says, Wherefore do you spend money for that which is not bread, and you labor for that which satisfies not? The water they drink from doesn't satisfy. They will thirst again. They are burdened with the heavy load of sin. They are burdened with care. And what they need is someone to take that load from them. And Jesus says, Come unto me, all ye that labored and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He saw them as scattered, as sheep without any shepherd. Because they're longing for joy and happiness and peace in all the wrong places, they're scattered. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. Well we did. If you're saved today, you did. You were looking for satisfaction in everything but Jesus Christ. And if today you're not here, that's what you're doing. You're trying to find satisfaction in alcohol, in drugs, in addictions, in relationships, in your job, in success, in money, in a bigger house, a bigger car, but those things will never bring you satisfaction. Christian, those things will never bring you satisfaction either. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with having a nice house or a nice car. But if that's where your joy is found, you will not have joy. The Jews had been looking for satisfaction in the law, in traditions and ordinances, but all they found was emptiness Because religion brings emptiness. It's only Christ who brings full satisfaction. And they had religious leaders, shepherds in name, but really they were nothing but higher links. They didn't have a true shepherd. And the true shepherd we know is Jesus Christ. Skipping ahead here real quick. So we see that Christ saw the multitudes. He saw them as scattered. Is Algum and Sheep. And because of that, he had compassion on them. And so what is the word compassion? The word compassion is not just pity. Not just, man, I feel bad for that guy. Compassion is saying. There is a problem. I need to do something about it. It's love in action. That's what compassion is. It's love in action. It's it's taking It's a mixed emotion, right? Come is is is the the prefix with, right? And passion is this understanding of of sorrow and and of love, but not just there. It's it's more than that. Right with the passion of Christ, right? The the passion of Christ was what? It wasn't that he just looked down from heaven and said, Oh, those poor lost people, I wish I wish something could be done about them. No, he did something about it He came to earth and died for the redemption of man. That's compassion. And so the question for us is: are we looking at the world with compassion or annoyance? Do we see their plight or are we blind to it because we're too concerned with our own business? The disciples struggled with crowds at times. Often they wanted Jesus to send them away. Sometimes they rebuked crowds, such as when they brought children to Jesus But Jesus always had time for people, from the thousands gathered on the hillside to the singular Woman at the well. And Jude 22 through 23 tells us, and of some have compassion, making a difference. And others say with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. My friends, the the world is filled with people dying. and going to hell. Filled with those aimlessly wandering down life's road, not knowing that they are on the path of destruction. Do you realize that the person you walk by at the store, or that store clerk They don't realize they're on the path to destruction. They have no idea. They think they're doing just fine. It's our responsibility to go to them and say, stop. Hey, there's a bridge out. Imagine you're driving down the road and you find out there's a bridge out, the water's coming rush this bridge away. And you what so what are you going to do? Are you going to turn around and let all the people come behind you just fall off that bridge? Or are you going to park your car, stop it from coming, and say, hey look, the bridge is out. If you go this way, you're going to die. That's our responsibility. If you continue down this path, friend, you will die and go to hell. And I don't want you to, and God doesn't want you to. He has created a plan to save you and redeem your soul. Are we so busy that we don't have time to compel them to come in? That's what Christ told us to do with the great marriage supper. He said, compel them. What does that doesn't mean throwing someone over your shoulder? Although there's sometimes I want to throw someone over my shoulder and drag them to church. But that's a strong urging. It's a pleading And I think we give up too fast. To be honest with you, I think we do. We go to this person and we say, hey, here's the gospel. Would you like to accept Christ as your Savior? And they say no. I'm like, okay, well, I guess that's no. And we just never go back to them, we never plead with them, we never pray over them. We okay, well that's that that's it. And we we act as if well that was just God's ordained way. Well, they're just gonna die and go to hell. Well that that's not God's ordained way. That's not God's will. God's will is that not any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. They need a shepherd, and that good shepherd is Jesus. He left the 99 to find you. Now what about them? A Baptist hymn writer, B. V. McKinney, wrote this. He said, Let me look on the crowd as my Savior did, till my eyes with tears grow dim Let me view with pity the wandering sheep and love them for love of him. Because if it's only love of them, that love will grow cold. But if it's for love of him, it's totally different. Look, I'm gonna be let me just be brutally honest with you. I love living in Asia, but there are times I do not love the Chinese people. They just annoy me. Like, what is your problem? Like why why is your thinking so different than mine? I'm obviously an American and a Westerner. My thinking's better than yours, right? That's the mindset, right? If I'm in the flesh. And there are times I just don't love them. And that's a shame on me, right? But here's the thing in those moments, do I love God? Because if I love God, it doesn't matter if they annoy me. It's now I have the love of God flowing through me, and that's the key. The key is the indwelling life of Christ. It is impossible for you to love the lost. And that's good. Because that means you can't do it in your own power. You must have the power of Christ in you to love those people. So the ingredient, first ingredient is compassion. The second ingredient is prayer. He said, pray therefore the Lord of the harvest, I will send forth laborers into his harvest. As I said in the introduction, the modern day church has everything at her disposal, but there's one ingredient we're missing. Much like forgetting to add yeast to dough and wonder why it isn't rising. We wonder why the gospel isn't having the impact we expect and why lives aren't being transformed because we've forgotten to pray. I'm just gonna be honest, we've we the prayer meetings of the past are not happening in the modern-day church. And if there is a prayer meeting, three or four people show up. And we wonder why the world Why there's been no impact of the church. The problem we face is the harvest is plenteous, but the labors are few. And there are multitudes of people around the world who have yet to hear the gospel. That's the problem. We have the harvest is plenty, but the laborers are few. There's the problem. In a Barna study recently revealed Christians may find exceptions. In Jesus' parting command, the Great Commission. They tend to believe missions is a calling for some. 51% of Christians believe that the call of missions is for some. It's not a mandate for all. 25% believe it's not a mandate for all Christians, just for some. On the other hand, the vast majority of pastors, 85%, regardless of denomination. Says missions is a work that all Christians participate in. I still am kind of bothered by that number. Eighty f only eighty-five percent of pastors believe that. Like you think that'd be a hundred percent? I don't know. Only fifty-three percent of practicing Christians have even heard of the Great Commission. They're obviously not part of this church, okay? So but but that's shocking. So what's the solution? Pray for laborers. Are we praying for more missionaries? We we had a discussion uh last night, the missionaries and and and a group of people and we were talking about, man, we're just not seeing God call missionaries. Like he used to. Wrong. God is calling the missionaries like he used to, they're not listening. God is calling children, but parents aren't willing to give their children up. God is calling, but we're not willing to give up our comfortable Christianity. God wants to call. Are we praying for laborers? Are we praying that God calls children out of our church? Am I praying that God calls my child to the mission field? And maybe God won't, and that's fine. But am I praying that God will? God call my child and let his heart be open. To your call. Pray that the word of God would move like it did when you got saved. Second Thessalonians 3. 1, Paul says, Finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may have free course and be glorified even as it is with you. Colossus 4 2, he says, continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving, withal praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ. For which I am also in bonds, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. The Bible teaches us there is power in prayer, the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. Availeth much. What could God do if a group of righteous people Got together and prayed for a specific country and the laborers, a specific city or a specific state. What could God do with that? So much In 2020, a study was done showing that in the past 10 years, that just seven in ten or sixty-nine percent of Americans pray weekly. Now that's lost and unlost. But I would beg to differ that that probably happens in the church more often than we think. Think about this. If a church got a burden for a specific country and prayed for that country, that God would send labors to that country, don't you think God would hear that prayer? God, I'm going to pray for my city that God would send more labor to our city, that God would send more labors to our state or to our country or or to this city. Don't you think God would hear that prayer? He absolutely would because God hears prayer and his head, his his his ears are inclined, are bowed down to his children. He desires to answer our prayer. In Acts, we see the Church of Jerusalem praying in Acts chapter 2. At the end of Acts chapter 2. Or in Acts, yeah, at the end of Acts chapter 1, we see the church praying. At the end of Acts chapter 2, 3,000 are saved. Then they have another prayer meeting. And in Acts chapter 6, the number of disciples are multiplied. Then another prayer meeting, after Peter was released and Herod was eaten of worms, and the word of God was multiplied. And then another prayer meeting, and God sent Paul and Barnabas out, and the world was reached the gospel of Christ. Are you getting the point? Prayer meeting, God moves. Prayer meeting, God moves. Prayer meeting, God moves. But there needs to be a willingness to go as well. You cannot truly pray for more laborers if you yourself are not willing to go. Pray you therefore, Lord of the Harvest, send forth laborers. You might just be the answer to that prayer. But are you listening to the still small voice of the Spirit saying, that's you? Lord, would you send more laborers to hunt valley? He's like, I done did. You're sitting in the pew. Now would you send more laborers? Around the world. I did. I saved you to serve. That's I saved you and redeemed you. So that the world may know that there's a a God in heaven. And lastly, we have a faith for the harvest. We had seen earlier that the problem was the harvest is plentious, but the labors are few. Okay? So the problem is the labors are few, right? The answer to that is prayer. Okay? The problem really isn't the harvest, but how we view it. Look at a parallel passage in Luke chapter of Matthew 9, Luke chapter 10, verse 2. Luke chapter 10, verse 2, the Bible says, Therefore he said unto him, The harvest truly is great. But the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Now many interpret this verse with a defeatist mentality Seeing the harvest is vast and the work is insufficient. And over time it has become a byword for pity and discouragement. The harvest is great, but the labors are few. And we just view uh it maybe that's not you, okay, but I I have seen it where it's happened that's well it's almost like we've just given up. Well the harvest is great, labor's a few. I guess we're just gonna sit here in our pews so Jesus comes back and not do anything about it. But in both these passages, great and plentious, the underlying word is Paulis. Okay, this is where we get our int our English words polyglon, many English, polyglot, many languages, polytheism, the belief in many gods, polygamy, many marriage, right? Poly, it's it's it's it's many. Okay? Instead of seeing this as discouraging, we should approach these verses with a victorious mindset. One that recognizes this as a promise. The harvest truly is plenteous. It's full of people ready to receive. The issue isn't the size of the harvest, but our mindset. Are we approaching this with faith? John 4 35, say not ye there are yet four months unto the harvest Behold, I stand to you, lift up your eyes and look in the fields for they are white already under harvest. Look, the very word harvest presupposes that plowing, planting, and watering have already taken place. The work has been done, and now the harvest is ready to be reaped. No farmer looks at a field and says, and it's empty and says, the harvest truly is great. Alright, unless he has faith in that in that field. But we don't look at an empty plot of land and say, wow, that's that's a great harvest. No, we look at a field that's already full and it's ready to be reaped and it's ready to be taken in. We're like, that we're gonna have a good harvest this year. Again, in John 4, we see a promise of harvest. The field, the fields are white already. unto harvest. They're ready to be brought in. We see Jesus in this passage reprimanding the disciples for their lack of faith as it relates to the harvest. He uses the Jewish proverb, four months between seed time and harvest. Right, we we have this. Oh, it can wait till tomorrow. Or I'll get to that when I get to it, right? Yeah, it's not quite time yet. Right, we we have these. So is it a proverb that the Jews had choose to like put off their responsibility? So he uses their proverb to bring their attention to the fact the harvest is not off in some distant time, but now Recently I was listening to a book on personal evangelism and the preacher said this. He says, the biggest problem we have in witnessing is that God cannot trust Christians because they cannot trust him. There's no great influx into the kingdom because Christians are not ready and willing to recognize the harvest. We look out and say, nah, it's not time yet. Four months. And then the harvest. When Jesus said, the harvest is white already. The harvest is plenteous. So I want to conclude. I want to talk to two types of people. I'm going to conclude this. First, Christians. Christians, we're watching the world spiral into destruction. Heading toward eternal separation from God. But will we as Christians stand idly by as droves of people fall into eternity? Will we have compassion and tell them about Christ? Will we pray for more laborers? Will we be willing to go? Are we trusting God for the harvest? Are we going in faith, in victory? Are we going faithless and thus defeated? You go out each week. You should go out each week. with the church knocking on doors. And that shouldn't be the only time you witness, by the way. You should be having gospel conversations as much as you possibly can. Okay? But when you go out and you're you're going on community canvassing. The question is, am I knocking on this door in faith or in defeat? I'm knocking on this door, and they're probably not going to answer anyway. And if they do answer, they're not interested. If we're going in faith, look I'm not saying every time you knock on the door and some ancient, they're gonna get saved, okay? That's between them and God. They have free will, okay But your mentality is going to be different when you knock on the door if you have faith that they're going to listen. Because you're going to be like, okay, I'm going to give you this gospel and you're going to listen and It's a different mentality. Does that make sense? I don't know how to explain it in the way I want to, but it's just a different way of going about it Instead of saying, I know God said that the harvest was plenteous, but our area is hard. This is the Northeast. Okay, I grew up in the Northeast. I grew up in New England, the preacher's graveyard. That's that's what it was called when I was a kid. Now God is doing a great moving right now in the Northeast, and it's amazing to watch. Okay, churches are being revitalized and churches are being planted and it's uh it's awesome to watch Now I live in the Bible Belt now. I tell you the Bible Belt's hard too. Everyone's already saved. Everyone's like, I'm saved. Like, are you? Like I remember asking guy one time, Hey, uh, where do you go to church? He's like, Oh I go to Faith Baptist. And I was like, Oh, really? Was the last time you were there? He's like, Oh, about two weeks ago, and I was like, That church closed two years ago. He shut his door and you know, I maybe I shouldn't have said that, but like really. Anyway, so but the thing is here here's the thing. God wants to do a work. So instead of saying, I know, God said this, but our area is hard. Change it. Our area is hard, but God is bigger than that. I know that people are closed off to the gospel here, but God is bigger than all of that. The words but God will change your life. Stop living in defeat and live in victory. And lastly, and I don't know everyone here, okay. I am going to guess that the majority of you are saved. But maybe there's someone here that's not. Okay, and you're listening. If today you're not sure you have eternal life and forgiveness of sins, you can receive both today. God desires to know you. There's no just man upon the earth. We understand that. And because of this, death prevails over your life. But Jesus wants to save you. He wants to give you eternal life. He wants to know you. He wants to save you and redeem you. Christian, look today, this week, go out in faith Believing that God wants to do something with you, with your church, because He does. The difference between the first century church and the modern-day church is they believed that God wanted to do something and was going to do something. Our problem is we look at the past and say, wow, God did some amazing things back there. He can't do it today. God is not, his power is not diminished. He is still on the throne. He is still Lord. He is still King. He desires to save people in the power of the gospel. Is still just as strong today as it was 100, 200, 300 years ago. So let's trust the Lord this week that God will bring a harvest. If you faint not, if you don't quit, don't give up. The Bible says the harvest, you will give us the harvest. Let's pray. Father, Lord, you are an amazing God. I am constantly overwhelmed, Lord, by your love, by your salvation, by your grace, by your redemption, your mercy. Lord, so many times we we do fail you. God, your mercies are new every morning. God, the fact that you would look down on man who lived in rebellion towards you and save them. Who is man that thou art mindful of him? Father, I pray God that you would use your word today. Plant a seed in our hearts, a seed of faith that will grow. God, use this church to bring a harvest for your house, for your barns. Be with the next hour, the preacher. Fill him with your power. Holy Spirit, do a work that only you can do. We ask these things in your precious son's name. Amen. Pastor.