All right. Well good to see everyone tonight. And again, like I mentioned this morning, you are uh stuck with me to uh so we'll at least for the next few moments uh Uh so I'll ask you if you wouldn't to turn in your Bibles to Matthew twenty-eight. And uh uh uh just along those lines of of what uh pastor was saying, uh just knowing that the the fill in was for uh brother hardecker, I I felt bringing something along the lines of uh missions or discipleship and that's kinda something that uh just uh been thinking about this week and uh I thought something that really struck me uh a thought that struck me this week that I'll share uh in the process of this so so we'll go through it but Matthew 28 is where we're going to begin and we'll go to that familiar passage Matthew 2819 Matthew 28, 19, and the message tonight is called a call to discipleship a call to discipleship and will be hopefully uh fairly straightforward, uh something that is not necessarily new. But we'll we'll review some things and and hopefully uh the Lord will use it in in your life. Matthew 28, hopefully you can see verses 19 and 20 there in your Bibles. And uh again, very familiar. And we'll read why don't we read it together from nineteen and twenty. Uh let's read it. The Bible says Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Alright, why don't we start off with a word of prayer? Lord, we do love you and we thank you for the day, and we thank you, Lord, just for this time around your word and Lord, again, just uh multiple thoughts that that that I put down to paper. Uh but Lord it's your spirit that does the work in the hearts of your people and uh Lord. Uh I I don't know the needs. I don't know uh Lord exactly what's going on in people's lives, but I know how you how you you've used this thought uh in my life, and I just pray Lord that you would help us. Lord help us as we as we Consider tonight the idea of making disciples and how important it is for us to be doing that. And Father, I just ask for your blessing upon your word and on this time, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to share with you some thoughts tonight on the idea of discipleship. And as we begin, we we find this passage. a very familiar passage that we know as the Great Commission. And we come to it, and we know that it's found in all the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, as well as in the first chapter of the book of Acts. And I want you to think about the events that led to the end of the book of Matthew, and similarly along the other gospel accounts. When we reach this moment, generally, how old do we understand Jesus to be? Does anyone remember? And consider this, how many years was he ministering of those thirty-three years? We see in the scripture that there were three annual feasts that he was a part of Uh and so it it doesn't spell out directly that it was three years, but for that reason we understand that it's about three years, about three and a half years of the ministry of Jesus Christ here on earth. And I want you to imagine this three-year ministry coming to a close. And as you look at that, you see that Jesus gave his disciples in those three years what was needed For them to, as the scriptures say, turn the world upside down. Three years in what he walked with them and spent time with them and taught them what they needed. And then after he left, the Bible says that he promised that the Holy Spirit would come, and he did, but all that was after those three years that Jesus spent with the disciples. And at the end of that, Jesus tells his followers, according to this passage, teach So what does that mean? The command of the Great Commission here is to teach all nations in Matthew 28, 19 That word teach comes from the root word that we see that gives us the idea of making disciples. The priority in evangelism, as we see here in this passage, is making disciples. Twice we see the word teach, and it's that word that again is the same word that we see disciples in the in the scriptures. What does the word disciple mean? On one hand, we see it as a follower, as somebody that follows its, or one who follows the teaching of another. Now I want you to think about that because discipleship, that word, does not appear in the Bible. And another thing that I found as I was researching this is the word disciple only appears in Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and Acts. It does not appear in the uh uh uh that root word does not appear in the rest of the New Testament I don't necessarily know why that is, but that's just something that we see here about this word disciple. But discipleship can be a bit vague. But again, a disciple is one who follows another's teaching. I want you to consider, it doesn't just mean for someone to be converted. It means to show them the way. So as we consider that tonight, we we see a call to discipleship, and I'm going to submit to you just a couple ideas, three ideas on what discipleship means and kind of get an understanding of scripturally what the Bible is talking about here. And the first one that we'll look at is discipleship proposes sacrifice. The idea of discipleship that we see in the scripture is a proposition that there's going to be sacrifice involved in discipleship We see that very clearly. There's three passages that are very similar in Matthew, Mark, and Luke where the Bible says, and I'll read it read these for you, but you'll you'll You find it in Matthew sixteen twenty-four, Mark eight, thirty-four, and in Luke nine twenty-three, the Bible says this and he said to them, All, if any man will come after me Let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. And in Matthew and Mark, there's uh just a small variation of that same idea of Denying oneself, taking up his cross and following. Understand that discipleship begins with something that you put aside and then something that you are to do. Discipleship is an activity. It's not passive. So I want to stop and consider that for a moment because many times we think of discipleship as learning. As taking in information. And and we can all be guilty of this. I think I've been guilty of this as well, to be able to if we're gonna give someone or or or or Participate in discipleship, it's going to require a lot of taking in, learning, information. And that's not necessarily all that the scripture is talking about here. Learning is the starting point, but it quickly turns into something that we're supposed to be active in. It takes action very quickly. So discipleship proposes a matter of sacrifice. The first thing here that we see in this passage is that we're to deny himself. A person is to deny himself. There's that sacrifice very clearly seen. We need to deny our will. There's many things that we need to deny. We need to deny many, sometimes in discipleship, we need to deny our time There's so many things, so many times that we uh will protect what we want to do. We'll protect our time when discipleship, if we're going to truly disciple someone If we're going to be making disciples, that's going to take some time. We need to deny our flesh. That's the idea very clearly that was seen in that passage. in in in in the Gospels where it's saying you need to deny yourself. You need to deny your flesh. You need to deny the desires that you may want and those desires that you have need to be replaced with what it is that God wants you to do. denying oneself is a matter of sacrifice. And that's something, as we see, it's interesting when you when when you when you read these passages. It's talking about that you and I, as if we're going to be a follower of Christ, we need to deny ourselves. And the idea there goes along a little bit further. It says we need to deny ourselves, then it says what? Take up his cross. So look some ideas on that passage, on that phrase. The idea helps us to understand that in discipleship there's the burden that you will carry. Not that it's going to be something that's a heavy uh a heavy discouragement or something that's going to really, but it's something that weighs on you If you're going to take the responsibility of discipling a person, that is a weight that you have to carry, and it's a huge weight because that's a very important task that you're taking on. It's a burden you will carry. But then understand taking up our cross carries the idea of a reproach. The cross represented reproach and shame. And so Jesus, again, he was the people in this time were very familiar with what it was to take up one's cross. That was a typical practice, is that when a person was to be crucified, they were going to take their cross. They had to carry it to the place where they were going to be crucified. That was something that was shameful. There was something that was a reproach involved. And again, here Jesus is saying, if you're going to be a disciple, you need to Take up your cross. It's a burden you're going to carry, and it's a reproach that you're going to have to face. Shame. And again, it also meant very clearly that your death was forthcoming. Now there's an interesting part when we look at that passage in Luke, because it says that we're to take our cross daily. And so that idea, again, it goes to something that Paul mentions later on in the epistles, is that we're supposed to die to ourselves daily. Discipleship involves us dying daily. And that's represented again by the cross. So we're to deny ourselves, we need to sacrifice were to take up our cross burden that we have to carry, gives us the a the idea that following Christ is not an easy path. It's not an easy road. It's something that we have to that we're going to do and it is going to be a challenge And it is going to be a challenge to carry that reproach with you daily when you're when you're trying to follow Christ, when you face perhaps some ridicule. But that's what it takes to be a disciple. So I want to go on to another idea here. And I want to submit to you that discipleship points to the Savior. Why don't you turn to 1 Corinthians 11, 1? 1 Corinthians 11, 1, this is Paul speaking, and it's something that he has mentioned other places, I think earlier in the book of 1 Corinthians as well. It's kind of an interesting an interesting uh verse that we'll look at. But discipleship points to the Savior, and and I'm I'm glad that Paul put it this way because it really helps us to to understand what it is that we are to do in discipleship. If you're there, 1 Corinthians 11:1 says, Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ. That word follower gives us the idea of an imitator to mimic We're supposed to be mimicking, and the idea here is mimic what I'm doing as I also am following Christ. And so the idea here is that discipleship is pointing people to the Savior. So let's expound on that a little bit. Discipleship, we point others to Christ, and sometimes in discipleship when we're the temptation or the default or maybe something that uh that we can that we can that we have to be cautious against is that we can create a disciple of ourselves We can create a discipline. And here we see it it's kind of a quirky thing that Paul says. Paul says, be followers of me. And initially, I uh anytime I read that passage, I look at it and be like, man How bold and how I mean I I would never say to someone, follow me, do what I'm doing. But here Paul very boldly, and it's inspired, that he says, follow me as I'm following Christ And what a challenge for us. Because we're supposed to be following Christ. And so again, understanding that as we're discipling people and as we're we're trying to follow the Lord, it's pointing to Christ. It's not Creating a disciple of mine own. Creating a clone of me. And when we talk about what discipleship is, we'll we'll see why that's a matter. Because many times We can try to instill and teach and uh convert people to our point of view. And we see that a lot even today. There's people that are so divided and there's a funny phrase that people will have in discussion, maybe saying, well, everyone's entitled to their own wrong opinion. And what that means is that, well, I'm right and you're wrong. And many times what we're trying to do is we're trying to convert people to our side. We're trying to convert people to our own perspective. And we're not creating disciples of ourselves. And I say that because we we have to be cautious as we Help people and as we point people to Christ and as we help people to grow in the Lord, we're not trying to make them a disciple of of of me. We're not trying to take make them a disciple of my uh per my Secular ideology, my political values, my perspective on different things, I'm not making a disciple unto myself. On these things really that don't matter And we have to be cautious about that. Because discipleship points to the Savior. And if we're to be discipling people We want to be discipling them to follow Christ. We want to help them to understand what it means to follow Christ. Not necessarily what it means to follow me. Not necessarily what now again a lot of times we walk around as a perspective of saying, well, yeah, I think I'm right. But we have to be careful that what we're discipling people is grounded in the scripture and helping people to grow in Christ. So as we move along, it's important for us to understand that there are multiple discipleship prospects. Surrounding us on all sides. And this is really kind of the idea that I thought about and considered very much this week. And understanding that all around us, there's opportunities for us to disciple people. Matthew 9:9 says, As Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the receipt of custom. And he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. If you look at the scriptures, there's about 17 times that Christ says, follow me. And this goes back to what I was saying a little bit earlier, that many times we're we're okay being passive. We're okay with learning. We're okay to be happy and to soak it in. Accept our discipleship that way. But there comes a point where our discipleship has to take action. This is a little bit different for people with different personalities. And I learned this because if I have a question, many times I'll ask. I'll try to find out. I'll try to look at what the answer is. And there's sometimes where perhaps there's a question and For for some people, as as I understand, they they they have a reluctance to ask. They maybe don't want to see be seen a certain way. Or maybe they don't w they they wonder if the question is a is not a great question or they they they worry, well I should probably know this, so uh I'm not going to ask the question because I should already know what the answer to this question is. And so there's this reluctance to ask. And so I take that for granted because again, I'm just one that's going to look into it and I'll ask the question and I'll just say, hey, what about this? I don't understand this. And what does this mean? And so early on once I got saved I I I really began to to to learn different things and to to ask different questions and take time to really dig into things to really make sure okay uh evaluating what it is that that where where it is that my faith was And digging into the scriptures to try to find exactly what it is that the Bible was teaching about those matters, and taking hold, as the Bible says, hold fast to those things that are good. And That's what discipleship is. But not everyone's like that. And so there's opportunities that we have, and My concern in the 2021 church that we have, and not necessarily here church, but all around, is that we're okay to listen. But we don't we we we we hesitate to really get into and sink our teeth into what is being taught. And it's a concern because we're stifling discipleship opportunities. And so we have to be careful, but even within the church We need to take those opportunities and see that they're all around us. Many times We will have casual conversations, conversations that are very surface level, without really digging into anything that is Interesting, if you will. And but that's one thing that even in talking to my wife about uh being in nursery and and spending time with some of the ladies there, that's an opportunity that the ladies have there for discipleship. To grow, to learn. Parenting is an opportunity for discipleship. And This is one of the things that really struck me very heavily this week is considering that For Jesus, he had three years. Three years with these disciples and gave them what they needed. To turn the world upside down. And there's churches across America who have their children for 18, 19, 20 years. Only to as the kid grows up they fall away. And that's very sad. And it's a disheartening And there are times where I can fall, I know I've fallen into this trap before, not seeing parenting as an opportunity for discipleship. And I say that because going back to our second point, again, I'm not trying to create a model, a mini Gus. The idea is to create and stir spiritual growth And point them to Christ. That they would follow Jesus Christ. That they would love Jesus Christ. And you really have to take a step back and evaluate and say, look, This is the thing that strikes me. I could have the most obedient children, but be a complete failure in passing on a love for Jesus. And that can that's disheartening as well. How important it is for us to take those opportunities and see the parenting, see those many years that we have, those opportunities that we have with our kids, not just for them to do what we want them to do, which is you know, put the dishes away or make their bed or things like that. But pointing them to Christ and helping them to understand how it is that they serve the Lord, how it is that they can honor God through those things We want to teach that love for them, for God, to them as well. Marriage is discipleship. It's an opportunity for us to point our spouse to Christ. And that's not necessarily what we do. That's not necessarily how we face our difficulties and our challenges. But marriage is discipleship. There's opportunities for discipleship at church, at home, at work, all around us. How many times when we're Ask answering a question for one of the kids maybe that that that are on the bus and they're asking a question, how many times do I, you know, they're worried about something? Shame on me because I'll give them just an answer instead of saying, like, hey, why don't we pray about that? And many times we've missed those opportunities of truly shaping, helping point people spiritually to Christ. Because we're not looking at those opportunities of discipleship. And I say that, and I wanted to tie this in very much with what Pastor Derek's been teaching in Sunday school, because you know that idea of stirring up the gift that is in you. And the idea of discipleship, really, I hope that at the end of this series You can have a conversation with someone and say, hey, what do you think my spiritual gift is? Now, I think I have a pretty good idea of what my spiritual gift is. But I was talking uh uh after that first week, I think, I was talking to my kids, and I was like, what do you think your spiritual gift is? Why? Because In interacting with them, we ought to, and interacting with one another, we ought to be stirring up that gift. Encouraging them in that gift. Helping them. And if someone has the gift of mercies and we all we do is discourage them. We're putting a wet blanket on their gift. And so we have to be careful, and that's why these conversations are so important, because these discipleship opportunities are all around us. Helping someone use their spiritual gift, enabling them to use it. That is discipleship. Giving someone the opportunity to honor the Lord with their spiritual gift, that's discipleship. And again, sometimes discipleship, we think about it as this academic thing, and it's not necessarily that Yes, it's learning the truth, but it's also putting it into practice as we follow Christ. So with the young people here, maybe the young people wonder, how can I be discipling someone? I want to encourage you, I was thinking about that as I prepared for this. Young people, I think you can work on your discipleship. You may not have someone to disciple, but what you can wholly work on is following Christ. Mimicking Christ. Mimicking the people that you know love God. That you know have a relationship with Him That idea of being a follower, being a mimicker, walking in that in that path So there's some areas that we'll kind of wrap up with where God, where Jesus said, follow me. And we'll share them with you because they're opportunities for discipleship. And I want you to see them because they're things that we do as a church. And that's very important because it's discipleship that is happening. The Bible says Matthew 4. 19, very familiar, and he saith unto them, This is Christ. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Part of discipleship, part of growing closer to the Lord is to being a fisherman of men. is to being a soul winner. Another part of being a a disciple Is in Luke chapter 10, there was a conversation that Jesus was having with his disciples, and a man came up. Uh if I under if I remember correctly, I think he was a lawyer. And he said unto him, Jesus said to him, he asked the lawyer asked Jesus a question. And he said, what about this? What about this? What about this situation? And discipleship is reading the word because Jesus said to him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? How do you read it? And so that's an important question that as we're discipling people, as we're interacting with people, maybe someone might have a question in the about the Bible. And it would be good to point them and say, well, what did you find that the Bible says about that? And encourage them and point them to the scriptures. Another passage where we see Jesus say, follow me, in Matthew 8. 22, he says, Jesus saith unto him, Follow me, and let the dead bury their dead. If you recall the situation, there was this interaction where a man uh uh wanted to follow Christ and he came up with an excuse, and there were multiple men with multiple different excuses. And one of them says, Hey, I have to go bury my father. And Jesus saith unto him, Let the dead bury their dead. And the idea here that is conveyed is that we are to love Christ above all. Christ is to be our first love. Christ is to be our preeminent love that we are to direct our life towards. Another passage where he says, follow me, discipleship understanding is hearing his voice. John 10, 27 says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Another idea of what discipleship is is rejecting the world. Matthew 19:21 says, Jesus saith unto them, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast. And give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. So there's this idea that discipleship involves rejecting the things of this world. And over and over we see Jesus telling people, follow me, follow me. And that's what discipleship is, is following Christ. So finally, I'll share with you some areas that show discipleship happening in the scriptures. I'll make the reference for you and I'll give it to you. Maybe you can look it up and see it for yourself. Titus 2. 4, the discipleship was the older women training the younger women. Second Timothy 2. 2, there was a discipleship of Paul training Timothy to train others. So where he says, The things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. That's the idea of discipleship. Ephesians 6. 4, fathers are to train their children. Matthew 28, 20, a missionary is to teach the nations everything Jesus commanded. But it's not just exclusive to specific uh uh individuals like fathers or or church leaders or or the women. Look at this very broad uh approach here in Hebrews 3. 13. All the Christians are to exhort each other every day to avoid sin and stir each other up to love and good works. I'll read that verse for you, Hebrews 3. 13. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Of course, we know the passage in Hebrews 10, 24 and 25. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching. Discipleship is the church family exhorting one another. 1 Peter 4. 10, Christians are to use their gifts to serve others. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. So I want you to consider. Those three years that the disciples followed Jesus in his ministry before he was crucified and went to heaven. Basic training for the Air Force when I went through was six and a half weeks. Now it's eight and a half weeks. For the Army, I believe it's ten weeks. For the Marine Corps, I believe it's thirteen weeks, and I believe the Navy is twelve weeks. Alright. Consider. After basic training, ten weeks for an army. In 15 weeks, that person can be a tank driver. They go to school and they are taught how to drive an M1. In sixteen weeks, we would entrust a soldier to go as to the front lines of a battle. After basic training, after 25 weeks, which is about six months, we would put someone and trust them to be a mechanic for a Black Hawk helicopter Now if we look at the Air Force, you have basic training for about two months, and it takes about three months to be a basic mechanic crew chief, which is a mechanic for uh uh multiple for uh the aircraft that are in the arsenal of the airforce. So that could be a multimillion dollar aircraft that they're working on. And we're entrusting someone who's been in the military all of six months for that. Munitions After basic training, a person that is a load master that loads munitions onto the aircraft is 20 weeks And if we can trust these brave men and women to be trained and to be effective in their job, isn't it possible for the church to train and prepare as well? Consider that. You and I have the opportunity to disciple and to point people. There's people that I work with now that are in my office. once 19, once 20, and they're entrusted with some of the deepest secrets of our nation to a nineteen and twenty-year-old. And as a church, as a church that follows Christ, certainly we need to do a job a better job of training and preparing Our young people, ourselves, not just maybe those that are young in the Lord, helping them. Not to be To know all the ins and outs and all the how to dot their I's and cross their T's, but how to love Christ and how to follow Him. And all it takes is for us to have our eyes open to the opportunities for discipleship that are around us. So, don't be so passive, but taking active role in helping one another, pointing people to Christ.