Night to John chapter number twelve. John chapter number twelve. This morning I brought a message on the power of the resurrection, without which we would not have Christianity. And because of, we have everything that comes with it. We have Christianity, we have new life in Christ, we have power to live and be victorious. In a cemetery in Hanover, Germany, there is a grave on which is placed huge slabs of granite These slabs of granite were cemented together and they were affixed to one another and to the base with huge large steel straps and bolted into place. The lady who passed away left it in her will. She did not believe in the resurrection. And she wanted to be sure, should the resurrection happen, that she wasn't part of it So she in her will had this defined and laid out how her grave was to be secured. The amazing thing is, is When they were putting this all together and putting it down and getting it buried underground, uh one small seed. Fell down in the edge of that piece of granite. They buried it there. That little tiny seed sprouted And began to grow and push towards the sun. That that little seed turned into a sapling and then into a tree. And as it grew, the root systems intertwined through that granite and tore the top off of that thing. That just one little seed literally pulled the straps, those steel straps out of their moorings. And reopened that grave that she had been given instruction that it would never be opened again. The power of one little seed Is a flint, is a faint reflection of the power of Christ to take his life up again once he had laid it down for you and I. It is the power that's pictured in one small thing. I'd like you to look in John chapter 12, beginning in verse number 23, and read with me down through verse number 27. The Bible says here, and Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Notice, beloved, that it did not say, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be crucified. Or that the Son of Man should be put to death, or that the Son of Man should die. But it says its hours come that the Son of Man should be glorified. He goes into and gives a little bit of a picture of what was taking place. And he uses the example of a seed. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it, and he that hateth his life for this world shall keep it unto life eternal. If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Now is my soul troubled Jesus describing what was going on in his heart, he says, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. He's kind of facetiously presenting this question. He's saying, My soul is troubled, and should I call upon the Father and say, Save me from this hour? He says, but For this cause came I unto this hour. He said, This is the reason, the very purpose for which I'm here. Jesus using here the analogy of a grain of wheat that's in order that it might be magnified, in order that it might be glorified, in order that it might be more than just itself It's necessary for it to die. And he says, for him, for me to fulfill the will of the Father. It's the hour. The time has come. I too am going to die. And three days later I'll take up my life again. But tonight I would like to take this simple illustration that Jesus gives, and he's speaking of himself and his life and what is going to transpire But I would like to apply it to us individually and consider the power of one. The power of one. The power of one teacher. The power of one mom. The power of one father, the power of one friend, the power of one pastor, the power of one Sunday school teacher. The power of just one person, the impact and the influence and the difference that can be made with one life that is fully and wholly committed unto God. If you ponder and think about your life, you I'm sure can think back through the days and hours and think about somebody who has had a great impact on you. How they encouraged you to be faithful in your hour of discouragement. How you were ready to quit and give up, but they came alongside you and held you up during your hour of weakness. Or maybe if you're here and you would have a testimony of the one that shared with you the gospel of Jesus Christ and changed your eternal destiny because of their witness. You can search your minds and consider these individuals that have affected you most, that one single person that has had the greatest impact on your life. The power of one individual can be seen all through the pages of Scripture. As over and over and over again, God gives to us example after example. after example of those people who were simply yielded vessels to God and God used them in great and mighty ways We think of Nehemiah, what was accomplished with him or Ezra or Daniel or Mary or Paul or Esther or Gideon or David. I mean we could go down the line and just over and over and over again the stories that we tell to the young about what God did with one person that was yielded to him. Beloved, it was D. Al-Mudi who is attributed with saying that the world has yet to see what God can do with a man who is fully consecrated unto him. But he went on to say, by God's help, I'll be that man. Dyal Moody shook two continents for God Can I tell you tonight that it is not your size? It's not your status. It's not how smart you are. That determines the impact you will have. The amazing thing is what God can do with the little things. What God can do with the simple things. You know, it was said of uh the disciples as they came and began to teach and you understand as we talked about this morning the Greeks, boy, they were big on intellectualism and big on education. And they heard these fishermen speak and they said they were foolish and unlearned men Yeah, they tone turned the new world upside down at that, the known world upside down at that time. Because they were yielded to God. Beloved, it is the tiny thing. Put into the hand of the master that has the capacity to grow and bring forth magnificent fruit when he describes the power of faith. He compares it to a grain of mustard seed. The power of faith to be able to move a mountain, and he says, oh, all you need is the little tiniest bit. God uses the simple things to confound the wise. He uses the small to overcome the mighty. It was Gideon and just 300 men that overcame the 135,000 Over and over again in the pages of Scripture we see how God took the individual, the small man, the the the unlearned men, the Men who by the world's standards had no cause for doing great and mighty things, and yet when he and submitted himself to God, God used them mightily. The power of one to bring forth tremendous fruit. And we look at these men with admiration. And sometimes we look at great men of God in bygone days and maybe men that you've looked up to or men you've read about Like Diyalmoody or R. A. Tori or CH version. Can I tell you or remind you tonight that there are no great men of God? Only men of a great God. And anything that was accomplished in these men's lives was accomplished because of the greatness and the power of God being manifested in their life. And that same power that was available to D. L. Moody or to R. A. Tori or to CH Persian or anybody else that you would like to plug into that little spot is power that's available to you and I There is no reason why we can't see souls saved. There is no reason why we can't be used of God to change the direction of somebody's life or be an encouragement to somebody that's discouraged or helpful Somebody continue to be faithful. There is no reason. It's not beyond our grasp. The power of one that would simply be yielded to God. I'm sure that you are like me and you look at these great men and you think, wow, I could never be that. But I want to tell you, you can be. You can be. Because it is not you, beloved. It's God in you How is it that you and I would be able to be used in a mighty way like that? As we contemplate and think tonight about the power of one, one individual, one young lady, one young man. One mom, one grandma, one father, one co-worker. The power of one, the difference that you can make In this life, how is it that we are going to have and make a great impact? Well, he tells us in this text. I'm going to give it to you and we'll be done. I just have two points tonight. First of all, it's very clear that we must die. He says it here, Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. You see, beloved, that person that lives for themselves, they abide alone. That perfect person whose life is all about them and fulfilling their own satisfaction and And accomplishing their own desires, they abide alone, and they're going to live through all of their days, and that's all they're ever going to do, and all they're ever going to be. But when an individual is willing to die to themselves They can be used mightily to bring great fruit in this life. For it is only when a seed is buried in the ground that it is multiplied many times over. When the seed dies, it brings forth fruit. Beloved, when you die to your own interest, when you die to your own life's ambitions. Too many of us have as our theme song, My Way. They haven't accomplished anything in this life. They're going to come to the end of their days having impacted nobody, but they'll be able to stand up with Frank Sinatra and sing, At least I did it my way. As if that's some type of victory or some type of accomplishment. It's a pretty sad commentary. That if that's all you've got to say at the end of your days, well Stick it in your ear. Everybody else can take a long walk off a short pier. I live my life and I lived it my way. And people stand up and applaud that foolishness We need to do it God's way. And if we yield ourselves to Him, we can do great and mighty things and be used to impact people's lives for eternity. Like Christ, he knew he had to die before he could be glorified. You and I must die to self. It cannot be about our ambition or our goals or our desires or our wants. It must be about Him. Die to what you wanted to do or what you want it to be and just say, Here am I, Lord. Send me. Whatever your will is. Charles Spurgeon said it like this. Two seeds lie before us. One is warmed in the sun. The other falls from the sower's hand into a cold dark earth. There it lies beneath the soil. That seed which suns itself in that noontide beam may rejoice in the light in which it bask. But it is likely to be devoured by a bird, and certainly nothing will come of it, no matter how long it lay or linger above the ground. It is only when the seed is hidden beneath the cods of the damp, dark earth that it will soon swell and germinate. That it will burst from its sheath and throw off its mold and spring up a green blade and bud and blossom and bring flowers Exhaling into every causing wind the perfume that it puts off for all to enjoy. Two seeds. One who's content to just lay in the sun, bask and soak it up, and it's all about him The other who falls into an uncomfortable place, but then is brought forth in a magnificent way. Beloved, if we're going to be used in a mighty way, we have to die to self. We see, secondly, if we're going to be used in a mighty way, that we must follow the Savior. He says in verse number 26 and 27, he says, If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, Him will my father honor. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this cause came I into this hour I tell you tonight, just determine to follow God. To follow Him first and foremost, as Jesus did the will of the Father. And if we're following God, can I tell you that we will be observing our theme for the year? Loving God and loving people? Because if we're loving God and following Him with all of our heart, we will also be loving God's people like we should. And even the lost. And dying world that's around us like we should. And I ask you, have you looked at this old world and all of its problems? I know we look at it, and as typical human nature, we complain about it. We have conversations about it. We talk about it. But have we sincerely asked God, what could we do about it? What difference could I make? What impact could I have on this society or this? problems that we see all around us. Beloved, you might not move a nation. But if you were a yielded vessel to God, you might be able to move your husband or wife. If you were a yielded vessel to God, you might be able to move the heart and mind of your children. If you were just yielded and willing to follow God and just submitted to Him and dying yourself, you might be able to make an impact on a Sunday school class or a nursery class or a church family that you get the opportunity to serve with. We don't know what God would do with an individual that's yielded to him, but it starts with those those nearest, those closest to us, those that we have an impact on each and every day. If we could die to self and purpose to follow the will of the Father, you might make a difference in the life of some bus kid. You might be that one friend that encourages somebody else who is in the pew right now, but next year wouldn't be in church except you were the source of encouragement that kept them faithful to God. We've all seen them. People come and they're here for a while and then gone. discouraged, upset about something, been out of shape, turned away from God for Whatever myriad of thousands of purposes or reasons, but I wonder if one of God's people in God's house could have been the person that made the difference in their life. And would we be the person or could God use us to make a difference in somebody's life today or tomorrow or next month? The power of just one. I spoke to the college students at Fairhaven just few weeks ago Trying to exhort and encourage them with where they're at in their life right now. I said, the fact of the matter is you guys think that you live unto yourself. You think it really doesn't matter what I do? It's my life, I can live it however I want to. But if you have in your mind right now that as soon as you step away from here, you're gonna go off and do whatever you want to do, and you think it's your life, you can live it however you want. But the fact of the matter is is none of us live unto ourselves. That's true for the college student, but it's also true for every one of us in this room and those that are listening online. We all impact others by what we do and what we don't do, by what we say and what we don't say It's so vitally important how we live. It's vitally important what we say and what we do because we impact other people. I wonder if you were honest with yourself tonight and you could say, what impact am I having? That I, like D. L. Moody, be that one? The world is yet to see what God could do with one man who is wholly and completely surrendered unto him. By God's grace, I'll be that man. Would you just be willing to pray and say, I'll be that man? Lord, use me that way. We can't imagine what God would do with one life. The poet said, My life shall touch a dozen lives before this day is done Leave countless marks for good or ill, ere set the evening sun. This is the wish I always wish. The prayer I always pray. Lord, may my life help other lives. It touches by the way See, we don't live unto ourselves. I know we consume with our life and with what we've got to do and what we've got to accomplish and this y you're looking at somebody that's as as as guilty of this as anybody in this room. I am project driven, I am goal-oriented, and I get focused on what I have to accomplish and I forget about the people that are around me. And other people that what I'm doing might affect or I could have an impact on. And we go through our day accomplishing our goals, but are we touching the lives around us? Well we are, but are we touching their lives for good? Are we making that change? Are we impacting them? I would ask you tonight to consider your own life. Do you believe God has allowed you to impact somebody in a powerful way? Is there anybody in particular that you know that God has allowed you to make an impact in their life? I wonder, beloved, could you say there's somebody on their way to heaven today because of you? There's somebody who's being faithful to God right now. in church today that wouldn't be in church but for the impact you've had on their life. And I know sometimes we won't know these things till we get to heaven. There's there's there's a lot of things that you don't know the impact you've had. It it sometimes it shocks me. I'm just doing what I'm supposed to do. I I've had people come to me and tell me, I remember four and a half years ago when this happened and you came to my house on a particular day and you said this to me and and man that meant so much and and I don't even remember doing it. I don't even remember being there. I'm like I don't I don't I don't I didn't know I ever went to your house. I'm not even sure I know where you live I don't know. So I know and I want you to understand sometimes if you just be faithful It's counted of a sewer that a man be found faithful. If you'll be faithful, you don't know the impact you're having. But I think that our desire, our ambition, goal to be able to impact somebody directly and more Pointedly. Have you invited somebody to church? Have you been able to lead somebody to Christ? Have you been able to encourage somebody who is discouraged? Have you been able to give guidance and wisdom and direction to somebody who is wandering or wayward? Has your life been an inspiration to somebody who was maybe falling by the wayside? Beloved, we can have an impact. Our life can be multiplied. We can see fruit in a magnificent way, but it takes dying the self and it takes following the master. And God does it. God does it. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed