And you can turn your Bibles to the book of Ruth tonight. We have been studying the book of Ruth. It's been enjoyable. We are halfway through. I was initially in my plan, planning to get this done this year, so uh we we should be able to get pretty close uh here towards the end of the year. We're halfway through the book of Ruth. We're in Ruth chapter number three And we will see here in verses, I'm not sure how far we're going to get tonight. I'm pretty sure we'll get through verse number seven. So that's what I put on the title, Ruth chapter 3, verses 1 through 7. Not a very dynamic title. Uh I really labored over like what could I call this. I do work hard to come up with titles that are uh you know, catchy or fun or engaging. But But Ruth 1 through 7, that's pretty boring. But we'll see if we get any further or not. But we'll uh uh just see here. Let's follow along as we read. Ruth chapter three verses one through seven. Then Naomi, her mother in law, said unto her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee? And now is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou wast. Behold, he winnoweth barley to night in the threshing floor. Wash thyself therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon thee, and get thee down to the floor. But make not thyself known unto the man until he shall have done eating and drinking. and it shall be, when he lieth down, that thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie, and thou shalt go in and uncover his feet, and lie there, lie thee down, and he will tell thee what thou shalt do. And she said unto her, All that thou sayest unto me, I will do. And she went down unto the floor and did according to that her mother-in-law bade her And when Boaz had eaten and drunken, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn, and she came softly, and uncovered his feet, and laid her down So we'll see here, we'll see if we get any further than that uh tonight, but uh that's what we want to follow along. Uh having turned the corner here in The book of Ruth is the halfway point for the book, but also really kind of in the story there's a drastic change here as we mentioned last week that story that began with hardship and turned to heartache is now uh looking for hope and they are moving into a place where they're looking to the future and stop looking from behind. Naomi, who was really a bitter person, is to start we see a contrast here because here now she's looking out for Ruth and she has a uh kind of some vision for the future and what is possible. They're going to let go of the past and begin to dream and begin to have some uh excitement about tomorrow. Now at the same time, they have a sense of urgency For the opportunity that lays before them qu quite possibly might pass. The time of harvest is coming to a close. The opportunity to glean in the field and catch the eye of Boaz or look for a chance to speak to him is coming to an end. What are they what are they going to do then? There'll be no cause for them to be on Boaz's property. There'll be no means or way of building any kind of a connection there. And no Naomi understanding this says, hey, uh we've got to do something here. Uh, you know Boaz and Boaz hasn't I mean he's been kind. He's been awful nice to us, but Looks like we might need to take the step here. We might need to take some initiative. Any of you ladies did that? You know, you took the initiative. You kind of uh made your wishes known. Uh but she says, we gotta do something here, and she begins to, we see, first of all, develop a plan She lays out a plan here in verses one through four. And we're going to dissect that a little bit. In verse number one, we see first of all the pursuit of rest. Naomi, her mother in law, said unto her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee? This rest here, according to Strong's, means a settled spot. A quiet spot. Figuratively, home. That's what Strong says Figuratively, home. You know, our homes should be a quiet spot. Our homes should be a settled spot We ought to look for and strive to have a home for ourselves, for our mates, and especially if you have children in a home that is a settled spot That is a quiet spot where there is peace and tranquility, where there is harmony, where there's that it ought to be a respite from the world. Amen. Home ought to be a place that you can go when you find that settled spot where the battle is over. You've been battling all day out in the world. The last thing you want to do is come home and battle some more at home. So you want to look to try and have that uh That settled spot, have a home that brings honor and glory to God, a home that is a settled place. Naomi sought this rest for Ruth. You know, it's a rest that Ruth might not have even known was available to her. You know, Ruth's life thus far may have been one of great turmoil. We don't know much of her history before the fact that she married into this family, but we know that she wasn't married very long and she lost her mate. Naomi might have been thinking back to the days when her and Elimelech had a quiet home. Before they left the house of bread and they went to try and find some food in Moab, that when they had that quiet place, that place that was a blessing and the joy that they knew as a couple. And she's looking at Ruth and she's saying, boy, I know you didn't really get a chance to experience that. I know that your husband was taken from you far too early, and you didn't really get to know that settled spot, that quiet spot. And boy, I long for you to know that, Ruth. The question tonight, beloved, is not only do you have that home, but do you long for that for others? Of course, dealing with the home here, but if we talk about the idea of rest, we surely long for personal rest. But what about seeking for rest for young believers? Young believers who come to the Lord. Isn't it so evident that their lives are tumultuous? The young believer comes to the Lord and their life is a is a roller coaster. Their life is battles. their life as they are slowly being sanctified or conformed into the image of God's Son, the changes that must take place and For those of you that have been saved for a long time, you've experienced and you know the rest that's available in God. And you see the young believer who is battling so much and every step is so hard and Boy, we should long for them to know the rest that's in Jesus Christ. There is true rest in Christ, beloved. Boy, the young babe in Christ, their spirituality is constantly in flux. The Bible tells us the double-minded man is unstable in all his ways, and many times you can see it in the babe in Christ, that unstability. The the the the changes in life and the ups and the downs and the highs and the lows. It's just that that that there's not a consistency there, can I tell you? that it's a sign of spiritual growth in somebody's life when there starts to be some consistency. Because that, beloved, is the stability that comes with following Christ. And it's amazing to see that happen in people's lives where they start to get stable. There stops to be so many big changes. There stops So many like, oh, I bought a brand new car. Oh, we lost the car. Oh, we moved into a new apartment. Oh, we we had to give up the apartment. Oh, we bought a house, you know, just these huge things and then back to nothing and just getting stable. That rest is what you have in Christ. It removes the turmoil, a lot of the turmoil of life. Can I remind you, beloved, that Christ said, Come unto me all ye that are labor and are heavy laden. And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I'm meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Note, beloved, the progression that's found in those verses that I just read to you There is first of all a rest that is known by many. It is the first step. He says, Come unto me, all ye that are labored and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. There are many, and I praise the Lord for this rest that is known, the security of heaven. And boy, what a blessing it is. I can't imagine going through life with Not having the surety of heaven as my home. Not having the surety of knowing the Lord is my Savior and that my sins are forgiven. I mean the worst thing that can happen to me. And I know that uh ultimately I'm going to be in heaven. That that's where I'm going to be. I have that rest. I can rest in that. I have that assurance. Praise the Lord for that rest, and there are many beloved who have come to the saving knowledge of Christ, and they have that rest But we see here, in our story, we know that Ruth chose that rest back in chapter 1 when she chose to follow God instead of the gods of Moab She experiences, she knew that assurance, but the progression in these verses in Matthew 11, 28 through 30 is, he says, take my yoke upon you. And ye shall find rest for your soul. Now that's contrary to our thinking. The idea of taking a yoke upon us is the idea of adding to my burden, the idea of getting involved in some work. There's that aspect, and we think, well, that's the opposite of rest, working. But that's what God says. He says, Hey, take my yoke upon you, and I will give you rest. Beloved, this is not an additional burden, but a place of rest. This is not a real good example, but as I was pondering this today, I thought of the idea of this. When we are running our own lives, it's like somebody that's running their own business. If you've ever managed or run your own business, you understand that you're never off. You are never off the clock. You are carrying the weight of that business. All the time. You go into bed thinking about it. You are figuring out before work ever starts in the morning, you've got stuff you've got to do to get ready to go to work. And then when you get home, when the employee checks out and goes home, you go home and do paperwork and file things and make sure payroll is done and and get receipts to give to the accountants and you you got the the workload is never done. You're running your own business and it's constantly there But think about it, when you work from somebody else, take my yoke upon you. And I will give you the rest of the idea is like, listen, the boss has all that. All I gotta do is this. I don't have to think about it. I can check out and go home. I don't have to worry. God is in control and the idea of us running and controlling our own life and trying to make it happen and work out every detail and and it's such a stress. But if we would just take the yoke of Christ, realize he's in control, we could rest in that. Know that he's got it? Not only that, beloved, you have the aspect of a yoke is you're yoked up with somebody else. And he is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. He helps carry that load. Man, a load by yourself gets so heavy. But if you can just divide that between you and somebody else, Oh, it helps so much. It helps so much. I can think back to the days, early days, when I first started leaving the church. Just from the aspect of leadership of the church, where God was growing me into this position, But can I tell you that I had two men here that helped me carry the load. Pastor Derek and Pastor Gus, during those early uh years where I was growing into this position I relied heavily on them to help me carry the weight. Because it was a weight that was too great for me. And I will never forget and never take for granted what those men meant to me through those years. Because I could offload some of the weight And just help me carry this. And that's what Christ is saying. Finding that rest in Him is just offloading some of the weight. Letting Him carry some of it with you. It's the difference, beloved, between carrying the load alone and carrying it with the friend. That type of rest is really only found when we submit completely to the master. In Hebrews chapter 4, verses 9 and 10, he says, There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God. For he that is entered into his rest That is into the rest of Jesus Christ. He also has ceased from his works, as God did from his. So he's saying just like God the Father ceased from his work, when did he cease from his work? We're going back to creation to give you a big hint. When the work was done. After the six days of creation, he said, hey, it's it's finished. And he rested, right? And then Christ, who in the same way it's describing here, rested when his work was done, when he said it is finished. And he completed the work that the Father had given him to do. He entered into that rest. And we rest in Jesus Christ I'm going to apply this in two aspects because of what we already talked about about carrying the load. But first of all, we understand that the work's been done. That work's been done. We're resting in him, but we don't earn our way to salvation. Amen. That's been done. But there's also an aspect that we have work to do, which is why he says in verse number 11, Hebrews 4, we just read verse 9 and 10, but in verse number 11. He says, let us labor therefore to enter into that rest. And again, that doesn't make sense. Labor to rest? That doesn't make sense to us, but it's to finish the work that God gives us to do. It's to labor with him in what he wants us to accomplish. And we will experience rest when we're submitted to Him, when we're letting Him lead. We praise the Lord for that. We labor, how do we labor? We labor in prayer, we labor in word, and we labor in the work that He's given us to do. and will experience and know his rest. So we see this, first of all, here in verse number one, the pursuit of rest. Secondly, we want to see the proposal for redemption in verse number two. And now is not Boaz our kindred, whose maidens thou wast? Behold, he went with uh barley tonight in the threshing floor. Just listen, this is our kindred, this is our kinsman redeemer. The possibility is there. I'm not going to teach on the kinsman redeemer tonight. We're going to get into that deeper in a in a more meaningful way in chapter four, I believe. But I want you to realize she recognized Boaz's position. She knew that God was leading and what had happened and brought them to this place. And she's saying that uh, hey, the time of harvest Is is closing. Tonight they're going to be on the threshing floor as the pattern and habit is. They're going to bring in the body. They're going to bring it to the threshing floor. They're going to be there. They're going to be working. We can't miss this opportunity. So she sends her there. We see in verse number three the preparation for revealing her feelings. She said, I want you to get ready. Notice what she says. She says, Wash thyself, therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon thee, and get thee down to the floor. But make not thyself known unto the man until he shall have done eating and drinking. So we see there's some physical preparation here. She says, wash thyself. This is common sense. She's been out in the field, she's been working, she's all dusty. She's dirty. You know, get cleaned up. She put forth some effort to get cleaned up, to be presentable. Now let me just kind of plug this right here a little bit. Just little side note here. Let me encourage you ladies and men. It wouldn't hurt. To make yourself presentable. And I know once you're married, it doesn't matter. Come on, that's right. That's the thing. I mean how do you expect to keep the fire going? When you only get presentable on Valentine's Day, the rest of the year you don't you don't look like you did the wash, you look like you were run through the wash, you know? And the rest of the year is just you just I mean But I'm I can I tell you sometimes I've been shocked. Somebody's been in church for years and they'll come in for a banquet or something, and I'm like, oh my goodness, I never knew they could look so pretty. Like, wow. Uh you know but the thing is is why wouldn't you do that more often? And you know, men, we're probably worse than ladies. Making ourselves clean. You know the other day we're going to see that she put some ointment on here. That's read the Song of Solomon and you'll see what ointment was for. Put some ointment on so you can smell good, some perfume. The other day we were out, it was Saturday, we were doing John and Romans. And I was out going up and down the block and, you know, I I'm moving the kids and I'm I do a I do like a cul-de-sac so I can jump back in the car and then move them and then I'll do a cul-de-sac or something. And we're we're doing that anyways when I came back to the car I got in the car and I said, Man Something in this car smells. So we got home, I took a shower. Came downstairs, I said, Mary, I says, hey. Did you smell that stench in the car? Like it smelled. She's like, what does it smell like? I said it smelled like BO. Like it was bad. Said I don't know if it was me or not, but I took a shower just in case. Because you know, I mean sometimes you get nose blind, you know, to your own smell, but I'm like, you know, maybe I was working too hard on those long streets And uh sweating. I said, but I just didn't want to be the one walking around smelling like that, because when I got back in the car it was it was kind of potent. You know, sometimes guys it wouldn't hurt for us to get smelling good To dress up, to look nice. You did it when you were dating. You did it to win her heart, to to win his heart. And it might help keep the fire going if you put a little effort in in that regard. That's completely free. We want to talk about really the the spiritual application of this. The idea of washing thyself. Listen, we know that we can't spiritually wash ourselves. We know that we can't cannot. It's not talking about salvation for sure. We know it's not talking about baptism because baptism doesn't wash away anything. That's just a picture. But I think about the verse in Ephesians 5, 25, and 26 that's talking about husbands and wives. It says, husband loves your wife, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. That ye might be sanctified and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word. Do you know this word of God has cleansing power? I told the men in the prison last Friday night, I was talking to them about spiritual growth. I said, You want to grow spiritually, you've got to get in the book. I asked them, I said, How many of you ever read the Bible and thought that didn't make any sense to me to me. Are you with me? Of course all the guys were like, yeah. I said, you read it, it's like, man, it didn't make sense. Man, that I didn't even understand that. I said, but what you need to understand is that the Word of God has cleansing power, even though you don't realize what it's doing, it's cleansing you. Just like when you watch things you shouldn't watch and you read things that you shouldn't read. Just like when you get engaged in conversation that's not becoming of a t of a Christian, you get dirty from that. But when you get in the Word of God, you start getting washed. by the word. You get washed. You get it starts to clean out your mind. Starts to clean out your thought processes. You start to uh think upon things that are lovely and whatsoever things are good. You start to begin to meditate and ponder things that are right instead of things that are wicked. Amen And I think there's some spiritual application there that we as God's people should spend some time in the Word and we get washed. I think just like we can get nose blind to our own scent, we can get uh I don't know what it is, eye-blind or or just perception blind to our own dirtiness. Proverbs 30, verse number 12 says, There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet is not washed from their filthiness. I wonder if we would look at it and say, well I'm a pretty pure guy, or I'm a pretty good guy, but I wonder how do we line up to the purity of the word With the Word of God, with that spiritual aspect. I think it would do us some good to get washed. We see that she was to anoint herself with oil, perfume. And then we see some personal presentation. She said, put on some best garments. Put on your best garments in 3B there. She's saying, take off those garments of mourning. Your time of widowhood is you've worn that long enough. Take off those garments that you've been working in and put on your best garments. Make yourself presentable. Be clothed in some new garments. Well, beloved, we know that our best garments, our best is filthy rags. But I'm excited today to be able to tell you that we know that we are clothed in another's righteousness, not our own. The righteousness of Jesus Christ. Can I just read a couple of verses for you? Isaiah 61, verse number 10 says, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God, for he hath clothed me With the garment of salvation. He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness. We get clothed. Not only is he the master, but he provides. Our righteousness. Revelation 19, verse 7 and 8 says, Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white. That fine linen, it's provided for us by Christ. Lastly, in this verse, we see that she had the right posture. He says, Hey, get thee down to the floor. We're going to come back and dig into this a little bit deeper as we progress, either tonight or next week, but having the right posture is very important We see she gives him a position for success in verse number four. And it shall be when he lieth down, and thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie, and thou shalt go in and uncover his feet and lie down. And lay thee down, and he shall tell thee what thou shalt do. Beloved, it was a normal practice to use the evening hours. To work in the threshing floor. Possibly because it was cooler, but more likely that the evening breeze would be effective in pulling away the chaff. As they would sift through and that breeze in the evening, they would they would continue till late in the evening and it was of normal practice, kind of almost like a celebration of the harvest. Everybody's there working together and they're all sifting and And allowing the chaff to blow away, and they're working until late in the evening, and then they would just lie down there on the floor, the threshing floor. They would put out these woven mats and lay down and rest sleep until they got up and went at it again the next day. They understood this to be the practice. It was very common and Naomi says, hey, when this happens, you take note. Know where Boaz is laying. Know where he's at. Keep a watch on him so you know where he's at. Wait for the right time. When he's done When he's done eating, when the night calms down, go find him and lay at his feet. This is a place of humility where she was laying. It was clear to her that she had nothing to offer in this situation. She wasn't bringing anything to the table. She laid here at his feet, realizing all she had to bring to the table was her submission as a place of dependence displaying and showing her complete and uh total dependence on Boaz. And Naomi tells her, then I want you to listen to Boaz. You know, she didn't really know what was going to happen. When she did this, she wasn't sure. You understand this is all foreign to her. This whole process But Naomi says, well tell you what, you you you just do this and then Boaz will tell you what to do next. You know many times if people come into our church, what for us is normal What for us is old hat, what we understand and consider. Like, you know, we announce work party and sometimes there's been people coming to church here for six months and they'll say, what is this This work party you guys keep talking about. I have no idea what it is. For us it's it's old hat. For us it's just normal part of life, but you know, they don't understand. And there's many things about church that They might not understand. And I think we need to be conscious of that. We need to be aware of that and try and help explain and make sure they understand and know what's coming next On Thursday nights when we break up for prayer time, really be conscious of the fact if we have somebody here that's new. Even if they are church going, Even if they are from another church, they don't know what we do here. They don't know what do I do now? We're breaking up for prayer. What does that mean? And just join yourself to them and say, hey, we just take a minute and just pray together. Can I pray with you? Here's how we do this. As soon as we're done, we exit quietly You know, we try and from up here we try and at least give some announcements so they understand that, but you all, you know, just being aware of that. Help them to understand that. Explain because it's all foreign. She says, hey, just listen to Boaz. Boaz will tell you what to do next. We see in verse number five the determined promise. And she said unto her, All that thou sayest unto me, I will do. You see, beloved, she was fully committed to the task. She might not have understood it all. She might not have realized where it was going to go or what the results might be, but she said, What you said, I'm going to do. She laid Naomi laid out a plan for success, and Ruth said, Okay, I'll follow it. Beloved, what if Ruth would have said, hey, I don't like that plan? That's a little bit forward for me. Where I come from, we usually start by just passing some notes. That's how we did it when we were growing up. What is what is this? That doesn't make sense to me. What if she said, oh, I think it would be better to do it this way? I hope you can apply in your own mind here. A lot of times God lays out a plan for success for us. Tells us how to have a happy marriage, tells us how to have a right home, tells us how to raise kids, tells us how to be a follower of Christ, but too many times we're saying, oh, but I think it would be better to You see, God has laid out a plan of success. Could we be like Ruth and just commit fully and say, Yes, Lord, as you command, I'm going to follow. I'm going to do what you say to the best of my ability. In my weakness and in my frailty, I know I may fall short, but I'm going to desire and I'm going to work and I'm going to labor to see that I follow your will. You remember the one thing that Boaz really noticed about Naomi? You go back to the chapters we already read. He said, I I took note of how you treated Naomi. The one thing he really noticed about Ruth, he said, I noticed how you treat Naomi. Do people notice how you follow direction, how you follow the authorities in your life, how you follow the Lord? Naomi gave her four things to do there, and she committed to do them. Not only did she commit to do them, but I want you to see her diligent performance of it. She made a promise. She said, I'm going to do it But you know like the Jesus talking about the two sons? And he's like, which is better? One son who said, Oh yeah, I'll do it, and then didn't. And then one son who said, Yeah, I don't want to do that, but then did it. Which is better? Sometimes we're full of promises, but not really ready to follow through. Not really ready to make it happen. And we see here that she did exactly what she said, verse number six and seven. And she went down unto the floor and did, according to all that her mother-in-law bade her. And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn, and she came softly and uncovered his feet and laid her down. You see, she performed all that was planned. That's because she trusted. She believed what Naomi said. You know, if you really believe it, you'll do it. She believed that what Naomi was telling her to do was worthwhile. I mean you think about the whole story, and this is all foreign to her. She didn't realize what was going to take place. She could have very well been really apprehensive about this whole thing. She was probably as nervous as could be, and yet she went and followed through. She did it. You know, when you go out and God talks to you about being a witness, you're pretty apprehensive. You're pretty nervous about it. You're not sure how it's going to unfold. But if we really believe that he that goes forth weeping should doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him, I think we would see a whole lot more. results from that. The reason that Ruth followed through and did what Naomi said is because she trusted, she believed what Naomi said to do was correct And so she follows through with it. I wonder if we have the faith to follow God and do what he says to do. Do you trust the book? Do you believe the promises that God gives us? Well, I feel like we're early enough. Let's move on into verse number eight. We see the direct proposal. The direct proposal. And it came to pass at midnight that the man was afraid. And he turned himself and he said, Behold, And behold, a woman lay at his feet. And he said, Who art thou? And she said, I'm Ruth, thine handmaid. Spread therefore thy skirt over thy handmaid For thou art a nearer kinsman. We note several things in these verses. First of all, we note the lateness of the hour. It was at midnight. After a long day. This is noteworthy. I believe God has put this into the Word of God for us tonight because midnight in the scriptures Is representative of that time of the hour of deliverance. The darkest time of night. The time before the change into a new day. And often in the pages of Scripture we see that God's people were delivered at midnight. In Exodus chapter 12, we see the Jews escaped Egypt at midnight. In Judges chapter 16, we see Samson broke the gates down at midnight. In Judges 34, we see the people were troubled at midnight. In Matthew 25, he says, Behold, the bridegroom cometh At midnight. In Acts 16, Paul and Silas sung, and they were freed at midnight. The lateness of the hour, the time in which God brings deliverance. Can I tell you that today we are at midnight In the world in which we live, it is surely the darkest it's ever been. The condition of man is as uh uh The end of the time is as close as it's ever been. The darkness of the days is as dark as it's ever been, and I believe we truly are at midnight. That time where we look for the deliverance of the Lord. And God is there, and He's ready and willing to deliver. We see that this man woke up, something startled him. Boaz, I don't know if it was cold feet or something else. He he was afraid a little bit. He says the man was afraid. And turned himself and behold a woman lay at his feet. He he didn't recognize her. The contrast between what she looked like when she was working in the field and what she looked like when she got Looking good. When she got dressed up, when she looked presentable, when she was trying to impress that the difference there, or it could just be that it was dark and he couldn't see her. But I don't know The Bible doesn't really tell us. Uh but uh he you know he's like who who's there? There he obviously understood it to be a lady. And and he there was a woman laying laying there and like, uh who is it? And she had to introduce herself. But she's direct and she's honest and she expresses what she wants. She says, spread thy stirred over thy handmaid. Now, there are those among the higher critics, those who would like to take the scripture apart, those that would look at this and say this was a plot to put Boaz into a compromised position so that he would be required to redeem her. Don't you know that that's false? That is not what the Bible is teaching here, and that's not what she did. What she did was very upright and honest and before God and before others. This was normal. In Ezekiel chapter 16 and verse number 8, this was a common Hebrew expression, this idea of put thy skirt. But in Hebrews chapter 16, verse number 8, it says, Now when I pass by thee and look upon thee, behold, thy time was a time of love, and I spread my skirt over thee. This was part of a wedding ceremony, the Hebrew ceremony at that time when the groom would take his robe and put it over the bride. signifying his commitment to her, signifying that they now were one and that he was going to provide protection for her. This is what she was asking for. This word skirt here, according to Strong's, literally means wings. She's saying, Spread thy wings over me. If you're in the book of Ruth, look at Ruth chapter 2 and verse number 12. The Bible says, the Lord recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee of the Lord God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to trust. She understood that, and her trust was in God, and it was under his wings that she was resting. She calls the Boaz as her kinsman redeemer and says, Hey, would you spread your wings? over me. This was a normal request. First of all, there were other people around. They weren't alone in this room. The threshing floor was typically a place that had a roof but open walls so the breeze could come through. It was an open space There were other servants around. It was normal for all the servants and the master to just lie down on the floor. They were not alone in this space. Not only that, she was following the advice given to her by a mother-in-law. It was a known, recognized custom. Not only that, his response makes it very clear that there was nothing immoral suggested here. Look at verse number 11 This is beyond the scope of what we're looking at, but we need to see it just for this to make this point. Verse number 11 says, and now my daughter fear not. I will do to thee all that thou requires, for all the city of my people doth know thou art a virtuous woman. There is no question that what she was asking was saying, Will you marry me? Will you do the Right thing under the responsibility of regarding the kinsman redeemer and take up that possession. She's asking, Will you remarry me? And he does not rebuke her, but he reassures her. And he says, yeah, I will do all that thou askest. Now, some may wonder, why didn't Boaz just ask her? Well, a couple of reasons. First of all, she was half his age. The Bible doesn't actually tell us how old they are, but based off of historical documents and other things, the tradition is that Boaz at this point is about 80 years old. And Ruth is about 40. So Boaz probably in his mind thought there's no chance. No reason even asking because uh that's you know, I mean he was he he I think he let His interest be known thus far in the story, but I think he probably just really felt like there's no chance. Secondly, as we'll see as the story progresses, he knew that there was a nearer kinsman So actually it wasn't his place to do so yet, because there was a nearer kinsman, and for him to honor things in a correct way, he had to say, hey. We need to talk to the nearer kinsman and see if he would be thy kinsman redeemer first. And so, although he desired it, he wanted to do it correctly, and so he said, we need to Talk to her, so quite possibly that's although he was interested, he hadn't made his intentions very clear or didn't actually express them because of these things. That's of course not in the scriptures. I'm just Looking at possible reasons why maybe he didn't. But the fact of the matter is, is she made her desires clear and he was open then to say, boy, yeah. I'll do all that thou requires. For the whole city knows that thou art a virtuous woman. And he understood who she was and what it meant for him. What a powerful story, this love story that we have. Every detail is full of spiritual application. There's so many uh spiritual applications that I didn't even get to draw out. There's so many aspects and rabbit trails that could be chased in each of these things, looking at the idea of Ruth as the bride and how the church is the bride and Boaz as the bridegroom and that picture of Christ Fulfilling his duty and willingly and sacrificially giving of himself for her. I think of Jesus who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. Ruth, the obedient, honest, and humble servant, and Boaz the capable, loving master. I wonder how do we come to him Do you know the rest of his salvation? Do you know the rest that's found in taking his yoke That we labor to experience and know his rest. I think that even that whole aspect would be a worthy study just to consider and think about. How we labor to know the rest of the Lord. Because in our mindset that's completely opposite to what we would think. We think of resting as doing nothing. Beloved you and I, we don't have to figure it all out. You don't you don't have to know the beginning from the end. I remember as a young man when I was in college, I had my ambitions. I had my desires But ultimately, with my life, what I wanted, when it really got down to the end. I wanted to be happy. And from a worldly standpoint, I thought, man, that's tied up in riches. That's tied up in possessions in this world. I read this week, not that anybody should quote Nicolas Cage, but Nicolas Cage said, I wish everybody had the opportunity to To be famous, rich, and get to do anything they want to do so they would know that it is not that. You see what I'm saying? When I was young, I I looked at my life and I just I labored over what should I do with my life. What should I do? Should I be a doctor? Should I be a lawyer? Should I be a business owner? What should I pursue with my life and give my ambitions to? Ultimately what I wanted to do was to be happy But beloved, there in my second year of college where I finally just submitted to God and said, okay, I don't have to figure it out. All I have to do is submit to God and God will figure it out. And I will be happy. And can I tell you that God has given me a life beyond measure? That God has been so good. And I didn't have to be stressed about what am I going to do and how am I going to be fulfilled and what's going to be the most meaningful for me. I just turned that all over to God and said, I just want whatever God wants. And I was able to rest in that. And you don't have to worry, because he's got it. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.