All right. We're so delighted to be here this morning and uh wonderful to be here at Hunt Valley. I first was introduced to your ministry a couple years ago and I've been aware of that from a distance. Grateful for how God intersected our paths really in a super nice and natural way and feel like God's appointment for us uh here with you all and with Pastor is certainly a divine appointment And uh grateful so much for what God's doing. You know it's a wonderful thing to see how God's working in the lives of his people all over the country We get a little glimpse of that and being able to travel and be an encouragement to churches. Uh but more importantly, being able to have folks from around the country come to us for counseling and it's wonderful to see God's in the business of changing lives. Uh God wants to do that for all of us, and I'm so grateful. I want God to give me every possible day I can this side of heaven because the moment I Uh cross heavens golden shore and find myself there, I will not have the chance to come back and relive this life And I often ponder what my first five minutes in heaven will be. Uh I don't know what that will completely be, but I can imagine weeping my eyes out thinking, Lord, if I would have realized heaven was this awesome and your presence this uh incredible and uh understanding with more clarity the significance of your sacrifice. I would have lived my seventy years differently. Could I have those back one more time Well, we won't get that chance then, but we have the day. And every day God gives you life and breath. It's a wonderful stewardship that we all carry. And uh grateful so much for that. Well, our family is here and delighted to be with you. My dad and Ron Visser, my mother Linda Visser, my sister Cindy And then my brother Mark, he's the evangelist of our family, really the preacher of our family, and all of us are thrilled to just serve together. Boy, it's a blessing to serve together as a family Nothing like synergy when uh five people think the same and uh challenged by each other and each one sharpening each other's character, it's a blessing. And uh we're grateful to be here this morning. Our home church is Stone Ridge Baptist Church in Bloomington, Indiana. So if you're ever passing it through the Midwest, we're just about an hour south of Indianapolis. And uh really grateful for a church to be part of a church that was planted in twenty ten. So as I hear what God's been doing here, our church is not too far uh behind what God's been doing here at Hun Valley as uh we reflect on Uh sixteen years of ministry there at Stone Ridge and really grateful to see God continue to work. Our ministry Uh Precious Stone's Ministries is multifaceted and this morning I'm just going to focus on the counseling piece of it. Uh but we're really thrilled about the ministry God's given really over the last uh fifteen years uh to be able to specifically invest in lives with those for those in crises and Twenty years ago I began training in biblical counseling. At the time I was anticipating uh stepping into ministry and foreign missions in Southeast Asia. and was traveling quite a bit to Asia and other places as God was opening that door for short term mission trips. And I at that time, twenty-four years of age, I was thinking to myself, Lord Um I feel like it's time for me to buckle down and get serious, not just taking advantage of short-term mission trips, but really uh take the big step of whatever preparation is necessary. And my mom really encouraged me at that time. She said, I think as you're looking toward ministry, it would be really great for you to take some time. Uh, if you get any training in biblical counseling And I was all about sharing the gospel with people. I didn't want to work with people who had problems. And uh part of that was because I myself had a lot of problems, truth be known, how many of us carry anxieties or questions or concerns or Perhaps just the reality of living a life that feels more marked by valleys than mountaintops and sometimes we don't always feel like we're in a safe enough place to testify to some of those challenges we we struggle with And I know for me I kinda had the perspective maybe I can just compensate by serving God with all my heart and find the hardest place to serve and give my heart and soul to that and Hopefully work myself out of those uh low points of spiritual defeat or depression or discouragement And uh I can remember times of uh plague and guilt, things we'd uh we'd give our right arm to undo. All of us have at least one thing, maybe a couple things. We'd if we had the chance to relive life, we'd relive that moment And uh it's interesting as we all go forward in life, it's in we can navigate those challenges and approach those a lot of different ways. Some people Uh just try to ignore there's a problem. Some people try to medicate that problem in a lot of different ways beyond just medication. Sometimes there's other coping mechanisms in life. Sometimes we compensate. This is my approach. Compensate for busyness in ministry. Hopefully that could compensate. But uh God used that time uh where my mother came to me and said, Ron, I think it'd be really great for you to just uh have another tool in your pocket for ministry And that's uh training uh in biblical counseling. There was a counseling office, the International Center for Biblical Counseling. They had five offices around the U. S. and one of those happened to be thirty minutes from our home And uh my mom said, I think it'd be great if you considered the possibility of serving this summer in a volunteer capacity there. Well I didn't want to work a volunteer capacity anywhere. I want to have a job, I want to make some money And I definitely didn't want to do something having helping hurting people, people with problems. I was looking for a job at FedEx or UPS or something else. as a bridge to the real ministry door uh that I was anticipating God would open. But after a couple months, God not opening those doors, I finally uh humbled myself and picked up the phone and called the International Center for Biblical Counseling. And uh what I thought would just be uh a few months, a little bridge between where I was and the anticipated step that I had hoped to take. Um ended up being just one month shy of three years. And uh God used that time to help me realize this that I was in fact the biggest one in need. You know, it's uh wonderful. I love working with hostile people. I love working with hurting people. You know why? They ask the best questions. They have the courage to say things the rest of us are thinking. And uh they force us to study our Bible in a way we've never been forced to study it, especially for those of us who believe this book has the answer to every need. And I'll tell you what, those years, three years at the International Center for Biblical Challenging uh Counseling, challenged my life in an incredible way. I've never been the same person since those three years And I walked out of there thinking, Lord, I'm I'm still committed to missions. And I am even to this day. I didn't anticipate that uh I uh the how God would fully work, but I Uh went on to seminary training and when I came to Bible college I was absolutely shocked uh that my seminary training had hardly just a couple hours of part of a course on counseling And uh that shocked me. I had had the experience of three years of counseling and anticipated uh that my seminary degree would give me a whole lot more and Uh and one thing I don't regret is that seminary gave me a huge theological foundation. That's the reason why I went to seminary. Because I wanted to understand this book and I wanted to understand its application in helping hurting people And God used that in a wonderful way in my life, but I walked away from there just thinking, uh now just stepping into my early thirties, I thought, Lord, I got a huge heart. to just be able to help people. But I feel myself so young I don't even think I would listen to me. And uh but if you would open the door some supernatural way, if you're calling me here to ministry by way of counseling, would you open that door? And so back in twenty thirteen our phone rang for the first time. I didn't feel comfortable hanging our own shingle. And for uh and in twenty thirteen our phone rang for the first time uh with a case from out of state saying, Could you help? And uh with a big heart and yet overwhelmed by my inadequacy, I said yes, and the Lord's just continued from that day on. uh to just overwhelm us with the awesome opportunity of leading people to victory in Jesus. And we have the privilege of doing that in one to three day counseling appointments. We do serve overseas as well with with uh cases and uh also with uh ministry outreaches and and such and uh perhaps a significant piece of our ministry that I did not anticipate uh would actually be serving alongside uh many missionaries and many uh men in ministry who themselves are just struggling with the same things the rest of us do And it's just a wonderful opportunity to touch the lives of people. You know it's a wonderful thing to realize everyone in this room is here on purpose, with a purpose. God didn't call us to just play church today. He's called us to experience Jesus and to touch somebody's life. And my prayer here today is that our lives will be different because of the word today. And that God will fill your soul in a tangible way, that your life today is not just here to receive, but you've come here to give, to give to somebody. I promise to you, every one of us here in the pew, and everyone who comes here to our morning service, everyone who comes to their evening service. Uh people here are coming to church. They're l they have a need. All of us do. And uh God wants to use you to touch someone's life, and I'm so grateful. God uses pastors to do that in our lives. God uses Sunday school teachers in our lives to do that. Uh God uses disciplers and mentors to do that. I want all of us to realize that if God has saved you He's called your life to touch another life. I love Jesus' words in John fifteen, where he said, Uh, y you didn't choose me, but Jesus says, I chose you, and I've ordained you for something big. I've ordained you to go and bear fruit Fruit, much fruit, and fruit that remains, not just for the duration of your lifetime, but even for the next couple hundred years. You know God wants to do that. He wants to use us all in a significant way, and we're grateful for that I do invite you here to uh sign up for our e-newsletter. It's on our book table and just an opportunity to stay in touch. We're always soliciting prayer supporters. We've never needed that more. I feel like God has called our ministry to serve in an emergency room, uh, helping people, and so we definitely value prayers, and so the once-a-month uh e-newsletter features devotional meditations I typically write. On various counseling themes and then also upcoming conferences and things that can be an encouragement to you I do encourage anyone here today that's available at 2 o'clock. I know it's a marathon weekend, especially for those of you ladies who had the privilege of joining for the Ladies Retreat Those of you also took time at 4 o'clock on Thursday to join our session. So grateful for that. But at 2 o'clock I'm going to be speaking to those who come, the Ministry of Hope in a World of Pain. And I hope you'll be able to come. It's going to be a super practical session. I'm going to give you some practical tools. I'm going to give you some secrets to being able to help people who God brings across your path in a meaningful discipleship way. Well, you have your Bibles, and in the few minutes that we have, I call your attention to my favorite psalm in the Bible. It's Psalm 139. And this morning I want to take this Bible study time to introduce us to the wonderful counselor. I'm always reminding folks who come for counseling that I'm not the wonderful counselor. But Jesus is, and it's only my job to effectively, meaningfully, competently point People to the wonderful counselor. That takes a lot of pressure off my shoulders. You know, when people come for counseling, they're usually for looking for some go-between, between them and God. But you know it's a wonderful thing to realize there's no one g that God loves to hear pray more than you. And I remind uh every council I've I have the privilege of investing in God loves to hear you pray. He loves to hear your transparency. He loves to hear your honesty. And sometimes we don't know what to say. We're burdened with such heavy things Maybe we prayed for so long we've lost our words to know what to say. We don't understand how God intends to work. And we've all been there. And uh I love the fact that we have a wonderful counselor Who wants to meet our needs in a very meaningful way. And I want to introduce you to that wonderful counselor from Psalm 139. But before we get there, you can read this right off the screen. The prophet Isaiah introduced the coming of a Messiah, and with him gave many names of so many more names that are recorded across the pages of the Bible, but I love this. And prophetically, Isaiah says, his name, Jesus' name, shall be called wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace Wow, what a combination. These names give us a window into the heart of Jesus. And when Jesus was invited into uh uh service at a synagogue in Luke chapter four, he was handed the scroll of Isaiah. Of all the places he could have opened there in that scroll, I would have expected him maybe to open to Isaiah six. Or perhaps have opened Isaiah 53, but he opened Isaiah 61 and he said, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, for he's anointed me to heal the brokenhearted and to set the oppressed free. It was a counseling verse from the Bible that Jesus opened up and read as he introduces himself there in that synagogue on that Saturday morning. service, that Sabbath day service. And I love that as Jesus finished reading the text, the Bible says that he rolled that scroll right up. And he took a seat, and his silence at the end of that was an exclamation mark to everything he had just read. It was the most shocking message. It uh grabbed their attention. But the very words that grabbed the attention of m so many people and brought them to faith and brought them to healing, not just physically, but spiritually and emotionally. Also was a message that uh created a lot of enemies and a lot of hostility and brought them to the cross And I'm so glad every time the enemy tries to put the Savior down, uh God gets the last word. And uh Christ's crucifixion was just the beginning to an awesome resurrection. And from an awesome resurrection to a great ascension where today he's praying for you at the right hand of the throne of God. Isn't that a wonderful thing? There's a wonderful counselor who's got every one of us on his mind today. And I draw our attention to Psalm 139. I love the book of Psalms. It's the journal book of the Bible. 150 profiles. There are 150 inspired journal entries. It teaches us how to journal, and I encourage you keep a journal. Uh I encourage you write down what God gives to you. It makes whatever God gives to you stick a little bit better. And uh gives us something to just be able to trace our journey of faith with God. Some of us maybe journal in in big paragraphs and storylines. I probably journal better in bullet points and so whatever works for you. Uh the point is you being able to interact with your wonderful counselor. It's not just the journal book of the Bible, but it's also the prayer book of the Bible. When you don't know what to say, when you go to pray, open the book of Psalms. You can find one song that somehow says what you feel. And it gives us the perfect prayer to pray. And what I love about this prayer book of the Bible is there are all prayers God intends to answer. So when you're always wondering, Lord, I don't know. Am I praying according to your will? Pick up a psalm. And because it's the word of God, inspired by the Spirit of God, it's a word God wants to answer. It's a prayer God wants to answer in your life. But it's not just the journal book of the Bible, it's not just the prayer book of the Bible, it's the song book of the Bible. And so so many of these are actually psalms, doxologies, phrases And uh I like to think of the Book of Psalms also as the art gallery of the Bible. I uh think of 150 portrays, 150 paintings. Uh someday I'd love to meet a painter. I'd love to I'd wish I could have the capacity to do this. I'd love to take every one of these portraits, these poems, these journals, these hymns And uh turn them into beautiful paintings because in a lot of ways each of these psalms are are are inspired paintings with words uh that give us a window into God, give us a window into the soul of man, and give us a window into uh the walk of faith And I love that. I was just at a church not too long ago and a man handed me a book. It uh I uh name that book was the most artistic uh r uh uh uh uh rendering, uh writing of every single one of the hundred fifty psalms, with many of those psalms having a paintings assigned to those pages. When I looked in the front cover it was a man uh who didn't uh h have a real strong Christian walk but he loved the uh loved the Psalms and his wife, however, was a very dedicated and devoted Christian. So he wanted to give her a gift. And that gift was going to be him in writing out in beautiful calligraphy in the most artistic way every single one of the psalms. Can you ri imagine writing a hundred and fifty psalms? Uh that was incredible. Not just writing them down, but I'm talking about a beautiful uh calligraphy rendering of those along with paintings alongside many of those And it was uh it was uh a work of many years and this gentleman just handed me this book, said I think you might be interested in this. It's the closest thing I've I've seen to the book of Psalms being turned into a beautiful art gallery. Well we're in Psalm 139. And in the few minutes that we have, I want to just meditate. I want to meditate our way right through this Psalm It's a psalm that's probably not unfamiliar to us, but I want to give perhaps a fresh perspective. uh here this morning as we consider the ministry of counseling for life change and primarily I want to introduce to us the wonderful counselor I read here this morning these words. O Lord, David writes, Thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my downcity and mine uprising. Thou understandest my thought afar off. A compass is my path, and my line down, and art acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me. Such knowledge blows my mind. It's too wonderful for me It is high, I cannot attain unto it. And I pause for just a moment to meditate over what we just read God never went to school for a day in his life. He created everything we study. But you know there is one thing he studies. He studies you. Every day he's taking inventory of all of your life. He knows the down sittings of our soul. Not just when you take a seat there in the pew Uh not just when you stand up to carry about your business, but he knows the downsettings of your soul. Ever had a day you felt like your soul sat down? He knows the uprisings of our soul He knows our thoughts, he knows our ways, he knows our words. He is the eternally listening He his ear is bent over the battlements of heaven, uh listening to everything. In fact Jesus says in Matthew chapter twelve, even every idol word he takes into account and we're held accountable for those things, but he's always listening. He knows our words not just after we've spoken them, but he can anticipate them before we speak them. I love that. He's walking circles around your life. He's beset you behind and before, and the most endearing thing is he's laid your his hand upon you You ever had a a parent or a friend or a mentor just put their hand in an endearing way on your shoulder, sometimes without a single word being spoken. It just screamed so many words Jeremiah tells us that even underneath are the everlasting arms. And so we've got full circle uh uh compass of his presence in an incredible way He's a wonderful counselor, and these words here, if we have a lot to hide, are very intimidating words. You know, uh it's a little bit of a scary thing to realize someone knows me Several of you in the room are married and perhaps you think to yourself, you know, I think I know myself really well. Perhaps you were convinced of that before you got married. Now that you've gotten married you say, you know, maybe maybe by chance my wife actually knows me better than I know me. Then we have kids and sometimes we're convinced our kids actually know us better than w than we know ourselves and I don't know, you grandparents in the room can speak to this, but maybe sometimes our grand grandkids can sometimes know us better than we know ourselves. But I promise you, no one knows us like Jesus does. And that's not intended here to be a terrifying thing. If we got a lot to hide, it is. It's a scary thing. But the psalmist David pens these words actually to write these as an ens as an assuring thing. It's a wonderful thing to realize when you go to sit down for an appointment with a wonderful counselor, you don't have to find the words to do justice. Everything that you're feeling. You're not having to inform him so that he has something to work with to understand how to meet your need. He's already been there. He's lived every day of your life. He doesn't just answer the what's of your life, what's happened and piece all those together. He doesn't just stand back as a silent observer, just watching the events of your life and those ref and those responses. But he's the master of answering the why questions of our life. You know, it's really important to understand why. We can make new promises and new resolutions to be the person God wants us to be. But inevitably we need a wonderful counselor who can explain to us and help us to understand the whys that the triggers that trip us up, the the the the the pathway that often leads us to the precipice of the fear. And as we understand the why, the better we understand ourselves, and the better we can understand the strategy for being able to walk the road of faith with confidence. I love Daniel chapter 2, verse 22. Daniel was tasked with a very incredible responsibility. The king had had a very troubling dream And uh the king was concerned that uh who whoever could interpret this dream uh would also understand and be able to tell what in fact that dream was because he wanted to have the proof. that if they could tell what the dream was, the content of the dream, he could trust the meaning of the dream because he knew it would take something supernatural for that counselor to be able to interpret the content of the dream. And so he was not going to give away anything that he had dream dreamt because he wanted that confidence in the meaning. Well, when all of his wise men couldn't answer the dream, uh couldn't even pull up the content, they were really frustrated because they're saying, King, you've Uh and no man's ever asked this of another soul on the planet. You know, you're ex asking something that's unreasonable. And uh so the king uh was uh uh not very happy with that and just demanded that all those wise men be executed. How would you like that? That'd make a miserable case for every counselor, right? But Daniel was then uh when he was now next in line to be executed, he said, wait a minute, what's going on? And uh when the uh um uh situation was explained to Daniel, Daniel said, Well would you just give me a minute? I know the wonderful counselor. And I want to go take some time to pray. And uh if I get an answer, I'll come back to the king with an answer. And Daniel prayed in Daniel 222. It's a great prayer to pray. Lord, you know, you reveal the deep and secret things. You know what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with you. God answered Daniel that night and not only gave him the meaning of the dream, but even more importantly introduced him to the content of that dream and he came in before the king and was able to declare that. and was rewarded as a man of great wisdom where a heathen king recognized you're a man who has the Spirit of God in you. Do you know every one of us have that birthright privilege before the wonderful counselor as we're called and commissioned to touch the lives of other people That's being able to understand the why. And we don't have those answers, but the wonderful counselor does. Sometimes we don't have those answers for ourselves, but the wonderful counselor does And the same wonderful counselor that answered Daniel's question is the same wonderful counselor that wants to meet our our needs as well. Well Psalm one hundred thirty nine tells us, and this was a psalm that Daniel himself would have very well known. Oh Lord, you've taken good inventory. You know all the whys and wherefores. You know the details. You are the expert at connecting the right dots in my life. That's a danger of a lot of counselors is connecting the wrong dots. That was that was the error of of Job's counselors. And so I think that's an important thing to always be reminded of. I virtually never take a case Jesus, it's important that we be uh led by the Spirit of God. And God wants to use all of our lives to do that. Let's continue on. By the way, as we you reflect on those last six verses, what attribute of God just comes off the page for you? There's a lot of right answers, but you can talk to me. Someone said it, all knowing? Amen. And the fancy word for that is omniscient. I love all knowing. He is the wonderful counselor who knows me and he's all knowing. But now let's look at these next verses He is the wonderful counselor who is forever with me. Notice these verses, beginning in verse 7, Whither shall I go from thy spirit? Or whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. That is, if I could take a rocket to the farthest star, I would discover these three words. Thou art there. If I went the other direction, six feet under, a thousand feet under, the Bible word for hell is the grave. If I make my bed in hell, behold. Thou art there. Those are three great words to just underline in your Bible. Thou art there. Do you realize there's no place so high in your life? There's no hole so deep in your life where you can't find God or you somehow escaped his knowledge and presence. That's an incredible thing All of us know what it is to live life on sometimes a bit of a roller coaster, perhaps deep valleys and high mountains and sometimes more valleys than mountains sometimes uh deeper valleys than others that God calls us to. Sometimes it's it's a combination of those and the whole journey and spectrum of the race of faith But you know, on both ends of that spectrum we're always sure to find God. God is there. I love this reality. It says if I take the wings of the morning, if I could be a bird for for a day and fly to that last uh remote island that's never been touched by human footprint. If such a place exists, I would discover this. Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me Not only is he there at every point in your journey, but he's there to do two things in your life. He always wants to lead us. He's always there to hold us. He's there to support us. Isn't that a wonderful counselor? You know one thing about this counselor is you don't just set up an appointment or a phone call with him and And uh you only have the duration of that appointment in in in their presence. No, with God, with this wonderful counselor, he's always there There's no place we ever walk away from His presence. Now there are times in our lives when it feels like God is a thousand miles away. But I love to remind myself in those dark moments, and I've had those like the rest of us, that God is right over my shoulder. I love Psalm 46. God is our refuge and strength. He's a very present help, especially in times of trouble. And boy, I'll tell you, preach that truth to yourself. It's a wonderful reality I think it is it can be true that God can feel distant, uh, not because God's walked away from us, but sometimes because we walked away from him. And so James gives us this good reminder, you draw nigh to God, and without God even having to move, God automatically is drawing nigh to you. God's always there. And as we uh re remind ourselves, as the psalmist is reminding himself, it's an assuring thing You know it's uh we can go to a place perhaps um a mountain top of a great uh experience. And uh find God there. Life also has many low points and valleys, and we're sure to find him there Um I love this good reminder in verse eleven that even the darkness can't cover me up. Yea, the darkness Uh let me read verse eleven. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me. Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night shineth as the day The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Jonah knew this psalm. In fact, and Jonah Jonah knew this Psalm in Jonah in Jonah chapter two pen to prayer. Uh that where he's quickly discovered that there's no place you can go and escape the presence of God. Three times in Jonah A prophet of God did think he could escape the presence of God. He thought he could escape him on a ship, thought he could escape him in Tarsus, thought he could escape him. uh being thrown overboard. But he found in the belly of his ship there's no place I can go and God not find me. And Jonah chapter two is the only prayer ever prayed from the belly of a whale that's recorded. And uh it's amazing how many cross references to the book of Psalms we find in Jonah chapter two. It shows us that prophet knew Psalms really, really well, and those Psalms became great personal prayers for him. As we personalize them in discovering this reality, God, the wonderful counselor, is ever-present. The wonderful counselor is the one who made me. And I love verse 13. Thou hast possessed my reins. Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. Oh, I will praise thee. For I am fearfully and wonderfully made, marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. Thine eyes did see my substance yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members are written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them And then I pause for just a moment. The psalmist is pondering how in the world does God know so much about me? And the duh moment of this chapter is well no wonder he made me. You know, it is wonderful to realize when you look at yourself in the mirror, you're you are God's RPs. And we're not just a piece of art, but he's infused us with emotion. He's infused us with personality. It's an incredible thing that he's animated this shell and we so that he makes us image bearers of himself. When you look at yourself in the mirror, uh what comes to your mind is your first response, I will praise thee. I can be honest with you, for many years, my response is Lord, if you'd give me the power, I would absolutely have changed a lot of things. Things that are unchangeable. whether it'd be certain features or certain um certain family heritage dynamics or whatever, Lord, I could serve you so much better. Uh I could serve you so much better if I was taller. I could serve you so much better if I was bigger. I could serve you so much better if I was smarter. You know all of us have our list of things that no one ever knows. But there are things that we've all thought about. And for a period of time, several years I'm sorry, this was several years ago, but for a period of several weeks, I just parked my devotions on Psalm 139-14. It's a verse I love. It's a verse I academically know, but I really struggled emotionally with the first uh three words. I will praise. I will praise thee You know, God has custom made every one of us. And it's a wonderful thing to realize, God, this wonderful counselor never made a mistake with your life. None of us are here by accident. We're here on purpose, and he's called us to a very important purpose. And Psalm 139. 14 is a very precious verse. Do you know sometimes I w uh many times I'm working with l lives that have been scarred by a lot of sexual trauma And uh and they feel like their life is a piece of garbage. They feel like their life is so broken and defiled. They're no good. They're a piece of trash. Sometimes those who have yielded their lives to so much um immoral content, they now trying to walk the road to freedom, but they feel so They feel like they themselves are evil. Their creation is evil. It's wonderful to come back to Psalm 139 and realize that God wants to restore dignity and value and worth, so that we can say, I will praise you. Not because I'm beautifully made, or because I'm handsomely made, or because I'm so smart, but because I am fearfully and And wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works. You never made a mistake. And somehow down deep in my soul, I know this to be true. Amen. Amen. I draw our attention here to Psalm 139, verse 17. And I'm not surprised to find these two verses in the Bible, but I'm really shocked to find them in this chapter Because if I know me as much as I think I know me, I know many days I'm pretty disappointed with me Uh there are many times I wish I could trade me for somebody else and because I feel like the me I know is a me filled with failure. But Psalm 139 is his thoughts, let me get it, how precious also are thy thoughts unto me. What a descriptor, how precious. Also are thy thoughts unto me, O God. How great is the sum of them. Two big adjectives to remember. They're precious, and they're innumerable, so innumerable if I should count them They're more in number than the sand when I awake, I am still with thee. And I love this good reminder that you are always on God's mind. I like the reminder that God never loves me so much that somehow He just turns a blind eye to my to my mistakes. He never turns a blind eye to sin. He's not here to spoil me and pamper me. No, his thoughts toward me are always precious and even in spite of my failures, even in spite of my needs to still grow, even in spite of my immaturities. But his thoughts are so precious that he's dedicated to coming alongside me and not beating me with a club, but being able to come alongside me and shepherd me in the way everlasting. He's a wonderful counselor that's not here to kick us to the curb. I love the end of verse 18. Um when I awake, you didn't kick me aside. No, I'm still with thee. What a wonderful reminder. And these next verses I've struggled with for many years, but I believe here that the psalmist is overwhelmed With God's awesome care is the wonderful counselor that his spirit rises to say, I am renewing my loyalty to you. He says, Surely, God, you will slay the wicked. O God, depart from me therefore, ye bloody men, for they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain. Oh, do not I hate them, O Lord, that hate thee, and am not I greed with those that rise up against thee. God, I just want to let you know. I hate them with perfect hatred. I count them mine enemies. I hear the psalmist saying, God, I just want to let you know I'm on your side. May that uh be our inspiration today. We can always see problems in other everyone else, but I love the way this psalm ends. Search me, O God It's not just everyone else I can spot that can be a negative influence, but search me and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. And And see if there be any wicked way also could be rendered, see if there be any way of pain in me. Because God doesn't want to trist turn me into a spiritual robot to just walk the chalk. He wants to heal me from the inside See if there be any way of pain in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. And so I just uh leave us with this. Your wonderful counselor has a ministry to you to do these four things, to search you. to know you, to prove you, to try you. God allows circumstances because faith in your life is very precious. And its preciousness is nurtured most in the furnace of affliction. Most importantly, his goal is to lead you. God never is here to show us what he's found, to just pummel us in a hole of despair, but he's here to lead us forward in the way of our last. Amen, Amen. The ministry of the wonderful counselor. Can we bow our heads and pray?