I love Hunt Valley Baptist Church. A lot of memories that I have here. Uh actually the uh the carpet that you have your feet on, I had the joy of uh laying it when it was we were building this building. And I want to speak uh to you on a subject. I pray that it'll be a help to you. In Genesis chapter 28, we want to read a few verses. Verse number 10 through 16. Says, and Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran. And he lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night Because the sun was set, and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham, thy father, and the God of Isaac, the land whereon thou liest. To thee will I give it, and to thy seed. Thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south, and in thee, and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And behold I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land, for I will not leave thee Until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. And Jacob awakened of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place. And I knew it not. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would help every person here. To get the message that the Lord is in this place, that you're here. And I pray, Lord Jesus, that we would Realize it, and that we would realize that you are with us in our homes, that you'll never leave us, never forsake us. No man is able to pluck you out of the Father's hand and pluck or pluck us out of your hand. And Lord Jesus, I pray that you would have your will and your way in this church service today. I pray, Lord Jesus, that you be with every person here. Anyone that's lost, I pray they'd get born again by the blood of Christ. Everyone that's saved, I pray that to be drawn closer to you than when they came today. And I pray, Lord Jesus, that we would all be able to say in our hearts when we leave today that it has been good to have been in the house of the Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I cannot hardly I can hardly think about Hunt Valley Baptist Church and reminisce over the years and and not weep with joy. On what God has done here. In this passage of scripture that we just read, Jacob and Esau Had had some problems. Jacob tricked his dad into giving him the birthright. Esau was angry. And he had made up his mind that he was going to kill his brother. Rebekah, his mother, came to him and said, Esau's going to kill you. You need to run. You need to get out of here. One of the problems in that family, which I'm not preaching on this morning, but the Bible says that Rebekah loved Jacob. But Isaac loved Esau. And the thing is, is parents many times show favoritism and it causes problems in a home. I think sometimes pastors show favoritism and it causes problems in a church. But I'm sure that my son has learned through osmosis or something. uh in being with me while I was pastoring over the years is that you treat every church member the same. You don't love one more than another. Everyone is welcome here and everyone uh Whether you happen to be the poorest person in the audience or whether you happen to be the richest, that you're thought of the same by the pastor, and he loves all of you. All of you the same. He probably loves his wife more than you, but other than that, uh he loves you all the same. Do you know Jacob He deceived his father, stole his birthright, and Esau was a very tough and ruddy person, and he hated his brother because of it. And Jacob had run away. I want you to know, by the way, that he never did get back home before Rebekah died. And Rebecca did not get to see her grandkids. And it was her own fault for the problems that she caused earlier in their lives. That's not my message either. But Jacob runs until he's exhausted. And he goes to sleep in the wilderness. No pillows there. He found some rocks and he put these rocks together and laid his head on some rocks and used them for his pillow. And then when he woke up, after he had that dream that we read about a moment ago, he said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not. The longer you're in a great place like Hunt Valley Baptist Church, the more you get used to it. When you hear those words, surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not, it's a sad statement. It's a sad statement, sort of like that one in the Bible that you read, no man Cared for my soul. It's sort of like that one where the lady or the man said Uh, I have no man when the water is troubled to put me in the pool. And for 38 years he had been looking for somebody to put him in the pool. And he hadn't had an answer yet for that. It's kind of like the statement that King Agrippa made when he said, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. It's like Jesus when he said, and he came unto his own, and his own received him not. Jacob said, Surely the Lord is in this place. And I knew it not. If you want to find Jesus Christ as your Savior, this is the place to come to. And you'll hear about finding Jesus as your Savior. Amen. If you want to see God's blessings upon a people, this is where you need to come to, Hunt Valley Baptist Church. But I think it'd be good if everyone would get a little journal, a little tablet or something, and start writing down blessings that God has given you here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, because sometimes In your life here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, the devil's going to throw a monkey wrench or something in on the uh on your life and you're gonna get discouraged about something and you're gonna uh be uh get turned sideways about something here at church. And you're not going to remember all the wonderful blessings that God has given you here, and you're going to throw it all away because of one little thing or a couple of little things that happen here. You remember, surely, the Lord is in this place. Amen. And you need to know it. And you need to remember it. You need to keep it in your mind. You need to understand that God is here. Many miracles have happened here. I haven't been here very much, but I've been here enough to see some of the miracles. I remember back in the early days of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You all were looking for a building. You were over there in Timonium and you were outgrowing it. You couldn't all fit in the building. It was thirty feet wide and a hundred feet deep and and you were packing it out and you couldn't get everybody in it. And this building came up for sale. Those of you who are new, it didn't look like this when they bought it. But they wanted two million dollars for this property It was a beyond the reach of Hunk Valley Baptist Church, but it wasn't beyond the reach of God Almighty. And they came down and started dealing with the people, and finally, to make a longer story short They came up with a finally nine hundred thousand dollars to purchase this building instead of two million. And God worked it out Jehovah Jireh came through and gave a hundred thousand dollars to to uh Hunt Valley Baptist Church to help as well as sacrificial giving by God's people. And in about six weeks uh people came from here and came from uh Tioga and came from w uh New York and came from other places to spend time and and hours and hours and uh doing this church all over and remodeling this place to make it okay for the uh for the opening day Now remember one of the statements that the governor of Maryland made when he attended the dedication of this service here, and my wife and I had the joy and the privilege of being here that day. I've never seen a more beautiful auditorium. That's quite a statement, being that he probably is in three or four different auditoriums every week. You that were here saw the miracles that God did. You saw the video. I can't watch that video of the miracle without weeping You say, look what God did. God is so good. God is so wonderful. We have an awesome God. And He has performed miracles in here. Some of you have gotten saved here at this church. Some of your families have gotten saved at this church. God has solved problems in your life at this church. God's given you great messages from men of God from the pulpit here in this church. And you need to write down some of these things and remember some of the things that God did. Because when the devil comes and attacks you, you need to remember, oh, the Lord is in this place, and I know it And you're not going to quit and throw in the town because of some discouragement sometimes that comes to your life. I grew up in Pawnee, Illinois. Down by Taylorville, Illinois, it's just uh right in central Illinois, about thirty-five miles or so from Springfield, Illinois And uh I lived out in the country. It was eight miles out in the country from Pawnee and 17 miles from Springfield, or Taylorville, Illinois. And when I grew up there on that farm, my mom and dad were farmers, and uh we didn't have any running water in the house. In fact, we had an outhouse out in the field, out in the way out in the pasture out there, and that's where we had to go out to uh the facilities there in the outhouse. And whether it was wintertime or whether it was summertime. And I'll tell you what, uh I never saw him, but I knew he was there. When I was a little boy, I had to go out to that outhouse all by myself at nighttime, and it was dark, and I just knew the boogerman was going to get me I knew it. And and then I would sneak out to the outhouse and I'd get out there and keep looking around me and then get inside and then take the shut the door and take that little wooden uh thing and and lock the door and I thought, whoa, I made it safe. As if the Boogerman couldn't break that thing off real easy, you know. I ne it it never did occur to me that he could And uh and then whenever I got ready to go back to the house I would open the door and I would uh look around and make sure that he wasn't in sight and and that booger man wasn't gonna get me and I'd take off running and and and run as fast as I could all the way to the house. And so on. We didn't have any running water in the house. We had to go out to the well to get the water, and me and my two brothers had to take turns going out and getting buckets of water Uh my mother gave me a uh she had one of these wash tubs when I was a little bitty kid and she put it right in the middle of the kitchen floor and and then uh uh she would take uh water From the well then dump it out of buckets into that little wash tub, and then and then she would uh take hot water off of the stove that she had Heated and dump it into the uh wash tub and we had to get in there and that's where we got our baths when I was just a little kid. Take a bath in the wash tub I can tell you a lot of I I I could had a I had to sleep upstairs in the winter time. And there was no heat upstairs. There hadn't been any heat upstairs since time began. I mean it was cold. And we'd get upstairs and we'd get in bed and we'd get and mom had these great big thick comforters on the f on the on the bed and we'd crawl under these covers and and get warm. About the time we got warm, then my dad would holler up the stairs, Hey kids, time to get up And I tell you what, uh you may not believe it, but I could get out of bed and go over to the end of the bed and get a hold of the top edge of the door and swing the door open. And jump on the doorknob and swing the door shut and climb over to the banister of the stairs and get all the way down the stairs and out of the out of the doorway at the bottom of the stairs without even touching the floor We had some hardship when I was growing up. But I'll tell you one thing, God was there. My daddy and mother loved the Lord. And they took me to church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, every Wednesday night as I was growing up. I can only remember one time missing church when I was growing up, and that was when a big old storm came through on Saturday night and blew a bunch of trees down across our driveway. There was a fence on both sides of our driveway and it was blocking our driveway. We could not get out. And so Sunday morning w me and my dad and my two brothers we went out and got the tractors and and got the chainsaws and cut the trees up and pulled them all out of the way. And guess where we went Sunday night? Went to church Sunday night. That's the only time I can remember missing church all the time I was growing up. From the time I was born until the time I left home. You know it wasn't very much. It was a little poor house. But God was there. And when you think about Hunt Valley Baptist Church, God is here. And let me tell you something: God can be and should be and will be in your home if you want Him. And you think about your house and you have family devotions and you pray together and you get together as a family and you love each other and so on, there may be problems in the world, but your home can be a place where God is. Amen. You know, uh I remember going to Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, when I was twenty-two year twenty twenty-two years old. I had just gotten saved two weeks before that, and I went to pastor this church in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. Had a wife and one and nine-tenths of children. My wife was expecting, so she didn't even come whenever I candidated for that church. Soon as David was born, well then she moved, of course, we moved her up to Fond du Lac, Wisconsin also. We lived in a little house that was called the Parsonage right next to the church. And uh uh in the living room in the wintertime when it snowed We didn't even have to go outside to play in the snow because all the all the way around the living room there was a little Snow drift of snow all the way around the living room walls. When we moved there, they had taken a paintbrush and painted the upstairs bedrooms. And I went up to look at it, and you wouldn't believe it. When they painted the one room at the top left of the stairway, they had painted it, and there was a broom leaning up against the wall And they painted the whole floor and everything, but when they got to the broom, they just painted around the broom and left it left a round spot right there in the floor. Couldn't believe it When we were there, we had a bunch of rain one time and and the water came and flooded the house and the basement and it ruined all of our wedding pictures. My wife doesn't have any wedding pictures because of that. But I tell you what, God was there. God was in our home. God was in our little church there in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin Remember one year we invited, uh after I'd been there about a year we invited James Barta. He was one of the preachers I had when I was just a little boy. And I invited him to come and preach a revival for us. He wasn't a dynamic speaker, but he loved the Lord. And he came to our church And we went out and knocked on doors and invited people and I got people excited about inviting people to church and coming to church. And by the time that that revived, my mom and dad drove all the way from Arkansas all the way up to Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. in order to be in that revival with James Barter. And we ended the revival and we were sitting around the kitchen table in that house where the snow was around the edge. And uh we were sitting there rejoicing because fifty souls had asked Jesus into their heart to be their Savior that week during our revival. We were so excited. It wasn't very much just a little bitty Jewish synagogue it used to be and the personage wasn't very much, but God was there. Man, they can think back about that and say, woo, God was there. And when you think about Hunt Valley Baptist Church, You think about all these things here, I'll tell you what, you remember when uh y'all went through a few problems a few years ago, about five years ago, and you didn't know what you were gonna do. And a period of time went by, and God led my son Caleb, and God led you all, and so on, and God called Caleb to be pastor here at Hutt Valley Baptist Church. Some probably thought the doors would close on this place. But God was here. And God worked a miracle and gave you a great pastor. Gave you somebody that loves God. Gave you somebody that's putting God first in their life. Surely the Lord is in this place. And you need to know it. You need to write it down. You need not forget it. Same way as the Lord says in and when you receive him as your Savior, he says, I'll never leave you. I'll never forsake you. No man is able to pluck you out of the Father's hand. And so let me say that, listen, God is here at Hutt Valley Baptist Church. God can be in your home on a regular basis if you'll just serve him and so on. You know, uh just a minute I gotta can't read my notes when my eyes are watering there, just a second. You know it may be an old run-down house, it may be an old farmhouse, it may be a small house, it may be a poor house, but if God is there, it's a wonderful place And I can think back of each of the places that I pastors and don't have time this morning to tell you about miracles that God performed at this place and that place and other places And I can pull up my head at night and smile and say, Woo! God has blessed me more than I deserve. Way more than I deserve. And he's blessed you more than you deserve to, if you just write it down and think about the things that God has done for you and given you. Do you know there was out there in the middle of the wilderness where Jacob was There was no temple there to remind Jacob that this was God's place. There was no shrine there that people had built to remind people that God was there. There was no altar there that he could kneel down and pray in front of to remind him that God was there. There weren't even any flowers decorating the area. He was in the desert that uh uh would remind him of God's presence. There were no big oak trees uh that were standing up to say, Boy, isn't God wonderful? Look at those big oak trees. There were no mountains that he could look at. There were no was no ocean that you could look at and see the power of God And so on, no fields of grain, and so on. It was just a barren, deserted place in the desert. But God was there, and Jacob didn't even know it. Do you know God's here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church? Do you know that? You ought to know that. You know, uh God was there and uh Jacob didn't know it, but uh But uh it doesn't matter whether it's a nice mansion, a small shack, little apartment, a tent. A tit or a cottage, why should I care He's building a palace for me over there, though exiled from home Yet still I can sing. Oh, glory to God. I'm a child of the King. John. He was on the Isle of Patmos. In prison. But that's where he wrote the book of Revelation. God was there with John on the Isle of Tatmus. Moses was on the backside of the desert, and he saw this bush that was burning, and God said, Take your shoes off, Moses. For all the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Stephen was outside the city They were throwing rocks at him. They were going to kill him. But before he died, he looked up and he said, I see Jesus standing at the Father's right hand. God was there. Daniel, thrown in the lion's den for praying, for praying But yet he could have gone over and used the bellies of the lions as a pillow that night. He may have, the Bible doesn't say whether he did or not. But God was with Daniel in the lion's den. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the fiery furnace because they didn't bow down to the graven image And the king looked in there and he said, How many did we throw in there? And he said, Well, we threw four or three in there. And he says, Well, I see a fourth one in there, and the fourth one is like unto the Son of God. How in the world did he know that? Guess what? When you see God, you'll know it. And when you see God working at Hump Valley Baptist Church, you'll know it. But you need to write it down. You need to keep a record of it So that when the devil comes and throws something at you, then you don't get discouraged and quit because this is the place where God is Paul and Silas, they were inside a Roman prison. They had been beaten. They had been uh shackled. They were there with in stocks and they were singing. Can you imagine that? Well, in today's world, we get thrown in jail. We say, I don't want to put me in jail. All I do is try to live for God. Oh man, this is terrible. This is terrible. You'll never win other prisoners to Christ doing that. But Paul and Silas were there, and they were uh they yes they were treated wrong. Yes they had maybe a right to complain, but they started singing. And the other prisoners were looking over there and says, What idiots Man, blood running down their face and they're singing. What are they doing now? Oh, they're praying. And the jailer standing over and says, I can't believe it. All the hundreds and hundreds of prisoners that we've had in here. And it's the first ones that I've ever seen like that that were singing and they were praying. Oh man, that's amazing. Then God shook the prisoner and let them go. And the jailer said, What must I do to be saved? May have been a prison. But God was there. The apostle Peter, the same kind of experience was in jail. Even his friends didn't realize that whenever he got out of jail they thought that he would they were just uh the the lady was just joking. He's in prison, he's not here. But God let him go out of prison. The Apocalypse on the road to Damascus saw a light brighter than the noonday sun. And I bet the rest of his life, anytime he got near Damascus, he probably visited that place where he had met the Lord. And rejoiced and said, oh man, it's wonderful to be saved. It's wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. You need to visit in your memory the blessings that God has given you over your life. And remember the things that God has done for you. Otherwise, the devil will cause you to forget those things. And you'll get discouraged. I've had people leave my church, and I pastored six different churches, started three of them. I've had people leave my church over stupid things, dumb things, little things that don't matter at all. And they'd get mad and leave. I could give you some examples, but I don't have time this morning to do that. Noah was in a lonely world. All of the preaching that he did in those hundred years or so that he building the ark, no converts except his own three sons and their wives. He was the only one, but God was there. Jonah in the whale's belly. But God was there in the whale's belly with him. Some of you don't even realize that God is here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church changing lives, saving souls. Restoring unto people the joy of their salvation. You know, some people come to church and they see God bless. And people get saved and they get baptized and people quit drinking beer and quit drinking liquor and people quit smoking and quit dancing and and they get their marriage straightened out and they start uh being blessed by God and and all these things and they don't even realize that God is here Oh, I can reminisce. I remember in Lyons, New York. I remember we had a guy coming to our church and his mom and dad didn't come. And uh I said, I need to win his mom and dad to the Lord. And I went down, knocked on their door, and I said, said Martha, you and your husband, you all need to come to church. And well, okay, I'll come a few times So she came and she came about four or five six weeks. And after church one Sunday morning she says, Preacher, I'm not coming back anymore. I said, what? She says, no, I don't believe this stuff. I'm not coming back. She was a member of Menza. Anybody know what Menza is? All right. Well there you have to be very, very smart to to be a member of that. I don't know that there's anybody anybody here a member of Musa? Okay. Uh whoever is is not admitting it right now anyway. But uh but anyway, uh you have to be extremely smart. And she was a member of Benza But she came to church and I'm not ever coming back. You don't need to come to see me or nothing. I'm not coming back. She left, her and her husband, they went home. About two weeks went by and the Lord spoke to my heart and said, Stop by and see Martha and her husband. So I stopped by, knocked on her door, and she answered the door and says, What are you doing here? And I said, I came to see if you can come back to church. And she says, I told you when I left, I'm not coming back to church. How much what I got to do to get it to sink into your head? I said, well I just thought, you know, how women change their mind. I thought maybe you would change your mind. And uh so uh she said, No I'm not coming back. So I left and A couple weeks later, God laid it upon my heart again. Stop by and see Martha again. And so I stopped by to see her. No, I'm not coming back. I don't know what in the world you're doing here. I did that about every two weeks for oh eight or ten visits One day, she called me on the phone and she said, Preacher, I've got a garage And it has a dirt floor in it. And we want to pour concrete in the floor, but I don't have anybody that could do that. Do you know of somebody I could hire uh to come down and and screak the concrete off and so on? And I said, sure, I'll get somebody. When are you gonna for it? So she told me. So I got another man in our church and myself, and we went down there that day. And uh poured her concrete and got it all done. Then she reached in her purse and got out Couple hundred dollar bills. Wanted to pay us. I said um no no no. Mars, I I didn't come here to do that for money. We came to do it because we love you. We just came to do it to help you. We don't want no money. And she said, well maybe your helper would take it then. She tried to give it to him. She said, preacher, not taking it, I'm not taking it either. And so she said, Well surely there's something I can do. And I said, Oh, I just thought of something You could come back to church a few times. Well, I guess I could do that. And so she started coming back to church and About three or four weeks after she got back to church, she had gone to the doctor, and the doctor gave her a message that she had cancer. Stage four. And uh I went to the hospital to see her and she I said, You need to get saved, Martha, and she said Well no, I remember I don't believe that stuff. I no, no, no. And then I went and preached the revival. Actually I went and preached the revival for Brother Starr over at Hunt Valley, I mean at um uh uh Zion Road, Mount Zion Baptist Church over in Brogue. And on the way back home, my wife and I, I said, sweetheart, we need to go by the hospital to see Martha. I don't know how long she's going to live. We need to lead her to the Lord before she dies and goes to hell. So we stopped by the hospital on the way back home. And she said, no, no, no. But it wasn't quite as adamant as the other times. My wife and I went home from the hospital And uh the next night it was after 8 o'clock in the evening. And God had burdened my heart so heavy about Martha. And I said, sweetheart, to my wife, I said, I gotta go back up and see Martha. And I know it's after hours, but I can get in. You know, uh preachers can get in after hours at the hospital. So I went back to the hospital and got in and went in to see her. And her daughter was sitting on the other side of the bed and I walked up to Martha and I'd gone through the plan of salvation a lot of times with her. And I looked at her and I said, Martha Why don't you just give up and get saved? And she looked up up at me and she says, Okay. She bowed her head and prayed and asked Jesus into her heart to save her soul. And then after she did it, she opened her eyes and she says, Woo! I don't know why I didn't do that a long time ago. And I said, I don't either. It sure saved me a lot of work. She got saved and and then a couple of weeks later she she lived about three weeks more, and a couple of weeks later I was there at the hospital visiting her and She says, hey preacher, you have that Bible assembly ministry in your church? And I said, Yeah. And she said, I remember you saying that you needed to get a a paper cutter, an electric paper cutter. And I said, Yeah, we sure do And she says, would you hand me my checkbook out of that desk or that table stand by the bed? And she wrote me out a check for $3,000. That pretty much proves it, Brother Berth Gambrill, that she really got it, doesn't it? And uh to to buy this uh paper cutter And uh few days later I was at the hospital with her family when she just closed her eyes and went to glory. And they asked me to do the funeral. After the funeral her son came up and handed me an envelope, said, My mama wanted me to give this to you. And I looked in it and it was a thousand dollars, Andrew. A thousand dollars. I mean, you know, a lot of times you a preacher does a funeral and he gets fifty dollars, maybe maybe sometimes a hundred But never a thousand. They used to go soul won and by the way And so I think about something like that. And I say, Wow, God is there God used me in a little way there. Hunt Valley Baptist Church, God is here. You think about it. Think about it and write down the blessings God's given you. God is here at Hook Valley Baptist Church. Praise the Lord. I'm so glad about that Uh you know, about people that uh get their lives changed, you know. Church time is not scribbling time. It's not time to count how many lights are in the auditorium. It's not time to uh be thinking about your roast that's on the stove. Church time is a time to think about what God is saying to your heart through the preaching of the Word of God. And some of the greatest blessings you'll have in your life. is listening to the word of God when it's preached and taking it to your heart and going home and saying, Wow God, you spoke to me today and God was there in church today. It's wonderful to be a Christian And Lord, I'm going to live for you better now than I ever have before. And you make those kinds of decisions at church. Listen, this is the place where God is. You need to be here. And the service that you miss will be the one that God was going to speak to your heart. God was going to meet your needs. But you missed church. You ought not to do that. Do you know uh there are uh Where two or three are gathered together, he says, In my name, there I am in the midst of them. Can you imagine? At the uh Baltimore Ravens football game, I don't know when they play next, but let's say they played this afternoon. And uh when do they play? Today. Today? Okay. Let's say they're in about the third quarter. And all of a sudden the seven referees blow their whistles and get everybody's attention in the whole crowd and say, Hey! When you all in the uh in the outs stand, wake up, we have a football game going on here. Do you know why they don't ever have to do that? Because nobody's asleep. They're all interested in the football game. They're all listening to the referee's calls Why do we sleep in church? Because we're not interested. Man, if you're in- I've seen people sleep in church and then go home and watch two or three hours of TV. And never go to sleep watching TV. Man, we ought to remember this is the place where God is. This is where God meets with us. This is where God speaks to our hearts. This is where God gets a hold of our hearts and changes our families. This is where we come and bring our child And our surr kids surrender to do what God wants them to do in their life and they prepare their life to Serve God. This is the place when all that happens. And wow, God is here. We need to remember that. You ought to know that God is here. Teenagers, you ought to know that Jesus is here. Children, you ought to know that Jesus is here. In Luke chapter 24, we don't have time to turn there. But whenever you turn there, you could read Luke chapter 24 and find these two guys walking down the Emmaeus road. Jesus had risen from the dead and he's walking with them. And then he goes to their house and sits down with them and begins to expound unto them the word of God. And And then he vanishes out of their sight. And then they're talking together. And they say Did our hearts not burn within us? Something about him? We should have known that that was Jesus. We should have known that he was with us. You should know that God is here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You know I don't want to go through life and not know that God has been around me I want to know God's presence. I want to see God work. I want to see God change lives. I want to go to a church where God is. I want to live in a home where God is. I w want to live a life where God is with me and He's has been with me. Like the word Emmanuel, God with us. Can we have every head bowed, please, and every eye closed?