This morning we're going to continue with our theme that we've had for this year of looking at the idea of spending our life on bended knee, looking at and considering uh the Thoughts, the idea of living in a state of prayer, approaching every part of our life, if we think about or consider the idea of approaching our life. Every part of it on our knees. That's what the idea of unbended knee is. It's not just that we for a minute or two on Sunday we spend a minute on our knees and ask God, Lord, would you bless me this week? But really, it becomes a spirit of prayer that the Christian has and that he carries with him over time where we commune with our Heavenly Father. Have you thought recently how those without faith think about your time in prayer? You know, they probably think about something like, well, when I make a phone call, if nobody picks up the other end, I don't just talk to the air. Those without faith and without a relationship and without knowledge of God might look at prayer as a futile endeavor. They might look at it as a uh an empty crutch, a crutch without legs, as it were. But beloved, for those who know God, we understand that God does pick up the other end. That God hears and that God answers prayer. We're not just talking to the air, but communing with our Heavenly Father. It is this fellowship with Him. That rejoices the heart of the Christian. As you talk to him and he talks to you. This idea of prayer is central to our faith. And beloved, it should be given a high priority in our life. As this morning, considering this verse that's before us, we're going to look at that idea of the priority of prayer, the priority that it should take. We're going to dissect this verse and learn some things, I hope, from the Word of God this morning, but with the focus of the fact that this should be a priority for you and I. Beloved, the difference between victory and failure is not a matter of skill. It's a matter of supplication. It's not a matter of the ability that you might have, but it's how much appeal have you given to your Heavenly Father? It's not about your personal power, but it's about your personal prayer life. That's the difference between victory or failure as a Christian. So many times we look at people, we think, boy, I wish I could be a Christian like them. You can. I'll tell you what, if you get a hold of this idea of prayer and communion and talking to God, you will begin to grow as a Christian and move forward in your faith in such a way that even you will be shocked. Prayer, this indispensable part of the Christian life, should be given the highest priority. In Luke chapter 18, verse number one, he says, And he spake a parable unto them, to this end that men ought always to pray. Are you having struggling maintaining victory in your Christian life? Can I ask you, are you praying? Like you should. I think sometimes our focus is on the fruit instead of on the root. We're looking at the failure and saying, man, I'm not being successful. I I failed again here. But the failure took place a lot sooner when we forgot to pray. When you are praying as you should, you will see victory. I'm sure that you're aware, beloved, that the verse is immediately preceding this verse. This verse that we're looking at this month, and hopefully many of you will commit to memory, I'm sure that you're aware that the verses just before this are those, that passage on the armor of God. I think many times we look at that as the the the armor of God and and you know look at verses ten through seventeen and putting on the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand against the wiles of the devil The elements of the armor of God that we put on, one person said, are empowered by prayer. This is not a message this morning on the Elmer of God, but It gives uh importance to this matter of prayer when you consider that he's talking here about being victorious as a Christian. About having the armor of God, about winning over Satan. What does he say there? Verse above all, take the shield of faith, verse number sixteen, taking the shield of faith, wherewithal ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. We want to be victorious in this battle. But in the same context, he gives us this verse, pray always with all prayer and supplication. In the spirit and watching thereunto with all pure perseverance and supplication for all saints. It's in that same context of spiritual warfare and battle and victory that this verse is given. Restraining prayer, we cease to fight. Prayer makes the Christian armor bright, and Satan trembles when he sees The weakest saint upon his knees. So victory, beloved You know me I think maybe we're focusing too much on the on the warfare and not enough on the preparation. Because the victory is the Lord's, is it not? And if we would go into battle allowing him to go before us Having prepared properly, we could go boldly. Weirsby said that prayer is the energy That enables the Christian soldier to wear the armor and to wield the sword. Prayer is the thing that gives energy To be able to wear the armor and to wield the sword. The Lord has made it very clear that the path to victory is not obscured, it's not hidden, it's not something we don't understand. But often we fail to do it because we don't follow his plan. So we see first of all this morning And point number one as the title of the message, as well as point number one, is going to be the priority, that focusing on prayer. He says here the very first two words, what are they? Praying always. What what are they? Praying always. You see, we're a little bit uh like Pastor Gus said, it seems like the the although this beautiful day, I mean the weather is It's uh it's so nice outside, uh so comfortable. I mean it's just a great day for a walk, but I don't know if the overcast and And the sun's hidden a little bit, if it's made us a little dreary or something here. So try and stick with me. The first few words here are praying always and focus on the priority that this ought to have in the Christian's life. When should we pray? A little boy was asked of his pastor. His pastor said, Young man, do you pray every night? And he said, Oh yes, sir. Yes, sir, every night. And he said, boy, that's great. He said, Do you pray every morning? And the boy looked at him and said, No. He says, Well, why not? He says, I ain't as scared in the morning. So when when to pray, well, I mean, hey, we pray when we're scared, but we ought to pray when we ain't scared too, amen. There's there's praying always is praying, it's a focus, a priority that ought to be in the Christian's life It ought to stand high on the list of things that we participate in and that we do. In Paul's day, the Jews were living under the law, and you see they had set and established times of prayer. It was the practice at a certain time you pause to pray. And this was kind of the those that were dedicated and serious and Really, you know, you'd say they were great Christians, they would pause at particular times and pray. Well, beloved, when we met Jesus, We were freed from the law and given a relationship. And Paul, and actually all through the New Testament, you'll see that focus on the relationship that we have with Jesus Christ. And it's no longer just a matter of a set time, like you have this spot blocked out, and you sh you pause for you know at twelve o'clock, you pause for ten minutes I'll tell you what, it wouldn't be bad for all of us to do some more praying. And if we have to set some times for it, amen. But this the idea here you see is that we ought to be praying always. We ought to be praying always In Acts chapter 2, verse number 42, he said they continued steadfastly in prayer. In Romans 12, 12. They continued instant in prayer. That's the idea of consistently and on continually in prayer. In Colossians 4, verse 2, it says they continued in prayer. In 1 Thessalonians 5, 17 it says, pray without ceasing. The idea, beloved, for the Christian, is that we ought to be praying always. Understanding this morning that it's not as much the articulation of words as it is the attitude of the heart. This idea of praying always is the attitude of the heart that a at a moment's notice you are in communion with your father. My wife is sitting down here and we have a great relationship. Just ask her, she'll tell you. We we we love each other. We we Uh you know Marriage. I'm gonna be speaking tonight on how to find your life's mate. And uh in that I have a section on the ball and chain. The idea of the ball and chain is is is something that when you have the right relationship you pick it up gladly. But you know it really is a ball and chain. You are linked together. I'm accountable to her and she's accountable to me and we we we rejoice in that. We have that relationship. You don't look at it as a ball and chain, but you gladly put yourself in that place because of that love. I met a guy yesterday, he was 94 years old, sat on his porch with him for a few minutes talking to him, he said his wife passed away. uh last March he said here in another few weeks we would have been married seventy years. Seventy years. I really enjoy chatting with him for a few minutes. Somebody's lived that long on earth, you know. But that relationship kind of taken a long way to get around to the fact that, you know, sometimes Mary will call me or want to say something to me or she'll begin to tell me something of great importance. She'll get about halfway through and realize none of it registered. Like I wasn't actually I may have even been looking that direction, but she'll notice that my mind was somewhere else, right? You ever been there? Yeah, and and she'll she'll pause she'll be like, You need me to wait uh until until you're done thinking about whatever and I and I'll come back to the present, right? Okay, no I Well the reason is because I was praying, that's why. No, no. Um no the the reason is because I was distracted, right? I was thinking about something else, but The idea of that close relationship where at a moment's notice we can call one another is something that we ought to have in our heart and mind with our Heavenly Father. That on at a moment's notice the Holy Spirit could prick our heart and say, Pray for Frank. And we say, Lord, would you be with Frank today? Would you help him help his need? continue to heal, Lord, be with this sciatica that he dealt with for a while. Lord help him as he grows his business and he helps so many people, Lord, be a blessing to him. And at the moment's notice you can ha you can commune with your father and and just pray for somebody or pray for a need that the Lord impresses upon your heart that you have. Constant communion with your Heavenly Father. In the moment of temptation, you pray for deliverance. In the moment of weakness, you pray for strength. In the moment of fear, you pray for faith. In the moment of blessing, you praise him Just because you're in the spirit of prayer and it doesn't take you twenty-five minutes to to come back into God's presence to where you have you ever prayed and felt like it wasn't going anywhere? Am I the only one? I sat there and prayed and thought, man, this is not something isn't right. I'm not right with God or I'm distracted or something. I'm not connecting and and you gotta refocus and maybe you gotta confess some sin and Restore the relationship and then and you start to pray and you start to feel God's presence, you know He's there and you know He hears you. Amen. But boy to be in that place all the time. That is what he's talking about, the attitude of prayer. This is in stark contrast to one who says a prayer once a week. One man was asked what position he preferred to assume when he prayed to the Father. He explained that one day, while he was working on a well, he was hanging upside down, trying to get some stuff out of this well uh with a rope And his friend, whoever it was, lost hold of the rope and dropped him upside down in a well. He said, the prayinest praying I ever did done was on that day. He said, so I suppose it would be on my head is the position I like most. uh you know is not as much the position that you're in as is the attitude of the heart. Praying always. Then he gives to us a note on the procedure of prayer. He says, with all prayer and supplication. He gives two words of description here, describing and talking about the same thing. Prayer and supplication. These words in their uh original language deal with the idea first prayer is is the general communion with God, the the praying and talking to your Heavenly Father, maybe about many many things, maybe uh general petitions. But then supplication. Supplication is getting a little more specific with God. Praying about and talking about individual specific things that you have. Prayers might be something that we do before men as well as we pray and ask God to bless the service here. And supplication might be that which we do in the private room in our home. Prayer may be something that's uttered aloud and A supplication, something that we may not even have words to utter, but is in our heart. Both are necessary. We are involved in all. We are to participate in all types of prayer, in all opportunities to pray. There are times, beloved, when you pray in your closet, and there's times when you pray on your knees. There may be times when you pray in church, and there may be times when you pray just walking down the street. There may be times when you pray as you're on your way to work and just in the car talking to your Heavenly Father about the day, and there may be times. when you pray with family and friends and bow your head in unison and seek the face of God. You may, beloved, pray with your hands raised or you may pray with your hands folded. One preacher said the reason that Baptists can't get anything from God is because we pray like this. He said the Pentecostals pray like this, man. Pour it out, you know, they get lots more. That's supposed to be funny. You can pray either way, and your heavenly father hears you. You pray with your hands raised or you pray with them folded or you pray with your knees bowed or prostrate on the ground. But you pray, praying always with prayer and supplication. You pray in adoration. You pray in confession, you pray in thanksgiving, and you pray in supplication. There is that oh ASAP statement, you know, as soon as possible, which I'm sure many of you have heard has been rewritten to be this. There's work to do, deadlines to meet. You've got no time to spare, but as you hurry and scurry, always say a prayer. In the midst of family chaos, quiet time is rare. Do your best. Let God do the rest. Always say a prayer. It may seem like your worries are more than you can bear. Slow down. Take a breath. Always say a prayer. God knows how stressful life is. He wants to ease your cares. And he'll respond to all your needs if you always say a prayer. He gives to us some insight into the power of prayer, where power comes from. You see he says praying always with all prayer and supplication, and he says, what's the next three words? Just make sure you're awake. In the spirit. Anybody else besides Pastor Derek and Miss Trudy? What's the next three words? In the Spirit. Praying in the Spirit. You know, beloved, prayer oftentimes begins with our want list It begins with the things that are maybe most evident or on the top of our minds, but as you continue in prayer, you begin to be led by the Spirit of God in prayer. And you'll not just be asking for what you want, but you will begin to start to ask for what God wants. And power in prayer, beloved, comes when the Spirit leads us in prayer. He says here, pray in always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. When you begin to pray, it may be something in your heart and mind you do, and I would encourage you to have a list. Because without a list, you know, maybe your mind's a lot sharper than mine. You know, I I'll pray for everything I can think of in about three minutes. But if you have a list You you know I mean just our church prayer list, you pray through the missionaries. Just a list so you can recall and bring to membrance the things that need to be prayed for. So have a list is good, but the Spirit will begin to lead you and Cause you to focus on particular needs that you have or needs that others have and will bring to mind people who need a prayer right then. Like Christ who prayed, Not my will, but thine be done. In Romans 8. 26, he says, Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is in the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God You see, the Holy Spirit comes, and the Holy Spirit knows what you need. The Holy Spirit knows where your weakness is. The Holy Spirit knows what burden somebody else is carrying, what battle they might be facing. The Holy Spirit knows that as you are in your prayer time and you begin to pray and God lays on your heart, and it might be because just you You saw a video on Sunday of the Stensis family and you're praying this Wednesday and you begin to pray and you say, Lord, be with Brother Stensis, Lord, right now, whatever's c wherever he's at, whatever ministry he's involved in. And you don't know, but on the other side of the world, at that very time, he could be dealing with somebody about their eternal soul. And God would hear your prayer and bring power to that situation and help that person bring from a place of eternity in hell to an eternity in heaven The Holy Spirit leads you in prayer. He directs you, it empowers your prayer. The Spirit knows what you have need of and what you should be praying for. And sometimes when we don't even know what to pray. He maketh intercession for us. I don't know if you've lived very long. I'm sure you've been in that place where the burden was so heavy. The heartache so great, the trial so strong, that you bowed your head in prayer and you're you're not even sure what to pray. You're not sure if you should be praying for deliverance. You don't know if you should be praying for strength to endure. You don't know if you should be praying for help from outside. You're not sure what the will of God would be, or or if you should be praying that He would teach you or learn something, or but you just bow your head in prayer, and God knows, and the Holy Spirit begins to make intercession for you. before your heavenly father. What a joy. What a joy. That the Holy Spirit prays for us. Not only does he lead us in prayer, but he carries our prayers to the Father with the authority of the cross. Then we see here prudence in prayer. He says praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and he says, watching thereunto. Watching thereunto. How many times in the scriptures do we see Jesus exhorting the disciples to watch? and pray. There is an aspect of vigilance that should be present in the heart of the prayer warrior. Somebody said it like this, successful prayer takes place with your eyes wide open. And you say, wait. I thought we were supposed to uh since I was a little kid, I got in trouble for opening my eyes. You know, you can't you're supposed to bow your head and close your eyes. It's not so much your physical eyes, but being aware, being sober and being vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion who walketh about seeking whom he may devour. And you know that as you begin to battle in prayer, that Satan's going to come. I don't know how many of you have ever knelt down to begin to pray. And the craziest things start coming into your mind. Like you're trying to pray. And you're thinking, what in the world? Why is my mind going down this track? And where did that come from? Hey Satan is on the scene. He's trying to keep you from being victorious in prayer. So we gotta watch. We gotta don't be ignorant of his devices. Be alert of the fact. You know, Satan wants to bring distractions. Tozer said, you either defeat distractions, or distractions will defeat you. Regarding prayer, and Tozer's known as a prayer warrior and has written many books on prayer. He said, listen, if you want to be successful in prayer, you've got to get rid of the distractions. And if you if you've tried to pray much at all, you know that's to be true because boy anything will just you think you have ADD, try and pray. Spend some time in prayer and see what distractions come up. All kinds of things Satan will bring in. The phone will ring, the doorbell will ring. You say I don't have a doorbell. It rings anyway. I mean, you know, the TV magically turns on, ping, like how did that happen? And and the kids the kids have never been up at six in the morning and they're up they're up and around and you're like, what I was gonna pray this morning. Satan. Your friend from high school that you haven't talked to in forty years will give you a call when you're trying to pray. Yeah, I haven't talked to you in forty years and and right now. Yeah. Satan's out to destroy your prayer life. Nehemiah, when he was facing the opposition there in that great work of building the wall, he said, Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto our God and set a watch. He said we prayed, but we watched. So there's an aspect of prudence in prayer. We must watch out not only for the distractions, but that we're praying as we ought. You know, sometimes there's things that hinder hinder our prayers. And we've talked about those in previous lessons. There's things we've talked about this year, but there's things that hinder your prayers and you know maybe you need to watch out for those. Put a watch up that sh you don't have something in the way, something hindering your prayer from reaching the Father. Beloved, he gives us right here again the idea of perseverance in prayer. He says, with all perseverance. You know prayer is hard work. If it was easy, everybody would do it. If it was easy, we would be having all kinds of like prayer meetings and hey, let's have a prayer to get together, you know. Let's have a prayer party. It's easy to do. It's fun. Let's do that. But it's not, is it? You know some of the some of the least attended events that we've had here at the church is the pray and play. Pray and play. We even make it a little funner by adding the play on the end. We're gonna pray for a little while and we're gonna play for a little while. Let's gather together and have a pray and play. Well prayer is hard work. Yeah. Sometimes in prayer the answer doesn't come as quick as we would like. Sometimes we lose faith because the answer didn't come or the answer we wanted didn't come. But we've got to persevere in prayer. Be not weary in well-doing, for in due season ye shall reap if ye faint not. Don't give up. Don't quit. Just persevere in prayer. Keep on keeping on. You ever have a have a little kid that wanted your attention? You you standing there talking to somebody and they're they're like, uh Miss Betty, uh Miss Betty And you're talking and Miss Betty and you're talking Miss Betty you're gonna at some point you're gonna stop and say, What did you want? I just wanted to show you my frog. Oh, okay, nice frog. And then you go back to talking. That's what perseverance is prayer. Just continually, Lord, here I am again. Lord, I'm coming to you. Lord, I know you I know you have you know what I have need of before I even ask, but Lord here I am again. Lord, I need you to answer this prayer. I need you to come through and solve this for me. I need you to help me Make it through or provide for me strength or heal my friend or give me this or or supply that or meet this spiritual need in my life Just keep on praying until you get an answer. Beloved, the disciples would have never learned about the power of Christ over the raging seas. had they not been permitted to go out in them. Peter would have never had the privilege to walk on water had he not first been in a storm. And we don't know what God will allow us to do or what God will allow us to see or to be a part of when we go through some trial or test. Just keep on praying until the answer comes. Note, beloved, this is not forcing God's hand, but sharing your burden Bringing it to the throne of grace. Then we see, lastly, that we're to be praying for others. He says, in all perseverance and supplication for all saints. I wonder how much of our prayer time is consumed with our own needs. with our own burdens. And beloved, they I'm not getting on to you for that. Your Heavenly Father has told you to pray. He said, come boldly to the throne of grace. He said, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Oh, there is no question, beloved, that we should carry our burdens to our Father and that we should bring our requests unto Him. Prayer is, in essence, asking of God. But in all of our praying, let us not forget we've got some brothers and sisters in Christ. We have others who have needs and are carrying burdens and They would like us to help carry that. And maybe you can't financially meet a need, and maybe you can't uh provide any material things to solve this problem, or maybe you don't have the wherewithal to to to heal a person of some physical ailment. But all of us can pray. And God can do all those things. Man, we need to pray for one another. The prayer of an intercessor for others often brings victory in our own life. In Job chapter 42 and verse number 10, he says, And the Lord turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. You think about what Job was going through? And you think, man, if I would have been Job, I would have been praying, no doubt, but I would have been praying, Lord. Lord, stop this. Lord, get me out of this. Lord, take away this pain. Lord, get rid of this boils. Lord, help me to carry this burden. But God came through for Job when? He says when he prayed for his friends. In that same verse he says, Also the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. As Job put his own birds aside for a minute. And was praying for other people. That's when God said, Hey, Job, I'm going to give you this. I'm going to bless you. Not just back to where you were, but I'm going to bless you good measure, pressed down, shaking together, and running over. I'm going to give you twice what you had before. Did you ever think about the fact, beloved, that the Lord's prayer starts? With the very Son of God. I'm talking about Christ, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, it starts with our Father. Not my father. Oh, it was his father. But he's including us in his prayer. He says our Father who art in heaven. That's an amazing thing. That Jesus, even in there, was praying for us. A spiritual mature believer is concerned first with the needs of others. It is a sign of immaturity when one is only concerned about himself. I mean you think about it, a little child. Life is consumed with only what they want, right? With only their needs. With the i I mean if they're if they're, you know, fed And dry and I mean it's all about them. Anything they want. But as you mature and you grow, you start to learn that life's about more than that. Amen? And the same thing spiritually. We need to grow to the point where we are burdened because our brother or sister in Christ is burdened. Not. Oh well. You got your burdens, I got mine. You know, last life. Everybody's carrying burdens. Like it or lump it, get over it or not. I mean I we shouldn't have that spirit. It ought to be our heart is heavy when our brother or sister's heart is heavy. And that we're carrying that to the throne of grace for them. In our text, verse 19 and 20, we're not going to take time to dig into it, but Paul asked for prayer for himself. He says, and for me. And for me. Pray. He says, that the utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly and to make known the mysteries of the gospel. So he says, hey, while you guys are praying? You know, you're praying for victory, for spiritual warfare, spiritual battle, putting on the armor of God, and I told you you've got to be praying always, but while you're praying, pray that the gospel would go forth. Pray that I would have boldness to preach and present the gospel of Jesus Christ. So we need to be praying for others. I want to remind you as we close this morning that real victory is one on our knees It's one before the battle even takes place when we put a priority on prayer in our lives. If something is left undone, beloved Let it be something other than prayer. I know our lives are full. Our lives are busy. Everything clamoring for our time. And there's things every day that are on our to-do list that don't get done, right? That we have to move to next week. Next day. But if there's something on that list that's got to get moved to the next day, let it be something else. Because let's put prayer at top priority. And I think we'll be successful more successful in accomplishing the other things if prayer has its place.