I'm you can turn your Bibles tonight to the New Testament, to the Book of Luke, Luke chapter number six. We have all recently Been in shock as we beheld the destruction in California due to the fires. And in North Carolina, due to the storms, as we from some great distance beheld that destruction through the camera lens of somebody or somebody's cell phone footage that we're able to see. It was truly amazing how, you know, in one scene, one minute, you're you're looking at a hillside with all these houses on it and people's livelihood and everything present and it's all there and then and they'll cut and the next scene it's all wiped out All of that is gone. You know in some aspects When you stand back and you watch people's lives, this very similar type thing is noticeable. Where on one hand you see a life and you see all that they've built or all that is present and everything that's there and then In the next week, the next month, you see the destruction that Satan has wrought, and the destroyed life that stands in the wake of that great storm. Well, in many ways, what took place in North Carolina is a real live visual for us of the story and the description that we're going to look at here in Luke chapter number six. Go all the way down to verse number 46. We won't read the entirety of the passage, but reading verse number 46 through verse number 49, we see the heart of this story. He says, And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? Whosoever cometh to me and heareth me, heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I will show you to whom he is like. He is like a man which built a house and digg deep, and laid the foundation on a rock. And when the flood arose The stream beat vehemently upon that house and could not shake it, for it was founded upon a rock. But he that heareth and doeth not is like a man that is without a foundation, built an house upon the earth against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. I tell you that many times in life there are storms that will arise. Storms come and Some storms that come into your life, they are they are little more than a summer tropical storm. If you've spent any time in the tropics or down in Florida, you get the afternoon showers that that blow in and it's inconvenient, but uh I mean it can be a sunny day and then that tropical storm will roll in and and it'll it'll downpour for fifteen minutes. And then all of a sudden the storm kind of rolls on and and the sun comes back out and the steams coming off the pavement and I mean that storm hit but it it blew over like it was nothing. It really didn't really impact anything. Sometimes there's storms in your life that will come into your life, that will come into your home, that will come into your relationships, that will come into your uh realm of influence, and those storms will be like that. They're just gonna pass and really didn't affect anything at all. Sometimes you'll have storms that'll come and they'll be like a winter storm. They're a little stronger. Things are pretty cold. The temperature around you is is chilly enough you can cut it with a knife. Things are hard. And that storm w it takes a little longer to to to get past the one that we just had. You know, yeah, it snowed and that was inconvenient, but it wasn't really until the last few days with some rain that we kind of really got A bunch of that salt and junk washed off the cars and the the salt and the roads cleared off and a lot of the snow melted and I'm saying some people ended up with some broken gutters because of the ice that forms up there and it tears the corner of the gutter. What I'm saying is that storm hangs around, it's a little bit more of a problem. It might do a little bit of damage, but it's not bad. But then you have storms that come and they're like a hurricane Those storms come into your life and that hurricane, that wind blows, and that rain falls. And when the storm passes, the destruction that's left in its wake. Leaves you with a lot of pain. Leaves you with a lot of rebuilding that has to be done. Leaves you with a lot of work, discouragement, brokenhearted. You look at that storm and the destruction that it caused and you you you feel almost like it's hopeless. If you can in your mind's eye picture somebody standing in front of their house there in North Carolina and all of their worldly possessions have been destroyed by this, and they're just standing there looking at that and they're saying Is it even I mean just I almost just want to get in a car and drive away and never look back. I mean just what am I gonna do with this just to clean up the mess is gonna be A major job. And then that's not even talking about trying to rebuild and get it back to where it was. And what I'm saying is sometimes Satan will bring a storm into your life. into your relationships, into your relationship husbands, wives that will come and that storm will blow in And things are going to blow up and things are going to be said and things are going to be repeated and actions are going to be taken. And as soon as the storm is gone, the major part of it's gone, but there's been left in the wake a lot of destruction A lot of heartache, a lot of pain, and you look at it and you think, boy, can I possibly rebuild this? Is it possible to put this back together? I want to speak to you for a few minutes tonight on the foundation. What kind of a foundation do you have? Because beloved, Only those whose lives are built upon the right foundation, whose family and their homes are built around the right foundation, will be able to weather the storm. We'll be able to stay standing, not that the storm won't come, it's going to come, but that you'll be able to make it through. There are storms that are going to come Now in the context of this passage of Scripture, the heart of it is, the interpretation of it is, is quite literally dealing with salvation and building your life on Jesus Christ. And having that that rock and having put your faith and trust in him and him alone. But by way of application, I want to take it much broader and talk about your life in a general sense. And also your relationships. We're one week away from the Marriage Matters Conference, and we're going to take some time and focus on the home and the family for for a day and I just want to kind of introduce that with this some thoughts tonight which will kind of hit the spectrum. It's not just specifically to husbands and wives or or uh families. It's Individuals, beloved, your life needs to be built on Jesus Christ. Or you will not weather the storm. First of all, I would have you see the contradiction that is presented. He says there In verse number 46, and why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? He said, There's a contradiction there. On one hand, you are acknowledging my lordship in your life, and one hand you're looking at me and saying, Yes, you are God. Yes, you are my Lord. But then you're not doing what I tell you to do. He's saying those two things don't add up. They can't both be true. There's a contradiction there. It was Hudson Taylor that said either he is Lord of all or he is not Lord at all. So it has to be one or the other. There is an acknowledgement of who he is. I ask you tonight: is he Lord of all in your life? Or is he just Lord of the areas that you need help with? Many people will draw a line in the sand for their life. They'll say, Yes, he is Lord. That's why I come to church on Sunday. Oh, but I don't think the Lord really cares if I do this. I don't think the Lord really cares if I do that. Oh, I know Pastor has preached on this, but that's just Pastor's opinion. That's just what Pastor thinks about this. I don't see it that way. I don't think it's that important. It's not that big of a deal Either he is Lord of all or he is not Lord at all. He is going to be or he's not going to be Lord of your life just Two weeks ago in Grief Share because of some questions that came up in a conversation that one of those that are attending Grief Share had with somebody at a grocery store. Um, I said, well what you have to do is you've got you have to get back to where is the authority for what you're saying. I said, I'm a pastor, but that really doesn't mean anything. I said, you know, my opinion doesn't matter any more than your opinion. Everybody's entitled to their opinion. I said, but what you need to do is you need to look at that individual you're talking to and say, okay, what is his opinion based upon? Where is the authority for what he is saying? Everybody can have an opinion. I mean, everybody can have a hare-brained idea, it really doesn't matter. But what is it based upon? When I took public speaking in college, obviously the very important part of it is establishing the authority for what you're saying. and that is to quote your sources and to give their credentials so that when you're presenting a statement or saying something, people understand who it was and it gives credibility to what you're saying. If we were going to discuss the topic of world economics, and uh I said, now listen, before church tonight, I sat down with Alyssa and asked her what she thought about this, and this is what she believed. Well there's obviously not that much authority there in what I've said there, right? That's just because of the source She may have some very good ideas, but she hasn't lived long enough or experienced enough to be able to adequately or wisely discuss world economics. Yet if I quoted the leading economic specialist in the world, or or Clay, I could quote him maybe If I quoted him, quoted him or somebody like that, then people would say, oh, yeah, that guy knows what he's talking about. Well, beloved, you have to go back to what's the basis for what you think. You say, oh, I think you ought to run the family like this. This is just the way I think. Yeah, but to put it bluntly, who cares what you think? Everybody has ideas. What does this say? This is the authority. God is the creator of the universe God established the home. God has said what we need to do in order to have a prosperous and successful and happy life. And everybody can have an idea of how they should do it and what they think is acceptable or not. But it doesn't matter what individual people think about one thing or another, it's what does the book say What does God say? Because this is the authority. God is the one that should be dictating what we do and how we think. So the contradiction is present when we say, Lord, Lord, but we do not do the things that God says. Some people say, I don't think the Lord really comp is too concerned about the things I do. But what does the Bible say right there? And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and What's the next word? Do. Do not the things which I said. The Lord does care what we do, how we live. Jesus is concerned. We have as our theme this year, loving God and loving people. That's a very beautiful theme. It's fun. Love God. Love people. Amen. Well, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. That's what it is. That's the gist of it. Loving God means being obedient to Him, acknowledging His Lordship in your life, and and Trying to put everything in your life underneath that microscope, underneath that guidance, that He is Lord of all He said, the fact of the matter is, is there's two there's two guys here that I'm going to give you a comparison of. And one recognized me as Lord and the other didn't. The other determined he was going to do it his own way. I would have you see the comparison that he gives us here. He said, Whosoever cometh to me and heareth my sayings and doeth them. I will show you unto whom he is like. So he's given you an example. He's given you a comparison. He said, this individual is like this. And we see in verse number 49, but he that what's the next word? Heareth. Heareth and doeth not. So, beloved, first of all, I want you to understand it's not a hearing problem. It's not a hearing problem. They both heard the same thing You know the fact of the matter is is there are some people in our world today that they are doing particular things that aren't right or they are doing things that uh would be wiser to be done a different way. They're running their family in some way that you would look at and say, well, that's not biblical, but the fact of the matter is they don't know yet. They haven't heard yet. So the problem is not a hearing problem. The Bible says that to whom much is given, much is required. And what God is saying here is that these two individuals heard the same thing. These two individuals sat underneath the same preaching. These two individuals were instructed and told, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. They were both instructed and told that, you know, spare the the the rod spoil the child. That the fact of the matter is when a child is acting up he doesn't need talk to He needs discipline because that's biblical. That's what's supposed to happen. You're supposed to uh spank the child. That's what the Bible says. And I know culturally that's not acceptable today and and and the world, you know, they want to uh Talk these children to to the end of the earth and you know what the kid really doesn't care. The biblical pattern is is to discipline when the kid is disobedient. And one parent will say, Okay Lord, that's what you said to do. I know I don't enjoy disciplining my child. I know this is hard. It breaks my heart as a mother. There was times when I was faking our children that my wife had to go into the other room. She said, I can't see it anymore. I can't watch this. And I praise the Lord that she allowed me to continue to discipline them when they were not under subjection and would not be obedient to their father or mother. Sometimes I had to tell her you started it. So we gotta take it to the end. No two-year-old is gonna tell me as a parent what to do. The two-year-old needs to submit, and that means he is obedient. That means he does what you say. And by the way, if you tell him to come here and you say, come here, and and he doesn't come, This is not obedience. You removed their will and you brought them They need to obey, and that means they need to put their will down, they need to submit and come over of their own free will. That means you go over here and you spank them. And you set them there, and then you come back over here and you say, Now come here. And if they do not come, you do not give the command a second time. You're training your kids to be disobedient if you command them more than once. You command them one time. If they do not respond, you need to go over. You do not have to beat the fire out of them You don't have to tan them, you know, their high glue, but you need to discipline them enough that they know they did wrong. You SWAT their, you know, we're talking about a two-year-old, you swat their high knees so that they don't like it. And then you set them there and come back and say, come here. And if they don't come, you go back and you swap their hiney a little harder. Maybe twice you say now. You go over, you do it again. You need to train the child to obey your voice the first time. Some parents will hear that and say, okay, this is what God said to do, I'm gonna do it. Some parents will hear that. And they'll stand over here and they'll say, oh, come here, come here, come here, come here, come here. Nope, nope, you're gonna be obedient to me if it's the last thing you do. I said, come here That child still hasn't obeyed. You just went and picked him up. The child still is doing what he wants to do. It's like the kid that was sitting over there and uh Dad said sit down and he says I'm sitting but on the inside I'm standing up and that's the spirit that he has because he hasn't subjected his will That's just a small example of raising children, but we do this in a lot of areas of our lives. You see, it's not a hearing problem. They sat under the same instruction, but one person decided, well, I know that the husband is supposed to be the head of the home, but I don't want to do it. I know that the uh you know the um wife is supposed to be in submission, but that's not popular today, so I'm not going to do it. I know that that's what God says, but in our home we want to do it another way. No, what we need to do is line up with the Word of God. We need to follow what God's pattern is. And it's not about what we think. It's, listen, you know, you can make anything work for a little while. You can make anything work for a little while. You've got people get married and in the beginning, I mean, it's all love, man. Hallelujah. This is amazing. This is heaven on earth. But pretty soon you realize that love alone is not enough to have a happy home. Just to say you love one another, uh, you know, it's kind of like, well, I love them, but I sure don't like them Love alone is not enough and we need to get in line with God's pattern and stop dictating and running our our home and our pattern and what we're doing off of our own mind. We need to follow God's mind. Uh if we're going to have a stable foundation, if our homes, our families, our own lives are going to be built upon the rock that is Jesus Christ. James chapter 1, verses 22 to 25, those familiar verses, he says, But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. They're deceiving themselves. If you're hearing the word and not applying it, if you're hearing the word and not making the change in your life, you're deceiving yourself You're saying, okay, yeah, you're Lord, but you're not living like he's Lord. He says, for if any be hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For he boldholdeth himself and goeth his way and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein He being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. Boy, I want to be blessed in my life. And this is applicable to every one of us, whether you're single in here or married two years or twenty years or you have kids and you don't have kids, that we need to build our life on the Lord Jesus Christ and be in subjection to His Lordship. And submitting to what he wants us to do, seeing what he teaches us, and then changing it, becoming a doer of the word, not just a hearer only. They both heard the same thing, but one thought, well, I'll just build it right here because it's simpler, it's faster, it's easier, it's what I've always known. And the other followed the instructions and built on the rock. Proverbs 1, verse number 5 says, A wise man will hear and will increase learning. A man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsel. The second man was a wise man. He built his house on the rock. Can I ask you, what are you building your life on? Is it your own opinion? Is it your own thoughts? Just running things the way you feel like? Again, anybody can make something go for a little bit. What I'm talking about is when the storm comes. You can make it function for a little while. That house that was built functioned as a home for a little while. It was beautiful. It was it was it probably had an amazing Outside looked every bit as beautiful as the one next to it. And yet, when the storm came, one was still there. And the other was gone. What I'm saying is sometimes in your life when you have built on the wrong things, when the storm comes, boy, it looked all pretty, it looked good. Man, I'm holding it together. I've got the world by the tail. I'm making things happen. But when your life's not built on Jesus Christ, that storm comes and it's going to leave great destruction in its wake. This is what we need to do. Maybe you're built in your life on what you know, what you personally know. That's just what most people do. Most people build their home and their family on what they know. The sad reality is what most people know about the home is woefully inadequate to build anything. I mean that's just the the the hard facts. They're woefully inadequate. Trying to find somebody that Brother Lee you don't play the piano right. So if I say we're gonna have a special tonight. Well Lee is going to come. He's going to play the piano for us. Everybody clapped. He came up to the front. Sat down here, kicked out his tails. What he knows about playing the piano is woefully inadequate. We would not expect him to be able to play this piano. He's heard a lot of beautiful songs though. He's listened to the best pianist in the world. But what he knows about making that happen is woefully inadequate. And the fact of the matter is, is most people, what they know about making a good home is woefully inadequate What we need to do is get into the book. We need to speak to and talk to people that have established a good home and found out find out from them how to do it. Following the biblical patterns. We need to have energy and time and effort invested in learning If he wanted to play the piano this time next year, over this next year, he would spend a lot of time studying and reading and practicing and preparing. to be able to play the piano. But for some reason two people stand up and they say, I do, and they're magically in they're in love. And so they walk into life and they're going to build a life together. But the fact of the matter is they know very little about how to do it. If you want to be better at it, it would behoove you to get a book or two on the home, on the family, on being a husband, on being a wife, on being a father, being a mother. raising kids for God and read about it. So you can see where you can improve and what areas you can. You're like, oh well it's just natural. Well, we see what just natural is producing. Let's try and prepare for the storm. Let's get some wisdom from God Charles Lawry tells a story of a salesman who sat down at a restaurant. He was on the road and He was hungry for some breakfast and he looked at the waitress and he said, could you please bring me some burnt toast? Bring me some watered-down scrambled eggs and some wheat coffee. Oh, and and make that coffee cold. The lady was a little quizzical. She turned and says, Is there anything else I can do for you? He says, Yeah. He says, When you bring the food, would you mind sitting across from me and nagging me for about thirty minutes? I'm a little homesick. That's the sad reality of many people's lives. Those jokes come from somewhere, because that's how many people live. But we don't need to live that way. It doesn't have to be that way. I'm asking you tonight, what is the foundation for your life? Are you building it on the rock that is Jesus Christ? What is the foundation for your family? Are you building it on the biblical truths? Not that you are or ever will be perfect. None of us will. You're going to make mistakes. You're human. But what is the foundation? What is it that gives you the stability in your home? We like to say here that God is not as concerned with where you're at as where you're going, the direction you're headed. You're here and you've got a couple of kids? And you say, well, we haven't really done that much studying on raising kids. We haven't really dug into that too much. Well, you can start now. The sooner the better, but it's never too late. You always can can start wherever you're at and learn what to do right now where you're at. So that you're functioning and building your home on the Lord Jesus Christ, every aspect of your home is dedicated and committed to what God would want. It's not what you want, but what God wants. That means, beloved, you don't let things into your home that God wouldn't want there. You don't involve your family or your kids in things that are not pleasing to the Lord. There's a consistent desire in your heart for your home to bring honor and glory to God. Is your home a picture of peace? Is your home a picture of the glory and honor of God, the love that Christ had for the church and that beautiful relationship? By the way, that includes in the way that you talk to one another, how you communicate Do you communicate to each other in a loving, compassionate, considerate way? Or do you allow your flesh to get in and respond to one another? Out of anger or malice. We're supposed to let all that all that's supposed to be put away, according to Colossians. I hope your home is built on the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're gonna have a home built on the Lord Jesus Christ, let me give you a couple of things. First of all, it's gonna be built on uh the salvation of all of the family members as soon as possible. The salvation of all family members as soon as possible. Listen, I know some of the kids in here are are young and they're not of that age yet, but listen, this ought to be high on your priority list To see everybody in your home saved and on their way to heaven, to have a relationship with Jesus Christ. So that is brought on by having a walk with God. Having good Christian music around your family so that they're being fed in their spirit by spiritual things, by having the Word of God in your home, by having the Word of God read around. By uh being faithful to the Lord's house, and you know that you want to see your family or kids get saved, get them, have them faithfully at church where they're gonna hear the message of the gospel. It also means you're going to separate from sin and the world. That's all sin. You're going to do your best to separate from sin. You're not going to be involved in it. That includes selfishness and laziness. And wrath, corruption. I mean the the things that we would look at ourselves, I think we ought to as as fathers and mothers and individuals that maybe you're in charge of your own home, you should say, Lord, is my home built on you? Is there anything in this home, is there anything here that you're not pleased with? And let the Holy Spirit speak to your heart and say, You know what? Mm you know this shouldn't be in the home You know those magazines shouldn't shouldn't be part of the home. Those books shouldn't be uh you know that particular music uh you know that There's some things here that you know, and the Holy Spirit will direct you, and you'll say, okay, I want to have a home that's built on the Lord Jesus Christ, that honor and glorifies God, and that means I'm going to take these things out of there. You're going to separate from sin and worldliness. Now your kids are not going to be perfect. There's times that your kids are going to make you proud as a parent. You're gonna stand back and be like, Yeah, that's my offspring. That's my son. Amen. That's my daughter. Praise the Lord They're such amazing kids. And there's times you're gonna want to go hide. I don't know whose child that is. I always say your child. Talking to Mary, your child is misbehaving again. There's times that they're going to disappoint you. Why? Because they're human. Just like we disappoint our Heavenly Father. Your kids aren't going to be perfect. Let me just let me just throw this out. The pastor's kids aren't going to be perfect either. I praise the Lord that as of right now they're still in subjection and they follow my authority and they they are doing for the most part what I ask of them to do. Um you know, you guys know that as far as I'm concerned If any of these children determine that they're going to go the way of the world and do what they want to do and disregard dad, that I'll step down as pastor. I believe that's part of the necessary qualifications as a pastor. that his home is to be in order and some people draw the line, well if they're past eighteen, they're no longer under you, whatever. But for me, I feel like this is what I would do. And if my children determine they're not going to follow God, then I would step down. For now, they're not perfect. But I praise the Lord that they at least desire to follow my will. Does that mean they don't that they don't have their own desires? Does that mean Satan doesn't tempt them to do things? That they know Dad wouldn't be pleased with? That they know the Lord's not pleased with? No. They do those things too. Because they're just like your kids. Because they're just like anybody else's kids. Because they're just like you and I. They're sinners So there's times that they make me proud, and there's times that I'm disappointed. When they disappoint me, what I have to do is bring them in, sit down They're they're at the age now that I don't spank 'em anymore. You see, if you aren't careful in how you handle your children, when they get to this age you'll no longer have any influence in their life. You see, there has to be a transition between the time where you discipline them when they're little. This age, it's 100% discipline. The problem with society is they want to make this age influence. No, this is discipline. They respond because if they don't, they're going to get a spanking. But sometime between this age and this age, there's a transition that has to take place as you win and earn the heart of your child to where now they want to please you And they do what you want them to do because of the influence that you have in their life. And that's how a 21-year-old will look at his father and say, what do you want me to do? And you can't buy that with anything. That's a miracle that only happens Through doing the best you can to follow God's plan. And I say the best you can because I stand up here a testament of somebody who who messed up more than he got it right. But God's grace because of the direction that we were headed. Not because there was never times in our lives where we weren't doing it right. Not because there was never times in our lives where the kids were messing up and doing wrong. Not because there wasn't times where they they didn't respond correctly or didn't, but there was a direction that we were headed, and by God's grace, he brought them along. You're gonna salvation, a home that's built on Jesus Christ. We're talking about a godly Christian home. What does that look like? What is that some people like, well, how do you have a Christian home? Well, you have the salv save salvation of all the members. You have a separation from sin in the world. Your home shouldn't look like every other home out there. There ought to be something different. We're talking about a godly home. How do you have a godly home? A home built on Jesus Christ. There's separation from sin in the world. There's a cooperation with Christ. That means you do what God wants you to do. That means you're at church. There's a cooperation with Jesus Christ. You serve the Lord together. You replace those things that you remove from your life with things that God would be pleased with. You put those things in there. You learn how to forgive one another as Christ forgave us. You learn how to love as Christ loves us. This is what a godly home does. You provoke one another to love and good works. In a godly home, you provoke one another to love and good works. You know, there's been many times in my life that I did not want to have family devotions. Now you guys know we have family devotions every night. Since Elisa was born, it's just something that we decided we were going to do. You know, there's been many times I didn't want to do it. But Mary would say, we need to have devotion. Now say, oh you're so spiritual. Just kidding. That never happened. No, just her little you know, sometimes it came from the kids. The kids would come in when they were real little. They would come in with the Bible. Are we having devotions tonight? Yeah, we're having devotions tonight. In my mind, I'm like, I sure don't want to. I was in the middle of this project building something really nice. It's time for devotions. Gotta stop and go upstairs or go over, get out of the you know, leave the barn. Go go sit down. But you know, you're like, what are you gonna tell your kid? No, we're not doing that. You know, it they provoked me. You provoke one another to love and good works. There's sometimes you as a husband you're going to be spiritually weak and you need the spiritual strength of your mate. Don't be upset when she's the spiritual one. A lot of times that's the case. Women tend to be a little more spiritual than us guys. That's just the nature of things. I don't know why that is, but they they tend to be, the women tend to be a little bit closer to God, I think, than we are. And, you know, let that be an encouragement to you. Let it be a blessing to you. You know, I come in and see my wife reading her Bible every day She's taken up reading it on the iPad, you know, so she's not very spiritual because she's reading it on the iPad. Yeah. You know, but that that provokes me. Like man, I didn't do my reading today yet. Why, but just seeing her do right. We provoke, and that's what a Christian home does. You provoke one another to love and good works. You serve God together. I'd encourage you, serve God together. Get involved in the ministries of the church. Do something together Mary grew up on the bus route, but it was not because uh her parents sent her to go serve on the bus route. Her mom and dad went and served on the bus route and they took the three kids with them. They did that together as a family. You can serve the Lord as a family. Come to work party as a family. And that d by the way, that doesn't mean come and and send your kids to Miss Laura and say, Hey Miss Laura, can you keep my kids while I wash the wind? No, if you're serving together as a family, that means you come and And you take your six-year-old and say, okay, here's how you vacuum the floor. We're going to vacuum this floor. And you do it together. Say, listen, okay, nope, you missed the spot right here. It's a time for training and working together. We're serving God. Isn't this fun? Look at you did all you did all that all by yourself. Good job. And you encourage them and you you serve the Lord together. Listen, we're going to get this floor swept right here. Here's how you do this. And you you teach them and work with them. And as they grow, they'll get involved in the other ministries of the church, serving in other aspects. Won't be long, and Alyssa's going to be teaching Sunday school. Not too many years. Gotta start studying. Make sure you're listening in those Bible classes. So you're ready. Yeah, it's just the the progression of events As you serve the Lord together, let me give you lastly tonight the certainty. The certainty is, beloved, that in this passage of Scripture, the Lord says that the storm comes and it blows on the house. the the the stream whips veheminently upon the home. And the fact of the matter is, the Bible tells us that it rains on the just and the unjust. And that storms are going to come. Every single relationship has storms. Every family has storms. Sometimes we we look back from across the church and And you see somebody else and you think, boy, I wish I had a relationship like them, or I wish I had a family like them. But you don't know what storms they've been through. And praise the Lord if by God's grace they've come through the storms and they're still strong. But what I'm saying is y you might have a little window, a little picture of what it is right now, but you y y you don't know what they've endured in the past. Beloved, I've sat down with people that were broken and their homes ready to split. People that have been married less than a year. That our we're done. We're we're we're leaving each other. And people that have been married for over fifty. You would think somebody married over fifty years would have it figured out But the fact of the matter is with the changes of life, the changes in personality that happen when you get older. Right, Don? These changes of things that take place. There's new dynamics that come into play and things have to be adjusted and accordingly. But what you've got to do is have the right foundation so that when those storms come, you will weather it you'll be able to come out the other side. And I guess I'm just saying is that everybody has storms. You're not the only one going through it. And other people came through successfully, you can come through successfully. You can rebuild, you can make it out the other side. If you're have the right foundation. And by the way, if you haven't thus far built the right foundation, start today. Start now. You can start now. You can start implementing and put that's the amazing thing about our Lord and Savior. It's never, well, it's too late for you. Not with God. It's never too late. And God can work miraculous things and put back. I mean He is In the job of repairing and using broken vessels. Amen? I would say every one of us are just a broken vessel that's been put back together by an Almighty God and used for His honor and glory. So the storm's going to come, it's a certainty. The question is, is your house going to be built on the right foundation?