Verse number twenty seven is where we'll begin uh this morning. Hebrews chapter nine As you know, we have been doing discipleship throughout this year at the church here with some groups of people and others doing it with uh other individuals. If that's what you're interested in, feel free to grab a form off the Welcome Center and you can sign up and go through. There's lots of people that are eager to teach someone and take them through the discipleship curriculum. But This uh we just fin it finished doing uh level two with the group uh in the church and going through level two there there were topics that really uh stirred my heart as I were going along with them and gave me ideas for the lessons we're dealing with, with rightly dividing. the word, um not last week, but the week before, when we talked about the difference between the indwelling and the filling of the Holy Spirit, along with the baptism of the Holy Spirit. That was something that kind of came out of those discipleship lessons, uh stirred my thoughts there Uh this week will be the same and uh that it came from that that study of lessons that we're gonna look at the idea of rightly dividing the judgments, understanding The different judgments in the Bible, uh when they happen, who they happen to, why are they happening, things like that, and really will help clarify what We should we all know and we all should be very familiar with, but to help us to explain it to somebody who's not saved to give them the distinction and understanding between uh the different judgments and how they need to be uh prepared uh for those So we have this idea of we're going to we're going to be judged and after uh that comes after our death and there's going to be a judgment. Which judgment are you going to? There are a couple that are mentioned in the Bible, so today we're going to look at the distinction between those. My goal for next week is to look at the topic in the rightly dividing the word of the will of God. That also is uh stemming out of uh that that discipleship series broadening broadening that idea a little bit uh to us. So that should be an exciting study to look forward to next week. I have some work to put in between now and uh and then but I'm looking forward to that. But this morning we're going to start with the idea of rightly dividing the judgment. So if you found your place there in Hebrews 9, verse number 27, I'll go ahead and read that. You can follow along as I read It says there, and as it was appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. Let's go open with word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for today, the time we have to be in your house this morning. I pray that you would uh bless the messages that come from your word uh today in the Sunday school hour, the morning service, the Evening service, Lord, give uh strength uh to those who are speaking, Lord, and teaching, even the classes downstairs, uh, Lord, and wisdom to deal with your word and and handle it carefully, Lord. Pray you'd help us as we study the Bible this morning that we would learn something from it. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So we have this idea when this in this in our text verse that everyone that ever has or ever will live has two appointments. They have appointments that they're not going to miss. It is appointed. There is an appointment that's made, and what is the appointment? Well the first appointment is with death. Everyone that ever has lived or ever will live is going to die That is an appointment that we have. Now we know that there are some exceptions to that everyone that that there were men in the Old Testament, Enoch, and and um Elijah that were translated to heaven and and did not see see death, we know that um those who are here in the rapture will will not go through uh death the same way that we are familiar with. They will be the Bible says that they will be changed as this uh corruptible body puts on incorruption so this flesh will be be dropped off and so there that's a little bit different but in general um for almost everyone and for many of us here if the Lord tarries well all of us here if the Lord tarries We have an appointment. An appointment uh with death. But then there's a second appointment as well. Most most people are aware of that. They like to forget about the fact that they have an appointment with death, but They also don't like to think about the fact that there's appointment after death, because after death comes a judgment. Everyone knows this to some extent. We looked earlier in this study when we were talking about rightly dividing the law, that there is a law of God that's been written on the hearts of men. That we know because we are created, we know there is a creator, and knowing that there is a create creator, we know there is right and there is wrong. And there's accountability to that Creator. That's written in the hearts of man. How God's moral law was written in man's heart. And so men men know, all men know that they are responsible to their creator for the way that they have lived their lives. Almost everybody that I've ever witnessed to has had some idea of how they think things will go for them after their death. There are very few people who have not just forced themselves to believe this that think that the death is where everything ends. Everybody knows that after death there is something else. And that's the idea of eternity in the heart of man that God put there. We know that we have an eternal soul that's going to live forever somewhere. Every religion has tried to answer the question of what happens after we die. The most common belief that is out there when it comes to what happens after death is the idea of the scales. Um I'm gonna I'm gonna go before God and all my good stuff's gonna get put over here and all my bad stuff's gonna be put over here. We're gonna see see how it weighs out and everybody thinks that the good side is gonna weigh out and they're gonna go to heaven. That's where where everybody that I've talked to that believes that are convinced that their good works are going to are going to get them there. There are even um Ancient Egyptian drawings that depict this idea of someone who has died and you know how they tell a story in their hieroglyphic pictures that shows them death and then them standing before one of their gods and then there's a set of scales that are there that are weighing that this idea has permeated. mankind uh throughout history, but it's not it's not true. The Bible teaches clearly what's going to happen after we die, and it gives us this answer. We don't have to guess or surmise or to develop our own religion God has described his judgment in his word, and if we rightly divide between the judgments, we can understand why man's religion does not line up with the word of God. As we see our text verse here, this idea of an appointment. And when you have an appointment, there's some things that you do when you have one of those, whether it's an appointment for business and you're going to have have a meeting, whether it's an appointment for for you're gonna sell something, they're selling something on Facebook marketplace, you set up a time um that you can that you can meet somebody and you you have an appointment and Maybe the doctor or the dentist, you have an appointment and you should do some things in preparation for that appointment. Now if you've ever sold some something uh online. You know people don't. Uh people today are not very good with appointments. Um that that they uh there are a lot of times I just happened to be on Friday somebody was going to be there at twelve thirty and uh they still haven't gotten here So wait, waiting for and they someone told me that they were running late. So it is uh people today can't be counted on for appointments, but You have the idea of getting ready for appointment. Let's use the example of a dentist appointment. How many people like dentist appointments here? Alright, anyway, nope, nobody likes nobody likes going to oh Susani, you like going to the dentist? I never minded going to the dentist as young person because I never had any cavities, so it never hurt um to go to the dentist. My brother and sister didn't didn't care so much for the dentist. It didn't bother me one way um or the other, but going to the dentist When you have a dentist appointment, you remind yourself that it's coming. You set a reminder, either your phone, you put it on their calendar. Now the dentist office will call you the week before and say, just so you know, you have this appointment And you're you're reminding yourself of that. And and you're you're doing things to prepare for that. And if we c kind of tie that back to our idea of our appointment with death. It's something we should remind ourselves through as we live our life that, hey, I've got this appointment coming up, that I'm going to die and I'm going to stand before God. And I need to keep in mind that that appointment is coming. Something else you'll do to prepare for an appointment is that you'll change your behavior with that appointment in mind. As you get close to that appointment, you're going to realize, oh, he's going to ask me. um if I've been flossing. So I'm gonna start today. Um and I'll be flossing. So when he when he I I I read about a guy who was at the dentist and he said uh the dentist says, so when was the last time you flossed The guy said, Well you should remember you were there. Um and so So you you change your behavior because this appointment is coming and I I need to be ready to answer the the dentist questions. And yes I've given up coffee for for two days. Um and I haven't been eating sweets this morning. And I had you you get you change your behavior to get ready uh for your appointment. You follow any instructions you were given in preparation for the appointment. Maybe not so much for the dentist, but sometimes the doctor, hey, before you come, you need to make sure that you drink a gallon of water, and you need to make sure he gives you some instructions to do before your appointment, and you make sure you take care of those You uh when you go to the dentist, you're getting ready for the appointment, you will do what? You you brush your teeth. Um when I was a young person and my mom would say, all right, we've got to go to the dentist today, go ahead and brush your teeth. I say, why? He's going to do that. He's going to do a better job than I do. So that's wasting time for me to do it if he's going to do it anyway as you get there. But you you get ready for that appointment You have an appointment with death, and you have an appointment for the judgment. Are you ready for your appointment? Life is given to us as preparation for eternity. We have life in order to prepare for eternity. If you take a timeline of your life and you say, I've been alive for this many years, or let's give everybody here a hundred years of life, and say you have a hundred years to live. That's that's that's nothing when you compare it to eternity. Um there there is no timeline to eternity. There there they're there it's it's just forever and our mind can't comprehend that but But picture your hundred year life as a as a as a piece of yarn maybe about this long, two inches or so and say, that's my that's my hundred years that I have. And then you take this whole room and fill it to the roof all the way every wall packet full of yarn, that's a part of eternity. And where does your life fit into eternity? But we spend so much time focusing on this that we forget about everything else. Life is given to us to prepare for eternity And I know there are things that we have to do in life that are necessary for us to live our lives. We have to go to work. We have to earn a living. We have to provide for our families. We have to sleep. We have to uh take take some time when when we're not feeling well to to recover. There's things we have to do that that are geared towards this life and the time that we have on earth, but we need to keep in mind that our time on earth is to help us prepare, uh is given to us for us to prepare for eternity. Someone said only one life will soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ will last You know, almost nothing that you do will be remembered by your great grandchildren. And that's your family, not even considering the rest of the rest of the world. Just out of curiosity, is there anyone here that can name all eight of their great grandparents? Alright? One. I can name four of them of my great-grandparents. We have one in here that can name all of their great-grandparents. My sister probably can because she's working on a on a book of family history. Um so she's getting more of that information. But Just right there. You don't know what your great-grandparents did. And they invested their life into this earth just as much as you are. And their impact didn't reach their family in just a couple generations. So it should keep us in mind we've got this appointment coming, and after this appointment is eternity. Are we getting ready for that? Are you doing anything, any preparations for your appointments? So these appointments, we have the appointment for death, then we have the judgment. So so what what judgments are we talking about? What judgment takes place? Well there are Different judgments in the Bible, and that's what we're going to be looking at this morning to discuss the differences and to rightly divide between these. We're going to start with the judgments for believers. The judgments for believers. There are three types of judgment that are related to us as Christians. We have past judgment. Past judgment. This is where all of our sins were judged on the cross. If you are a Christian today, Jesus was judged for your sins. And he took the punishment for your sin, he took the judgment for your sin, your sins were judged on the cross, and that is done with. If you notice the prophecy in um Isaiah 53, surely he hath borne our iniquities, and carried our sorrows. Yet d we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgression, he was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes. we are healed. Most of the references in that verse, actually all the ones that deal with the judgment that took place for our sins are in what tense? Past tense. He was judged for our sins. And that what is it how does it end with? By his stripes we are healed. We're healed today because the sin was judged. at the cross. And this is um this is really interesting because this is spoken about 900 years before Christ, talking about what he would accomplish on at the cross in past tense, which kind of ties back to what was said about Jesus being a lamb slain before the foundation of the world. But all of our sin is judged as Christians has been judged at the cross. That is our past judgment We will not be judged for our sins if you have put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, because those sins were judged by God and the judgment was carried out by Christ on the cross. Then we have the present judgment of Christians. We know that we're supposed to judge ourselves. We have this command given to us in the context of the Lord's Supper in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 that we should judge ourselves, examine ourselves, to to look at um the way that we're living and if there's anything in our heart and our life that is displeasing to the Lord So we want to make sure that we are judging ourselves, looking at our life and comparing it with the Word of God and saying, do I line up with the Scriptures? That's a judgment that we should be constantly doing. uh to ourselves to prepare ourselves for the coming judgment when we stand before Christ. So we have the idea that we're supposed to judge ourselves. We also have the idea of chastisement. We've talked about this in detail in some other lessons, but the fact that God will punish disobedient Christians. If you have been disobedient to the Lord, if you're not living right, if you are living in sin. God will punish you. In Hebrews chapter um ten, ten, eleven, twelve, somewhere in there that they deal with this idea of If you are a child of God, you will face God's chastisement for your sin. There is right there, Hebrews chapter 12, verses 5 through 11. And specifically verses six and seven says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God deals with you as sons. For what son is he whom the Father chaseth not? So we have the present judgment of believers, being that we are to judge ourselves, and we also face uh discipline by God for our sin, and then we have the future judgment. The future judgment of Christians is what takes place at the judgment seat of Christ. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse number 10, the Bible says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. So we will appear If you are a Christian, you will appear before the judgment seat of Christ. So we're going to look at that a little bit more in detail about this judgment, because this is kind of the focus of today, comparing and actually contrasting this judgment with the great white throne judgment. So if you take your Bible and turn to First Corinthians chapter three with me. First Corinthians chapter three Verses eleven down through verse number fifteen. The Bible says therefore foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Christ Jesus. Or sorry, Jesus Christ. Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest. For the day shall declare it because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward If any man's works shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. So we have this judgment. Um this judgment that is described here when we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ and be judged as believers. What is the purpose of this judgment? Well the purpose, first of all, it is that it is for the uh for the Christians not for the unsaved. We know that from the passage here because it talks about somebody who has a foundation that's been laid in their life. The foundation of Jesus Christ. For no for other foundation can no man lay than that is laid uh Jesus Christ. And so we have this foundation laid in their life, and that means they're a Christian, because that foundation has been there. There are no unsaved people at this judgment, and we'll see why in a in a in a minute another proof for that But this judgment is for Christians. And it is given to examine a believer's service, not to determine his salvation. Your salvation was already decided before you showed up here because the foundation is already in place. They're not judging the foundation. There's no judgment of the foundation of this verses. It's what's put on top of the foundation that's judged in these verses, not the foundation itself Your foundation in Jesus Christ happens the moment you put your faith and trust in Him. And then you're going to start to build upon that foundation things in your life, and that's what God's going to judge, your service, not whether you're saved or not. First Corinthians 3, verse number 8 says, He that now he that planteth and he that watereth are one, and every man shall receive his own reward according to his labor. You're rewarded for your labor. That's what the judgment here is for. This judgment by Christ, at the judgment of Christ, again, it's not for our sin because that was already taken care of. Our sins were already judged. at the judgment seat of Christ, it's our service that gets judged. What do we do? What have we done for God? So it is for believers. It is for our service, not our salvation. And it is not a judgment that gives out punishment. It's a judgment that results in either rewards or a loss of rewards. Excuse me. So there is a judgment of either rewards or lost rewards not to get punished. This isn't a judgment where you're giving out punishments. This is also referred to as the Bhima Seat judgment, and the picture that's given of that is of the the Olympic race. And as the marathon w would be run, you you come around and you come to the winners, come to the to the judgment table. The judges are going to determine how the race was run and you're going to be rewarded for for your race. You're not punished by those judges. They give you out a reward or no you were not rewarded. That's the type of judgment this is. This isn't one where people are being punished because again, our sins were punished on the cross The wrath of God was poured out on Jesus Christ for us. So the purpose of the judgment is for the Christians. It's to determine our service, and it is to do with losses of rewards or to be rewarded. We see that in the verses that we just read in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Now, how about the timing of this judgment? When does this happen? The judgment seat of Christ takes place immediately after the rapture. When Jesus comes back and he is in the clouds and the trumpet sounds and we're going to be caught up together to meet him in the air, and we're going to go to heaven with him, and then we are going to experience the judgment seat of Christ. There are a couple verses um at at that uh that refer to that. Well one here is um second Timothy chapter four verse number eight. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day, not to me only, but also to all them that love his appearing. So this is a something that takes place after the rapture and it takes place in heaven. So again, how do we know that it's going to be for Christians? Well it's happening in heaven and it's happening after the rapture when Christians have been taken to heaven. So that is again the judgment seat of Christ takes place in heaven after the rapture for believers, not for punishments, but to give out rewards. What is the foundation of this judgment? The foundation we saw already was Jesus Christ. That's what the judgment is based on. If you have the foundation of Jesus Christ, you will be going to this judgment. And then the standard that you'll be judged by is the standard of the Word of God. The basis of the judgment is the Word of God. John 12, 48, He that rejecteth me and receiveth not my words hath one that judges him. The word that has spoken, the same will judge him in the last day. The word of God is what we're going to be judged by And the context of the judgment is the local church. If you're still there in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, look at verse number 9. It says, For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. Before he goes into us going and what work we've done that's going to be judged by God and is going to be rewarded, he's laying the foundation. There's a lot more to deal with this chapter about how it revolves around our work we did with Christ. and other fellow laborers within the church. The context is the local church. That's where God is i is working in the world today. Um it's where we serve the Lord. We serve through uh the the authority of the local church. That's where God the way God has it set up So the context there is the local church. When we see the judgment, not our sin, but our service, and so it has to do with with these materials. What's going on top? of this foundation. You have Christ laid in your life at the moment of salvation, and some people get saved and never do anything. And so when they get to when they get to heaven, there's just going to be the foundation there. Just a slab and never had anything put on top of it You have others who have spent their life investing into all sorts of things that had no eternal value. And it may look beautiful. It may be big. It may be ornate, but when God puts the fire of judgment to it to see, did this have eternal worth? Did this have eternal value? The Bible says it's all going to burn up. And there are others who have put into their life things of eternal value, and God typifies that by gold, silver, and precious stones. And he says those things are going to abide. There's things that are going to abide, and there's things that are going to be lost. And it's what you do with your life in this life in preparation for eternity. Remember what I said at the beginning, time is given to us to prepare for eternity. And so you are, if you're here today and you're saved, you have that foundation in your life. What are you putting on that foundation? What are you investing your life in? What are you serving? How are you serving God? What are you putting in that has eternal value? Because that's the only thing that's going to last. when we get to when we get to heaven. All the other things that we could accumulate in this life that are just temporal, those have no eternal value. We're judged on the materials of our labor, not the magnificent We are judged on the quality of our labor, not the quantity. We are judged on our obedience, not our outcomes, when it comes to how we are judged here at the judgment seat of Christ. And we see that there is a reward that's given, but there's also a loss of rewards that takes place at the judgment seat of Christ. There is a loss that's associated with this judgment. Now, first of all, most importantly, this loss will not be salvation. You cannot come to this judgment having done nothing for God and God say, Well, I'm taking away your foundation. Look at the last verse we read in verse number 15. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss but he himself shall be saved. Yet so as by fire. Once you're saved, you can't do anything to change that, and and that's not an excuse to just go do nothing with your life, because th th this time is a time of loss and you're going to be ashamed If you experience loss of this judgment, but you this judgment is not going to result in somebody having lost their salvation. The loss, we understand, will be the loss of rewards. 2 John 1, verse number 8 refers to us receiving a full reward. A full reward. But he also talks about us not losing the things we've wrought. He says you can lose what you've wrought or you can receive a full reward. And that's up to you. That God has a a full reward in store for you, but not everybody's going to get the full reward because they're going to lose some of those rewards that they could have had. How do we lose rewards? Well we lose rewards when we seek man's approval. We know from Matthew chapter six, those that pray publicly to get man's approval, to get man's applause. Um the Bible says they've got the reward. God could have rewarded you for that prayer, but you went to go get the acclamates of men and uh you got your reward already. And the reward God had in heaven for you, it went onto the lost table. and said he's not going to get um that one. So we can lose rewards when we seek man's a approval. Uh when we want everybody to notice uh what we what we did, I listened the other day to um some some comedian that was talking about how Uh they got to work early the other day. And when they get to work early, they like to make sure everybody knows. So they'll they'll they'll be in a meeting and say, well yeah, when I was here at 6. 30 this morning Uh I noticed that too. And uh and they'll just just make sure everybody knows they were there. That's that's that's this idea. I want to make sure everybody knows what I did for God. Well, then that's a reward that's been lost. Um Now, just a just a side note here, for someone else to notice what you've done for God doesn't mean you're losing your reward. For for us to say, hey, thank you so much for your service at VBS, it's like, oh no, no, I don't get that reward. That's not how that that is not how it works. It's your motive of your heart. Did you kind of EBS or everybody saw you working? Well then you lost your rewards. If we noticed you working, we said you did a good job, that didn't take your reward uh away. Some people get that that get that confused, so I thought I'd throw that in there So we lose our rewards if we seek man's approval. We can lose our rewards if we have the wrong motives. Paul talks about he could do all these things where he could give his uh give all of his goods. to feed the poor, give his body over to be burned, and but if he does it without love, without charity, it didn't do him any good. Um if you didn't have the right motive when you were serving, when you were giving, if your motives were wrong, it it didn't it didn't profit you We also see that loss will happen by failure to labor. Let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. You're going to get a reward for working as long as you don't quit working. And so you serve God, God will reward you for it. Now, what are the rewards that happened here at the judgment seat of Christ? There's a lot of rewards described in the Bible. The judgment seat of Christ is the time of giving out those rewards. Some of those rewards are crowns. We've taught on those before. There are five crowns there. There's a reference in 2 Peter to there being an abundant entrance That's possible for a Christian. There are treasures that are stored up in heaven. There are rewards that are given. There is a place that's prepared for us There is a glorified body we will receive. Jesus told us that there would be some who would be greatest and some who would be the least in the kingdom, um eternal kingdom. He talked about those who faith were faithful in that which is least, would also also be faithful in much. He told us how our stewardship on earth would directly tie to our authority in his eternal kingdom. There are degrees of punishment in hell and there are degrees of reward in heaven. There are seats in heaven, and there is rank in seating arrangements, and there's an incorruptible inheritance. All these are different types of rewards that the Bible describes. And it's at the judgment seat of Christ that rewards are given out. So there are uh there are a lot of things that God wants to reward you with. God, yeah, I picture it this way that there is a a if we just visualize a a warehouse in heaven that says Derek Renshaw's potential rewards. And God has them all there for me. And I could receive a full reward. But there's I'm sure there's been a lot of times where God said to take something out of that warehouse and go put it off the side and say, well he's not going to get that one. There's been a loss of rewards. And I'm going to see you, this is what you could have had. But this is what you lost. Um and that's the that's the loss of rewards that takes place um for those who stand at the at the judgment seat seat of Christ. Just like you would deal with a child and and you give them a promise of a reward if an action is done. If I tell my my my children Okay, if you guys get your room clean, we will get to go we'll get to box tonight. Um I boys like to to do some boxing. I got some gloves for 'em They gotta clean their floor beforehand so nobody lands face first on the Lego while we're boxing. So if you get your room cleaned by this time, you will get the reward of getting to box. And if I come in at that and the room is not clean, they have lost the reward. Um that they have that not necessarily gonna get get punished if the disobedience continues, they'll get punished for that, but It's a loss of a reward, and that's what's going to happen for the judgment seat of Christ for believers is that there is a loss of loss of rewards. So what should our perspective be when it comes to this judgment? It should motivate us. Motivate us to be spiritual. We see that in the beginning of 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. It should motivate us to be busy for the Lord. We see that in verses 9 and 10. And it should motivate us to be faithful to God in 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 2 through 4. So as Christians, as we look ahead, We have an appointment coming. And what are we doing in preparation for that appointment? Are we being spiritual? Are we being busy? Are we being. faithful. So that's the judgment for us as believers. Understand our sins were judged at the cross. We need to judge our behavior against the Word of God now. But there's an appointment coming where we're going to stand before Christ and we're going to answer for our service to Him to either be rewarded or to suffer loss. But we also understand that there is the judgment of unbelievers. That was judgments related to believers. There's also the judgment of unbelievers. The judgment of unbelievers. There is a future judgment of unbelievers that's going to take place here on earth, and that's during the tribulation period. While we are in heaven being rewarded by Christ for our service to Him, God is going to be judging mankind and the earth during the tribulation period. There are twenty-one judgments described in the in the um in in the book of Revelation. We have the seven judgments of the seals, we have the seven judgments of the trumpets, and we have the seven judgments of the vi um for its sin. That'll be taking place while we're in heaven, being rewarded by Christ. Mankind on earth will be being judged by God. But ultimately, the unbelievers are going to be judged at the great white throne judgment. Let's take our Bibles to Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20 Verses eleven through fifteen, we'll go ahead and read those. Revelation 20, verse number 11, and I saw a great white throne. And him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to their works And death and hell were cast in the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. So we have here described for us the great white throne judgment. What's the timing of this judgment? This judgment takes place after the millennial kingdom and before eternity begins. Our time in God's eternal kingdom begins. Eternity doesn't really begin, but you understand what I'm saying there. That we're going to come out of the millennial kingdom, there'll be the great white throne judgment, and then there will be a eternity forever It occurs before the establishment of the new heaven and the new earth. And when we look at this judgment, we see who's participating, we understand that God is going to be judging those who are there, and those who are there are the unsaved. Only the unsaved are resurrected to this judgment. The saved are already resurrected and they are reigning with Christ. We know that from the beginning of the chapter, that those who are saved, we've already gone through our judgment. We have gone through the marriage supper of the Lamb. We have returned with Christ. We've ruled and reigned with him for a thousand years Then now the heaven and earth have fled away. There is this great white throne judgment, and there is another resurrection, and that's the resurrection of the unsaved to the great white throne judgment. So what is the purpose of this judgment? Again, it is not to determine their salvation. That's decided beforehand. That's decided beforehand. That's decided during life. You don't get to get to the judgment and then they're going to pick, okay, are you saved or not? Because there is a judgment where Christians go, and there is a judgment where unsaved uh the people who are not Christians go. The saved go to one judgment, the unsaved Go to the other judgment, there's no option for a judgment where we get to go decide. The decision takes place during this life. It is not to determine salvation. It is to provide a fair judgment as the works are reviewed. We see that people are judged out of the books. We have the book of life, the book of Works, we have the Word of God, and we've talked about this idea in one of our other studies on God's library. But we see here that this is the judgment where people are judged based on their works. Look at verse number 13 The very end of the verse, they were judged, every man according to their works. Now we go back to what we talked about at the beginning, people what people think about When it comes to what they believe about the judgment, they've come with their own idea, is I'm going to stand before God and I'm going to be judged for my works. That's what their idea is. And unfortunately that's true. If you don't get saved, you're going to stand up for God and be judged for your works. But it's not going to turn out the way that you want it to. Because everybody who's judged by their works ends up in the lake of fire. If you stand before God and you have to answer for your works, You end up in the lake of fire. It's not a decision to get there and say, okay, God, here's my works. What do you think? No, it's those are your works. This is how bad you're going to have it. And the eternal fate is already decided Everyone at this judgment is going to be cast in the lake of fire. If someone is judged on their works, it will result in the eternal damnation in the lake of fire. There is there this is the judgment where people are judged by works and and you don't want to be judged that way. So as we understand and we look at well what about our judgment? What are we going to do? When we look at what the Bible says, there are these two judgments, one for the unsaved and one for the saved. And at the unsaved, yes, you're going to answer for your works. As Christians, our works, meanings of the things that we've done that are right and wrong, those are answered by Christ at the cross. and we're going to be rewarded for our service. But when it comes to I've done good, I've done bad, here's my life, what it's added up to, that's brought out. at the Great White Throne Judgment. And as the books are open, and it's recorded what you have done, and then you are guilty before God. So this purpose of this judgment is to review the works and it's to determine the severity of their judgment. There's a couple verses that refer to having a greater damnation and the the parable giving given where some shall be given few stripes and others shall be given many stripes. And there's there's a severity of judgment that is described when it comes to the great white throne judgment. Another thing that will happen at this judgment, kind of a separate from this idea of what's going to happen to the unsaved, is that the angels will be judged at this judgment as well. Satan, the Antichrist, and the false prophet, by this time have already been put into the lake of fire. And we know that the lake of fire was prepared for Satan and the sending angels. Matthew chapter 25, verse 41 says Then he shall say unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels. And we know there are some angels that have already been bound and they're waiting to be judged in this day. And we're told in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 that as Christians we're going to be involved in the judgment of angels. He said to them, There, know ye not that we shall judge angels. So the angels are judged here well at the great white throne judgment. So when looking at the idea uh uh of our Sunday school series here right, I want to I want to clearly distinguish these two judgments. So as we're talking to somebody and they say, well here's what I think is going to happen, well that that's not that's not what happens And even in some ways that we we present the gospel, we can kind of give a give a false uh uh idea to somebody of what they think is going to happen when they die. So what's the difference between these two judgments? We see, first of all, that they take place at different times. The judgments for the saved take place after the rapture in heaven. The Great White Throne judgment of the unsafe takes place at the end of the millennial kingdom. It's over a thousand years apart. There's two different judgments over a thousand years apart where these two judgments happen. There are different times They take place in different places. One is in heaven. When you're a Christian, you're going to go to heaven in the rapture. The other takes place in the presence of God because the earth and the heaven have fled away, and it's it's the unsafe standing before God, and the lake of fire is is somewhere there in the in the area and those are cast in as they are judged for their works. So they're in different places. These judgment ha judgments have different purposes. One judgment is to give out rewards, one judgment is to give out punishment. And so they're very different in that way. These judgments have different participants. One is a judgment of Christians, one is a judgment of the unsaved. And we see that these judgments have different outcomes. Those of the judgment seat of Christ will get to enter into his rest with the rewards that they have brought with them from their their service that they've sent, laid up treasure in heaven. Those of the great white throne judgment are cast into the lake of fire There is no general judgment described in the Bible. No time when you get to get to go and stand at the gate and talk to Peter and say, okay, Peter, here's why I should be allowed um in the in the heaven. No time to argue your case before God and say, God, here's here's why I think you should let me in in the heaven and and give these no no time for that laid out in scriptures. No listing off our good works and our bad works to try to determine our eternal state. For both judgments, your eternal state is decided before you go to the judgment. That decision is made before you leave this earth And if you after you leave this earth, there is no other chance you're going to have to change your result, to change your answer, to argue on your own behalf before God when it comes to change your eternal state. There's no purgatory where you could suffer for a little while while your family bribes the church enough to play to buy you a spot in heaven. There is there this is not described. We have these judgments. If you're saved, you're going here. If you're unsaved, this is the judgment you're going to face. They have different outcomes, they have different purposes, they take place at different times. And so as we're talking to somebody and and we're witnessing to them and say, well, I'm just gonna do this. Well, when are you gonna do that? Because the Bible says that when you die, this is what's gonna happen. Your soul is going to either go to hell or your soul is going to go to heaven, and then you're going to await the time of a judgment. And your judgment's going to happen at the judgment seat of Christ if you're saved. And your judgment's gonna happen at the Great White Throne judgment if you're not saved. If you go here to the Great White Throne judgment to show God your works, you're gonna end up like a fire. If you go here because you've trusted Christ, well then you get to go and spend eternity with the Lord to be rewarded for your service. And we can give a clear Bible answer and and not have this d unsurety of of well what's gonna happen and what am I gonna say and and how am I gonna present my case and and what do I need to do We have clear answers from the Word of God when it comes to the judgments that are coming for the unsaved as well as for the saved. So this gets us back to where we started with the idea of preparing for our appointment. Make sure you're going to the right appointment. You're going to be at one of these two. You want to be over here. You want to be at the judgment seat of Christ. And to do that, you have to make a decision for Christ now. If you never put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, if you've never repented of your sins and been saved, been born again, you are on your way to the great white throne judgment. You're headed for this appointment, but you can change your appointment. You can go to the judgment seat of Christ. All you have to do is put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. So you're going to one of these two appointments. So that's what how you prepare for this one is by not going because you put your faith and trust in Christ. Why don't you put your faith and trust in Christ, we need to start preparing for this one. We need to be busy about our Father's business. We need to be serving the Lord. We need to be be working for God. We need to be in the context of our our local church, doing something, doing things that have eternal value. Not just focused on today, not just focused on this life. This life is so small when we compare it to eternity. At the very bottom of your notes there, there is a third judgment described in the Bible we're not going to look at today. That is a judgment of nations. That has a very specific reference to something that happens during the tribulation period. But we don't have time to look at that today. I didn't think we would, but I just threw it on there just in case we we wouldn't have time. But rightly dividing between the judgments, there's the judgment seat of Christ and the Great White Throne judgment.