Amen. I wonder, beloved, if our faith is not a very good idea, really is strong enough to go ahead and be faithful if not. If God doesn't answer that prayer If God doesn't heal that loved one, if God doesn't meet that need, if God doesn't, as the story of the three Hebrew children, doesn't save you from the fire Would you still be faithful? Would you still follow him? Would you still love him? Would you still declare his glory? If not. It's a magnificent and a wonderful thing when we get to see and declare that God did save us. God did answer. God did meet the need. God did heal our loved one. But there's times in our lives for whatever reason and we may not understand this side of glory that God chooses not to answer that prayer quest. God chooses not to meet that need or Save that loved one from passing. And you know, will we still go honor him and declare our faithfulness to him Even in face of that. I hope so. That's truly really only when our faith is evident. Hm. We can all be faithful when the sun's shining, right? We can all be faithful when it's w when it's fun, when it's easy. But in the face of the fiery furnace would we be faithful I don't know. I hope so. I hope I would be true. I hope you would be true. I know it's your desire. Would you turn your Bibles this morning to 1 Corinthians? Chapter number two. I'm going to be in the book of 1 Corinthians this morning. This week I was searching through some documents. I was looking for some legal documents that our church has that uh Brother Glover needed some information out of. And he asked if we had a copy of it and so we were digging through the files. As we're digging through these files, I came across some contracts that were drawn up many years ago These contracts, 30, 40, 50 page documents full of legal verbiage That was, you know, just it's it's kind of crazy to me. I'm looking at this document. It's 30 pages of information. And it's so full of legal verbiage I don't even know what the document's about. I don't even know what it's a contract for. Like there's so many different things it's disgusting and so many uh looking at things from so many different perspectives and trying to you know, shield the the author of it from any uh reprisal or whatever that I'm looking at. I'm like I'm I'm four pages in and I don't even know what this is about yet. It it's mind-boggling. I I literally did not understand much of what I was reading because I have no legal training. I don't have that background reading these documents and How it applies or ties to us. I just didn't understand it. Well, Paul describes for us in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 somebody that doesn't understand spiritual things. Look in uh first Corinthians chapter number two, verses fourteen, fifteen. We're gonna see that today. Just reading verses 14 and 15, he says, But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself Is judged of no man. Paul describes for us here two men: the natural man and the spiritual man. He's describing here not man as in the male species, he's describing man as in mankind. It Is spoken of in a general way. You certainly could have a natural man or woman or a spiritual man or woman and he's describing them and Giving some information concerning them, but there's one stark difference between these men. The difference is not intellectual. The difference is not a difference in education. The difference is not describing a difference in physical strength or stamina. There's a stark difference, and Paul describes for us this difference. And this morning I want to speak to you about these two men. And one other individual that Paul describes for us in chapter number three. And the fact of the matter is, is this morning, every one of us here present, we are. Currently, one of these three men. There is no question. We all fall into one of these three categories. So I would like to speak to you about the three men that are present this morning. Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Lord, we come to you right now, and I humbly ask of you this morning that you would take your word. And Lord, I know the truth of what I'm sharing this morning is powerful. That it is without question what your word tells us, and each and every one of us here are currently in one of these three categories. That are clearly described for us in the scriptures. And I pray God we would have the ability to look into our own heart and to see where we're at And the motivation to move to where you want us to be. Bless this time around your word in Jesus' name. Amen. We have three men described here. First of all, in verse number 14, he mentioned the natural man. This natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They are foolishness unto him, neither can they know them because they are spiritually discerned. Paul identifies in here 1 Corinthians, he identifies for us, first of all, his message. And then his method, and then his motive for bringing the message, very clearly. If you look at chapter number two, just back up to the beginning in verse number two. He says, For I determine not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified So Paul's message to those that he was speaking to, and we know from testimony, his message by and large to the world that he went to on all of his missionary journeys was Jesus Christ crucified. The death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. He was preaching unto them the gospel. That is his message His method, beloved, he declares to us in verses 3 and 4, he says, and I was with you in weakness. Describing himself. He says, I'm a weak man. As far as men go, I I come to you and I don't have much strength in myself. He declares further, he says, that I come in fear and in much trembling. You know, you thought you were the only one afraid to share the gospel. You thought you were the only one that approached that task with fear and trembling. But the Apostle Paul says, here, I come to you in my weakness, I come to you in fear, and I come to you in trembling. He says, and my speech and my preaching was not with the enticing words of man's wisdom. Beloved, we see here his method in preaching the gospel. He says, but in demonstration of the Spirit and power. Beloved, if we're going to see God do a work, it has to be done in and through the power of God. Through the Spirit of God that uses us in the lives of people. It's not going to be our enticing words, it's going to be the Spirit of God That moves in the heart of men. And Paul's message was that of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and his method was that of relying on the power of God and the Spirit of God to move in the heart of men. And beloved, his motive was that he would reach the natural man with the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. With they might have an understanding of where they were and that they needed a Savior. He wanted to reach them. Now, beloved, God Is a triune God. We believe in God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Amen? Two people believe that? Do you believe that there's God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit? They are all three in one. They are one and three. It is They are all God. They're all individual. They are the persons of the Godhead. They can stand alone And they also are together. In our finite mind we can't understand or comprehend that entirely. A human illustration of that is the egg. The egg is the shell and it is the egg white and it is the yolk. They are all individual portions or part of the egg and you would call this is an egg, but they are all distinct parts of that or That illustration and a human aspect falls apart if you dig down into it too far, but ultimately it's not for us to be able to, you know, God's thoughts are higher than our thoughts. And you know, if we could understand everything about God, I would wonder about how powerful of a God He is. So it's not something we are gonna fully be able to grasp. But what I want you to understand, beloved, is that God made man in his image. He told us in Genesis chapter 1 and verse number 27. We're going to do a little bit of teaching today. I'll probably do a little preaching as well, but I I want I hope you'll learn something and we've looked at some of these aspects before. If you've been here very long, it should be familiar to you, but I know there are some that are new here as well. God said in Genesis 1 27, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female. Now a year ago on January 14, 2023, Well it might have been two years, twenty-four. It might have been twenty-four, I don't know. Maybe it was twenty-five. But but I I preached a message on created in his image, and you can go to sermon audio and listen to it And I described in that the aspects in which we are created in the image of God. And there are several aspects. But I think one of the most important aspects is that because God is a triune God, God made man a triune being. We all are made up of three parts. There is the body, the soul, and the spirit. I've asked the guys with the screens to put up uh Larkin's uh graph here, this this depiction of the body, soul, and spirit for you. And I I have showed you this before. I don't know that this could necessarily be improved on, so there's not a reason to try and r remake it. Uh Clarence Larkin developed a lot of visual aids to help people learn some Bible truths. But in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse number 23, the Bible says And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. So he's saying, I want God to sanctify all of you, holy, every bit of it. And he lists for us. Sanctify you wholly, and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless He says he he describes this for us the three aspects. Every one of us have a body, we have a soul, and we have a spirit. In 1 Thessalonians, there he starts with the inner man and he works his way towards the outside, the spiritual man, then the soul of man, then the body of man. And so we have here this picture. If you start from the outside, you have the body, the body of man. This is the physical aspect of man. This is our five senses. Uh you have your s your sight, your your hearing, your your smelling, your tasting. Um is that for? What am I missing? Uh touch And touch. So we have those aspects they're listed on the bottom. I know if you're very far away, you you cannot see that. You got sight, smell uh hearing, taste, and touch. Those are listed on the bottom there of this graph. You've got the body. That's the out that's the outer man. That's we all have a physical body. And uh, you know, this physical body, some of you are like, yeah, I can tell, I'm feeling it today. My body is sore or my body aches and and I'm dealing with this or that. This this physical body is there. But we have our soul as well, the soul is uh the seat of man's mind. That's where our will is contained. The man of mind, your imagination, your memory, your ability to reason and to think. The will of man that's your desire and your motivation to accomplish The heart of man, that's your emotions and your affections. These things are found in the soul of man. You have the body, and then you have the soul, and then you have the spirit. This is the seat of your God consciousness Is the understanding that there is a God. And beloved, man has what has been described as a God-shaped whole in their life. And the only thing that'll fill that, although man tries to fill it with many other things, the only thing that can fill that is God Himself. But what we need to understand about this is that man, every man, woman, boy, and girl who is born today is born spiritually dead. You don't have that God consciousness. You don't have that spiritual insight. We are spiritual dead. Yes, Ephesians chapter 2, verse number 1. And you hath he quickened who were dead in your trespasses and sin. Describing the new life that you have, quickened, given that means to be made alive. And he quickened you, he made you alive, he gave you new life, the idea of being born again spiritually We know Romans 5. 12, wherefore as by one man sinned under the world, and so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. When Adam and Eve were in the garden, and Adam sinned, do you remember what God had told them? The day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Okay, God told them that they were going to die. And yet, when they ate of the fruit, you guys know the story. Jesus came down to them in the cool of the day, and he calls them and he says, Adam. Where art thou? So we know that it's not describing there the physical death because they were still alive. And God cast them from the garden. But at that moment that Adam and Eve sinned, they cast the human race into spiritual death. They they were dead, and every man and woman and boy ever ever born since Adam until now was born spiritually dead. And they needed to come to Jesus Christ to be made spiritually alive. This is the natural man. The natural man cannot perceive or understand the spiritual things of God. We need a savior. We need to be made spiritually alive. Beloved, you can go outside on a clear night and look into the sky, and you can behold the stars. But you will not see or understand what the astronomer sees and understands. You and I can go to the hospital and maybe make a visit or go down the hall to see somebody that you are concerned about. And you can uh look at them But you don't see what the doctor sees. How many of you have ever been in the doctor's office when the doctor said, Well, let me show you this, and he puts up an x-ray. Yeah there it is, sure enough, an x-ray, good. Alright. And then he starts to describe, well do you see this or do you see this? This is what that means. But I'm saying as you're looking at it But you're not seeing it. You see, beloved, the natural man looks at this, but he doesn't see it. He does not understand it. He has not been made spiritually alive so that when he looks into the pages of the spirit of of the Word of God, the Spirit of God guides him into all truth and brings this book alive to them. And so the natural man cannot, he says it's foolishness to them. Like I was looking at those legal documents this week and I'm like, this is Foolishness. Why do we have to have thirty pages to just say, okay, yep, I'm gonna buy that or I'm gonna sell that or whatever It it it is so much it it didn't even make sense to me why because I I don't understand that. Well beloved a lot of times the reason people are not grabbing or grasping the truths that are in the Word of God is they're spiritually damned. They have not been made alive. There are many that are, in fact, natural men. For the preaching of the cross as to them that perish, foolishness. They don't understand it. Paul wanted to reach the natural man with the truth that they needed a savior, they needed to be born again, they need to be made spiritually alive. I want you to see, secondly, the spiritual men. He says, but he that is spiritual judges all things. So you have the spiritual man. This is a man, body, soul, and spirit. A man who has his body and soul, but came to the realization that he was fiercely dead and that he needed to be born again. He needed to be given new life in Christ. And at the moment that a man bows his head and he trusts Jesus Christ as his Savior, he is given new life. He is quickened. He is made alive by the Spirit of God and his God consciousness. You see the brother Brethren, the problem is not when you're looking at that uh X ray, when you're looking at the X ray and it doesn't make any sense to you, the problem is not eyesight. The problem is insight. You can see it, but you don't have insight into what it means. And the problem For the natural man is not that he can't look at the pages of scripture, not that he can't read the page of the words that are on the page, but he doesn't have the spiritual insight to discern what God is teaching us And for them they read it in its foolishness unto them. But the spiritual man has been made spiritually alive, and therefore the words of God come alive to them the meaning and what the message and what God wants to teach us is now something real and powerful and true in their own life. And they sit back and they say, wow, this is amazing. Look at what God's doing. Look at what God's teaching us And sometimes, especially new believers, they will come with the Bible and the Word of God and they'll show their friends or their family and they'll say, Isn't this powerful? Look at what God said. But because they are spiritually dead. They look at it and they're like, what are you excited about? Like what is the big deal? Sometimes It's very discouraging to a new believer because they don't understand how why doesn't that make sense to you, beloved? It's because they're spiritually dead. They don't have insight. It's like you and I looking at the x-ray and okay doc whatever you say. I mean I don't I don't even see it. Well I don't know what you're talking about. Oh do you see this little spot right here? That that that means this. Okay. I'll trust that you know what you're talking about. It doesn't make sense to the natural man. But the spiritual man, beloved, now has God's perspective. He's been made spiritually alive by God that is residing in his heart in the person of the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is guiding us unto all truth. Look at verses 11, 12, and 13. 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 11, 12, and 13. He says, For what man knoweth the things of man? Save the spirit of man which is in him. He's saying, you know, we understand the physical aspect. The spirit of man understands the things of men. Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. You say man can't understand the Spirit of God God's things unless they have the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, and that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Does that make sense? He's saying, listen, you can you you understand the physical, the man's side, but you can't understand the things of God without the Spirit of God to give you those things which God wants you to have. He wants you to know and understand. He wants you to teach you those things. He says in verse number 13, which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth. Comparing spiritual things with spiritual things. Beloved, the spiritual man can discern and understand all things because they have the Spirit of God that is guiding them into all truth. That is the ministry and the work of the Spirit of God. You see, the spiritual man sees the wisdom of God in his word. The spiritual man sees God working in his life. The spiritual man sees God uh Will and work in and through the Word of God. These are things that you understand. Why? Because you have the Spirit of God guiding you. A spiritual man, beloved, begins to have the mind of Christ. And let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. We have the mind of Christ. Now I wish I could stop here. I wish we could say, okay, that's everybody. You're in one of these two camps. You're a natural man and you need a savior. Or you're a spiritual man, you've been made spiritually alive, and you have Jesus Christ And praise God, you're in one of those camps, and I hope that everybody here knows that they have been made spiritually alive, and there's no question or doubt in your mind that you know that you're on your way to heaven, your sins are forgiven, and that you have new life in Christ. Amen? Amen. But he describes one more person for us. Would you look in verse number three, I'm chapter number three and verse number one? We're going to read a couple of verses here. He says, and I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal. Even as also babes in Christ, I have fed you with milk and not with meat. For hereunto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able, for ye are yet carnal. For as there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal? And walk as men? For well one saith, I am of Paul, and another of another I am of Apollos, ye, are ye not carnal? So, beloved, he describes this third man. This third man is a carnal man. This man is a man who has been made spiritually alive, but is living Like he's still dead. And this creates conflict in his life. This creates conflict in his heart. Because he's no longer a natural man. The natural man basically lives to satisfy the flesh Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow I die. There's really nothing else to worry about. It's all about whatever the flesh wants, whatever feels good to me. Whatever is going to satisfy my fleshly desires, that's what we live for, which is why men destroy their lives in so many different pursuits of this world, because it's all about satisfying the flesh. That's what the natural man does naturally. That's what sin nature is. But when we've been made spiritually alive, they're It's supposed to be a change. We're no longer living for here, but we're living for eternity. The spiritual man, beloved, he learns of the Spirit of God. That spirit which guides us into all truth, that spirit which makes the pages of Scripture come alive and teaches us from it. The spiritual man lives in submission to God. Trying to yield his life to do what God wants him to do and allows him to bring change in his life and in his attitude and his spirit and his conversation and what he pursues in this world. The spiritual man lays up treasure in heaven. We're not living for here. We're seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. Our focus, beloved, is on eternity. The natural man's focus is on earth. The problem is the carnal man is caught between the two. Because he has been made spiritually alive, but he's living like he's spiritually dead. The carnal man is trying to live in both worlds, and we know a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. And that is why many believers, many men who call themselves Christians, who have been made spiritually alive, are not experiencing the joy of God. Why they are in such conflict in their life. You see, because they know what is right to do But they're not motivated to do it. And to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. And so the carnal man is constantly in conflict because he has been made spiritually alive, but he's not living in and through the power of the Spirit. He's moved all the way out into the margins of life and he's living for the satisfying of the flesh. He knows, beloved, that the world is doomed, and yet he clings to it like Lot. Holding on to this world, lingering in that sin that he knows will never satisfy. He's frustrated constantly because he has access to the blessing and the power of God, but he doesn't really experience it in his own life. He sees other believers talk about it But for him, he almost begins to get cynical and think, oh, it's all fake for them. It's not really real, because it has never been real in their life. They're saved so as by fire they know Jesus Christ as their Savior. They've been made spiritually alive, but they're living like they're spiritually dead. The carnal man knows that there's victory in Christ, but he just doesn't see it personally. He believes there's power in prayer. But doesn't personally see answers to prayer. That's the carnal man. The carnal man knows that there is supposed to be joy in serving Jesus, but he personally doesn't have that joy. And that's because he's living In sight and touch and smell. He's l would you throw that graph back up that picture? Larkin's photo here. You see, you you probably can't read it. I can't read it. Would have fallen. Yeah, it's pretty big. What is it what does it say right here? Right there. Carnal. Keith can't read it. Yeah, it I know the further back you are. It it says carnal. It says carnal right there. That that man is the the man who is living For himself, living in the flesh, the body, is a carnal man. And instead of living here And letting this impact the rest of our life, we're living here and hoping that this is okay. All of us are one of these three people. I hope there are no natural men here today. I hope that you know that you've been given spiritual life, that you've been made spiritually alive. If you don't, you can settle that today. You can come and we can take a Bible and you can put your faith and trust in Christ. Acknowledge that you're a sinner and Jesus will forgive you today. You can be made spiritually alive today. But let's just take for granted for a moment that everybody here has been made spiritually alive. So amongst all of us here, the question is, are we a spiritual man? Or are we a carnal man? One or the other. There really is no halfway in between. Because if you're halfway in between, you're carnal. We need to be in pursuit of God and his righteousness. Obviously, I'm not preaching sinless perfection. We will never be perfect this side of heaven. But do you live in the power that is available to you to live a spiritually victorious Christian life? Or are you frustrated all the time because you have power, but you're not availing yourself of it? You're living carnally. And therefore you're spiritually discouraged, struggling, wondering where the joy of the Lord is. I tell you that it's there. It's available to you. But we've got to change that emphasis and that focus from living for the flesh to living for God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed