I want to conclude tonight and stir our hearts as I answer the question, why do we need a vision night? Why do we need a vision night? Proverbs chapter 29 in verse number 18, a very familiar verse, tells us that where there is no vision, the people perish. I believe that this night is of utmost importance for our church. It is critical, it is vital that we as a church have a vision. This should be given the highest priority among our members. I want you to understand that this night is good for me as your pastor. It keeps me from growing stagnant or content or just satisfied with where I am or where the church is. When we talk about vision, I think everyone here knows I'm not simply talking about the ability to see that which is visible or that which is in front of you, but what it really is is seen beyond. To the invisible or to even the impossible without God. Every great accomplishment ever achieved through The bygone days has been done so or started with a man or a woman who had vision. Who had a dream of what might be possible if someone just wanted it bad enough. Someone was willing to press on hard enough to achieve that dream. Every one of us need personal vision for what we can do, what can be accomplished as an individual. We need vision for our families as a mom and a dad, for our children, to see where they need to be in a few years What do we need to be instilling in them? What do we need to be giving them? What character are we developing in them? As a bus worker or a Sunday school teacher, you need vision for your class. You need vision for those kids. You need to be able to see. One of my prayers constantly as a pastor is, God, help me to see the potential, not the problem. Because the the fact of the matter is is people are problems. You're looking at one of the biggest problems in the church right in front of you right now. People are problems. We all have issues But the amazing thing is what God can do with us. And I, as a pastor, ask God to help me to see God's people and the potential of what God can do with them and through them. Not what I might perceive to be a problem. To have God's sight, to have vision given to me by God. You're serving as an usher or in the in the Music ministry of the church in some capacity, every area of ministry, you need to have vision. Without vision you come in and you're lackadaisical and it doesn't really matter and it's okay and it doesn't matter if it gets done or it doesn't get done It's fine, but with vision, you're there, you're early, you're excited, you're ready to go, you're motivated. And it doesn't matter what it is, whether it's teaching a Sunday school class or serving as an usher or being in the security team or up in the sound booth, vision motivates you to be there and to do the job and hey, to be on top of it. Do you understand that where you are in life right now is directly related to your vision or to the lack thereof? What you are today is a result of yesterday's vision. Some people aren't very happy or satisfied with where they are right now. But it's a result of the vision that we had yesterday. Let me give you a couple of thoughts, three things tonight. First of all, the sin of corrupted vision, the sin of corrupted vision. Corrupted vision is a vision that's too small. Do you understand we serve a great God? We serve an awesome God, a God that is capable and powerful. Our vision sometimes is too small because of past failures. We haven't succeeded in bygone days or in endeavors in the past, and so we think, well, I don't want to do that again. Let me give you one example. It would be something like this, and I think probably everybody in here has had this personal battle in your mind. I already invited him to church, and they said no. And so we think, well, they're never gonna come. I'm not gonna invite them again. Why should I invite them again? I already invited him once. Or I already invited him twice, you know. I mean we we because of past success or not success, we we look at it and we say, you know what, it didn't work last time. So we limit God and we have a vision that's very small because of past failure. Sometimes our vision is very small because of pessimistic friends. In Numbers chapter 13, if you want to turn there, Numbers chapter 13, verses 1 and 2, he says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Send thou men, that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel. Of every tribe of their fathers, shall ye send a man, every one a ruler among them? So they chose one ruler from all the tribes, and you know the twelve men went to spy in Canaan. Right? The twelve men went to spy in Canaan. Ten were bad and two were good. Ten were pessimistic. They saw the problems, they saw the giants, they saw all that was there. And verse number 25, he says, and they returned from searching the land after 40 days. And in verse number 27, he says, And they told him, and said, We came into the land whither thou sent us, and surely it flowed with milk and honey. And this is the fruit of it. Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled and very great, and moreover, we saw children Enoch there, and the Amalekites dwell in the land of the south, and the Hittites and the Jebusites and the Amorites dwell in the mountains, and the Canaanites dwell by the sea and by the coast of Jordan. And Caleb stilled the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it, for we are well able to overcome it. But the men that went up with him said, we be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. You see, those ten men were quite apt at selling the downside of going into the land. But you know the story. You know what happened. They didn't go in and those men died in the wilderness. You see, sometimes pessimistic friends, we like to say they throw cold water on your fire. You know, they they discourage you from having great vision or accomplishing great things. Too many churches, too many of God's people have gotten to the place that they're okay with just keeping house for the Lord. Essentially they've got to the place where they're willing or content just to house it. It's okay if nothing happens. It's okay if souls aren't saved and the baptismal waters aren't stirred and new people aren't coming. We're just gathering together and we're just keeping house for God right now. But I, as a pastor, and hopefully you as a member are not content with that I hope we desire to press on to seek God and to see Him do great things, to have vision that is not Too small. Sometimes vision that is corrupted is too simple. It's unclear. It's too general as to not really set any goal at all We talked about this in Sunday school, so I'm not going to belabor it, but as a church, we don't want to just say we wanna we want to get out into the community more. Well, how are we going to do that? So tonight as we cast vision, we systematically told you how we're going to do it. We're gonna distribute John and Romans. We're gonna do mailouts. We're gonna send welcome packets to people in the community, to new movements that come to the community. We're going to start a new backyard Bible club over in this community. Here's how we're going to do how we're going to achieve that. We have, as an overall mission statement, that we as a church are on a mission and we want to see the world minister too We minister first to those nearest to our neighbors and to all nations. That's our overall general mission statement, but We give our money, material, and manpower to see the world ministered to. What does that mean in a practical sense? That's what Vision Night does for us There's great strength in clear vision. There's great strength that comes when we set forth clear vision. You understand that everybody ends up somewhere in life. But there are a few people that ended up there on purpose. Okay? Everybody ends up somewhere in life. But there's a few people that ended up there on purpose. We want to have vision that allows us to end up where God wants us. on purpose. Caleb and Joshua presented a clear vision inspired by faith in their God. They knew God could do it. It gave them strength to face the enemy. And you can read through Numbers 13 and Numbers 14 and read read this story. And I'm not going to take time. I have all the scriptures right here, but what I'm saying is they they knew, listen, they didn't have their head in the sand. The whole time they walked through the promised land, they didn't have blinders on. They saw the enemy. They saw the walls. They saw the problems too, but what they understood is that God had a plan and that God had something for them to do, and that God was able to go before them and to give them the victory. A clear vision that inspires and gives hope and strength. It starts with an understanding of what the will of the Lord is. I believe it's the Lord's will that we in every possible way try and reach our community That we in every possible way that we can, and we're limited by how many people we have, we're limited by how much money is available, we're limited in some human ways down here, but we serve a big God And I believe God would have us take any means that we can, not foolishly, but as wisely as we can, get out and minister to the community. So we want to strive to do that this year. Understanding what the will of the Lord is, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. A clear vision starts with the understanding of the will of the Lord, and it is fueled by faith in God. You see, Caleb and Joshua knew what God's will was, and they had faith that God could see them through. Listen, church family, I'm gonna be completely honest with you as your pastor, I don't feel that I have the faith that I should to lead this this flock as far as God wants to take it. So I'm like I'm like the disciples. I'm saying, Lord, I believe, but help my unbelief I want to see God do great things, and I don't want to be the one that limits what God can do here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church because of my lack of faith. So we need to have a clear vision of what God wants, and we need to beg God for the faith and trust Him to pursue that with all our strength. Because you see, fruitfulness comes. Fruitfulness comes when we put action to our faith. So we get a vision from God of what God wants. We have faith in our heart and life that God can do it. And then we start making it happen. We begin to pursue that with everything. We give our money, material, manpower to see it done. And that brings success. The success that comes through consistent vision. Vision provides stability. It provides direction. Without it, many get lost or wander aimlessly Vision gives significance to an otherwise meaningless details of life. It's not always about what you're doing, but rather why you're doing it. Let me ask you how many of you would want to spend an entire day this next week filling sandbags with sand. If I just said, hey, we're having a sandbag filling party, let's fill some sandbags. But let me ask you this, if we got news that we were going to experience a hurricane, it's going to come in here, gonna flood this area, and And you needed sandbags to keep the water out of your house. Now how many of you want to spend the day filling sandbags? It's not so much about what we're doing, it's about why we're doing It's what God has put in our heart to do, and having a vision from God gives us the purpose, the reason behind what we're doing. Many times the routines of life will feel like just shoveling dirt. Almost seem worthless. Why do I bother? But, Christian When you understand why, why do I do this? It gives meaning, it gives purpose, it gives reason for why we do it. Think with me as I close for just a minute about that great leader Nehemiah. Nehemiah had a comfortable position. He had a a comfortable place there as a cupbearer. I mean he he was in the king's palace. He didn't need to go anywhere But he got a burden for the condition of his city and a vision from what got what God wanted him to do. It was a big vision, it wasn't simple, it wasn't small, it was pretty spectacular. But he didn't know. He didn't know when he had that vision in his heart, he didn't know if he could even get out of being the king's cupbearer. He didn't know if he that that he could even get to Jerusalem, let alone have the means or the wherewithal to accomplish that vision. When he got to Jerusalem, he didn't know if there'd be anybody that would join up with him and help build the wall. Maybe he was going to be building this wall all by himself. But he knew what God wanted him to do, and he had faith that God could see him through, and so he he put feet to his faith And he presented his vision to the king. And you know the story. The king said, Oh, hey, you can go and here, let me help you. And then he got to Jerusalem and he presented the need to the people, and the people rose up and said, Yes, let's build the wall. He continually challenged the people as they endeavored to complete this vision. He said to them, Put one hand on the sword and one hand on the trowel, because the enemy is at hand. He said, We cannot come down because the work that we're doing is too great. He told the people, set a watch over against your house To protect that area of the wall as it's being constructed. But whatever you do, keep pressing on for victory. As we've laid out the vision for this year, I hope every member of Hunt Valley Baptist Church will pick up your sword and pick up your trowel. And stand fast in the position that God has given you. Put feet to the faith, to the vision God has given us, that God would give us an amazing year. Year of Victory in twenty twenty