So if you all wouldn't mind turning with me in your Bibles over to Psalm chapter 96, excuse me. Psalm 96. I'll go ahead and get a little clock going up here. Psalm 96, we're going to go talking about today's lesson is to know Christ and to make him known. The foundation of missions. It's our job as Christians to make Christ known to the entire world. That is our mandate. That is what God has given us to do. God said, Go ye therefore unto all nations. Now that is not just a command, that is the Christian mandate in our lives. We'll read in Psalm 96 right here. I'm actually in the wrong page. That was Psalm 97. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary Give unto the Lord, O you kindred of the people, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, fear before him all the earth. Say among the heathen that the Lord reigneth, the l the world also shall be established, that it shall not be moved. He shall judge the people righteously And let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad, let the sea roar, and the fullness thereof, let the field be joyful, and all that is therein. Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice before the Lord, for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness. and the people with this truth. Let's go ahead and pray for the opening of the service today. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for this wonderful time of fellowship in the Sunday school hour. Thank you for the wonderful friends that you've allowed us to make and Lord Jesus, I pray that you please bless this word. Please bless this lesson. Please let it be of a blessing to somebody's heart today. In your blessed name, Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. Now if I do recommend if you do have a pen and a piece of paper to get those out. We actually have a lot of scripture references today, but I'm not going to have the time to go through every scripture reference So just a lot of Bible, but if you write them down, those references down and look at them later, I guarantee you they will bless you. So if you can write those down, I guarantee it'll be a blessing to you later on. We usually think of the Great Commission when considering missions. After all, that is the first thing that comes to mind. I don't know of a single missionary at a missions conference that doesn't mention the Great Commission when at the missions conference. It's kind of our go-to verse Uh in fact I'd be remiss if I didn't even mention it. But missions did not begin with the Great Commission. Missions began with God. Missions is an our God is a missions-minded God. You can look at all the other religions in the world, and there is uh several gleaming factors, differences between Our God and the rest of the other false gods in the world, and that is our God actually loves people. And our God wants to get the word out. Uh you're not going to find another religion like that. Our God not only sent his son Jesus Christ to die on the cross of Calvary for you and me, but he wanted that blessing to be spread out to every person in the world. Now go tell me if Allah did that. Go tell me you Buddha did it. They didn't. By the way, another thing, uh we were out so uh so winning yesterday and we ran into an atheist buddy. I didn't get to talk to him because he slammed the door in our face, but Um, I uh you always want to ask an atheist, what's the difference between God and everybody else's so-called gods? Our God showed up. Our God actually came here. No one else ever did. But his first beat in his heart before it was ever breathed as the life-sustaining force into his church. The gospel he has given us is a missions message. If it could not save every sinner, there would be no reason to take it to every nation. The Great Commission is a missions mandate. It identifies the local church as the center for world evangelism. We are commanded to the go to go out into the world and teach the gospel. There's this false idea of Calvinism floating around, and that honestly is nothing but lazy Christianity. All it teaches is that a select few, if you're saved today, then you're uh in a select few class that uh are gonna get saved and there's uh certain people that aren't gonna get saved I'm sorry, but God's first command and God's will for everybody in their life, his first will for everyone is that we all get saved. That is it, and there's no other way to fight it. But missionary to Africa, David Livingston once said, God had only one son and he made that son a missionary. You realize that mission missions is not just for reserved for a certain class of people that call themselves missionaries. It's not just reserved for certain class of people that are called to be preachers or called to be pastors, missionaries, or evangelists. That's for every single one of us here. If you are here and you are a born-again saved Christian Bought by the blood of the Lamb, that is your mandate as well. That is your job as well. And it's just as easy as just possibly leaving a gospel track on the counter at Cracker Barrel It's just as easy as that. My dad, I was telling uh brother Hunt and when we were out sewing yesterday, my dad, he was saved. He grew up a horrible A childhood. I mean hi his testimony is the reason why we need a bus ministry in every state, every city in the country And it was just an awful childhood for him. He was if there was one way to s uh put it, he was the bus that g bus kid that got left behind. So he horrible childhood, did not grow up in a Christian home, grew up in a drunkard's home. Mom and Dad were both drunkards. And Uh he married my mom. She was grew up Church of Christ, and one day in the coming home from work in the Navy, he looked on the ground and he found a gospel track. I don't remember if it was written by Lee Robertson or Lester Roloff, but it was one of those gospel tracts. And he got it and started reading it and brought it home and he got saved. And he then went to my mom and told her, Hey, we need to start going to church this Sunday. And so he looked on the back of the track and found out that it was Baptist. Baptist on the back. So they went in in a phone book and looked up a random Baptist church, and that's how we ended up going to an independent fundamental Baptist church. Now I would ask, what would hap what would have happened had he not found that track? Had somebody not passed that track out or left that track where he could find it? I probably wouldn't be standing here before you today. I who knows, I might be Mormon. I meet I might be a Jehovah's Witness, you never know. I I don't think I could do that. I don't like riding my bike that much. We were we were uh Well a little side note, we were in Lexington when we first got married and we would take these walks down the street and you know I I'd be packing my sidearm on me, uh, concealed and whatnot and We had a code that if she thought we were in danger, she would grab my shoulder on my elbow right here and pull down on it. If she saw something that I wasn't seeing and she thought we were in danger. Well, we're walking along and all of a sudden I feel that tug. Something and oh my goodness, there's something going on. So I turn around, my hand goes straight for my piece, and I turn around and it's this teenage girl on a bicycle. Trying to witness to us about Jehovah's Witness, I look over at Rebecca, I politely tell her no, and I look over at Rebecca and I tell her, honey, she's not that much of a threat. We don't need to shoot her. I'm still training her, so uh bear with me. No, but several points today about the foundation of missions. Number one, we are compelled when we look around We are compelled when we look around. And there's a few points here, just a few uh numbers that I would like to share. The world population currently is about 7. 8 billion people. Seven point eight billion people. It's estimated that three point one nine billion of the world's population is unreached. There are seven thousand three hundred and sixty-seven unreached people groups in the world. People who have never heard the gospel, people who they've never had a preacher come in. There's an island off the coast of uh Madagascar, I want to say, and it's home to one of the last uh native populations of cannibals that we know about. And there's not been any modern man to sit foot on the has set foot on that island because they kill him instantly. They've never heard the gospel. Thousands of years they've been there. Never heard the gospel. An unreached people group, this is how we're going to define them today, is a unique segment of the global population that is less than 2% Christian. I don't know about you, but if that doesn't burden your heart today, something's between you and the Lord. Yeah. That's that's heartbreaking right there. We uh we here in America, we like to think that we're we're so special that we're the only people in the world. Uh we do realize that American population is one of the most minuscule populations compared to the rest of the world. Uh you go look at the population of India or China and they dwarf us by quite a bit. Uh where's just the most modern? We have been blessed. We really have, but I'm afraid we in America we've to let those blessings get to our head and get to the point where we don't see the needs of the world anymore. We really don't. We we were once at the point where we sent out missionaries more than any other country in the world. There was one point at the end of World War Two Douglas MacArthur, he went over to Japan and he was in charge of overseeing the occupation of Japan right after the end of the war. And he set out to try and see why The nation of Japan did what they did. Why they would willingly dive-bomb their planes into ships and commit suicide for their emperor, for their God Emperor. And he noticed something that a lot of these politicians nowadays will never notice because they're all most of them are just a pack of fools. And he noticed it was a heart issue. He noticed the religion that was behind it and he noticed that they were worshiping all these idols that were telling them that it was that life wasn't sacred, that you could just throw it away and you'd be rewarded later on. So he sent a letter to the then President of the United States asking for the letter to be published in every format, in every format of media around. And the president did it. This was the president that okayed it. President of the United States. You'd never see a president do this nowadays. And in the letter, he published it to every newspaper, and every newspaper said It was a call from Douglas MacArthur asking for every preacher, every denomination, every church, everyone to send missionaries over to the island of Japan. There was one preacher who actually heeded the call, Jake DeSa De Shazzar. He was a POW. He went in at the beginning of the war at after Pearl Harbor was hit. He joined the Navy and he was caught and became a POW for the rest of the war. He fell in love with the Japanese people. He wanted to see them saved. So he told God, if you let me live, if you let me get out of here alive, I will come back here and be a missionary. And then that letter from Douglas MacArthur came and he decided, you know what, that's God's will, it's opening up the field to me. He went over there with another missionary and started passing out gospel tracts at a train. At that time, there was a fellow that he passed the gospel tract to. They were doing their their version of the Nuremberg trial. And they had a lot of the higher-up Japanese officials that they put on trial for war crimes. One of them that they brought in for a witness, uh you history buffs in here might know the name, was Mitsio Fuchida. Mitsio Fushida was the commanding officer that led the aerial raid on Pearl Harbor He's the guy that was leading the planes. Well, he was coming back home. He was not a devout Hindu or devout Buddhist. He didn't really believe in either of them. But Jake DeShazar met him and handed him a gospel track. They started talking, and Mitsio Fujida got saved. Mitsio Fujida then went on to be a very prominent preacher and won thousands of people to the to Christ Uh you won't find it in the history books, but in the, I want to say it was in the 50s, Japan saw one of the biggest revivals they've ever had. And you know, Japan turned into a great nation part uh partly in cause because of what Douglas MacArthur sent out in that letter. We would never do that nowadays. You would never see a politician ask other churches. Instead I saw a politician the other day from a couple months ago saying that Whatever denomination ascribes as to the will of God is of no concern to this Congress. Mm-hmm. And tell that to all the scripture on the walls that of the building that you're standing in. Many of these people groups have no churches, missionaries, or Christian witnesses among them. The psalmist invited all peoples of the earth to worship the Lord. We see here that Israel was special to God. Israel was the child uh Israel was the the chosen people of God. But Israel didn't really understand it a whole lot of times, but here they do, David especially did, that they were supposed to be a light to the world to the other Gentile peoples. You can read in the Old Testament several times where you would see uh Gentile people come to the nation of Israel and I may sometimes it was out of fear or respect, but they would say, hey, we want to We want to take on your religion, we want to worship your God. That was the whole point. That was the whole point of Israel was to show the world not just That God is God, but that God loves everyone to show God's blessing, to show God's strength and his power. That's what the children of Israel were supposed to be about. And over time sometimes they would forget about it They'd let that uh the blessings of God get to their head. They grow a little arrogant and they'd start saying, Well, we're the children of God. We don't need to do this. We're special. Uh case in point, go read the story of this American woman at the well The reason why she was so hated was because the i the Jews thought they were better than her. In actuality, they came from the same blood. They were the same blood. They were cousins. But they thought they were better than her because they were Jewish. I'm sorry, but I'm seeing a lot of that mentality here in America. We're better than the Afghanistans, we're better than the Iranians, they're a bunch of terrorists. We're Americans, we're the good guys. Truth be told, we're all sinners. Truth be told, we're all one big old mission field. Whether it be over here or in Iran. We're all just one big old mission field. The psalmist not only invited the peoples of the earth to receive God's salvation, but also to join Israel in making his salvation known to the world. You know, in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, show forth in verse 2 is the word used in the New Testament for preaching the good news and gives us the English word evangelize. Show forth right there, you know what David's telling them. David's telling them, get the word out. David's telling them, hey, tell the glory of God to the rest of the world. Tell the world what God has done for us. That's our job. That's our mandate. And you know why why shouldn't we? God saved us from the fiery pits of hell. He saved us from eternal damnation. Is that not something worth sharing? Is that not worth something getting out there? That ought to convict our hearts. I know it convicts me personally. That sometimes there are times the least we can do is just leave a gospel track at a gas pump. The least we could do is leave it in a door or something. At least get it out. Some of us don't even do that. How many times when the Holy Spirit tells us to leave a gospel track here, or leave a gospel track in so-and-so's hands, do we ignore the Holy Spirit's call? How many people are we personally, personally condemning to hell by refusing the Holy Spirit's call? That's a questi that's that answer is between you and the Lord, but I beg you, please get it right with the Lord today. Psalm ninety-six employs these words in verse one all the earth, in verse three, all people So in other words, everyone uh going back to the whole Calvinist argument, I'm sorry, this one verse here defeats that entire philosophy. Verse 1, all the earth, everyone. Verse 3, all people, everyone. And in case you didn't get it the first two times, verse 5, the nations. And in case you didn't get it the first three times, verse 7, kindreds of the people. Everyone needs to hear the gospel. Everyone needs to hear about Jesus Christ. The use of the word heathen in verse 3 reminds us that people are lost from their birth. Uh you realize that even back then there's never been more than one way of salvation. David knew that and all the old patriarchs knew that. You can read the book of Hebrews about that. But there's only ever been one way But as long as there's been salvation, there's always been mankind has been in their sin. That's from day one. But in doing so, there's always been a nation that back then it was we they worshiped Baal, Molech, all these Weird weird deities. And David's telling the world, hey, they're heathen, we're heathen, when we're not saved. Get the gospel out to those who worship Baal. Get the gospel out to those who worship Molech. Tell them about God. Tell them about what God has done. Tell them about his glory. Tell him about tell them about his mercy. That's what David's saying right here is to tell the heathen. The word heathen refers to those who worship idols or are not acquainted with the one true God Each person is born a sinner. You can look in Psalm 515. Ephesians 212 uses these words. Without Christ being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. You don't have Jesus Christ who've got no hope. And there's seven thousand three hundred and sixty-seven unreached people groups that don't have Christ. That have no hope. We were in a missions conference earlier last month with a fella I can't say his name and I can't even say the field that he's going to because of how dangerous it is. But he's going to the Middle East. I'm sorry, but he's a white fella. He's whiter than me. We're all we uh the main question was, aren't you worried they're gonna chop your head off That man I'll never forget his reaction, you know, if somebody had asked me that question and Guam was that bad, praise the Lord it's not But if Guam was that bad, I'd tell him, yes, I'm scared to death. Pray for me. No. His re his reaction was probably the best I've seen in a missionary. Said, no, why should I be? It's the will of God. Why should I be scared? If God's in it, He'll protect us. Because he understands he's got a heart for that unreached people group over there. That less than two percent, honestly, I think it's less than one percent, he said, that were actually born-again Christians. It's to the point that he cannot pass out gospel tracts. He cannot go door-to-door soul-winning. He cannot tell anyone about the gospel unless it comes up in conversation. He can't do it. If they find out that he is running a a church, if he is using a church, that's automatic arrest. He could be killed or kicked out of the country. But he's willing to do it. Telling you what, that smote my heart. I'm yielded to go to the mission field of lawn. That's where God's called me to, but it ought to be all of our responsibility to be yielded to go to wherever God wants to go to go, whether it be to Guam, whether it be in here in Maryland, or whether it be out in the middle of Middle East. We all ought to be yielded to that. When praising the Lord, the Jews lifted their hands and voices and looked up, but in their worship they reverently bowed down. Oh, I skipped way ahead. That's what happens when you don't look at your notes All the gods of the nations are idols, and verse 5 reminds us that people are lost in their beliefs. Uh people believe some crazy things nowadays. Uh you want proof? There's a flat earth society going around right now. We saw we saw a car yesterday with a flat earth bumper sticker. And uh we had a lot of jokes to say about that. It was funny. But people are lost in their beliefs. Everyone likes to believe that their belief is true. When in actuality the only truth that you'll ever get in this life comes from this book. That's the only truth we'll ever get. And the people need to know what is in this book. People need to know about the God who died for them. People seek to get God to overlook their sin through religion, good deeds, and a promise to reform their lives. Uh you n n you can look at the Catholic Church about that. Uh there's a lot of fellows that I've known in the Catholic Church that they'll be drunk on Saturday, go to church on Sunday, get their sins forgiven, and then go right back to being drunk on Monday. They use God as a band-aid. That's not how God's supposed to be used. God, when you get saved, comes into your heart and you're supposed to turn away from all that stuff. You're supposed to turn away from all that sin in your life. That's what the Bible commands us to do. But we often try and use God as an excuse for just like a band-aid and just say, Well, I can keep sinning, I can keep doing what I used to do. No, no, no. That's not how it works. You want to worship God fully? You need to turn away from that God identifies Jesus' work on Calvary as the only way of salvation. You can look in Ephesians 2, 8 through 9, and Titus 3, 5 through 7. The Lord Jesus Christ has assigned us with the sacred task of taking the gospel to the ends of the earth. Once again, Matthew 28, 18 through 20 sums that up. It's the famous mandate, it's the famous command of the Great Commission. It is God's will that he be glorified by people of every tribe, nation, and tongue. Not just here in America, not just in Guam, not just in the Middle East, but everywhere. Now I'm telling you right now, if there was ever a time in this world's history to ever get the gospel out, it is now. We have no excuse not to get it out. The i uh the internet Also known as what else is it known as? The World Wide Web. It can reach the entire world. We've got no excuse. We've got the most sophisticated tools. We I I saw a pair I mean for Pete's sake in Walmart the other day, I saw a pair of sunglasses could that could catch phone calls for you. What on earth? How does that even work? Technology is a blessing. But we uh I've noticed that we often keep trying to find excuses not to use it, not to try and get the gospel out It's God's will that everybody know his name. It's God's will that everybody know him. It is his will that every individual be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. You can look in 2 Peter 3. 9 and 1 Timothy 2. 4. The good news is only good to those who have heard it, to those who hear it. Those people in the Middle East, they've got Islam. Some Judaism, but that's about it. And even then, it often is not peaceful at all. I mean you think Middle East, you think of suicide bombers, that's the first thing that comes to your mind, or my mind at least. It's not peaceful. Only Jesus Christ and the knowledge of what He did for us can bring that kind of peace that the world needs. You want to end a conflict going on, one of the big conflicts right now is going on with Ukraine and in Russia. You want to end that conflict, you start telling them about the gospel of Jesus Christ and showing them the sanctity of life. That's something our world has lost and our nation has specifically lost is the sanctity of life. Where we just decide, ah well we can just kill anybody and call it a day. We're all d I mean when we teach kids that we're no better than monkeys and dogs, what were we expecting? Sanctity of life is gone. We are compelled when we look above number two, we are compelled when we look above As with the rest of Scripture, Psalm 96 identifies the glory of God as the foundation for the work of missions. You realize if you look around and you start actually getting close to the Lord and you look around to what God has done in your life. You really start looking, you're gonna want to share that with somebody else. I remember when I was first saved, I was first saved as a seven year old boy there in Quantico, Virginia, the Marine Corps base there. And we uh dad led me to the Lord one night, one Friday night, and that Saturday morning, first thing I did, I got up and I gathered all my friends, neighborhood friends around. There was about seven of us at the time And I gathered us all in front of the in front of our my house and I told them, hey, you'll never guess what happened to me last night. They thought I was uh something horrible had happened. I'm telling no, I got saved. Well what saved? What are you talking about? I didn't even know I was supposed to be witnessing to them and I witnessed to them. I told them how to get saved. One of them did, little Zach. And with tears in both of our eyes, we rode our bikes back to his house and he told his parents It was so joyful. I was so happy with salvation in my heart. I couldn't help but tell somebody else about it. And when you really start looking at what God has done in your life, how God has pulled you through so many trials. And he's given you so much strength to get through so many situations, you're gonna want to tell somebody else about Jesus Christ. Be honest with yourself and look in the mirror and start l remembering what Christ has done for you. You're gonna want to start telling somebody about Jesus Christ. God also revealed himself to the Gentile nations through the miraculous deeds he had promised on Israel's behalf. Time and time again, I was just reading the story of Balaam the other day, and one thing that got on me was, you know, the people that the kingdoms that had called Balaam to him for advice and to curse the children of Israel, the biggest reason why they wanted Balaam to do it was because they had seen what Israel had just conquered. They had seen how they were rescued out of the out of Egypt. They had seen that they were a mighty people, that they could have taken the land, they could have wiped out the kingdoms. They were scared. They saw what God had done through them. That's what God was trying to do. He was trying to show the world his glory and his might through his children. God is trying to show His glory and His might through us today. We need to be receptive. We need to be a conduit of blessing where God sends a blessing down to us and we send it out to other people. That's our job. That is the Great Commission. That is the Great Commission in a nutshell. That is the mandate. And we need to be receptive of it and telling others about Jesus. Jesus Christ, our God desires to be proclaimed, verses one through three. People often say that a person's faith in Christ is a private matter. But God wants our faith in Christ to be public. You hear it on the news all the time. Separation of church and state. Don't for uh don't force your belief on other people. We're not forcing our belief on other people. Uh the people will tell you when you go up to the house and it has no soliciting in the door. They'll tell you, well, didn't you see the sign? It's no soliciting You're not soliciting. Soliciting means you were trying to sell something. I'm not selling anything, I'm giving it out for free. If you don't want to listen, you can close the door. You didn't even have to open the door in the first place. But that's our job. The world wants to tell us how to act as Christians. The world wants to tell us how to run the Great Commission. When in actuality the Christian is supposed to be sending the Great Commission to the world. Since when did we start letting the world influence the church so much that we started letting it influence our first mandate? When did that happen? That's apostasy right there. That needs to get out. Our first everything that we need, we do not need anything from the world. Everything we need comes from here. This is the final authority. This is God's holy word. Everything we need comes from here. So when the world tells us, well, you don't force your beliefs on others, I'm not forcing my belief on anyone. I'm just letting it be known. Uh if you let a salesman let his stuff be known, you can't turn on the TV for more of more than five minutes and see and not see a commercial of a used car salesman. He's letting his product be known. Why can't I let my stuff be known? And he's actually trying to sell you something. He is soliciting. That's another thing. We need Christians with more gumption. We need Christians with more with a with a fervency. Our God desires to be proclaimed We are instructed in verses 1 through 2 to sing, to show forth in verse 2, and declare in verse 3. I'm sorry, but that you know what word sums that all up to me? Boldness. You're going to be so happy when you start seeing what God has done in your life and when you start recognizing what God has done in your life that you will be so bold that you have no other desire but to shout and proclaim his name. You go read when David got the the Ark of the Covenant back into Israel where it belonged, back to the temple where it belonged, and what did he do? He started dancing around like a fool. He started jumping around. Now dancing is different in the Bible than what we think of today. That means jumping for joy. He was jumping for joy all over the crace. He he was a crazy man Because he was joyful. He was happy of God being brought back. He was happy of what God was doing in his land. His wife, the daughter of Saul, was so upset at him. I always think that's so funny. She was a princess. She was used to courtly form. And then you got the shepherd boy that just wanted to do God's will. And he was king. But that's what God wants. When we start actually realizing what God has done in our life, when we start recognizing it, my goodness, your heart is going to be so joyful it wants to jump out of its chest. It's you'll enjoy you'll have a joy you've never felt since being saved. Oftentimes though we let the devil start trying to weigh down weigh us down and start saying, Well, the negatives of this life outweigh the blessings of what God has done in our life and outweigh all the happiness that the joy of God has given us. And we fall for that trick all the time. But in actuality, in reality, that's not the case. The blessings of God far outweigh what the negatives and what the devil's telling us. They far outweigh it. Yes, we all go through struggles and trials, but if you're in the will of God, the blessings are going to far outweigh whatever you're going through. Our God deserves to be praised, verses four through nine. God is worthy and deserves all the praise, honor, and worship that and glory that humanity can give him. Unsaved people do not give God praise, honor, worship, and glory that he deserves. Listen, before you were saved, there's no way you could have given him the praise and honor and glory and worship you could uh to give him. Because you didn't know what God had done for you. You'd never experienced that salvation in your personal life. So how could you give him glory for something you hadn't gone through yet? But now we're saved. If you're sitting here and you're saved today, you've accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you've got that joy in your heart. Maybe maybe you're making it a little quiet, but that joy is in your heart. Why don't we let that joy sink? Why don't we let that joy out? Why don't we let that praise get out and tell other people about Christ? Just a few more things and I'll be finished today. Unsafe people. Do not give God the praise, honor, and worship. Missions is not the ultimate purpose of the church worship is, but missions exist because worship doesn't. The world doesn't worship Christ. That's why missions exist in the first place. So that we can go out and tell the world and so that they can praise him as well. That's our mandate. The greatest missionaries and mission supporters are not those who love people the most. They're the ones who love God the most. It doesn't matter how much money you give to the church. It doesn't matter how much money you give to the missionary or anyone else, if you're not saved, that money's pointless. You could say you love people all the live long day, but if you're not saved, no you don't. When you get saved, you start realizing where we've all been, how we're all sinners, and we're all bound to the devil's hell when we die. And you start seeing that as truth. That's when you start really growing a heart for other people. When you accept in your life that, hey, I'm not the perfect being that I am. I joke around with my wife that I'm the most humble, perfect man she's ever met. I'm the most humble man I know. But in actuality, I'm just a sinner. I'm a sinner saved by grace. And my goodness, I do not deserve it. The stuff I've done, I do not deserve it. Neither do any of we. When praising the Lord, I said this before accidentally, but when praising the Lord, the Jews lifted their hands and voices and looked up, but in their worship they rev they reverently bowed down. You know, Israel from time to time, from king to king really, they would let that arrogance of them being the chosen people of Israel get to their head. And they would start looking down on the rest of the world. What usually ended up following was God ended up having to put them in their place. Showing, hey, you're no better than these guys. Why do you think Israel a lot of times got sent into captivity? That in their sense. A preacher once told me that, you know, before God chooses to break us, why don't we break ourselves and go to Him? It'll be a lot less painful. When we yield ourselves to God, when we go to Him as a sinner and admit that we've done wrong, that's a lot less painful than God making us realize that we've done wrong. My friend, I don't know about you, but I definitely could stand a witness to more people. We all could. The world desperately needs it. Over 7,000 people groups, less than 2% Christian. You look at India with a massive population, China with a massive population, and what they do with their children. You look at all these different countries. They need the gospel. So today why don't we yield to what God would have us to do? Why don't we stay working for him? And why don't we remember our first mandate? The first mandate is that Great commission that God has told us to go out and spread. God has told us to go out and spread his gospel. Why don't we do that today?