As I think about this, I initially was considering maybe walking through the scriptures, and we could spend more time than we have available today just recounting some of the amazing events that happened in Scripture as a result of prayer. I think about Joshua when he prayed and the sun and moon stood still. What an amazing thing where God paused time, as it were, that they would have light long enough to win a victory in that battle. I think about Hezekiah. and how he prayed that he would have fifteen more years of his life. He wasn't ready to die. And God answered his prayer. What an amazing thing to think. I mean, you know what? All the money in the world can't buy you fifteen more years. But prayer did. Prayer gave him fifteen more years. I think about Israel many, many times when Israel prayed and God allowed them to defend I mean, you think about Gideon and 300 How God wrought such great victory at these moments of prayer. I think about the disciples when they prayed and Peter was freed from prison. Locked in shackles, locked in the inner prison, and then they prayed and God brought an earthquake and it must have been some kind of earthquake to break the shackles off of a man. I mean I could see like the the building quaking and and the the doors coming apart and falling or something. But to shake the shackles, I mean Peter must have got shook up a little bit too, you know, kinda I don't know how that would've would have worked, but hey, God maybe maybe not at all. Maybe it was calm in the prison. And uh Peter was just sitting there and the shackles just fell off. Whatever it was, God performed it. He was freed from prison because the prayer of God's people I think about Abraham when he prayed, and God agreed to save a city because of his compassion for them. I think about the church when the church prayed. And uh 3,000 souls were saved. I mean, there's potential in prayer as you walk through the Word of God, and I hope in your life you've experienced a potential. But this morning, we're not going to go through the pages of scripture and look at those things. I really kind of chose to narrow in on our topic. Our verse of the month and our theme for the month is the potential of prayer And the verse there, our key verse for this morning and our verse for the month is verse number sixteen. He says, Confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that you may Be healed, the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. It availth much You know, sometimes things don't go like we would like. Sometimes life is not what you are thinking it should be. You know, sometimes things don't have you ever had anybody ask you, how you doing? Now Let me finish the question. And you said the pat answer? Fine. When you really weren't fine? I mean you just, I don't know if you think they probably don't want to know the truth. Or we don't have time to get into it. And they said, how are you doing? And you say, oh, doing okay, you know, doing fine. Or, you know, everything's great. And and really in your heart of hearts, things weren't fine You were struggling, you were dealing with a battle, you were dealing with some hardship. Well, James gives us some encouragement. He gives us some encouragement about what to do in those times. When things are rough, when things are hard. The reality of life is that sometimes you're gonna be Afflicted. That word afflicted in our passage we read here literally means to undergo hardship. Life's hard sometimes. That's just the fact of life, right? That's just the way it is. Sometimes life Well maybe lots of times. Life is hard. That's just life. That's just the way it is. And when you undergo hardships, when you're under the weight of a hardship, of a trial, of a burden, I want you to know what what the Bible tells us that we should do. First of all, this morning I want you to see the fellowship of the believers. The fellowship of the believers. There in our passage, which I read to you, the very first verse number 13, he says, Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Is any merry? Let him sing psalms. Through this whole passage, you'll see them refer to one another as brethren. He'll say, Call the elders of the church. He says, is any among you? Beloved, there's a thing here with regards to the idea of a family. Is any among you? There is the fellowship of the believers. Praise God for the family of God. I hope that you value and appreciate and enjoy being part of the family of God. Listen, don't take it for granted, beloved. These are your brothers and sisters in Christ. This is your church family. You know, inside of our church, there are people who are closer to their brothers and sisters in Christ than the people that sit down the pew from them. The people that they meet in the four-year here at church than they are to their own flesh and blood. And it's been that way in every church family I've ever been a part of in all my days. Beloved, we're part of the family of God. We should value and appreciate it. You should become an integral part. This should be a central part of your life. You should you should value it and appreciate it. You should get to know your family. You say, well, I don't know them very well. That's because you don't spend much time with them. There's lots of opportunities to spend time together with God's family. Different activities we have, like the couples retreat we just went on to, or hey, what about Fifth Sunday fellowship? That's such an easy thing. Just stay a few minutes after church. Sit down and have a meal. You say, well I'm not real good at just sitting down and talking. You know what? I ain't either. It ain't good English. I know that. I'm not I'm not very good either. It's hard. Sit down and talk from across from somebody that you've never talked to and don't know much about and to try and engage them. So what I've found is much easier is when we're working together on something. That's what I enjoy doing. So guess what? You can come to work party. You could come to work party and get involved and and work on a project with somebody and get to know them like that. I tell you what, Brother Bob Humphries happens to be here this morning. Uh you know, his four wheel drive truck, he said I can make a decision. Amen. And we've spent a bunch of time working together. We've painted and we've done things around the church here, and as you're serving and working, you just get to spend some time talking. You find out, oh, we do have something in common. It's just time. It's what builds that relationship. Take that time. You don't even have to do it at church functions. Just I I called Brother Bob a week ago or something. Said, hey, let's get together for lunch this week. Let me know what day's good. Because we're part of a family. This is our family, and we've got to, you know what? You ought to treat the family of God Like you would treat your own family. The ones you like. Not not not the other ones. Not not, you know That uncle, don't worry don't do it like that, you know. Treat like you ought to treat the family of God like the like the family you like and love. It ought to be that kind of a relationship. And when the family hurts, you hurt When the family has a need, you have a need. When the family rejoices, you rejoice. Beloved, I'm so glad I'm a part of the family of God. I hope you're glad that you're a part, and I hope you as members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church are taking advantage of that family. That you're I'm not saying taking advantage of each other. I'm talking about Being a part of that family and just feeling that closeness, having somebody to walk with you through the trial, have somebody to carry you when you can't walk anymore. Having somebody to hold you up and love on you when you need encouragement, somebody to rejoice with when you need to rejoice. That's what a church family is. I feel sorry for people that are going through life and don't have a church family. They don't have anybody to share those joys with. You know, it's like the golfer that was out and he hit he hit a hole in one. He's all by himself. You know, nobody saw it. Okay. Problem is is he was it was on Sunday morning and and he couldn't share it with anybody because then he didn't have to tell everybody where he was on Sunday, right? I'm saying the joy of life is getting to share it with somebody. And listen, I don't know where you're at in life, and everybody's at different places. We got people in our church that are that are single. We got people in our church that are single Church that are young, you've got people that are old, there's people that have been married for years and now they're widowed, or uh different stages of life. But listen, regardless of where you are in life, you still have a church family. Don't take it for granted. Don't undervalue what it is that God's given you. The church, God loved it, God died for it God started it. He made it a family so we could encourage one another. We could be there for one another. We see that fellowship of the saints. That partnership that we have, the partnership of the saints. I want you to see also in this verse here that we have a petition for the suffering. Not only do we see that partnership of the saints under this, the fellowship of the believers, under the fellowship of the believers, we see the partnership of the saints, this family that we have, but we see the petition for the suffering. Listen, when somebody in the church is hurting, we ought to be praying for one another. Can I just take a second and poke a hole in the balloon of the prosperity crowd? Listen, this idea, this philosophy that is taught, that if you're right with God, you're not going to go through any hardship Is baloney. It's it's foolishness. It's as false as the day is long. Beloved Life is hard. And nowhere in the Word of God do we get any inclination that if you're right with God, you won't endure any hardship. That if you somehow have enough faith that everything's gonna be sugar and candy and everything nice, that's just not true. It's just false. He has a petition for the suffering. He says, any among you afflicted? What are you supposed to do when you're You're afflicted. Pray. Let him pray. I'll tell you what, when you go through hardship, when you go through a struggle in life, what do you do? Do you throw a fit? That's what we're seeing today. Man, we're seeing it all over. From from the foolishness down at the Capitol to the riots all over the country. People don't get their way and they want to throw a fit. Somebody should have tanned their hide when they were little and that wouldn't be an issue. They d just throw a fit? Listen, don't let your kids throw a fit. By the way, there's different levels of fit. And if you deal with it when your child goes, if you deal with that, you'll never have your child throw something at you. I read an article about uh psych modern psychiatrist that said, listen, if your child is angry And he proceeds to yell and scream at you, let him get it out. If he proceeds to throw things at you, just avoid them. Let him express himself. Wait till the child is more calm and you can talk to him That's why you have grown adults throwing fits. Because nobody taught them how to be in control of themselves. When you're going through hardship, do you throw a fit? But what about here's another common one when people going through hardship they just throw in the towel. You talk to any employer today about how hard it is just to keep an employee. I don't know what the average tenure of an employee today is, but it's mind-boggling. I talked to some young people in their twenties and they and they've already had like six, seven, eight jobs. Grandma and grandpa, they they started a job out of high school and they retired from that job. You think in all those years they never had any hardship? You think there was days that they didn't appreciate their boss? No, they just worked through it. They didn't throw in the towel and quit every time something The boss didn't give them the day off that they wanted. They didn't get to do what they wanted to do. They just endured. Do you do what the prophet of God didn't the word of God he he crawled under a tree and At a pity party. I said we like to feel sorry for ourselves, don't we? Just having a pity party Just getting, oh, woe is me. My life is so hard. I have no hope. I have nothing to live for. Man, beloved, what does the Bible say? Again, that word afflicted is to undergo hardship. Is any among you afflicted? What does it say? Let him pray. Let him pray. We've got the privilege of prayer that we can, when we're in the moment of hardship, go into the presence of God. We can get on our knees and talk to our Heavenly Father. We can pray and get His help and His essential uh aid in our hour of need. He doesn't say throw in the towel or quit or give up or sit down and mope and cry. He says, Come to me, all ye that are weak and heavy laden, and I will give you rest Pray. Let him pray. If you're afflicted today and you're enduring hardship, beloved, pray. Boy, Matthew Henry said it right. He said, one of the designs of affliction. Is that it would lead us to the throne of grace. That sometimes is the very purpose of the hardship. Is that God would get us to pause and look up, beloved. But we spend so much time doing all the other things. Well, we like complaining. We like touting. We like throwing a fit. But God says pray. God says pray. And all that other stuff, you know, one time I told you guys before that when I was a kid I had a temper. Now my dad He quoted to me over and over and over again that verse. Great peace have they which love thy law and nothing shall offend them. But he didn't just talk to me. He administered the Board of Education to the seat of learning. And uh I learned how to control myself. But before I had kind of outgrown that, One time I was so mad, I don't even remember what happened, but I was out in the parking lot of the church, something happened, and I got so mad I just wanted to have you ever wanted to break something I turned around and I kicked my dad's truck, the driver's door, and I put a big dent right in the driver's door of my dad's truck. Now can I ask you, what did I accomplish? What good did that do me? It just exasperated an already strenuous problem. I mean, all the grumbling and complaining, all the hollering, all the throwing the fit, whatever, does it help at all? No. But prayer helps, beloved. Prayer helps. He says, if you're afflicted, let him pray. Man. I just see not only the petition for the suffering, but you see Hear the praise of the Savior. He says, Is any Mary? Let him sing Psalms. Is any Mary? Let him sing. Beloved, we shouldn't hide our happiness. We shouldn't hide our joy that we have in the Lord. We're to sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Now I'm glad that I'm a pretty stable guy. That is, I don't deal with depression too much. I don't get down in the dumps. I don't get, you know, overly depressed and concerned about life and things that happen. I mean, it's just not too much. I just don't get too discouraged. It's just it's life. It's what happens and and and I'm able to kind of deal with it without getting too much down in the dumps. But With that stability comes the other thing, and that is I don't get too excited either. And when things are going good and we're seeing something that's amazing and God does a miraculous thing and and I look at it and say, Amen, that's good. And people are like, man, Pastor, aren't you excited? I'm like, yeah, this is my excited, you know? But I I hey listen, I'm preaching to myself right now. I need to come unglued. I need to look at what God's doing in my life and lift my voice in praise and honor to him and sing a song I sing a new song since Jesus came. Hey, do you have a new song today? Has God given you a song in your heart that you can sing in praise and honor to him? When God's doing something, he says, hey, you're afflicted? Pray. But when things are going good, when you're happy, then praise. You need to be praising God. And I'll tell you what, we sure are real good at carrying our burdens around. We don't miss an opportunity to talk about the problem that we have. We're real good with our petitions to God about this need and that need. But how often do we miss the privilege of Praising him. This will help you, friend. It'll help you. You know the old song, Count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your blessings. See what God has Beloved, when you're counting your blessings, it gets your eyes off your burdens. And it allows you to see that things aren't as bad as maybe You thought they were. And we got to get better, Christian, at counting our blessings. We got to get better at lifting our voice in praise. This, beloved, is one of the primary purposes of prayer. To praise him. Oh, I know prayer is asking. I know prayer is petitioning, and we're going to talk about that. That's the largest part of this message this morning. Is petitioning God. But we ought not Not be missing the opportunity to praise him as well. To praise God. To praise him. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in a heart to the Lord. This is what we're supposed to do. This is a key and integral part of the Christian faith. From the beginning of time till now, this praising of God. Praise Him for how good He is. I'll tell you what, if you're going to come to him in times of hardship, then we ought to be praising him in times of happiness. We see that, the praise of the Savior. Then I want you to see, secondly, this morning, the faith of believers. This is verse 14 through 16, where we kind of see the the core or the heart of the message this morning. The faith of the believer. Not just the fellowship that we have together, but the faith that we should have. He says, is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him Anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord, and the prayer of the of faith shall save the sick. And the Lord shall raise him up. And if any have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth me Much. So we see first of all here in verse number 14 that petition for sickness. The petition for sickness. Is any sick among you? Hey, let him come to the elders of the church and let them pray. Over him. Beloved, it's right to pray for the sick. It's right to pray for the sick, no matter what the cause of the sickness. Now, it was a deeply held belief in Jewish history that sickness was caused by sin. This is evident in many places in the scriptures, as you see. see uh people coming to others that were afflicted with something? Uh not the least of which is Job. I mean, didn't he have some some lovely friends that came and said, Well what'd you do, Job? I mean this wouldn't happen to you if you didn't surely you did something. I mean you must be wicked. Do you understand that's not necessarily the case? Now sometimes You and I both know that sometimes we bring things upon ourselves, and it is sin that caused these hardships. There's many people that have spent their life smoking, and they They end up in the hospital and they have cancer of their lungs or esophagus or whatever, and and they know what caused that. There is no question. I have been in the hospital visiting with somebody who just came through a car wreck. And by their own testimony, they said, God did this because I've been running from him. Because I've been running from God. And I know, Pastor, I've been doing wrong and I need to straighten up. They know what's caused it. But that's not necessarily the case. Now I want you to know God has not made any of us the judge of someone else Like Job's friends. It's not for you to determine, man. No wonder John's sick. I mean, he's such a wicked guy. You know, that's not for us to decide. God knows. You know, some people they just get sick. That's just part of life. They just, you know, sometimes you get a cold. I mean I th I I think about uh Wayne, yeah, Brother Wayne Marlowe. I mean you talk about a godly Christian. Love the Lord. He gets pneumonia every year You think, man, Wayne, what are you doing? No, it wasn't because he was you know not right with God or not living right or doing wrong. He just his lungs were of such a state that the smallest thing would cause him to get pneumonia. And that's just something that he dealt with. And it wasn't because he wasn't living right, it's just his body. Sometimes our bodies get sick You can't blame it on sin all the time. You just see this petition for the sickness, but also the placement of a salve. He says here Let them anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. Now, don't mark me as a heretic, and don't write me off till we finish this book I have labeled this the placement of a salve on purpose because I want you to know that there was a thing in the Word of God, there has been in times past, the idea of anointing from a distance. Purposes. Oil was believed to have strong healing properties. And they would oil put oil on somebody to Heal. Now, I'm going to really step out on a limb here and touch a sacred crack cow in churches today. There's uh this thing called essential oils. I know that none of you have heard of that, but uh these essential oils I actually don't do much with it, don't know much about it, but I know that this is a thing today and people love their essential oils. man and so I did a little looking it up. You know they got a oil for just about everything. It's I just just shy of cure and cancer they got a oil that they say is gonna change your life if you buy it. And I hey listen if you m do that and you enjoy it, uh I'm happy for you. I don't there's nothing wrong with it. Enjoy it, you know. Soak up that aromatherapy. You know, my dentist they use aromatherapy when I I go in. It's supposed to help me be more calm, you know. I don't notice any difference, but I still hate going to the dentist that aromatherapy didn't change it for me. Uh but I mean it's amazing. I actually just just a quote from their website here. Essential oils can enhance your health and wellness, help clean your home, and enable you to create a holistic beauty What I'm saying is they got oils there that will increase your energy, that will help you sleep, that'll change your mood. What I'm saying is there there is right now, today, product being sold that's an oil that's supposed to help you. So is it any wonder that back in the Bible times that oil was used in a medicinal way? Do you remember the Good Samaritan over there in Luke? Is it 1034? I think it's ch 10. I think it's chapter ten in Luke. You know when the Good Samaritan picked that guy up? It actually says that he anointed him with oil and wine. I believe the wine would have been a disinfectant. And the oil would have been a healing, a a salve. something to bring healing to the wounds. That makes sense? So there's an anointing of oil for medicinal purposes. Now those of you that are uh I think everybody here is with me, but if you're at home and you're upset at me, I want you to understand there is also an anointing of oil for what I'm going to say. say is metaphorical purposes. You see, God can choose to heal you one of three ways. God could choose to heal you naturally That is, do you know that rest is good for your body? Sunlight is good for your body? Eating healthy food? is good for your body. And God may you got something going on in your body, I'll tell you what, just taking some vitamin C and getting some rest and spending some time in the sunlight can really bring a good amount of healing in. And God may choose to naturally Heal your body. God could do it that way. But you know, God could choose to do it supernaturally as well. He may choose to use his power. And bring about divine work inside your body and bring about a healing that doctors cannot explain We have in our church experienced that type of healing. We've seen where God brought somebody who went to their doctor and was pronounced to have cancer, and in a church we prayed and they went for their follow-up checkup, and the doctor said, Oh. Uh we don't know what happened. The cancer's gone. It's not there. And of course science says, well, it must have been a false positive. You must not have had cancer. Sorry to scare you for three and a half months Listen, God can choose to heal you supernaturally. God can do that. But he also could choose to heal you. Medically. If you have bronchitis and the doctor has offered you antibiotics And you set those antibiotics on the counter and you say, Well, I believe God can heal me. I believe God can heal me, and I'm just letting God waiting for God to do it. I'm praying in faith believing, and God's looking down and he says, I gave you your healing. It's sitting on your counter. It's right there. You've got it right there. All you've got to do is take it. And you're like, I'm waiting for God. And God says, I already sent it. You see, God has given us the wisdom to know that all of it came from God. Is there anything made that he didn't make? No, it's all from God. God made it all and God gave us the wisdom and the ability to do things. There's things happening in the medical field right now. I don't have time to get into it It's an area that I enjoy studying. And there's things happening in the medical field right now that would blow your mind. You know, they can edit the genome of blind mice in the womb. And the mice will be born with sight. They haven't done this on humans yet, but it isn't far away. They can change the sequence. Of the DNA that created the blindness and fixed that problem. Now, there are some that, I don't know, Pastor, that's not right. That just seems like that's getting into area that belongeth to God and I don't know if we should do that. Listen, if God gave us the wisdom to be able to accomplish this We could go back not too many years, and most of what we call common practice in medical field today would be looked at as heresy. as something that is beyond the scope of human ability. I mean you go back a couple hundred years and tell people we're going to be flying around the world in in steel tubes. They're going to say no way. But what I'm saying is when God gives us that ability, it's from God still. And we it's nothing wrong with utilizing those means which God has given us for healing. But there is that anointing for medicinal purposes, but there's also an anointing for metaphorical purposes. Now, beloved, the focus of this passage is not on the oil. The focus of the passage is on the prayer. But there was an anointing with oil, which was an exercise and a display of faith. It was a physical manifestation of the faith that we truly believe that God can heal. Now we again we've got to be careful about putting too much emphasis on On the oil. It doesn't have to be a certain kind of oil. It doesn't have to be oil that was flown in from Israel. It doesn't have to, I mean, three in one oil. Man, it'll work. Does it make it any more powerful if it's oil that is olive oil that came from Israel? No. It's not About the oil, it's about the faith in the heart of God's people. The anointing of oil is just a picture. Just a display, an exercise of faith. How many times have I said, you know, that the disciples, they prayed and said, Lord, we believe, but help our unbelief. And sometimes I in praying, when I pray to God, and sometimes I I battled with and I felt like I know it's supposed to be a prayer of faith. And maybe I don't have enough faith But then it hit me one day, do you understand just the practice of prayer is an exercise in faith? By me praying. It's not some measure of of of of conviction in your heart That has to be maintained for a certain amount of time in order to have that faith just by me bowing my head and praying to God. Is saying, Lord, I believe. I believe enough to bow my head and pray and ask you for this. And that's what anointing someone with oil is. It is a picture, an expression of our faith that God can do it in a supernatural way. He can bring that healing. I'm going to give you this last point here this morning, and that is the practice of sharing. The practice of sharing. He says, Here, is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Lord. You see, they had to let somebody know about the problem. There is the implication in here, in the text, that this sickness, again, because I said it was a is a deeply held belief in Jewish society that if you're sick, it was because of sin. So this passage does imply that idea as we read through and get down further into it. But he says, let him call the elders of the church, let them know. Listen, if there is a sin, you see, sometimes this is taken out of context. This confess your faults one to another. The prayer of faith shall save the sick, they shall raise him up. If any have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another. The practice of sharing here is twofold. First, you need to let the church know when you have a problem. We can't pray for you if you don't let us know That's part of the family of God. That's part of being a family, is being able to pray and encourage one another and hold each other up in prayer. The fact is, is there's been times when I forgot to call somebody that was sick. I didn't make it to the hospital in time to visit somebody that was sick. Sick. There's been times when I didn't send a text and I should have. There's been times when we didn't get somebody put on the church prayer list that was supposed to be on the church prayer list. You know what? The best of men are men at best. The fact of the matter is, I can tell you something. I've failed you in the past, and I'm going to do it again. Because I'm just human But that being said, there's also sometimes that people just didn't tell us that they needed prayer. They didn't share it with their church family. They didn't let the church know. They didn't come and say, hey, this is going on. Will you pray for me? Will you let the church know? Listen, there's power in prayer, and we need to be letting the church know we need to be praying for one another. That's what we need to do. This is going to have to be a two-part sermon. We're going to do this part this morning and we'll finish this afternoon. But let me give you one more. I want you to see the practice. Well, I started getting into it. The participation in sermon. Submission. The participation in submission. I started to get into this already, but there is the implication in this text that there was sin. And sometimes there is, sometimes there not. Now if If you've sinned against somebody, then you need to confess that to them. That is something you might need to do. But we don't stand in church and have a public confession session. I praise God that I don't have the power to forgive sins. You can tell me about your sin all day long, and it's not going to help you. I cannot forgive you a sin. Only God can do that. We've got to be careful about public confession of sin. Sometimes it turns into a glorification of sin. I did this, I did this. I did that. We got to be careful about that. Now if you have let's say you had a bad attitude in the church and you start spreading that around and you started gossiping among the church family and started spreading this this uh you know disgruntled spirit and half the church knew that you were upset and and then God convicts you of that and you get right, well you do need to come to the church and say, listen, church family, I've been wrong. I've spread this bad spirit and I've talked to so many of you and I've done this and it wasn't right. And you need to tell everybody that. But this passage of scripture is not talking about just public confession and just putting our sins on display for everybody to see. You see, the Bible wants you to have a clear conscience before God and man. And if I have offended Brother Bob, I don't need to stand up Sunday night in church and say, Boy, Brother Bob, I'm sorry. I threw that rock at your nice, beautiful tundra, and I scratched it. That's something between him and I. We take care of that personally. And I make sure there's nothing between him and I. And and he says, Brother, I forgive you. I know you didn't mean to hit my car, you were aiming for for for Brother Glovers and so that's okay. Uh I I forgive you. And I say, man, thank you so much. I'll I'll be a better aim next time. And I talk to him and get it right with him. When you've got something wrong with one of your brothers or sisters in Christ, you've got to talk to them individually. Confess that fault. Sometimes, beloved, it might be between a husband and a wife. Maybe you need to take care of something, but you don't need to be coming into church and telling the whole church, uh last week I yelled at my wife and I told her she was an idiot and I shouldn't have done that Well you shouldn't have told us either, okay? That's not helping anybody. So confess your faults to one another. You understand the idea is if you've offended somebody, just like when you've offended God Keep a clear conscience between man and God. You offend them, you deal with that individually. You offend God, deal with that individually. If you've offended everybody, then listen, as a pastor There's times that I I just open mouth, insert foot. And sometimes I got to get up before the whole church and say, listen, church, I uh I messed up I I apologize and I I don't I'm gonna do my best not not to do that again and I I pray that you'll have grace with me and Forgive me. If you've been in this church very long at all, you've heard me more than once. Stand and ask for forgiveness. For not being all that God wants me to be Wants me to be as a pastor for you. There's no doubt. But that's because it affects the whole church. I don't get up here and ask you guys to forgive me for something I did to marriage. I'd be asking for forgiveness every week. I get to talk to her about that. And we deal with those things. So we got to have the right balance when that practice of submission there where we submit to what God wants us to do, and that is confessing our faults to one another. Okay, Lord, I'll go say sorry. I'll go get That's right. I'll go confess that to them. We'll get that problem resolved between us. And brother and sisters in Christ, when a friend comes, when a brother And Christ comes to you and says, Listen, I messed up. They that are spiritual restore such in one. You've got to restore them. You've got to forgive them. and allow them to come back. We gotta be careful about that public confession. We want it to be biblical. Only God can forgive sin. This is what God wants us to do. I'm going to stop here this morning. As we've seen the fellowship of the believers, are you thankful this morning for that fellowship? That family of believers. God, what we have in God's house as brothers and sisters in Christ, that family Christian, value it, appreciate it. Let God use it in your life to help carry the bird. Burdens you have to help lift the loads and to rejoice with them that rejoice and weep with them that weep. That's what the family of God is all about. And if you're not being some people have been attending Hunt Valley Baptist Church for a long time. They've been coming here for years. And I and we'll find out through the grapevine that their dad's been in the hospital for three weeks. And I'm thinking, why? Why didn't they let us know? I would go down to the hospital and pray with them. We as a church family would be praying with them about this. We would help them carry that burden. You know why? Because they don't realize what They have in the family of God. They're attending church on Sundays and they're coming and going, but they have not become part of the family yet. Could I encourage you, if you're watching at home, become Now you were made a family of God when you trusted Jesus Christ. You're in God's family, and that's settled. But listen, you're treating us like Some distant cousin that you never see. We're here. We're fellowshiping, we're worshiping together. That's why there's a local church where you can come together. Value that fellowship of the believers that's in the family of God and the faith that we see, that petition for the sick, the placement of the south, the practice of sharing, that petition for the ship Participation and submission, doing what God wants us to do. We're going to continue this thought tonight as we think about the potential of prayer.