You can turn in your Bibles this morning to uh 2 Peter. 2 Peter is where we're at in the general epistles. We are, you know creeping up on the conclusion here uh with the New Testament survey having looked at uh all all the way down here to the general epistles just Basically getting through Second Peter, first, second, third, John, Jude, and Revelation. So not too much further to go, just a few more weeks, I think, and we'll be wrapping it up. But we're this morning in second Peter. And we're going to try and learn some things from this and uh probably get done just a little bit early this morning. But we see here the date. You've got the notes there hopefully already, but uh AD 66 to 68 Uh, you know, just generally some people may just land that and say 67, you know, they're just not positive exactly where that's at, but somewhere right around there. The aim really kind of gives us a focus as to what he was trying to accomplish first is to give believers motivation to grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We know that in 2 Peter 3. 18, which is the key verse for 2 Peter, 2 Peter 3. 18, but grow in grace Very well Believer, uh that admonition, motivation for us to grow in grace. We want to grow in grace. And uh that should be something we never really get over. We ought to continue to grow. We ought to continue uh to uh learn and it's something we never get past, no matter how far uh how old or how long we've been saved. we continue to grow. That growth we see secondly here is accomplished through adding to your faith. In 2 Peter chapter 1, verses 5 through 8. He's just talking about this, and he says, And besides this, give all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance And to temperance patience, and to patience godliness, and to godliness brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness charity. For if these be in you and abound, they make you that you shall not neither be barren nor be nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Adding to your faith. So we're to grow in grace, and that's accomplished through adding to your faith. I wonder when was the last time you added? To your face. When was the last time you took a step of growth? If you were reading three verses a day and you added to that and say, okay, I want to start reading ten verses a day. Or you're reading three chapters a day and you say, I want to read five chapters a day. Or I I memorized two verses last year. This year I want to memorize five verses. You know, th this When have you added to your face? Last year I passed out, you know, twenty-five gospel tracts this year I want to pass out a hundred gospel tracts But adding to your faith, just cons consciously and diligently adding to your faith. And uh, you know, if you aren't careful, you'll think it just happens automatically, like it's just gonna uh Well, you're a Christian, you're saved now, so you're just gonna be more spiritual. But it doesn't just happen. We have to on purpose determine to add to our faith to Pursue Christ, to grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. And we do that by adding to our faith. And then one main theme you'll see here on the key words we're going to get to in a minute, but is uh the idea of putting them in remembrance. So one of the key words is remembrance. And several times that word is mentioned in this passage because he's reminding them of some things. And he's putting them in remembrance of sound doctrine, of sound doctrine. You know, we need to be reminded of sound doctrine. We need to be reminded of the fundamental uh basic foundational truths that we hold to as believers, this sound doctrine. Things you say, well, you know, this is what I already know, but without being reminded of those things, without having those things brought up in our heart and our mind and and establishing those truths in a solid way It's easy for us to be tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind and doctrine and slight of men. So we want to be careful about that. We want to know what we believe, and that happens through being reminded of those things. He says in chapter 3, 2 Peter chapter 3, and verses 1 through 4. He says, This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you. In both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. It ought to stir your mind when you're reminded of what Christ did for you when you You're reminded of the truths of the Word of God. Things that you know already, but you ought to say, man, praise God for that. And verse number two, that you may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets and of the commandments of us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior, knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lust. And saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation And so he's reminding them, putting them in remembrance of things there. And there he's talking about the Lord's return and that uh hey, he he said he was going to come, he will come, although there are scoffers, although there are some that would mock and say, Well, where is he? He said he was coming and nothing's happened since the beginning of time, since men began to walk the earth. Uh everything has progressed like normal, and he's not here yet. Where is he at? He said, There'll be scoffers, there'll be laughers, but you should know and believe the word of God. Amen. Even though people laugh, even though people mock, uh that's what we look to. We look to the Word of God. And uh so we see the the author And I've just referenced back to chapter to 1 Peter because I've given you some notes on the author. We don't need to recover that. It's the same as in 1 Peter and then the audience. again writing sp basically to the same people and so we don't need to recover that. But it's notable and I appreciate this because it's Look in uh chapter three and verse number one. And Nehemiah, I'm sorry, in uh 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse number 1, uh he says this second epistle, beloved I now write unto you. Look in verse number 8, chapter 3, and verse number 8. He says, But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. He references that in verse number 14. Chapter three and verse number fourteen he says, Wherefore, beloved, and uh he calls them his beloved. He he had care for them. That's a term of endearment, that's a term of compassion and Concern. He he loved them and he's referring to them this way, and he obviously those whom he was writing to his people that he had a concern and a care for, and it's notable uh that he Multiple times through this passage has refers to them as his beloved. He also is writing to them here some pretty important words. You know, when you get to the end of your days and you know you probably don't have too much time left, I don't know if you've ever pondered or thought about that. What what would you say? What would you share with your kids? What would you share with your mate? How how would you how would you pass on that last little bit of wisdom that uh you you you may look and say this might be my last opportunity and if you had that chance what what would you say? Well essentially this I think Peter had some insight from God and he kind of knew that the end was near. Look in chapter one and verse number fourteen He says here in chapter 1, verse 14, he says, knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has showed me. I think God had given some insight to him and said, hey, your time's at hand. You're not going to be too much longer for this world. And in that, Peter sits down and basically his last letter to a people that he cared for and loved and He begins to write to them, and this this is the last thing I'm going to be able to say to you. I'm not going to be here much longer. God God has showed me that my time is short, so here's what I want to say. And he puts it down in a letter and What he it wants to say to them is, hey, you need to grow in grace. Don't quit growing. You you keep going for God. Add to your faith. Don't get stagnant. Don't let your spirituality and your spiritual growth get stagnant. You keep adding to your faith. Remember the sound doctrines, the things that I've taught you, the things that you've learned thus far. Don't don't let those go by the wayside. Hold on to those. Keep those near and dear to your heart. He's communicating these things to them. We see some key words there that he gives them know, knowing, knowledge. uh references and points to Jesus Christ often and then calls their mind to remembrance. Um some song some strong truths that are shared in This passage of scripture here, first of all, we see that God's delay in coming is only an extension of His mercy and grace towards men. But they they kind of questioned They said, knowing this first that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lust, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? He said there's gonna be people that'll scoff, they'll they'll laugh, they'll basically say that, you know, hey, K Sarah Sarah, I mean Eat, drink, and be merry. But you know, i th they feel like they have forever. They feel like the Lord's never returning because he hasn't come yet. And uh he says, Wait, the reason he hasn't come He hasn't delayed and tarried his coming for no reason at all. God has a plan. And he says in verse number five, and say, well, let's read in verse number four and Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. For this they willingly are ignorant. Of that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water, whereby The world that that then was being overflowed with water perished. So he's describing that the flood You had mockers at the flood. They said, Oh, it's not going to happen and you know they made fun of Noah and and said, Ha ha ha boy, what a quack. He's out here building a boat. Whoever heard of such a thing? And he says, Oh, they were ignorant of that They didn't know it, they didn't realize it, but the waters came. But the heavens and the earth, which are now by the same word, are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing that one day with the Lord is a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day And he gets into the heart of it here. He says, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise. His promise. God had promised that he would come again. That word slack literally means to delay or to tarry. He's saying God is not delaying or tarrying this is his coming without purpose. He has a promise that he's given us, and he's going to come when the time is right. And as some men count slackness, but is long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. So he tells us here the reason, the motivation that God has for why he's tarried his coming is because he wants more to come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. He wants more people to have opportunity to believe on Jesus Christ and to not perish. He's not willing that any should perish. If there's uh if he could tarry his coming for a little bit, if he could wait a little bit, then there may be a whole nother harvest of people coming to the saving knowledge of Christ. They hear about the truth and they believe and and who knows what type of great revival could take place in the world today with the technology that we have and the means to spread the gospel and people's hearts and minds turning towards heaven and just literally thousands and hundreds of thousands could be saved and reached In just a short amount of time, and God says, well, I'm going to tarry because there's yet many more that need to believe. And God has promised that they would that they would and He's tarrying that he would come again but he's tarrying, he's waiting until the perfect time because he's not willing and he should perish. That's why and he tells them the purpose, the reason why that it hasn't happened yet. is because he wants all to be able to believe. This is what our missions conference is all about. We'll be talking about uh this in the morning service uh this morning, but it's missions conference this week. And uh, you know, our goal and desire is that more people would hear the gospel. More people would have opportunity to believe on Christ before it's eternally too late for them. If they die in their sin, it's too late. For all eternity, it's too late. If Jesus comes back tomorrow, for anybody that has yet to believe on Christ, that has not put their faith and trust in Christ yet, it's too late. Now those that haven't been born yet or those that haven't heard yet or are not at the age of accountability during the tribulation, they will have opportunity to believe. There's going to be some witnesses that are going to go around and they're going to be witnessing, but anybody that has already rejected, it's too late for them. Uh contrary to Tim LaHaye's books, if you've listened to those or uh heard them, that uh you know, oh, after the rapture, you know, you can still believe. It's you know, have an opportunity and you can get No, that's not true. Uh when Noah was in the boat and God shut the door, I mean you've all seen the dep depictions of that and these images and I y we can only envision and and imagine that once it started raining and the water started rising, people were like, oh my goodness Yeah, look look what Noah said is true. Sure enough, man. Let's run down there. And they ran down there. You can imagine people all around that boat. Noah, let us in, Noah, come on. We believe you. We believe you But then it's too late. They had 120 years of the man of God preaching the truth of God, and they denied it. They mocked and they made fun. The opportunity to believe has passed. And that is the same in the day of judgment, and when the Lord comes again and his and w the church is raptured out of here, people are going to be like, oh, we believe. Now we believe it's too late. Now there are those that will be born during the tribulation, and there will be those that were like an infant that hadn't had an opportunity, that did not know. Those are the ones that the hundred and forty-four thousand witnesses will be reaching and trying to uh give the gospel to and they will have opportunity to believe because they had not yet rejected, but that's what we know to be the truth of these matters. And so he says there, hey, Jesus is coming but he wants everybody to believe. We see here secondly that he gives us the truth that the scriptures are verbally inspired, that this is the word of God. In 2 Peter 1, verses 20 and 21. This strong truth he shares with us. He says, knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scriptures is of any private interpretation, for the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man But holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. He's describing here verbal plenary inspiration of the scriptures, that these men did not, it's not just the will of man. Peter did not just sit down and say, okay, I'm going to write a farewell letter to people I love and care about. He probably wrote a bunch of letters to people he cared about, but those were not inspired by God and given through the Holy Spirit. to the church and to future believers, first and second Peter are. And there's a whole study on canonization that we won't get into this morning, but we believe that God breathed God inspired this, basically instructed them what to write, in even their own words and their own testimony. and uh in their own life experiences, but describing and giving for us what is the word of God for us today. And so he tells us that this was not just man's knowledge, not just something that they thought of, but these holy men of God spake as they were moved. by the Holy Ghost. The Holy Spirit gave them the words to say. And then spiritual growth is only achieved through diligence. And we read this verse already as we talked about adding to your faith, but notice how you add to your faith. 2 Peter 1, verse number 5. And besides this, give all diligence. Add to your faith. Add to your faith. That's what he says. You've got to add to your faith, and it's going to take diligence to add to your faith. It's not something that uh you're going to be able to do just m like I said by osmosis. You know, it's not something that's just gonna happen uh because you happen to carry a Bible. Because you happen to call yourself a Christian. It's something you have to give diligence to. And obviously we're talking to the Sunday school crowd here. This is I mean, you guys are fanatics by today's standards of Christianity, that you gotta bed on on time change Sunday, came an hour early to church to to learn the word of God. That's what he's talking about. Give some diligence to it. Give some on purpose you do that. Be diligent about it. You know, my boys like going to the gym and working out. It's probably good. I shouldn't give 'em a hard time, but you know you gotta give some diligence to that. If you wanna see some change If you want to build some muscle, if you want to uh you know grow in your ability to to lift whatever, you know, I I don't remember the numbers, one one Timothy's trying to get to a certain number that he can bench press Well, that's not just going to happen because you go sit by the weights. You know, I saw a uh a short on YouTube this last week. This guy said, uh my doctor told me I need to spend more time on the treadmill And so he was putting his pillow down on the treadmill and grabbed his blanket and he he was laying down laying down on the treadmill. And that's he was like I'm doing what the doctor said. I'm I'm spending time on the treadmill And that's how a lot of people I think spiritually feel like they're gonna grow because they're they're, you know, they they've carried a Bible or they've got close to the other believers and so all of a sudden, oh, I'm gonna be super spiritual. You have to give some diligence to it. You've got to do it on purpose. You've got to push to add to your faith and exercise, spend time in the Word of God. Grow in your understanding of the Scriptures. If you're reading a passage and you say, man, this is so hard to understand. I don't understand it. And you just close it and walk away from it, you have not given any diligence to pursuing that. And there is things that are hard to understand. There's some things we won't understand until we get to glory. But there's been a lot of people that have written things that could help you, and they are readily available in today's world. And you could get those and you could read some things on that and learn and say, oh, that's what that word means. That's what that okay, that makes sense. Oh, I didn't realize he was talking to the Jews, and that's why he said that And so it can give you clarity and understanding if you give a little bit of diligence to it. If you pursue it. Yeah. Uh here's a good example. If I ever want to play the sacks, I'm gonna have to give some diligence to it. Maybe a whole lot more diligence than I have. I don't know. But it's gonna take some work. I've been trying to practice at least 10 minutes a day, every day, and occasionally I miss some, but some days I'll practice for 45 minutes If I don't happen to have to be somewhere, uh it'd be thirty, forty minutes uh in a day. I think on uh Friday evening, not Friday we had work party. Uh so must have been Wednesday evening. It was almost read at an hour, forty nine minutes I practiced on Wednesday. And uh you know, so uh But if it's gonna happen, right now it's quite it's quite discouraging, to be honest with you. Just like the magnitude of what I need to learn and what I need to know, you look at it and you say, Man, this is hopeless. And I know some of you you get in the Word of God and you feel the same way. You're like, man, so much that I don't know. This is hopeless. This whole book, how can I possibly understand all this You look at it and think, it's never gonna happen. You know what if you give it ten minutes a day, you'll learn it. You'll learn it. You just say, I'm gonna y you know, and some days you'll get into it and you'll be you'll be planning to spend ten minutes And before you know it, you'll have spent an hour. Like, wow, I spent an hour in the Word of God today? Boy, that was that I enjoyed that. That was good. I made some progress and you'll start to learn some things and you'll you'll put it back together. Uh Can I give you an illustration with the with the saxophone last week I was playing and I could not get I learned all the keys with one with my hands, the basic keys. And so I'm like, well, there's still a whole bunch of keys here. I already my hands are already full. What do I do with the rest of these, right? And so the next thing they wanted to teach me was the octave key. And so you use the same keys you're already using, but you press the octave key and it's supposed to go up on octave. Well I did that and it didn't work I mean I'm playing a low D, what they call D4, and I'm supposed to play a D5, and I press the octave key and it didn't nothing happen. And I got so frustrated an hour and a half I'm blowing on this thing and the octave key is not working. I think my sack's broken. I take my saxophone apart. I mean I take all the little pieces apart, I unscrew it, I get it out, and I'm using little little uh tools to clean out the orfices. I'm thinking it must be not if something's not working right, 'cause it's obviously it's not it's not changing octaves And uh I did all that work, put it all back together, and still didn't work. Three days of working on this thing Blowing on that. And uh then I got some instructions from somebody that plays the sacks, and I understood that I was not blowing correctly. You have to change how you blow when you're playing the low key, you have then you have to change how you're blowing to get the higher note. So I went back to practicing and I tried it again and about 15 or 20 minutes I got it and the octave key worked So I walked up to Mary and I'm like, look, and I blew the high note, blew the low note, blew the high note, blew the low note. I said, look, it works, it works, yay, it works And I started putting that together. And then I could put together what I already knew because I already knew, you know, A, B, C, D uh G and uh I knew all those and now to go an octave for all those all I do is push one key and I have them all one octave up. And I put those together and I'm looking look at this. I can do this. And I started learning it. You'll you'll find that with the Word of God too. You'll start to put together some things, it'll make sense, and then you'll put it together with something else you learned, and you'll be adding to your faith, and you'll be growing, but it's going to take a little diligence. A few years ago, uh I preached a message from 2 Peter chapter number 3. And I just want to remind you of those truths. I I have them This just in my notes here in my Bible. And uh as I bring this to conclusion here, we're just going to stop with 2 Peter today, but there's the what I titled uh the B's of 2 Peter 3 There's several B's here. And so you see in verse number two, he says that you may be mindful. Be mindful. And you know what he says to be mindful of? He says, be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets. What is he talking about there? What words were spoken by the holy prophets? That Christ is coming, that's the message. I am looking for a particular what would the holy prophets, what they wrote down, what do we call that? What do we call that? You might be on the right track, but the law. Okay, now in a more general, the word of God. The Bible. That's what we that it is the law. It is what the prophets wrote. But he says, be mindful. So he's saying, Be mindful. What do you what are we supposed to be mindful of? Be mindful of the Word of God Be mindful of the message that God has given us. He says, This is what you need to do. And then he goes on. He says, Be mindful of the holy prophets, of the commandment of the apostles. Okay, we've mentioned the law already. That's the Old Testament, the holy prophets. Then he gets into the apostles. That's the New Testament. Because you need to be mindful of the Old Testament and the New Testament. So he's telling us right here in the New Testament, for those that want to say the Old Testament is irrelevant and we don't need it today. It's not unre irrelevant. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. And so it's not it's not irrelevant. It's relevant for us. And he even told us right here in the New Testament. He says, hey, you need to be mindful Be mindful of the prophets. Be mindful of what the apostles have written of the Lord and our Savior Jesus Christ. He said, there are some that are willingly ignorant of these things, but we need to be mindful. Notice in verse number 8. He says, but beloved Be not ignorant. So we're not we're not to be ignorant. That means to not know, to don't to not understand. Don't be ignorant of these things. Don't be ignorant of the fact and literally he's dealing with here the promise of God that the Lord is returning And and we talked about that already and we dug into that, so we we don't have to dig into it again, but there's going to be people that scoff and laugh and mock and say he's not coming, but he d don't be ignorant. The day's coming, he says, the day with the Lord is a thousand years, and a thousand years is a day. Beloved, one day we're going to be with him. Amen. One day we're going to be in heaven. And we're going to put off, as as Peter said, my time in this old flesh is coming to an end. I I'm going to have to put this off and and this old flesh is going to be gone and we're going to be with our Lord and Savior, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. He says, be mindful of the law and the prophets. Don't be ignorant of the truths that God has given us. The main truth he's discussing is that the Lord is coming back, the Lord's return. We need to live in light of that. And we mentioned this one already, but verse number 14, he says, wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent. Be diligent. If we're going to be diligent, we'll we'll see that ye may be found of him In peace, without spot, and blameness. He says, be diligent, because the Lord's gonna come. He's gonna come as a thief in the night. We don't know when. Could be today, could be right now. He says, if you want to get caught doing right, be diligent. You're going to be found. How are you going to be found? How am I going to be found? If the Lord was to come back on Tuesday afternoon, if the Lord was to come back this Friday night, how are you going to be found? I wonder if maybe the Holy Spirit would bring that back to your mind over this next week as Satan comes to you with a temptation. And tries to pull you to participate in or do something that you know is not pleasing to the Lord. Maybe in your mind you'd br this Sunday school lesson would be come back and boy, I don't want to be found doing that. I don't want to be found involved in that. I'm not going to do that. Because boy, I want to be found being faithful. I want to be found of him at the moment of his return to be found doing what he wants us to do. He tells in verse number 17, yea, therefore, beloved, seeing ye also know these things. Before, he says, beware. We've got to beware. Amen. Beware, because we've got an adversary, the devil. He walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. And we need to be aware of these things, and we need to be wary of him. He he's gonna attack. And we need to continue to grow in grace. So these are the bees of John three, which just I happen to have underlined in my notes there in my Bible from when I taught on that, I think it was back in twenty seventeen. Um but uh those all of those somebody just told me this week we have fifteen over fifteen hundred messages on sermon audio that are available uh for the church family and many others to uh take advantage of and use but you can go back and listen to Sandy uh Faulkner was telling me that she's gone through and listened to all of the old Sunday school series uh on the proverb or the parables and uh some of the other Sunday school theories she's gone through and listened to all those and she's come with some questions and said, I uh you were talking about this. What what what did you mean on that? You know I'm like, Sandy, that was a long time ago. How am I supposed to remember? I can look it up obviously But off the top of my head, I don't remember things really well. So she's definitely taxing my brain when she's listening to a series there a long time ago. But I'm glad that God's using it and uh you can uh gain and glean from it We're going to uh just get done a few minutes early here. There's some great donuts uh across the way and uh you can get some coffee and uh help everybody wake up uh this morning. I know we're A little bit dragging 'cause we all lost an hour of sleep last night. Uh but uh looking forward to this morning's service. Let's pray and we'll be dismissed. Lord, thank you for his time in Sunday school and uh pray that you would uh just bless this morning's service in a real way. Be with you your people. Uh Lord, would you uh just bless them? Thank you for these that were able to make it for Sunday school this morning and pray that uh Lord we would be diligent. uh Lord in our desire to follow you and uh Lord considering how we're going to be found, Lord, just uh keep that in the forefront of our mind and Lord, we'll thank you for it. Uh bless this day, Lord. May we We give honor and glory to you, and we ask this in Jesus' name, Amen. Thank you so much, you're dismissed.