Pastor said we are continuing our series on dealing with devices. One um one reason why I went into So we won't be having this uh lesson next week. He'll be teaching in in Sunday school, but um he has a uh ministry that he does uh on having purity and and keeping yourself pure and and understanding the wickedness that's out there. So I thought that whatever he may be teaching would pair really well with what we're dealing with because that will be an aspect of what we teach as we continue uh through this series. If you can take your Bibles this morning to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. 1 Corinthians chapter 6 Before we begin, I do make it available every week if anybody had any questions that they wanted to ask and have me do some research on before next week or give an answer for. No, we don't don't generally uh do those. I ask the teens where the questions are at because every week in teen class there's five, six, eight, ten questions almost every week, but they're a little more shy with all the adults listening. They're worried that you might not like, might not think their questions are spiritual enough or something. But if anybody has any questions, we can uh go ahead and put those out. Otherwise, we'll go right into our lesson here. Alright, well we're going to be going in today dealing with devices. We're going to be talking about, well, as I said last week, kind of through introduction, by way of review, we looked at the idea that we're not ignorant of the devil's devices. That the devil has tools that he uses to get advantages on Christians. And that's the verse we looked at in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. That we we so that he cannot get an advantage, we're not ignorant of his devices. And so we looked at a little bit at the idea last week. What are his devices? What are these tools that Satan uses to get into a Christian's life We look, first of all, at his desire. What did he want to accomplish? We know that he doesn't want people to be saved. He wants young people to be corrupted. And he wants Christians to lose their testimonies so they become ineffective. And there's service for God. And we looked at the tools that Satan uses to do that, we saw that he uses the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life We brought that back to this idea of dealing with devices and technology and how easily he can use technology to accomplish those goals through those temptations. So we said at the end of the class period last week that we're going to be giving some Bible principles that we can put into place in our lives to help us deal with devices. The principle we're going to begin with this week is what I've entitled the power principle. As I said last week, again, there are many areas where there is obvious wickedness when it comes to technology. But there are also areas where technology is innocuous. There are also areas where technology is good. And there's other areas where technology is necessary. Since we are going to live our lives interacting with technology, we need to put Bible principles in place. in our lives to help us to control the good as well as prevent the bad. For example, just to kind of break it away from technology to show this idea of applying Bible principles, food. Food is a necessary part of our life as Christians, as people, but we have to put in place Bible principles to control our relationship with food. Uh there are things specific in the Bible about food, but we have a general understanding that there's an idea of having too much of a good thing. We all know that ice cream is good. We all know that eating a gallon every night is not good. So we have to put in these principles in our lives to help us to control that relationship. You know there are we know there are bad types of you can put in the category of food that we should not participate in, such as alcohol, not something that should be in a Christian's life. We know there's good types of food that usually come in colors like green and And orange and yellow. And red, good red food. Red meat, that's good for you as well. We enjoy good food there, so there's good things. All these aspects, so we have the aspects of there are places where we we should not be getting food. There's controls that we put in place on how much food we eat. There's an aspect of taking care of our bodies through our interactions with food All these aspects of eating are controlled through Bible principles based on what's best for us and what's pleasing to God. So we can do the same thing when it comes to technology There's good, there's bad, there's it doesn't matter. There's parts that are necessary, but we look at them and say, how would God want me to interact? How would God want me to what principles does God want me to put in place as I interact with technology Although God did not put into the Bible when smartphones are invented, thou shalt not play candy crush, we can look at Bible principles. He gave us those to apply to this part of our life. And as I said last week, even if this lesson does not apply directly to your relationship with technology, although it probably does more so than you think. The principles we're going to put in place affect every area of our life. It's a Bible principle that we can apply to any relationship. So you say, hey, I've got this technology thing under control that it doesn't bother me. I don't struggle in that area. I don't even have a phone whatever the whatever the relationship is there, well this principle can be applied in other areas as well. So the first principle we're going to be dealing with, as I said already, is called the power principle. This is found in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse number 12. If you found your place there, we'll go ahead and read. The Bible says all things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. I will not be brought under the power of any. Let's open a word of prayer and ask God to bless our time in science this morning. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word. We thank you for for these timeless truths that you've placed in this timeless book that apply to our lives in every area of it. Lord, I pray you'd help us as we make this application today. to the area of technology and how it's become such such a main part of our lives. And Lord, we need to learn to control it. As believers, help us to learn this principle of not letting things have power over us as we study your word this morning. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So by way of context, what's going on in this passage here in 1 Corinthians 6, we know that Paul is addressing the Corinthian church. He had received from the church some form of correspondence. In that correspondence, they had asked him some questions and maybe gave given him an update on the church and how things were going. And this letter, 1 Corinthians, is written as his response to their correspondence. They reached out to him. He wrote this letter in return. In the first six chapters, he's giving them instructions on things that he knew were problems in the church. He says, Hey, I heard that there's divisions among you. I heard that this is going on. I've seen that this is a problem in a church. So six first six chapters deal with these ideas that he says, I know this is an issue that you're dealing with as a church, and here's a biblical response. to it. Then we get to sac chapter seven, he starts to answer the questions that they asked him about. He asked them about that they asked him about questions regarding marriage and uh and engagement and and dating and even uh what it takes when when a when widowing and divorce and things of that nature Chapter 8 deals with the eating of meats. We took time to look at that. We go on through the rest of the book. He's answering their questions. So here in chapter 6, he's kind of right at the end of giving them instructions regarding things that he knows as problems, and he's getting ready to go into answering their questions. When you get to chapter number six, verses twelve through fourteen do not immediately seem to fit the rest of the chapter. Some commentators have even suggested that these verses are dealing with the topic of eating meats in chapter 8 and don't really apply to what's going on here in chapter 6. Chapter six begins with a discussion regarding church members suing one another and saying this is a problem that you guys are g taking each other to court, you're defrauding one another, you're suing one another, don't you have somebody wise enough in the church to settle uh these disputes that you don't have to drag the church in public court and So he's dealing with the idea there of the church members suing one another. And he ends the chapter in verses nine through or sorry, uh in verses fifteen through twenty, he ends the chapter dealing with the that was prevalent in the city and was also in the church, as we know from chapter 5. He ends the discussion about church members suing one another in verses 9 through 11. By pointing out that the sins of the flesh are characteristics of unbelievers and not Christians. Let's read those verses together here. Chapter six, verses nine through eleven says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor violers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you, but ye are wash, and but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. So he's talking about suing one another, being in public, being in front of unbelievers instead of being with believers and how to sell things in and out of church. He ends up saying, look, this is characteristics of sins of the flesh. And this is something that some of you used to participate in. But you've been washed, you've been justified, you've been sanctified, you're Christians now. That shouldn't be a part of your life anymore. And that's the basis for everything he's been teaching them here. He said this This characteristic, this behavior, that's not how Christians should act. That's what you used to be. You're different now. And you need to act different and you need to be different. Bridging the gap between these problems of lawsuits and morality is this passage that discussed. This is this idea that all things are lawful for me. in the verse that we read. In this passage, Paul is addressing the attitude in this church of, can I still be a Christian? And Can I still be a Christian? And that was the that was the mentality of the Corinthian church. Yeah, we're Christians, but can we still do this? We're Christians, but can we still do this? Where where is God's line? Because we want to be as close to that as possible because because we really enjoyed the things that we had in our former life. Can we go eat meats? Can we eat meats in the temple? Can we buy the meats at the market? Where where is it that it's still not how far can I go and still not be in And so that's what he's addressing here in this um in this chapter, in this in this context. How much can I get away with and still be a Christian? They wanted to abuse their liberty in Christ and use it as an opportunity to sin. So Paul momentarily acknowledges their premise that all things are lawful for me. But he goes on to instruct them that just because things are legal doesn't make them right. He goes on the passage here just to talk about meats and fornications. If you look in verse number 13, it says meats for the belly, belly, sorry, 13. Meats for the belly and belly for meats, God shall destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. So again, kind of a strange segue that goes from all things being lawful and not being expedient to talking about meats and fornications. There's more he's teaching in this passage than we're going to look at today, but one thing he's teaching is the similarity between the eating of meats and of fornication. Both can be controlling desires. Both are lusts of the flesh. Both are conquered by saying no to our flesh. And if you cannot control the harmless one being food, you will not be able to control the sinful one either. Last week we took some time to look at two instances where Satan tempted sinless people, Adam and Eve in the garden and Jesus in the wilderness. And we brought out the point that when he was going to tempt them, what what what did he use? First of all, he used food. Food as a as a temptation. Why? To get them to give in to the lust of their flesh. Because if he can get you to not control yourself here, he can get you to not control yourself elsewhere. And that's the same connection. that Paul is making in this passage. Food is a simple test of whether we or our appetites are in control. How many of you have ever been eating and you've physically moved food away from yourself so you stop eating it? I was with some men the other day and we were having a meeting and the uh house we were at, the wife brought out a plate of brownies and set it down and uh one man was on a diet and he said He says, Oh man, those look so good, I'm only going to have one. And he went ahead and ate one. And then he was reaching for the other one. He says, No, no, no. Take that plate and what move it over there. Why? 'Cause because I don't know if I can control myself if the plate is right here in front of me. As a simple test when it comes to food, are we able to control ourselves or do our appetites control us? What's in control? The lesson Paul is teaching here is one about controlling appetites. Either you're going to have power over your desires, or your desires will have power over you. That is the power principle we're talking about today You are going to have control over your technology or it is going to control you. Now let me remind you as we're talking about this dealing with devices, this is not a series on phones. It's a series on devices. Your radio in your car can have control over you just like a young person's phone can have control over them. The TV in your bedroom, kitchen, or man cave can have control over you. The computer and laptop can exercise control over you. That's why we've called this dealing with devices and not principles. Principles for phones. All of technology. We interact with it all at different levels, and there's different ones that we're we we interact with at different ages and stages of our life, but the principles remain the same. The problem we see in this area is one of addictions. When we think of addictions, our mind usually jumps to drugs, alcohol, and gambling But you can become addicted to anything that satisfies the lust of the flesh. Addiction is defined as the state of being compulsively committed to a habit or practice or to something that is a physiologically or physically habit forming. to such an extent that its secession causes severe trauma. An older definition that comes from the Webster's 1828 dictionary defines it as to apply oneself habitually. to devote time and attention by customary or constant practice, sometimes in a good sense, more usually in a bad sense to follow customarily to devote by habitually practicing that which was ill. To simplify things, we could call an addiction a compulsory habit. A compulsory habit, something that you do by habit that you kind of feel like you have to do. You're compulsed to do it. There's a compulsory habit. Let me illustrate this in a simple way. Most people have made it a habit to look at their phone whenever it dings, to the point that they feel like they have to. If the phone dings, somebody else's phone could ding and you would go like this right here. You're driving in the car and you feel some vibration of the road, you go like this because you thought your phone was going So you're f that's a compulsory habit that we and if we can't do it, if we're uh um I remember times when I was uh a young person working landscaping. And occasionally I'd be given the phone. Uh if the boss had to go somewhere else or he was on vacation, I was given the phone and the phone is where you get customers. And uh you'd have the phone in your pocket and you'd be up to here in mud And it would ring. And you'd be, oh no, what am I going to do? How do I and if you're not able to go right to that habit, you feel some anxiety. Because you've made it a compulsory habit. Just something as simple as that. Answering the phone whenever it dings. The ringtone has power over them. Now I try, I've made it my my goal to not look at my phone when I'm having a conversation with somebody. And it's very difficult. when that phone dings to not go like this. Now there's times I I felt really bad last week, I'll tell myself here. Ms. Trudy was talking to me after Sunday school and uh my phone dinged. And I looked at it and I I was purposely watching for my wife because she's home with a new baby. So as soon as I saw it wasn't my wife, I put it back away. Um but I I I just just felt so terrible looking at my phone while I was talking to her. I was sorry Miss Trudy that I did that. That you it's a it's such a compulsory habit when you're not able to do it, you feel that anxiety, that that drama that, oh no, I can't do this thing that I've obligated myself to do. It's just such a simple action that is hard because we've been trained by our society and our technology that when our phone dings we're supposed to look at it. It can be called an addiction. So many other aspects of technology are designed to be addictions. That goes into the programming. That goes into the development of the application. How can we make this addicting? How can we make people do this as a compulsory manner? How can we force people to come back to this day after day? For example, this is a little bit older of a reference, but that's why TV shows air weekly at the same time. Why? Because that TV program wants to make sure that you are home, have already had dinner, have already put the kids to bed, and are sitting in the living room by eight o'clock on Tuesday for the next episode of, I don't know what it is, that w that airs at time. Why it wants to control your behavior. That's what it's there for. That's what it's designed to do. Technology is designed to control your behavior. That's why the games on your phone, young people run out of lives, uh with a timer, showing you when you can come back and play again, because after tw 22 minutes. You're going to have a new life and you can play again. It's to control your behavior, to bring you back to that game. You know, when I was growing up and video games first came out, when you ran a lot of lives, you had to start over the whole game. um all the way back at world number one uh for Super Mario. And uh you didn't get to wait and get more lives later. But they found out that you know what if we wait make them wait and get more lives, we'll get them to come back again. Or maybe we can actually get them to spend money to buy more lives now instead of making them wait. So it's a compulsory behavior. It's what it's designed to do You know, if you've ever checked back on a game on your phone before it has already given you a new life, you've got an addiction. It's brought you back before the time was even up to give you the next life. It's trying to, what it's trying to do is it's trying to control you The following that I'm going to read is an article from a secular psychology website. The whole website is designed to deal with young people who have addiction, specifically addiction to technology. You know, even our world recognizes that technology addiction is a problem. It's sad that very often lost people can see behaviors as negative before we as Christians do and recognize it. I I remember um some months ago I was just shocked me. I was listening to this very it he's Christian in name, but he's a very, very secular guy. And he was talking about this idea of technology. He says there's no way my kids are getting a phone before they're seventeen They need to have a light before they have a phone because I'm just watching these kids getting their lives torn up. And this is a secular guy saying this is a terrible problem among young people. And here we have this secular website talking about technology and its addiction, especially related to young people Here's the article they had. It says the emergence of the internet and daily use of smartphones, tablets, and personal computers have made maintain has made maintaining a healthy balance with technology difficult. Staying connected on social media, participating in video calls at work, responding to emails can make you feel like you constantly need to be plugged into the internet. Not being connected to that technology may make us feel as though we're missing out on pertinent information. But research shows that excessively using the internet and internet-enabled devices can lead to an addiction to technology. Technology addiction can cause disrupted sleep, social isolation, heightened anxiety attention to deficit symptoms. Impaired emotional and social intelligence. Scientific research also shows that being addicted to technology can affect our brain and our cognitive health. The more we use technology, the more neurological changes take place in our brains. Studies show that these changes can be so substantial that the technology of addiction can be just as harmful as substance abuse, even though the diagnostic and statistical statistical manual of mental disorders does not list technology addiction as a mental health disorder. People addicted to technology demonstrate an an inability to control, regulate, or limit their use of internet and technology, which is characteristic of behavioral addictions. Some symptoms include experience sudden moon changes, mood changes, obsessively focused on internet and digital media, neglect our social work, and and school or professional lives, lose track of how much time we spend on the internet, feel like we need more time in the internet or a new game or a device in order to be happy, to experience withdrawal symptoms when not using internet or technology To continue using the internet and technology even though it's negative negatively affecting our relationships. Other signs of a technology addiction can include getting less sleep due to technology or internet activities, compulsively checking text messages and notifications. Losing interest in aspects of your life that don't involve internet technology, feeling guilty or getting defensive about the amount of time we spend online Turning to the internet or technology-enabled device to improve your mood, experience pleasure or relief. Trying but failing to cut back on internet or technology use. Physical symptoms such as carpal tunnel syndrome, headaches, unexplained weight gain, vision changes, back and neck aches. Even though using technology isn't the same as using drugs or alcohol, the brain processes both addictions the same way. So that's from an article on uh dealing with counseling youth when it comes to um technology addictions. In fact uh earlier this year um I believe it was brother Anthony sent myself and uh uh Brad a uh article on how a company was going to give a I believe it was a fourteen hundred dollar, twenty four hundred dollar reward to somebody who could stay technology free for one day. They were going to supply you with a $200 gift card to Amazon to build your technology free day survival kit. And you could get board games and you could get other things. And you would have to disconnect from all technology for 24 hours. And if you did it, if you were chosen to You could win $2,400 by the end of it. Just recognizing this is a problem. This is a problem that people can't unplug, that people can't be separated from these devices and how they're controlling people. Today we're going to be learning a principle from this passage of scripture that applies to this area of our use of technology. So we'll see what God has to say about the power principle. First of all, this morning as we get into the study here, we're going to talk about the amorality of devices. The amorality of devices. The first thing Paul says in 1 Corinthians 6 and verse number 12 says, All things are lawful unto me. Now he could, there's several things he could have been talking about here. He actually could have been referring to the actual laws at Corinth. Corinth was a very wicked city. And there were a lot of things that were legal that Christians shouldn't have been participating in. Many forms of wickedness were legal. Prostitution that Paul deals with later in this chapter was not only legal, it was practiced as part of the pagan religion. Defrauding one another through the law was legal, and it was being practiced by the Christians. You know, the right to do something doesn't make it right to do. Just because you can doesn't mean you should. There are many things that may not be against the rules, but Christians still have no busy do or business doing them Legality should never be our standard of morality. And that's where, especially young people as as teens, that's the the mentality is where how far can I go? How far can I go? Where is the line that I can't cross? And that's the opposite attitude that we should have as Christians. Is okay, there's a line. I need to stay far away from that. I need to have a higher standard in my life so I can make sure I'm living a life that's honoring and pleasing. to God. He could have been talking about the laws at Corinth. He also could have been talking about misapplied Christian liberty. Some Christians get the non-biblical idea that because I'm a Christian, I can do whatever I want. You know, I'm saved. I can't lose my salvation, so I can just live however I want. The Bible calls this licentiousness. Licentiousness is an easy definition to remember, is that it would be a license to sin. They take their um they take their salvation almost like a license to say, hey, I get to do whatever I want now because I'm saved and I'm on the way to heaven and it's all taken care of. That's a wrong attitude. Paul addresses this in Romans chapter six. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. There were likely Christians in this church at Corinth who felt this way about their sin. So he could have been talking about the misapply of Christian liberty, but most likely in this passage what he's talking about is non-sinful activities He was dealing likely with things that um are not in and of themselves sinful. He just dealt with in the previous verses we read in 9 through 11 about sins. And he said, this isn't part of what you should be as a Christian. This isn't allowed for Christians. So I don't think he would go back to the next verse and say, hey, but you can do all of it. No, so he's talking about things that, you know, there's things that we're allowed to do. All things are lawful to me The idea of lawful means something that you're able to do rightfully. I'm able to do this and not be wrong. I'm able to do this and not be in sin. So that's what he's addressing here, lawfully. So he recognized that there are many things that were just fine for people to participate in as Christians. There's plenty of things that we can look at and say they're not wrong. There's other things that we can look at and say that they are wrong. And there's things that we can look at and say, uh, you know, by themselves they don't really matter. This is especially true with technology. There's an aspect of technology that is wrong. No Christian should be participating in, watching, playing things that are full of ungodly music, unholy language, and immoral images. So there's aspects of technology that's wrong. There's aspects of technology that is right. I think every Christian should have a Bible on their phone. You've got a smartphone, you should have a Bible on it. I've got a hymn book. on my phone. There's things on my phone that are right. They are good to have. And then there's things that just don't matter. There's games. You know some of those don't really matter. There's shopping apps. Doesn't really matter. Uh go through my phone, I've got a app on not tying, I've got an app on first aid, I've got an app on uh scanning PDFs, I've got one to Home Depot, one to Amazon, uh a couple logic puzzles, some board games Just doesn't matter. So there's this aspect that these are lawful. If I do them, there's nothing wrong with doing them. So as Christians, we can look at many things and say, okay, so that's not sinful. I can't point you to a chapter and verse that says your mindless game is sinful. God is not forbidden. Facebook and the Bible. So there's things that are lawful for us to do as Christians. It's just amoral. It doesn't matter. But Paul goes on from there to teach on this amorality. And he talks about the absence of benefit. Look at the verses. In verse number 12, it says, All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient. This means that all things are not beneficial for me. He says, you know what, there's plenty of things that I can do as a Christian, but it doesn't do me any good. Doing them doesn't do me any good. That's his qualifier here in the statement. While there may be amoral aspects of technology, many of them do not benefit you. It is in the middle. All things are not bad for me, but they're not all good for me either. Revelation pictures this as being lukewarm, just in the middle. It just doesn't matter. Not doing anything, not accomplishing anything. So Paul goes ahead and acknowledges, you know what, there's some amorality, there's some things that don't matter. It's okay to do, but it's not doing you any good. It's not expedient. That word expedient means beneficial. To illustrate this, let's consider the law of reciprocity. This is a fancy term for the law of sowing and reaping we learn about it in Galatians chapter 5. This is the idea that what you sow, you're going to reap. And as Eli shared in his testimony last night, what's your reap or last week, what's your reap, you're eventually going to eat. So what's what how does this play into this? Normally when we hear this uh passage uh being preached, it's applied to our bad behaviors You sow wickedness, you're going to reap some bad consequences. You sow to the flesh, you're going to reap corruption. You know what can also be applied, though, to our good works. You do good, you're going to reap a harvest of righteousness. You sow to the Spirit, you're going to reap life everlasting. I've never heard it preached this way, but as I was studying this topic out, it kind of came to mind, you know, it's also true that if you sow nothing, You ain't getting nothing back. You're gonna reap nothing as well. If you sow nothing, you reap nothing, you eat nothing. So how much of what we do on our devices is nothing? So amoral, it's okay, it's not bad for you to do as a Christian, but what you're doing? You're just wasting you're just wasting time. And time what what's time? Time's life. Waste your time, you waste your life. And so yeah, it's there's nothing wrong with spending three, four hours a day making bubbles line up that are the same color. But it's not doing anything for you. It's not doing you any good, and when you sow nothing, you reap nothing as well. And there's people who today are my age and their life is empty Because as young people they spend all their time doing nothing. We say, well, it's not nothing, it's it's providing me amusement. I'm sure you've heard the etymology of the word amusement, though it comes from the um prefix ah, the prefix ah means not. And then you have the next word, the root word muse, and muse means to think. So amusement is not thinking. So yeah, it's still nothing, uh even if it's even if it's amusement. The clear application by Paul is that non-beneficial amoral activity should be avoided. He's saying, yeah, it's okay to do. But it's not doing any good. And so is his application clear. So why are we doing them? Why are we spending so much of our time doing nothing that's not doing us any good? There are things that are not wrong to do, but if they don't do you any good, why are you doing them? This leads us to our next point, and that's because we live in a society that is addicted to pleasure. The addiction to pleasure. He goes on in the end of the verse here. He says, All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. He warns about being brought under the power of these lawful activities, saying it's not sinful, but it can begin to control you. And then it becomes a problem. He again gives the example of food in this passage. He goes right on to talk about meats for the belly and the belly for meats. You know, there's many people who are controlled by food. Some people are controlled to the point of gluttony that they just can't stop eating. Some people are controlled by food because they're on a diet and it controls every aspect of their life. But either way, they're still controlled by food, and the Bible calls this having whose uh whose be uh whose God was their belly. That's how the Bible refers to it in the book of Philippians Just being under control. I've been on the gluttony side of being controlled by foods. I can eat almost constantly. I can almost always be hungry. If you put me in my office with a box of uh Cheez-Its, they will eat until I go home for lunch, and I'll go home h for lunch, and I'll eat lunch, and I'll come back, and I'll eat until I go home for dinner and I'll eat dinner and I'll have a snack before bed. Um I could eat constantly if I didn't control it It's just you have to control it. More recently, I went on my first diet, and it was an extreme diet that I went on. I won't go into details here. But I made a decision saying, you know what, even though I want to do this, I'm not going to let it control me. So even though I'm on this extreme diet If I'm going to a church function, I'm not going to practice my diet because I don't want it to interfere with my relationships. And although going off my diet messed with my gut, and I didn't feel good afterwards, and I got sore and crampy, I didn't let my diet control me. But we need to we need to he's using this example here about food and how food can control you. And he uses the example of something that's necessary, something that is pretty much amoral, but it is something that can control you. Being brought under the power of something in this verse is a picture of addiction. That's what he's talking about here. When something's controlling you, instead of you controlling it, you're dealing with an addiction. There's countless examples we could give of this when it comes to technology. How many of you ever heard of binge watching? Alright, there are people that will start watching a series and they will stay up all night watching a series. Why? Because they can't turn it off. I can't shut it off. Why? Because they're not in control. They're not in control. When I was a uh when I was a young person, uh I enjoyed reading. And uh there were a lot of nights where I made it to about three o'clock in the morning trying to do just one more chapter Just one more chapter. Alright, and then I'll stop. Well, just one more chapter, and then I'll stop. Well, they always end chapter on cliffhangers. You can't stop at the end of a chapter. Alright, but what is that? That's not being in control. That's something controlling you I've talked to many young people that come to the church and they're tired on Sunday morning, junior church. What are you so tired for? Oh we were up till two o'clock, three o'clock in the morning. What are you doing? Playing the game? Watching a movie On the phone, texting, doing whatever. Why technology gets back to that addiction thing is depriving them of sleep, disrupting sleep patterns. Why? Because they can't turn it off. Because they're not in control. when devices are controlling uh their lives. You know there's a nice feature on uh on phones, Apple phones. I don't know if this is the same for uh Android phones, but they have it called screen time. And it tracks how much time you spend on different apps. It also allows you to set time limits. So you can be in control, right? So you know what? I'm going to only spend this much time every day on this app at a maximum. And so you can set that in there. But the thing that happens is when that time limit gets hit, it pops up this little window that says, Would you like one more minute? Would you like fifteen more minutes? Would you just like to ignore this limit for today? Those are the axes it gives. Why? Because it's it understands you're not in control. You're not a good you can't you can't stop. You're in the middle of this thing. And it just popped up and said your time's up. Of course you're not going to be done and using up and be ready to put it down. Why? Because they understand it controls you You know, it's the same thing with our alarm clocks and our snooze button. You may say, you know what, I'm in control, because no one tells me when to get up. I turn that snooze button off and that alarm clock does not control me. Well we understand you're hitting the snooze button You're not the one that's in control as far as that goes. So control. What's controlling you or are you controlling it? We live in a culture that's addicted to pleasure. A man by the name of Gene Edward Vith had this to say on the topic of boredom and the law of diminishing returns. Boredom is kind of a modern phenomena. People throughout history haven't generally been bored. Boredom is a symptom of an addiction to pleasure. As he says here, he says boredom is a chronic symptom of a pleasure-obsessed age. When pleasure becomes one's number one priority, the result, ironically, is boredom. The ceaseless attempt to rekindle pleasure in the face of boredom can lead to moral degradation Yet even innocent pleasures, if we let them, can lead us away from God. Like all God's material gifts, pleasure requires good stewardship. He goes on to talk about the law of diminishing return. The full soul loatheth in honeycomb, observes Solomon. But to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet. Proverbs 27, 7 In other words, pleasant sensations, when they are overdone, will lose their appeal, while desire can make even bad things seem attractive. Hast thou found honey? Eat so much as is sufficient with thee, lest thou be filled therewith and vomit it. Proverbs twenty-five sixteen. These scriptures suggest that there is a law of diminishing returns when it comes to pleasure. The more we seek pleasure for its own sake, the less that we will have. That pleasure operates under the law of diminishing returns, can have catastrophic moral consequences. For those who insist on indulging themselves with no restraint. What once gives pleasure will soon fail to satisfy. The experience must become more and more extreme to re to yield the desired sensation. You know, pleasure for pleasure's sake will never satisfy. It will always leave you with a desire for more And that's what breeds this addiction. It breeds that addiction to pleasure. An addiction to pleasure will lead to an unhealthy addiction to devices. And this is where our devices will begin to have control over us. This brings us to our last point for this lesson here, and that's on the authority of Christians. You know, as Christians, we have been freed from the authority of our flesh in our lives. We have been given the opportunity to serve a new master. Romans 6, verses 11 through 14 says, Likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin. sin, but alive unto God through Christ Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lust thereof. Neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead And your members as instruments of righteousness unto God, for sin shall not have dominion over you, for ye are not under the law, but under grace We have been given the choice whether or not we will allow something to put us under its power. You have the choice to control the desires of your flesh instead of the desires of your flesh controlling you. Because in his resurrection Christ gave you victory over that, over sin, over death, over hell in the grave. Christ gave you victory, and you can use that victory, or you can choose to yield your members under the power of something else. We as Christians are to be under the power and authority of God. Instead of being controlled by our fleshly desires, we should be controlled by God. This is the key to finding satisfaction. Satisfaction is not found in pleasure. Satisfaction is only found in Christ. The pursuit of pleasure will only leave a stronger, unsatiable desire. The pursuit of Christ will bring contentment. Contentment can never be found outside of Christ. If you're not satisfied with where you are, you will never be satisfied when you get somewhere else This is the idea of the grass is greener on the other side, and you get there and it still needs to be mowed. Well I just need that to be happy. I just need that to be happy. And you get that, it's not going to make you happy. Just when I get to the next level, when I get the next song, when the next album comes out, when the next this is available, when the next uh YouTube video comes out from my subscriber, then then I'll find joy, then I'll find pleasure, but you're still left with an emptiness Why? Because we're not finding satisfaction in the right place. If you're not content as a high school student, you'll not be satisfied when you get to college. If you're not satisfied as a single person, you'll not find satisfaction as a married person. If you're not satisfied in your marriage, you're not going to find fulfillment in divorce. If you're not content with your twelve dollar an hour job, you're not going to be content with fifteen, eighteen, twenty-five or a hundred dollar an hour job. Paul gives us this secret in Philippians four verses eleven through thirteen, not that I speak in respect and want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased and how to abound everywhere, and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and suffer need, how I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me He says, I can be content no matter where I am. Why? Because I have Christ. We sometimes separate those two verses, but they're linked together in this passage that I can be satisfied here as a college student because I have Christ. I can be satisfied as a single person. I could be satisfied as a minimum wage worker. I can be satisfied here because I have Christ. And I'm not looking for something else to make me happy. And if it's not pursuing pleasure, I'm pursuing Christ. And then I can find pleasure in the things God has given me, in the gifts God has given me. I can enjoy those things once I learn to enjoy Christ. When a Christian lives under the authority of God in their lives, they find pleasure and fulfillment that cannot be matched with any other option. A fulfilled relationship with Christ will bring fulfillment in the other areas of our life as well. You remember what Jesus told the woman at the well? Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up in everlasting life. We come to the things of this world, we're always going to find them empty. You go back and and you're bored, so you pull this microphone off your tie. Uh you pull you pull out your phone because you just don't have anything to do right now? And you don't even know what you're doing. Like what did I what did I what did I want to do? What was I going to do? Why? Because this doesn't bring satisfaction. This doesn't bring pleasure. Oh, maybe for a minute, maybe for a little while, but you put it down, you're just as empty as you were before We find as Christians we find our satisfaction in Christ because they never runs dry. He never runs out. Christ is always there. So the question for us as Christians is, why would we give the power that belongs to God to a substitute? Our life is supposed to be controlled by God. And we let it be controlled by these other things, by our desires, by our pursuit of pleasure. We let these things control our life instead of controlling our God, or instead of God controlling our life. When we yield ourselves to the power of something else, we're taking the authority that belongs to God and giving it to a substitute. Romans 6. 16 says, Know ye not that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are, to whom ye obey? Don't you know that when you yield yourself to somebody's power, you become their servant? Did you know that you can yield yourself to become the servant of your device? Because it can control you. It can ring a bell and get your attention and make you do whatever it wants you to do. Because you've yielded yourself to it. When instead you can choose to yield yourself to God and be a servant of the Most High King, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, you choose who you're going to yield yourself to. Who are you going to give that power in your life to? To your desires? To your your lusts of your flesh? Or are you going to give that power to God? And this isn't talking about sinful activities. He says, this is the lawful activities. Things that are just okay to do but don't do you any good. Are those things controlling you? Have you yielded your life to the divine, or have you yielded your life to your device? Power. Who's the power principle? Who has control? Are things controlling you or is God controlling you