The text is what's on the screen right now. We're going to kind of add a couple of verses to that to have the context and to be able to apply it. This message that I'm bringing this morning is titled The Possibility of Prayer as we think about and consider the condition of our nation. So we consider and think about uh where we're at and all the problems that we face as a society today. Sometimes we could get discouraged. Sometimes you might look at it and you you might feel like, well, there's no hope And I have to be honest with you that there's been days where I thought, you know, it would be better if I just moved out into the middle of nowhere. Amen, Joe. He's not in here. He's out there. He's our head of security, so he's guarding the door right now. But uh move out to the middle of nowhere and just kinda just raise my family there by ourselves. We just do what we're gonna do and stop trying to have any kind of impact in this world because of It's just hopeless. This world is gone and and you you feel that way sometimes because of the the the just the direction of society and and And it seems how fast and hard they're they're running towards this this their own demise and and almost seems hopeless, but there is in this text hope for us today. I want you to know that in the context of this most familiar verse, we are literally looking at uh the completion or the dedication of the temple which Solomon built. This leader, this man that God had endowed with a special measure of wisdom, given him the responsibility of building the temple. We're not going to take time to read it all this morning, but maybe back up just a little bit where we can kind of pick a few verses here from chapter six where we see Solomon praying. There in verse number one, then said Solomon, The Lord hath said that he would dwell in the thick darkness, but I have built a house of habitation for thee. And a place for thy dwelling forever. So Solomon had done what God had told him to do, had built this temple. And I look out here and you know there's always many things going through the speaker's mind, and I just see Frank and just want to say glad to have Frank in church today. Uh actually this message is part partially Frank's fault. Because Frank asked me, he said, would you preach a message on 2 Chronicles 714? This is a vital uh messenger for our society and for the Christians today and I said definitely at some point uh I'll do that and I knew that this was coming and And this was several months ago that he asked me about this, so we're we're getting to it today. But we see Solomon here uh building the temple of God. He's Praying. He's seeking God's face. He's dedicating the temple as we see this prayer of dedication. that Solomon gives. Look at verse number 12 of chapter 6. And he stood before the altar of the Lord. in the presence of all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands. For Solomon had made a brazen scaffold of five cubits long, and five cubits broad and three cubits high And had set it in the midst of the court, and upon it he stood, and kneeled down upon his knees before all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands towards heaven And he begins to pray and he begins to seek God's face and to dedicate the temple and to beg God to come in his power and in his might and his Shekinah glory would come and rest in that place. There, that temple would be the home for God, and he could be there and be with his people. And we aren't going to read all of this. But maybe look down at verse number 23. I want you to see this phrase that appears several times in You'll see it repeated by the Lord Himself as we get to our text. But verse number 23, you remember here is Solomon, he's praying. Solomon's talking to God, and he says, Then hear thou from heaven. He's asking God, and do and judge thy servants. In verse number 25, he says, Then hear thou from the heavens, and forgive the sins of thy people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest to them and their fathers. Verse number 27, then hear thou from heaven, and forgive the sins of thy servants. He goes down through here over and over again and repeats that phrase and he says, Lord, would you please hear the prayer of thy servant? He talks about the times of sickness. Would you bring healing? He talks about the times of pain and says, Would you bring comfort? He talks about the times of bondage and says, Would you bring freedom? He talks about the trials that they as a nation were going to face And said, Lord, would you help us in a real and a powerful way? He calls on God and begs God to do A miraculous thing. What a privilege to have a leader who is not using his Christianity. As a political crutch, as a means to gain some votes, but a leader who can really, honestly get a hold of God A leader who can stand before the people and take the people to the throne of grace and get a hold of God. That's the kind of leaders that we need in our local administrations and in our state governments and in our entire nation. Winnie leaders that look to God not just talk about it but literally seek after God. Boy Solomon praised this amazing and powerful prayer, and you can read the whole thing at your own leisure. But you hear him cry out to God, and as you walk through these verses and you see him calling on his Lord, you see the fervency of his prayer and the earnestness of his prayer. And and I I don't know about you, but as I read it, I look at it and I say, Lord, have I ever really prayed? Have I ever really sought you? I mean, hearing these the these supplications from Solomon. And Solomon dedicates this temple and God does a miraculous thing. His glory comes down and he rests there. Solomon goes home. In the stillness of his own home, in the quiet of the evening, God comes to him and speaks to him. What a privilege to have God speak to you. Oh, there was lots of pomp and circumstance. Man, Solomon spent a an exorbitant amount. of time, energy, and money in the dedication of the temple. If you read the list of all that was accomplished in the dedication of the temple, I mean it was it was a phenomenal amount was put forth to Bring honor and glory to God, to make God's house as miraculous as it could be. And by the way, God's house ought to be miraculous. But then Solomon goes home and it's in the quiet of the night, and God comes to him and speaks to him. Would you look in chapter 7, in verse number 12, where we'll pick up the text for today? In chapter 7 and verse number 12, he says, and the Lord appeared to Solomon. You see? Solomon had done all this praying. Now God appeared to him. God appeared to him by night and said unto him, I've heard thy prayer. And I have chosen this place to myself for an house of sacrifice. God is talking to Solomon here, and he says to him, If I shut up the heavens, that there be no rain, or if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then You see this phrase that was repeated over and over again in Solomon's supplication. He says, Then will I hear from heaven. and will forgive their sin, and will hear their land. Verse number 15, he says, Now mine eyes shall be opened, and mine ears attent unto the prayer that is made in this place. You see, this text that we look at, oftentimes just looking at the one verse. Is an answer. It's God's answer to Solomon's prayer. Lord, would you bring healing? Lord, would you bring supply? Lord, would you bring comfort? Lord, would you give us freedom? Lord, would you do this for us? And God comes back and God says, yes, I'll do it. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I'll hear from heaven. Solomon, that is when I will do what you've asked of me. I would like you to see three things this morning as we consider this text and maybe apply this to our our own lives. First of all, I want you to see the problem. The problem that brings the chastening of God. In verse number 13, he says there, if I shut up heaven, that there be no rain, or if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people. Listen, he's talking here about the chastening hand of God. He's talking here about God sending punishment. He says, if I've done this. If I've shut up the heavens that there be no rain, and can y you see, we're not talking about like in today's world or where we are in the world that listen if we have a few weeks without rain, I mean it's inconvenient I mean if you get a little further uh west or something you might get to a place where if they haven't had a lot of rain then there's going to be a notice that's going to go out and say, listen, you can't water your lawn for the next month Mm, boy, we're really suffering. Can't water our lawns. Oh no. Uh but where Solom's at If God did shut up the heavens and there was no rain, you're talking about life and death. You're talking about the ability just to survive. The chastening hand of God. And beloved, in our nation, there are many who look at the world and society today, and we see the direction of it, and we see the prevalence of sin. And the wickedness. We live in a wicked and a perverse generation, without question. And I am not a pastor who would presume to be able to say what is God's chastening hand and what is not. I know there are many people that over the last years, past uh over the last year, uh pastors stood in pulpits all over the country and and said that the that COVID was uh was God's chastening hand on on the world for the prevalence of sin. And and and you know what maybe it is, I can't say that it is or not, but there are those that will stand in the pulpit and they'll say that uh hey This this uh typhoon or that earthquake or or this hurricane that's God chasing it I remember years ago uh when Katrina hit down there in Louisiana and oh pastors all over the country saying that was God's judgment on Louisiana For all the debauchery and the Mardi Gras and all that foolishness that goes on down there, God judge them, you know. We don't know what God's doing. It's awful, awful presumptuous for somebody to say they know that God did that for this purpose or another But here's what I want you to understand, beloved. We, and this text can rightly be applied to the nation, and today, probably in pulpits all over this country, it will be applied to the nation. But in verse number 13, he says there, the very last phrase, he says, if I send pestilence among what's the last two words? My people. My people. In verse number fourteen, he says, if my people This beloved, this text that many times is applied to the nation is to you and I. It's written to us. It's written to God's people. You see, the the problem that brought chastisement is sin, yes. But he is not talking about the sin of society. And we could stand in here all pious and with our suit on and our Bible under our arm and talk about how wicked society is and How bad they are. Yeah, boy, things are really bad out there, preacher. You're right. This is a terrible day we live in. God says, my people. He is looking at the sin that is in the lives of God's people. God is not talking here about the sin that is in society. He's talking about the sin that's in the life of the believer. The problem that brings the chastening hand of God is the sin in our lives. Look back at chapter six in verse number twenty-six. Remember again Solomon is praying here. Solomon acknowledging the condition here. He says, when the heaven is shut up and there is no rain, what's the rest of that phrase there? Because They've sinned against thee. You see, sin is what brings the chastening hand of God. But it's not the sin of society at large. It is the sin of God's people. Do you remember when God was going to destroy that city, Sodom and Gomorrah? Do you remember the That God was going to spare the city if there was just ten righteous people. Just ten righteous people. Where are the righteous people that will stay the judgment of God? There must be a remnant of God's people, if my people. There must be a remnant of God's people that have decided they're not going to embrace the wickedness of society and pretend to be a Christian, but they're going to live holy and separated lives unto God, bringing honor and glory to Him and stop living a life of sin. If my people, the reality is, is God's people have become far too familiar with the sin of this world. Not just that we know about it, but that we are participating in it. We're pursuing it Verse number 14 starts with if my people which are called by my name, that's God talking to the church If I asked you this morning, are you a child of God? Then this is written to you Well, I know it's a lot easier to think about it as the wickedness of the world. All those people, man, out there, boy, yeah, they're so bad. But what about us? The message here is to the Christian, to the church. When we begin to live selfish lives, when we begin to live lives that we are living self-sufficiently without God God's going to send his chastening hand. You know, first of all, God's going to convict you. That's the Holy Spirit of God that comes in and he pricks your heart and he says, Hey, you ought to change this. The Spirit of God comes and he says, hey, you shouldn't be doing that, or hey, you should start doing this. That's the conviction of God in your heart and He wants you to respond to the Holy Spirit as he's trying to lead you to live a life that's honoring and pleasing to him. The convicting power of God. But if you don't respond to his conviction, then he's going to chasten you. He's going to chasten you. Revelation three nineteen says, As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. You see, God chastens those that are his. In Hebrews 12, 7 he says, if ye endured chastening, God dealeth with you as sons. So if you're being chastened by God, it's because you're a child of God. And he's saying you shouldn't be doing this, you shouldn't be going that way, you shouldn't be responding this way. And beloved, I've seen it for the Christian that doesn't respond to conviction, and the the Christian who disregards the chastening hand of God. He may decide to call you home. Because if you're not going to fulfill his will on here on earth, then his purpose and reason for leaving you here is being left undone. And he may determine there's no need for you to continue to be here. And God may call you home. One thing is true, he's not going to turn a blind eye to your sin. The problem that brings the chastenhand of God is sin in the lives of the Christian. But, beloved, it gives us here a process Through which we can attain a cure. A process that's given to us here in verse number 14, he says, If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves. And pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. I want you to know this here is not just a list, but there's also given to us an order. Things must be done in the order in which God set them forth. You can't expect to ever experience the joyfulness of God's healing until you first Have submitted to his humbling. He says you need to be humble. Humble yourself. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves I'm not talking about this morning a type of humility that's just a little well, I'm not as uh you know, capable as that guy or uh I'm I'm not as as strong as him or her or just kind of an acknowledgement of maybe some of your limitations. I'm not talking about that kind of humility this morning. I'm speaking of the humility that comes from God. Comes from being in the presence of God when we're faced with the reality of the condition of our heart. Where we, when faced with the reality of the condition of our heart, are like the prophet Isaiah. Where he said, Woe is me. I am undone, for I am a man of unclean lips. He is a prophet of God, and when he got in the presence of God, he was humbled because he was faced with the condition of his heart. Today, we're so proud spiritually. We're so proud of our accomplishments, what we are as Christians, to the point that we've lifted ourselves above God Himself His word no longer has authority in our life. We can do what we want to do. And God doesn't have a say. Christian, we need to humble ourselves. Humble ourselves again before God You need to stop making excuses and demanding your own way and just humble yourself You know, let's say you fancy yourself a pretty good swimmer. You may think, well, I'm a pretty good good swimmer. And you happen to be down at the YMCA and uh you're going to do a lap or two And you hop in the pool and you start to swim next to the guy next to you and you think, well I'm pretty good. I'm gonna take this guy. Little little do you know that Fred Phelps is in the in the w the spot next to you. Okay. Um you know. Uh oops. Not gonna happen, right? You're faced with the reality of your condition. There's some of you that are runners. You like to run. Lord bless ya. You know. Uh I mean there may be others that you think, well I'm a pretty good runner, but you you get in a race with with somebody that has spent their life doing this and all of a sudden you're faced with the reality of your condition. Like man, I got a I got a long ways to go. And you're pretty humbled all of a sudden, right? At first you thought, well I, you know, I was pretty good. You know, but you you get around somebody like that and all of a sudden you're you're humbled. Beloved, when we get in the presence of God Nobody's thinking more highly of themselves than they ought to think. We get humbled real fast because we realize How great, how awesome, how powerful He is, how pure and how holy He is We've got to humble ourselves, Christian. He says, then we need to pray. I'm not talking about just a simple Lord, I lay me down to sleep. I pray to the Lord my soul to keep. I'm not talking about thank you for the bills, thank you for the meat, let's eat. I'm talking about praying, seeking God. We've had seven or eight messages already this year on this topic and the idea of prayer and the different aspects of prayer and how we can be involved in prayer more earnestly. I wonder with these messages and with the focus that our churches had of onbended knee, I wonder you this morning, have you changed or increased your prayer time since January? Have you uh taken steps in your life and began to seek God more earnestly? Have you pursued after God and prayed in a more fervent way? Have you made any change? The answer to your situation, beloved, is not going to be found in another book dealing with your problem. It's going to be found on your knees. The answer is not going to be found by you discussing your situation with somebody else on the phone or through Facebook or in a chat somewhere. The answer is going to be found on your knees as you pray and talk to an Almighty God. We need to be people of prayer. There's power in prayer, and what's possible through prayer is immeasurable. We can't even comprehend what it can do, and yet we do so little of it. Are you praying for God to do a real and powerful work in your life? Do you believe it's possible? Are you praying for God to do real and powerful work in and through the ministries of Hunt Valley Baptist Church? If that's the case, your prayers are a lot more than just a shopping list. Prayers are not just you seeking what you would have, but they are quite literally, as the next requirement is, they are seeking the face of God. But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God. Thou shalt find him and thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul What is the pursuit of your prayer? Are you seeking God? We've got to seek his face like Jacob of old. I will not let thee go unless Thou bless me. Are you seeking God? You say, Well, Pastor, I'm here. I'm in church. Christian, when when did showing up for an hour on Sunday morning signify seeking after God? When did that become the standard of seeking his face? Are you pursuing him in prayer in a daily walk with God? Are you seeking after his will and leading your life You know what happens when you get that phone call? You get a phone call and find out that you've only got three months to live? You get a phone call that somebody you love and care about was involved in an accident and they're being life-lighted to the hospital. Then all of a sudden we're we're we're serious about seeking God, aren't we? All of a sudden we want to get a hold of heaven and oh Lord, I need you. And by God's mercy and God's grace, he is there. in our hour of need and don't ever hesitate to turn to him. But Christian, we are to be seeking him all the time. As we humble ourselves And the truth of our condition we're faced with, as we begin to pray and truly seek God's face, He's going to reveal to us some things that we need to let go. That we need to turn away from. He says, turn from your wicked ways. I know that you know what repentance is. It's a turning. True, repentance, 180 degrees. It's turning away from letting go of something that you say you're done with. You need to turn away from that wickedness. You need to get it out of your life. Many times you've I'm sure many of you have dealt with or looked at uh had family or friends, different people who have been faced with an addiction of one kind or another. And you know when you're dealing with an addict That if they're going to get victory and actually finally be able to overcome this addiction, this thing that they keep returning to without fail, they just keep returning to it, is they've got to get it completely out of their life. They've got to get they've got to remove all access to it. And and sometimes they need a lot of help to make that happen. I mean you you've got to uh sometimes take them and put them in a location and and re take away their transportation and take your keys from them and say, I'll I'll bring you food every day. I'm gonna come and check on you. You gotta go through that Period, that time where that draw is so strong, you've got to turn away from it. And Christians, there's sins in the lives of the believers that we keep returning to. And God says, turn from your wicked way. We've got to remove all access to it. We've got to get it out of our lives if we want to please God. If we want to experience victory, healing from God The problem is too many of us as Christians are playing FTSY with sin. Just playing around with it. Just entertaining. It's not that bad or I'm not that deep or I'm not that far involved yet, but you and I both know where it leads. Beloved, the process that brings us to a point of cure is laid out here for us. And we can talk about our nation as a whole, but this message is for God's people. What's going to change America is not going to be new policies in DC. What's going to change America is not going to be uh some new politician that gets put into office. What's going to change America is not going to be some some new laws or a new judge put onto the courts. What's going to change America is when God's people Humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked way, then will I hear from heaven. We see this promise here. The promise that causes God Himself to concentrate on your situation He says, Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. Now mine eyes shall be opened, and my ears attent unto thy prayers. You know, the Bible says the broken and contrite heart God will not despise. There's something special about turning towards God And getting 100% clean. Getting completely right with God. The Bible here says God will be attentive to you. You'll experience the healing of God. Beloved, you can lay hold of this promise today This promise from God. The God that Solomon prayed to, that God that answered this prayer for Solomon, is the same God that we pray to and serve today. He promises here to hear your prayer. 1 John 5, 14 says, and this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. I'm glad today that when we pray, God hears us. God hears our prayer. You're not praying in vain. You're not just talking. Sometimes my wife is speaking to me, and I'm involved in something I'm intently praying for the church family. Or I'm watching a YouTube. video or we we'll we'll get real. Um okay so I'm doing something and Mary's trying to talk to me and it will register to her that I have not heard anything that she said She'll say, are you listening to Did you hear what I said? And I'll have to say, no, I'm sorry I was watching this. Or I was doing this, or I was thinking about that. I mean I could even be looking at her, but if my mind is thinking about something else, what she says doesn't register And after twenty-five years of marriage, she's learned to see that in my eye. She's uh she's kinda like, I'm gonna wait until you're ready. So that so that you could get it, you know, so you so that it registers and then I'll have to come back to oh okay, what do you need, hon? Uh all right. Uh yeah, I can answer that question. Listen, God hears you. You're not ever just talking. You don't have to wait. God hears your prayer. He's attentive unto you. He's watching, he's waiting, and wants to provide for you. He promises here to forgive your sins. Beloved, there's nothing like being forgiven Totally and completely forgiven. Having all that weight removed from your shoulders. He promises to heal that God is going to relieve the pain. He's gonna restore you when you turn unto him. This amazing promise from God we have here. God has answered this prayer many times in my own life Many times in my own life when I found that I had drifted far from God I ha I had wandered far from home and I found myself out there in this world and and and cold hearted. I allowed myself even to grow hard-hearted against the things of God. But God in His mercy came to me again and stirred me afresh. And I saw the truth of His word and I came back to Him And I said, Lord, forgive me of this. Forgive me of this. Forgive me of this. Lord, please hear my cry. And God, He is faithful and just to forgive us of all sin if we just confess it to Him. And God restored me. God brought me back into that joyful presence where I knew that I had a renewed relationship with God. You can know that today. The possibility of prayer, it is unmeasurable. Joel 2. 25 says this, and I will restore unto you the years that the locust hath eaten. That's the power of God to take that which has been destroyed, that which has been lost, and restore it You say, how is that possible? I don't know. But I know that there was a man in the Bible by the name of Lazarus who was dead. Who didn't have any life, who was already buried. And when he said, roll the stone away, they said, uh, Master, he stinks. He's been dead for four days. But God brought new life into that which was already dead. The power of prayer, beloved, if you if you You have been languishing far from God, you can come back to Him today. And God not only is going to relieve the pain, but He's going to restore you. And lost fruitfulness and lost time and lost years, God can give it back to you. Could I tell you a little known part of the story of that great man, George Mueller? That great prayer warrior that we look at and we read the stories of how that he uh Fed and led and prayed for over 10,000 homeless children, started over 170 schools, educated Miraculous man of faith that we look at. Well, you know when George Mueller was in Bible college, that he loved to party? He loved to go out and drink. He loved being the life of the party, man. It was all about fun for him. He would go stay at a hotel and leave without paying. Sneak out in the morning and not pay. He was far from God. George Mueller uh was arrested and thrown into jail because one of the mornings when he was trying to sneak out of a hotel without paying he got caught. You see this man that we look at and we say, wow, look at what God did with him. You see, God can take that which is broken And he can restore it. You may look at your life and say, man, I'm far from God. I've I've drifted, I've wandered, I've let it go too long. But there's a promise for you here today. There's a promise in this text that you can take home. This promise here is for the believer And it gives as much hope for you and I as the promise of the gospel does for the hellbound sinner. That gospel message that gives hope to the hellbound sinner, that they could possibly be forgiven and know uh have an eternity in heaven for the Christian, for the believer who's wandered far from God. This promise is for you. God wants to do amazing things for you. He wants to restore the lost time. You remember the prophet Jonah? Who ran from God? Didn't want to do what God wanted to do. He says, No way, man. Forget that. I'm out of here. He took off. But he called on God from the belly of a whale, and God used him again. God can do it for you