I would like you to turn your Bibles this morning to 1 Corinthians chapter number 11. 1 Corinthians chapter number 11. We are this morning going to observe the Lord's table as part of our morning service. And uh there is a lot of superstition. There is a lot of things uh that go all the way from you know superstition to sacrilegious activities that are around the idea of uh the Lord's Supper. And I'll tell you what, uh what we need to do is get back to the Word of God. Amen. We need to try and do our best to line up with the Word of God. And uh I think those of you that have been in our church here for a number of years uh you know that m I our our goal, my goal is to preach the Word of God. And uh if I I can come to an understanding or learn or see that uh I was mistaking and something how I how I viewed it, I'm willing to change because what I want to do is line up with the Word. Not with what I think or how I feel, but what the Word of God says. And uh that's what we want to try and do. Now, what I'm going to preach for a few minutes this morning is the truth of the table. And we want to just talk from 1 Corinthians, where this the observance of the Lord table is given to us from the Apostle Paul, and we're going to just talk about this a little bit. And uh so the first thing uh that Paul deals with or talks to us here about is a stain on the table. There was a stain on the table. We see In uh 1 Corinthians chapter 11, beginning in verse number 20, we see a couple of verses here. There was a problem that had arisen in the church. They had changed the method of observance. They had decided to do it their own way. And so he kind of gets on to them here. He says, wait, that's not for you to do. Notice what he says here in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse number 20 and 21 and 22. He says, when ye come together, therefore, unto one place, that is not to eat the Lord's table. You see, what he's saying here, he's saying is, you think you're coming to observe the Lord's table. You're holding the ceremony. You've gathered together into one place, and you have maybe made the announcement we're having communion today, and everybody has come together to do this, but what he says to him here under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, under the direction of God, God he looked at them and he says, this is not to eat the Lord's table. He says, what you've done with this is you've perverted it. You've changed it. This is not what God intended. Now look what he says. He says, for in eating, everyone taketh before his own supper. And one is hungry and another is drunken, what have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? Or despise ye the church of God and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. He says, listen, I I'm not going to pat you on the back. I'm not going to commend you or praise you for your observance of the Lord's table when what you've done is contrary to what God taught? He said, what you've done is you've turned this into a buffet. It was never God's plan that the Lord's table would be a buffet. Listen, there's times where the church gets together and we have food, and boy do we have food. Amen. We have food and and we have fellowship and we have all the that that's another time, but that's not what the Lord's Supper is for. He said this is a sacred thing, and it should be kept sacred, and it's not a buffet. He says, What you're doing is you're You're some people are getting stuffed to the gourd and and and uh eating like crazy while other people are going hungry. There's people leaving and they're still starving. He said, You you've completely messed up this thing. There's a stain on the table, and can I tell you, beloved, when we take What God has given us, this beautiful picture of what Christ has done for us, and we we take it and we make it our own thing. We do what we want to do that stains the table. God did not give us the liberty to change it and make it whatever we want. We've got to stay in line with the book and follow God's plan. Do what God wants and how God wants it done. Hey, they were holding a ceremony, but they weren't observing the Lord's table because they were just doing their own thing. They had turned that which is sacred into sacrilege. He said, listen, it's supposed to be a memorial. It's supposed to be a time of remembrance. And so we see, secondly, here the savior of the table. That's what it's supposed to be about. It's supposed to be the Savior. Look at verse 23 down through 25. Here he points out from whom he received this information. And who it's about. He says, For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus This is who it's about, that the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, He broke it and said, Take eat, this is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, this do as often as ye drink it, in remembrance of me. You see, it's a remembrance. It's an observance. It's a time where they remember the Savior. It is about Jesus Christ. Paul tells them where he received this information. You see, Paul wasn't in the upper room Paul wasn't there for the Last Supper. And those that were there did not communicate to him what happened. He says, Jesus, God, told him this. He says, I have received of the Lord. That which I delivered unto you. He says, I received this of God, what I'm giving to you. This is what happened. And he described what happened in the upper room. Paul wasn't there. He couldn't see it, but God told him what happened. And he said, this is how God did it. This is how we're supposed to do it. It's supposed to be a remembrance. It's about the Savior. The ceremony is nice, beloved. But the ceremony is not about us. It's not about how it makes us feel. You know the polished chrome utensils that we have the privilege of using to put forth the Lord's table today. are nice, but they're not what's important. What's important is that we remember who it is about. The substance that is used, I believe, is important. We want to honor the direction given to us in the Word of God, and that the substance that used is important But we gotta be careful too that we don't hold so much to our preferences with regards to the substance that that becomes what's all important. Well here's what I'm saying. I I think anybody that uses actual wine to observe the Lord's Supper is perverting what God intended. Beloved, there is no question. You cannot deny it. You have to have stuck your head in the sand and have uh lost all common sense to be able to look at the Word of God and understand that fermentation all through the Scriptures represents sin. It represents that which has been corrupted. That which used to be pure has now been fermented, it has been changed, it has been altered, it has been ruined. Well, beloved, what we use to observe the Lord's Supper is to be pure. It is a representation of the blood of Jesus Christ. And I want you to understand that it is to be pure. It should be the pure fruit of the vine, unfermented juice. That's what we ought to have, as a clear representation of the pure shed blood of Jesus Christ that is poured out for us. The bread. It is to be unleavened bread. Why? Because leaven In the scripture, a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump, a little sin is sin indeed, and and and sin corrupts And leaven corrupts, a little leaven corrupts the whole thing, is to represent the pure body of God that was broken for us. And so I believe the elements are important, but we've got to be careful that they don't become all important. Okay, I know of pastors that will not observe the Lord's Supper unless they have Welch's grape juice I mean it literally has to be Welcher. If they can't find Welcher's, they they can't they can't have the Lord's Supper today because they didn't have Welcher's grape juice. Uh listen, what are they going to do if wealth just goes out of business? I mean, it's just supposed to be pure fruit of the vine. You know, I mean it could be any I mean if We had a blight on grapes in this country and ultimately, you know, everybody, you know, we couldn't get a hold of any grape juice. I think we don't just say, oh, well, we're not going to observe the Lord's Supper. No, we can use a pure, clean, unfermented juice It could be any juice, I believe, that would still honor God. Obviously grape juice, because it's red in color, it typifies and pictures that and we use that. But I don't think we have to have welchers or we're not right with God. Right. I it could be any any grape juice. Another thing I know a pastor that will not serve the Lord's Supper unless the bread is homemade The bread has to unleavened bread has to be homemade uh by somebody in the church, typically the deacons or the deacon's wives. And uh he Takes the deacons aside and when they somebody becomes a deacon he teaches them how to make the the unleavened bread and that's how they do it. Now there's nothing wrong with doing it that way. I mean they want to make the unleavened bread? That's fine But you know you can buy it by the box and uh it's a lot easier and it's just as unleavened as the stuff that they made at home. Um I don't think necessarily see what I'm saying is sometimes we get too tied to some of our traditions and we're holding the tradition up as something that's sacred when it's about God. It's about Jesus Christ, the one whose blood was shed, whose body was broken for us. That's what it's about. And that's what we need to remember, that it is a remembrance. This table right down here, it says on the front of it what? Everybody say it together. It's a remembrance of him. That's what it is for. We see the scope of the table, verses 26 through 28. He says, For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, so first of all, we note here that there is not a specific description or a time frame in which a church is supposed to observe. There's not a detailed, you know, every first Sunday of the month or this many times in a year, or it's just as oft as ye. So there's a the the liberty is there in the church to observe as they see fit. For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. So beloved, we see the scope of this table. First of all, it's a look back. We remember, but what we remember is what Jesus did. We remember that he gave himself a sacrifice on the cross for you and I. Jesus gave himself. He died on the cross. He shed his blood on the old rugged cross. So that we could be forgiven of our sins and have the promise and the assurance of a home in heaven forever. Can I ask you, beloved, if you had within yourself the means or capacity to earn your way to heaven, to somehow cover your own sin, Why did God have to give his son? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God gave his son, and his son gave his life on the cross. a sacrifice for you and I so that we could know for sure that our sins are forgiven. I want you to know this morning if you don't know that, if you don't know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you have at some point in your life put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. you can do so today. You can call on Him to forgive you of your sins and put your faith and trust in Him. I think that chair will hold me. I believe that chair will hold me. Do you know I could go through my entire life believing that chair would hold me, but never put my faith in that chair? You see, beloved, the difference is when I actually sit down and say, oh, yep, it holds me. There's a lot of people that know about God. In their head, they know that Jesus died and they believe that his sacrifice on the cross was sufficient, but they have never put their faith and trust in that. There has to be a day or hour. Now listen, you don't have to know on September 8th at 3. 32 p. m. I trusted Jesus. But you ought to know there was a day that you put your faith and trust in Christ. Listen, I don't have any idea when I got married, but I know there was a day it happened, amen? There's no question. I'm just joking. It was April twenty-sixth, a long time ago. It was in Michigan. It was rainy. It was a nasty rainy day. I I remember the deep that's what I'm saying. You ought to be able in your mind be able to go back to that place and see you might not know exactly all the details, but you ought to be like, you know what? I know that I was here I know this person was there. I know it was maybe in the fall or it was in the spring. I know some I know that there was a day, there was an hour that I put my faith and trust in Christ. And this is a look back at what Jesus did on the cross for you I hope if you're here this morning, you don't have any doubt about that. You know that you've put your faith and trust in him. We see this to look back. We also see this to look in. Look at verse number 28. He says, but let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink. of that cup. Beloved, before you eat of that bread, before you drink of the cup, you're supposed to examine yourself. You need to know that you're clean before God. That there is nothing in your life that is not right with God. And beloved, only you know that. Is thy heart right with God? Have thine affections been nailed to the cross? Is thy heart right with God? Dost thou count all things for Jesus? But loss, is thy heart right with? Wait with God Is thy heart right with God Cul washed in the crimson flood, cleansed and made holy. Humble and lowly, right in the side of God Is thy heart right with God? This is what the time of examination is. It's to examine yourself, to know if there's anything between you and the Savior. Let me ask you, do you have any attitudes or actions that you need to get right with God before you partake? You know, beloved, I I had somebody get mad at me because I sang in a service like this instead of preaching. They said, preaching is for preaching, singing is for singing. You shouldn't mix them up. Well the song has a really powerful message. And that adds to what I i i illustrates or states what I was saying. But here's what I'm saying. You understand his attitude was wrong. And sometimes we want to say, oh yeah, I'm good. But is your attitude right? Is your do you have any beliefs? Or behaviors. You need to get right with God. There's to be a time of examination. We see the scope of it as well is that it's a look forward. It's a look forward. He says, for oft as ye eat and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till He come, till he come. And when the Lord comes, we're gonna be with them. And so we don't need to observe the Lord's Supper anymore. We don't need to stop and have this time of remembrance because we're going to be in his presence. And so that that time of observance is going to be done, and so until he comes, we continue to do that. And so it's also a look forward and anticipation of the day when we're Reunited with Him. We're caught up together in the clouds and we we'll no longer have to do this and we're in heaven with Him. And it's an exciting thing to think about that we're going to be with Him one day Listen, it's a it's a look forward. But he gives us a couple of stipulations here in this passage as well. Look what he says in verse number twenty-nine. He says, For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause, many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with this world. Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one for another. The stipulations, first of all, is that you've got to be saved. We see here in this passage of scripture that he is talking to my brethren He says that we are chastened of the Lord. Beloved, the Lord chastens his own. The Lord is going to chasten his own children. He doesn't chasten the devil's children. He chases his own children. You know, there's been many a time I've been in Walmart or Giant. There's been somebody else's kid I was real eager to chase it. But they're not my kid. So I bite my tongue. In my mind I'm like, boy, if that wasn't my child, he wouldn't be able to sit down for a week, right? That would not be happening. Kids would you know, but he's not mine. Listen, God does not chasten those who are not his. But he chases his own children and what he's talking about here is that listen, when you c brethren, when you come together to observe the Lord's table, that's a starting point. is you've got to be saved. You've got to know without a doubt that you've put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and you're on your way to heaven. Amen? I hope you're saved this morning. If you're not, you can get saved. Today, you can put your faith and trust in Him before it's eternally too late. Listen, when we as churches and we have not, but in a global sense, when churches and I've been places where The invitation was sent out for any and all present to partake of the Lord's table. If you're here, we want you all to experience this. Beloved, at the very least, what that does is it gives those people, at least by implication, the idea that everything's okay. But everything's not okay. In their current condition, they are still right now a child of the devil and on their way to a devil's hell. Everything's not alright. They need to repent of their sin and call on Jesus Christ to save them, to forgive them, so that they could be on their way to heaven. And so if we just put the invitation out for any and all and everybody who wants to partake it, it doesn't matter, then we're giving them a false assurance that everything's okay, that they're okay. When they're not okay. We see first stipulation is that you've got to be saved. The second stipulation in this passage of scripture is that you've got to be clean. He says, if any partake unworthily, any of you moms ever set the dinner table and The kids are coming in and you're like, uh-uh, go wash those hands first. You're sitting down on the table with those filthy hands. Go go clean those up. God says before you come to the table, you're supposed to get clean. Not physically clean as in wash your hands and and and you know take a shower, although I hope some of you did that this morning. Uh but ho but hopefully what we're talking about is clean in your heart. Is there anything between you and God? The stipulation is that that you are in obedience to God and observing and doing what God wants you to do As far as I can see it in this passage of scripture, that is the only two stipulations. And I tell you for a long time uh because of uh maybe the way I grew up, uh but there's an idea that the Lord's Supper was given to the local church, and so there's the idea that you also had to be a member of the church in order to observe. And you know, for a long time I felt that way. But I can I personally can only be as dogmatic as the scriptures are. And where the scriptures are dogmatic, I can be dogmatic. And we want to be careful about drawing lines and saying things that we're taking by implication or by maybe this is what that is. We can only be positive where the scripture is positive. And here's what I believe in the priesthood of the believer. And I believe each and every one of you are a saint before God, and you are personally, individually responsible. Are you saved and are you clean? Let a man examine himself And this is an area where I had to go back to the scriptures and I had to go back to uh uh study and I talked to many people. uh pastors that I love and respect that have a sound grasp of the word of God and said, okay, where does this teaching come from? How how is it that I feel this way? Why? And I had to adjust my thinking on it. Because I I don't see any other stipulation here. The only other stipulation is that you're saved and that you're clean. What a privilege it is that God allows us to judge ourselves. He says there, for if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. God is saying, Would you deal with it? That way I don't have to. Man, that's a privilege. You know, young people you could get take some wisdom from that. You know, if you would deal with it, sometimes you might just go to your parents and fess up. Might save you a lot of heartache. I think my kids learned that and they they they did it all the time open, oh dad I did this. Are you gonna let me off now? They they they they they fessed up, you know, that that just they judge themselves. That's what God wants us to do. Listen, I don't think you should be so worried about, you know, this world people are like, why are you judging me? I mean in the grand scheme of things, who cares what they think? Who cares if somebody's judging you? But I would be concerned if God was. He says there, if you take unworthily that you are in danger of damnation, that damnation is not like we think about being damned to hell. Losing your salvation. We know that you can't lose your salvation. That word comes from a Greek word which means judgment, which means uh the punishment that's going to come, that you are in danger of the punishment. of of not having judged yourself, of not getting clean and partaking unworthily, then you're in danger of the punishment. And he gives some examples there of punishment. There were some people that were sick. There were some that even ultimately sleep, which we know in the scriptures when it's talking about sleep, he's not talking about falling asleep in church. He's talking about the last, the deep sleep. Where you uh pass off into eternity. He said some people even lost their lives because they fortook unworthy. So this is something that's very serious. That we need to be in obedience to God. The exciting thing for Tim this morning is he followed the Lord in believers' baptism. He took that what we often call the first step of obedience. In obedience to what God He's doing what God wants him to do, and when you are in obedience to God, you're in a place where you can partake of the Lord's Supper. But only you know in your heart if you're in obedience. Are you doing and have you done what God wants you to do? This is the truth of the table given to us in this passage of Scripture. I know it was some teaching this morning, but ultimately some very directed preaching, and that we're to examine ourselves. Is your heart right with God? Is there anything between you and the Savior? We're going to partake of the Lord's Supper in just a moment. And what a privilege that is. But it's also a privilege before God to be able to examine ourselves and make sure that we're clean and ready to do it I'm going to ask the pianist to come. Would you stand to your feet? With your head bowed and eyes closed, I want you to give you a moment to examine yourself.