Well, you can take your Bibles and turn to the book of Psalms. And we are in the book of Psalms, and we're going to be reading Psalm through Psalm number 85. And that's what we mentioned to go through or to read in preparation for this week. And as Pastor already mentioned We won't be having uh our a class next week, so you'll have uh some more time to read uh the next the next psalm. Uh not a lot that Not a lot to it won't be very long the next one, uh, but we'll we'll don't forget to remind me about that as we finish up tonight. We will hopefully you're turning to Psalm 85. Here we have Psalm 85, and hopefully you have your notes that that we gave to you. And Psalms here We're going to break it down. We're going to go through the psalm together, and we're going to make some comments throughout the verses of the psalm. At the end, then I'll have more kind of of an application on on uh one specific part of the psalm. So that's kind of how we're gonna go we're gonna go through it. So uh let me read it and then we'll we'll we'll walk through it verse by verse. The Bible says this Psalm 85 to the chief musician a psalm for the sons of Korah. Lord, thou hast been favorable unto thy land. Thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob. Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin, Selah Thou hast taken away all thy wrath, thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger. Turn us, O God, of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. Wilt thou be angry with us forever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? Show us thy mercy, O Lord, and grant us thy salvation. I will hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace unto his people and to his saints. But let them not turn again to folly. Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land Mercy and truth are met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven Yea, the Lord shall give that which is good, and our land shall yield her increase. Righteousness shall go before him, and shall set us in the way of his steps. So that's Psalm 85. And as we walk through it, I want to just notice a couple things One of the reasons why I say that it is a a song book or this one talks about a psalm is because the idea is that this psalm was given to the chief musician. That's what that phrase there at the beginning is. It was given to the leader of music there. And at what time at one time uh it was a man named ASAF, but that was a position that was constantly uh uh there within the temple. There was a a chief musician. So to the chief musician, a psalm for the sons of Korah. This is one of those Psalms that are called Korah Psalms, and we'll walk through a little bit. It refers to the sons of Korah. So, this song that we're talking about, it has multiple parts. And we're going to talk about it, how we how it breaks down into four parts. And then we're going to look at that one verse as we make application to it. So first, as we look at Psalm 85. One of the verses that sticks out to us, I believe, is verse number six. And it's a phrase that is often mentioned to us. It talks about revive us again. And so many times there's been some people that call this the Revival Psalm. And so I figured that as we prepare and as we get ready for this next week of revival, we'll look at uh just what what this psalm has to teach us uh as the word of god teaches us uh uh how we ought to live and maybe some truths that perhaps we did not think about before. And so as we do, when we look at Psalm 85, we're going to see a couple things. Psalm 85, the first thing that we see, and the first blank there in your worksheet, is the psalmist's review. The psalmist's review. It's a review, and we'll see why that is. This is broken down into verses 1 through 3. To the chief musician, a psalm for the sons of Korah: Lord, thou hast been favorable unto thy land, thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob, thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people Thou hast covered all their sin, Selah. Thou hast taken away all thy wrath. Thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger. Now the reason that we say that this is a review is because all these things that the psalmist is talking about here, it's talking about things in the past. It's saying, Lord, this is what you've done. Thou hast, thou hast, and that's the verbiage that we see used over and over. Most of the the words here are talking about things in the past. And so that's why it's a review. It's looking at it from in retrospect. It's looking at it in remembrance Now when we look at the the these first verses, God's people had been divided into two kingdoms. And when we look at this this the the the the first verse says thou hast been favorable unto thy land. Now, most people believe that this psalm was written on the return from the captivity. So let me explain to you what that was. There was a time where Israel had been divided into two kingdoms, and that was right after King Solomon turned over after he passed away. His kingdom after that was divided. And then there was two kingdoms then. It was Israel, which was the northern kingdom, and that was made up of ten tribes. And then we have Judah, which was the nation of Judah, which was the southern kingdom, and that was made up of two tribes, which were Judah and Benjamin. And so those two kingdoms, many times you'll see this time referred to as the divided kingdom. So you have the united kingdom that was under Saul, David, and Solomon, and then the kings following that. you have what was called the divided kingdom. Now Israel had been made captive earlier than Judah. And They Israel had been made captive by the Assyrians under a king, the Assyrian king named Shalman Ezer. And you'll see this. These are things that are in history that are recorded. There are artifacts that talk about Shalmaneser's pillar and it talks about his conquest. of the the the kings of Israel. So he th this is historical record. Now that Israel was conquered first And was taken into captivity. And then Judah was made captive by Babylon under the leadership of King Nebuchadnezzar. Again, this is all m much of this is not just scriptural that we find in the Bible, but it's also archaeologically proven. So you have this time That was also predicted and prophesied in the Bible by the prophets And especially there was one prophet very uh that had uh prophesied about the uh the the captivity, and that was the prophet Jeremiah. The weeping prophet. And Jeremiah had said that there was going to be a time where the nation, where God's people were going to be taken into captivity, and that was going to be for a time of 70 years. Now the 70 years began when Babylon took the nation of Judah captive. Now Then if you see what the Bible says here in this psalm, it talks about bringing back thou hast the that first verse, thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob. That's why many people believe that this psalm was written after the time of the The people of Israel would return in phases. The first phase was return with a man named Zerubbabel. The second phase would return with a scribe named Ezra, and the third return would be with a man that we know and uh a book of the Bible is named after him. Nehemiah. But all these things are recorded in the scriptures, the Rubbabel, Ezra, and Nehemiah. Now the thing that is important to note uh just from a history perspective is I said that the people would return uh in phases and the people of Israel The the interesting part about this is that Israel after the captivity would no longer be a nation until some seventy seventy one years ago, eighty one. How many years has it been? Since 1948. So Israel was a nation up until the divided kingdom was conquered by Nebuchadnezzar, and Israel was no longer a nation after. And so that's why I've tried to be careful with my words and I've said that the people returned, but it's not that the nation returned. The people of Israel were conquered or they had some type of they were part of different empires throughout that time, but they would no longer be a sovereign nation. So all that is looking at this verse, which is why we we talk about the captivity, and that's one of the reasons why we think that this psalm was written during that time. So God had brought back the people of Israel from captivity. And this was these verses were a time of reviewing some of those events. It was a time to look back And you see that it says, Thou hast been favorable unto thy land, thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob, thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin And so when we're talking about that, it's a re recalling of what God had done for the people of Israel God had been favorable to his land. God had brought them back to cap they had brought back to captivity. God had forgiven them. God had covered their sin. God had taken and turned from his wrath. Now, in this review, we see that there's a a spirit of praise to God for his goodness to the people of Israel Now we see this often in the Psalms. We see in the Psalms that there's a historical record that's explained in the Psalms. Sometimes it's very detailed and sometimes it's very general, uh and and and the psalm will allude to something that happened in Israel's history. Now, this one would fall in line with something that they make references to things that that happened in their history. They allude to it. It's not super detailed like some of the other Psalms are. But again, we don't know who wrote this psalm per se, who specifically wrote it down, but it what we have what we see is that this is a reference To praise for what God had done. So you see this spirit of praise in these in in this review So you have the psalmist review, but then we look forward to verses 4 through 7, and we see the psalmist's request. It says this. It says, the psalmist then makes a request. He makes a plea. He is asking for something here. Turn us, O God of our salvation. and cause thine anger toward us to cease, wilt thou be angry for us excuse me, wilt thou be angry with us forever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? Show us thy mercy, O Lord, and grant us thy salvation So he makes this plea to turn us. Then he goes on and he asks some questions, and they seem like they're rhetorical questions. It doesn't seem like he's specifically looking for an answer in them, but he's talking to God and making this request to him. And then we see in verse 7 that he asks for mercy One thing that you will see very often in the book of Psalms is that mercy is often requested. They're asking, Lord, show us thy mercy. Last week when we talked and when we were looking at some of the Psalms in the cave, David cried out for mercy from the Lord. And so mercy is a common request. And one thing that this reminds us of, and we'll see this in another study, is that God is full of mercy. So we can request mercy from him because God is a God that is full of mercy. So then we see that this request takes a turn. And he goes into a different theme. Then we see that the psalmist awaits a reply in verses 8 through 11. This change the the the the mood of the psalm changes here when he's making a request, but then he starts in verse 8 and he says I will hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace unto his people. So now we see the psalmist is turning very positive. He's turning very optimistic in his words He will speak peace unto his people and to his saints, but let them not turn again to folly. Surely his salvation is nigh or near them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. So he's talking about these things, and again, this is a positive, optimistic tone in the Psalm. And then we're introduced to some characters. We'll look at these characters here as we get to verse 10. These characters. Are character traits that are personified as people. So this is what happens many times in the scriptures, and you'll see this in the book many times in the books of poetry. Especially in the book of Proverbs, they talk about wisdom like wisdom is a person. They talk about folly like folly is a person. So these traits are, it's called personified. And so here we have these four characters that are talked about like people. So who are these characters? We see mercy, we see truth, we see righteousness, and we see peace. Now these characters, they're not They're contrasted, but they're also brought together. So when we look at these characters, I wouldn't say that they're opposites But they're not what you would think normally goes together. So they contrast more than they complement each other Because mercy and truth many times are on the opposite sides of things. They don't necessarily go together. You have milk that goes with cookies. You have peanut butter that goes with jelly. You have a pen that goes with a paper. All these things are very complementary pairs. But these characters are a little bit different. So let's look at these characters. When we look at this term righteousness, it'll help us to understand a little bit better why they're so different. Righteousness means justice. So when you're looking at this term, you have mercy and truth, and you have righteousness or justice and peace. Now, again, these things normally look different. Mercy, you don't see mercy, you see mercy as overlooking truth Mercy as being extremely undeservingly kind to somebody else. That's what mercy would be Truth is the black and white of a situation where this is the way it has to be. It's mercy is, yes, God is merciful. He gives us what we don't deserve But then you all you see truth on the other side. Truth is where we see that the scripture says that God is a holy God and God uh uh God is very black and white and he he he has a law that we need to obey and he's a just God and the opposite side of justice comes across as peace. And those seem like they're they're contradictory to each other. But we see here that God brings them together And he especially brings them together because these are character traits of God. We see mercy. God we've we've said is full of mercy. If you really look into these other three, there's three names of God in the scriptures that relate to truth, righteousness, and peace Jesus said that he is the way, the truth, and the life. He is referred to as the truth. There is a name of God that means Jehovah is God, my righteousness. And then you have God as peace, and that's another one. And so you have these these character traits of God that are brought together that don't seem For you and me like they would go together, but we're introduced to these characters, and this is all part of the reply that he's crying out and he's talking uh to God. He wants to hear from God. And then he talks about these characters that we've been introduced to. And then finally, we see the psalmists revealing. And in verse 12 and 13, the psalmist points to a time of good. Because the first the verse number 12 there says, Yea, the Lord shall give that which is good, and our land shall yield her increase. It talks about good, it talks about a prosperous land. It talks about righteousness shall go before the Lord. Righteousness is going to go so it says, Yea, the Lord shall give that which is good, and our land shall yield her increase Righteousness shall go before him, before the Lord, and shall set us in the way of his steps. So when we see this verse, uh we'll I'll all I'll One of the things that we we see in this is when it's pointing to a time of good, and the reason that I put this as the psalmist revealing is that I think that he's still looking ahead at even uh the future at eternity as we're looking at it. Because he's talking about a time where the land will increase and the land will yield or increase increase The Lord shall give give good. And if this is talking about especially the land of Israel, it's possible that this could be talking about the Millennial Kingdom. And then we see righteousness shall go before him, before the Lord, and shall set us in the way of his steps. Shall now I want you to think about that. Righteousness is going to go before God and shall set us in the way of his steps. So what that is saying is that we are going to walk in his steps And so if righteousness is going before God, and then we're walking in his steps, we are going the way we're living the way we're supposed to live. We're living in a way that is pleasing to God. We're living in a way that's righteous. And the only time that that is, is really when we're when we're talking about eternity. And so now we can certainly try to accomplish that here on earth, but if we're talking about a time of perfect righteousness and perfect peace That I believe is talking about uh l yet uh i in the future. So so that's just uh kind of my perspective on that. So as we look at this psalm, many times as I've mentioned, it's called the Revival Psalm, we go back to verse number six. And when you read there, verse number six, the Bible says, Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? This verse talks about the word revive. And that word revive means what we think it means. It means To make alive. It means it gives us the idea to make alive again. And when we're talking about that, we're talking about The fact is that if anyone is like me, we have a tendency to lose sight of those things that we should be focused on We have a tendency to look at things when we that we need to be renewed about. And we lose sight of things Now that's our tendency. All right. And what happens is even if we're not moving forward, um I went fishing uh uh earlier with uh with with one of the the folks in the church and we were on the boat and I don't think I can't rem I don't think I've ever been been out in a boat like that before But the the weird thing about being on a boat is that unless you're anchored down on something, you're just gonna drift. And spiritually, there's a lot of truth to that as well. That if we're not anchored and fastened and fixed on something, we're just kind of going to drift. And what happens is that we end up maybe not going in the direction that we that we uh desire to go in. And if we're just drifting, then eventually and and we're we're not even doing anything. We're we're not Going one way or another. We're just drifting. Eventually we're we're gonna be far off from where we started. And so we have to be careful because that's our tendency. We lose sight of those things. And so we want to make sure that we are revived or that we are renovated We need God to make us alive again, to renew. And that's something that we should all be excited about is a renewal. You know, people enjoy uh uh uh renovating their different parts of their home and making something even just putting a fresh coat of paint on something you want to renew it. You want to make it uh uh make it new again and that should be something that we're looking to and we're asking God not just to to you know put a new uh uh coat of paint on us but if he would just renew us from the inside out. And so as we look at that, I wanted to look at this psalm, and in terms of application, I want us to see some characteristics of a revived heart as we see in this passage. So when we look at this passage, we'll look at it again. And a heart that is renewed Has their eyes on the right things. And so hopefully you follow along there in your in your notes that I some of the things that I wrote down. First, a revived heart does not lose sight of salvation. If you look at this, if you read through this psalm, and if you read through it maybe a couple times, you'll see that word over and over show up. Uh-uh, revived heart does not lose sight of salvation. We see it in verse 4, we see it in verse 7, and we see it in verse 9. And a heart that is alive remembers the importance of salvation. They don't lose sight of salvation. That's something that's a focus because We need to remember what it is uh uh even as we think about uh uh what this is talking about here, the things that God has remind has taken us from, the thing looking back and as we As we remember, as we look back, and as we recall some of the places, some of the things that God has done, it's important for us to remember what we were saved from. And sometimes when we're perhaps if we're a Christian for a long time, we begin to think that uh that we're we're we we are impressive or that we matter so much to God and man I'm I'm such a great Christian Uh but the truth is is that uh we we're not a gift to God. It it's he he loves us and he cares for us, but we're not uh we're not anything that that w that Would make it to God's trophy case. For some reason he loves us and he cares for us, but it's not because of who we are or what we can accomplish And it's important for us to think about that because we need to not lose sight of salvation. A revised heart does not lose sight of remembering God's work in your life. So when we look at verses 1 through 3, again, we talked about looking back, reviewing those things that God has done. You see, we can be forgetful. We can all be forgetful. God's people, even the Bible tells us that God's people were forgetful, and there was a time where they forgot all that God had did for them and all that God had uh done on their behalf and all the victories that God had given them in their in their history and in their not just militarily, but in their lives with their families and things like that. And all these things that were forgotten. And it's important uh when we see a revived heart, a revived heart does not lose sight of God's work in your life. To look at what God has done in your life. And to be able to stop and to thank God for the the things that He's done in your life personally. And that's something that sometimes when we begin to maybe get cold or when we begin to forget the goodness of God, maybe it's important for us to stop and remember and say, man. You know, look at what God did has done in my life. And when we look at our life from the as a whole, we're not looking at it from, you know. . just a very small window of time when we look at it with short so short sighted, we have to look at it look at where God has brought me. And and there's that should be humbling to us. When we stop and we think about, you know, look at what all that God has done in my life. And to be able to review that, and we need to make sure that we keep those things in mind because those are the things that are going to keep us praising God Because when we lose heart or when we lose faith or when we get discouraged, what is our mindset? Our mindset is that of Elijah, where we think, well, there's nobody else serving God. It's just me And we get discouraged and we get depressed, like David we talked about last week, where he was like, well, nobody cares about me. There's nobody here next to me. No man cared for my soul. But a revived heart is one that remembers God's work in your life. So also, when we we as we move on, a revived heart does not lose sight of God's character. And we see this in verses 3 through 5. One thing that you you see in this, a revived heart, a heart that is renewed, a heart that is focused on the right things, is understands God's character. Now these verses in God's character mostly talk about God's wrath and God's anger and God's judgment. And it is important for us to remember that God is going to judge sin. And not only that, God is going to judge the those that have rebelled against him. And those are things that are important for us to remember because Even we see we see it in the book of Psalms over and over again. There's a long list of Psalms that talk about why do the righteous succeed? Why does it seem that everything is going good for the or excuse me, why do the wicked succeed? Why does it seem like the wicked people are prospering? Why do the wicked prosper? There's this concern that we have, but we need it we we can't lose sight of God's character And God's character is that He is holy, He is just, He will remember these things, and there is wrath that He will put forth at His time and in the time of His choosing. So then we also, as we move along, we see in verse 4, a revised heart does not lose sight of the need to turn. Verse 4 says right at the beginning, turn us, O God, of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. We see that he says, turn us. And there's an important, important, vital, critical concept for the Christian to know that there's a time that as Christians or that even as lost people The first step that a lost person needs to take is the step of turning from their sin and turning to Christ. That is what the Bible talks about as repentance. But even in as Christians, even as people who are already saved and have trusted Christ as their Savior, we too find ourselves in a situation where we need to turn back to God. And a revived heart is one that's going to look at it and say, I need to remember that there's going to be a need for me to turn. And there's going to be a time where I need to say, Turn us, turn us, O God, turn my direction, change my direction. And that is something that needs to be that we need to be willing to do, to repent, to turn. And then if you continue to look at verse 4 through 8, I want to just point out something. We see here what I call as a progression. At the beginning of this psalm, we see that the psalmist is talking about being favorable to thy land, the captivity of Jacob. They're talking about Israel as a people. And as we continue on, we go there to as we look at verses 4, 5, and 6, and 7, there's many times that they use the word us So we've only gone from, or we've gone from this large nation of Israel, and then we've started to focus down a little bit more to us. And so the psalmist is saying, us, look at us. But then if you look a little bit further, then we see in the beginning of verse 8 where we get to I. I will hear what God the Lord will speak. And so we need to get to a point where When we change, when we're keeping things in mind, that it's not just, oh, God's people need to need to get right with God. Well, that's true. And then we take it a step further and we say, oh, you know what? The church of God. The church of God needs to be about or or our church. Our church needs to be focused on this. And that's true. But it has to come to a point where it gets very personal. And it gets very right down, and you're looking in the mirror, and you have to say, I'm the one that needs to change. There's there's a a uh uh a I need to change myself. Now here's the thing. It's easy to point out what other people are doing wrong. If you have any So many times we're susceptible to look and say, oh, that person is doing this wrong, or you know, they can do this better. But how hard it is how hard is it for us to stop and look at ourselves? We have a very hard time seeing our faults and seeing our failures and seeing the places where we need to change, and that's why a person that has a revived heart is one that knows that it sees that it comes down and it comes down to me. There's they don't lose sight of personal responsibility. They don't lose sight of looking at it and saying, I'm the one that needs to change. I'm the one that needs to And that's one of the hard things to do, but that's what a revived heart does. Then we look on In verse number eight. In verse number eight, a revived heart does not lose sight of the need to hear. All of us And a person, especially, that is walking with the Lord, that is in a spirit and in a state of revival, that has a renewed heart towards God, is one that doesn't forget that they need to hear from God. And that is faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. How do I increase my faith? We need to spend more time hearing the Word of God. Learning the Word of God, hearing it preached, hearing it taught, and and and meditating on it. That's correct, Mr. Harry. A revived heart does not lose sight of the need to hear. And then he says that there in verse 8. I will hear what God the Lord will speak. Now I like to listen to the news, I like to listen to podcasts, I like to listen to commentary on different things, but we need to make sure that we set aside some time where we say we need to We need to hear from God. We need to hear what God says. We need to hear what it is that God wants from us. I will hear what God the Lord will speak. And we can't lose sight of that. Then we also see that in verse number 8, a revived heart does not lose sight of our tendency. And here in verse 8, right at the end, the scripture says this. It says, I will hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace unto his people and to his saints. But let them not turn again to folly. So it's it's showing us here that the psalmist is saying that we have a tendency to turn again to folly. And that is our tendency, that is our bend, that is the direction that we go. And we've talked about it already, that if we're not anchored, we're just going to drift. And our tendency is to turn the wrong way. It's to turn against what God wants us to do That's just our natural tendency. And we all have that because we have the old man in us. And so what we need to do is we need to make sure that we realize that. And that we focus on that and and remind ourselves, all right, we need to turn. It goes back to the ones that we talked about before, that we need to turn. The last two, a revived heart does not lose sight of the cross. So when we talk about these four characters, mercy, right mercy, truth, righteousness, and peace. These four characters meet at a certain place. And it's not necessarily that we see it in the in the scriptures, but I want us to or that we see it in these verses, but Mercy and truth are met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. There is this idea that these characters Are so close, even though they seem so different. And where do they come together? Where are they met together? Those are met together at the cross. When we look at mercy and truth, those come together and they balance each other out and they meet and they're together as a pair at the cross. And the same thing is true of righteousness and peace. Justice, because when we look at it, God's mercy and God's truth, the truth of God, where do they come together? We see that at the cross. We see where does God's righteousness and or God's justice meet, God's peace? Where are they so close that the Bible illustrates here that they've kissed each other? That's a beautiful illustration, but those two ideas come together and they come together at the cross. And so all of it we're not we we don't lose focus of these things and we focus in on the cross. And lastly, the revived heart does not lose sight of eternity. Verses 12 and 13. Again, I've mentioned this already when we look at it. It's talking about good. It's talking about, it seems, it's like it's talking about a reference of when the millennial kingdom is here on earth and we walk perfectly in his steps. That's a very interesting illustration, and it's something that when we look at what the scripture is saying, that could be one of the things that it's teaching there. So as we look at that and as we look at the importance of having a revived heart, what is the result of being revived? Being made alive again. Well, we read verse 6 again. Wilt thou not revive us again? What's the result? That thy people may rejoice in thee. See, a revived heart brings joy into our heart. It brings joy into our life, that thy people may rejoice in thee. And it's not that we're rejoicing in ourselves and patting ourselves on the back. It's that we're rejoicing in God. And when we have a revived heart, it brings joy into our life. Joy that is so important. Joy that is that many people are missing today. And the joy that we ought to have comes from God. And it comes from being focused and having the right focus on the right things. And it's a matter of having a revived, a renewed, a heart that has been made alive again. That's what the scripture is teaching. There. Wilt thou not revive us again? Wilt thou not make us alive again? It's a strange way to say it, but that's what the Bible is teaching: we need to be made alive again. So that we're renewed and that we're rejoicing in what God has given for us to do. So that's kind of a in a nutshell Psalm eighty-five. Alright, well let's have a word of prayer and then we'll be dismissed. So Father, we love you. We thank you for the day. Lord, thank you for this opportunity that we have to spend some time together. And Lord, just looking at your word. And Father, I do just pray that you would help our lives to be Lord, what they ought to be. But Father, would you help our heart, Lord, if it's been drifting, if it's been, Lord, not anchored to you, Father, that you would help us to to renew our hearts. Uh Lord, that you would just do that renewing in them and Lord help us to be joyful in it. Lord that we would be able to serve you and Lord will thank you for it. We ask all these things. We ask that you would go before us and give us safety and we ask it in Jesus. Jesus name, Amen