Revelation chapter two. Revelation chapter two, please. The Book of Revelation is a great book to study. And in chapter number one, we see a vision that God gives to a dear saint, who, for the preaching of the gospel, was exiled onto an island just off the city of Ephesus. The city of Ephesus housed a wonderful church. The church at Ephesus. Paul established that church in the midst of a lot of persecution. And that church grew. And grew to love the Lord and grew to serve the Lord and turned from idols and came to saving grace. And then Paul turned that church over to Timothy. And Timothy saw that church grow even more. And then Timothy turned it over to the Apostle John. And we're beyond what the scriptures say when we tell you that the Apostle John was the last one. We only have historical accounts, not biblical accounts. We do find, however, that uh he ended up on the island of Patnas. And while there he got a vision high of the Lord high and lifted up, and I'm not going to take you into All of that. I just want to give you a few things that are pertinent to the message tonight. I'm going to ask you to look at Revelation chapter 2. As a generation later, maybe 35 or so years, God writes to this church This stalwart of the faith, this fundamental independent Baptist work in the midst of a wicked area. God had raised it out of the ashes. And here's what we have as We read in verse 1, unto the angel, note that's the leader, whoever he was at that time, the servant of the Lord of the church at Ephesus, right? These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. Here's how he sees Jesus as Jesus looks over this church. Jesus is the one that holds those seven candlesticks, their testimony. And it says that he's in the midst of those seven golden candlesticks, and he holds that so seven stars in his hand. What we have here is a picture of the Lord in his rightful place in a church. And he's in the midst of all the churches and all the people, and he sees everything. There's nothing hid from his sight. He knows it all. And he's got in the hand of his authority this church tonight, Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And he sees what you're doing, and he knows where you're headed, and he knows where you've been, and he sees all of that, and he's the one that we're here to serve, he's the reason for this church's existence. It's all about him. And he pronounces, and there are seven different churches. We're only looking at the church at Ephesus, but he looks out at that church and he tells them what he sees. Would this be what he would declare for the church here tonight as a whole? I know thy works. And thy labor, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. And thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars. And hast borne, and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast labored and hast not fainted I don't know about you, but those of you that are seasoned veterans in the Lord, that's the kind of church you ought to be in. And he praises them. So let's have a word of prayer, and we're going to take this passage and look at it in its entirety as we Speak tonight. Father, I pray that you would anoint our minds and our hearts tonight. May the Holy Spirit, who wrote these words, who gave them to us so many years ago. Have freedom of reign in our hearts tonight. Once again, Lord, may you just put the microscope of your word onto our hearts. And may we see what you see. And help us to Lord to know what's lacking tonight and be sensitive about it and be willing to take the step tonight. To go forward and be more like you each and every day. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So the first thing I notice in here is God's commendation for this church. He starts out by telling us three good things that he sees. He looks at this church, he looks at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. What does he commend them for? First of all, for their diligence What does it say about them? My goodness. I know thy works and thy labor. Works Works and labor. Works and labor. He appreciates the fact that these people can and do know how to work. And one thing I enjoyed about being with the men this uh the these last few days is that they're not afraid to work. Um, and they're not uh shying from it and trying to escape it and hiding somewhere until it's all done. They jump in and get involved. And you know what? We've got some work to do in here in the Hunt Valley area, don't we? There's a lot of work to be done. And it can't be the responsibility of a few select people in this auditorium to get it done. All at it, always at it, ought to be your motto. We can all do something. There's work to be done. There's plenty of work to be done. And not only just work, and it says that they did it for his name's sake in verse 3. Not just working, but doing the Lord's work. I enjoyed seeing the bus go out this morning and going uh and coming back and unloading several uh uh children that would not have gotten here any other way. Their parents weren't going to bring them. I know we run a bus route in our church as well. How important it is. Is that two months then? Is that way beyond what you would do for the Lord to get out on a Saturday? And to go visit some of these families and get to know these kids and get an opportunity to maybe speak to their parents or extended family members. Is that way too beyond of what you can do? Is that beyond your limits of what you are willing to do as far as working in this church? How about those soul-winning efforts the day that you come together to pass out tracts? And you say, I'm so shy, I can't do that. I remember being shy and saying the same thing. Now look at me Not afraid to talk uh to uh most people, some of the big ones, you know, that uh look mean uh maybe, but uh Look, it's not a problem with anything else other than just your willingness to do it. If God can tell a Moses who stuttered of some sort at some sort of a physical ailment, if God can tell him And he can speak to two and a half and three million people and lead them into the or out of the land of Egypt and toward the promised land. God could do that for you and I as well I don't think we have excuses. There's work to be done. There's a world to be won, and we need to be at it and always at it. But not only was he commending them for their diligence, he commended them for their discernment. I hope you understand that God's plan for this church is not just to turn it into a bingo session. And uh fellowship kneels, but God's interesting in keeping it pure and holy. This is, as he illustrates it, his body. And God says, I want my body to be pure. And he expresses that clearly in Ephesians chapter 5, that he may present it to himself a pure body, discernment. And what were they discerning? Well, take a look. There were two issues in this church that we don't have all the details on. But he said, look. For my name's sake, you found some that said they were apostles and were not, and has found them to be liars There were those in their midst that were teaching false truths or false doctrines. That they were apostles and they weren't. And they were unto them. And then later on in verse 6, he says, This thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitines, which I also hate. So they were they weren't loosey-goosey with the truth. Having an open door policy, and anybody can be a member that wants to be a member. And anybody can serve in this church that wants to serve. And anybody can feel comfortable here. We just want you to be comfortable. No, they held up the standard of the truth. And they found some that evidently they had to do some church discipline on that weren't living up to the truth of God's standards. May you always feel welcome here. There's not going to be someone standing at the door, you know, with some sort of some sort of TSA guidelines of you can't come in unless. And that you feel loved and you feel um like people can are concerned about your soul here. But let me tell you, if you're going to bring false teachings into this church, this isn't where you want to come. If you're going to try to get in through the back doors and start teaching your own little pet doctrines, this isn't the place to come God has given you a pastor. God has given him a book. And God has given him leadership. And all of us, all of us, need to be discerning about that. And way back in those early church years, that was vitally important. And then lastly, and I love this as well, he commended them for their discipline. For it says in verse 3, you hast labored and hast not fainted. Grown weary. You know, you can get weary in the Lord's work. Did you know that? You can get tiresome. But you know, I don't know that the Lord Himself has any retirement age or retirement policy That after you put 50 years in, that's enough. Now you can be put out to pasture. But I love, and we've talked about this, I love the old saints that are just keeping on, keeping on. What an example. For the young men and the young ladies in your church. They didn't faint. And things weren't always easy, but they didn't quit. You know, I'm not as interested, and I don't think the Lord is as interested in what you're doing right now as what you're going to be doing in ten years. In twenty years and in thirty years, will you still be at it then So God's commendation for the church. The second thing that we find in this passage is God's condemnation. For this church. Is this the church you would love to go to? Keep reading. Look down at verse 4. Nevertheless. That's that but you were knew was coming. I have somewhat against thee Because thou hast, and if you don't have this next word circled or underlined for years, somehow I missed it. I would hear preachers get up in a pulpit and talk about how Christians had lost their first love. I lose my keys. I lose other articles. But this isn't accidental. This is in full knowledge. For instance, because I lose things. I was careful recently. My wife and I had the privilege of flying out to California, and we left our car at the motel near the airport. And I just knew that if I was going to spend five or six days out in California with my car key, which is the only car key that I have for that car that'll turn it on anyhow, that if I if I took that out there, I knew that I'd come back to Detroit, Michigan, and I wouldn't be able to start my car. I'd lose it So you know what I did? I left it. I knew exactly where it was. I opened up the council, stuck it in the council, so it was completely out of sight and uh had a manufactured key that would open up the uh driver's door, there's a big difference between losing and leaving And here we find that the great apostle John looked at that church and said Here's what God says to you. You've left your first love, your primary love Now it doesn't take a genius here to understand that that first love is your love for Jesus Christ. I should have done the math before I got in the pulpit here, but I was eight years old when I came to Christ. Eight years old. I'm a lot older than eight years old now. And if I could do the math, I'd tell you how much older. But you know it's been a long time. And do you know in those multiple years how easy it is to get away from that first experience of salvation? Let's just take a trip down memory lane for a minute, can we? In your mind, can you just drift back? Come back to me. But can you just drift back for a moment? When you realized you were a sinner, and you realized that Christ was the only, in his blood was the only cleansing agent for that sin. And you knelt or you prayed, maybe you were sitting, and just relive that experience just for a moment, please. And do you remember how clean you felt? You've been dirty since then and felt good after taking a nice hot shower. But nothing, nothing. You finally got the guilt taken care of. You have the eternal hope of a heaven prepared for you. And just that glorious cleansing. Just almost is overcoming. Do you know that that's why we need to have ooh, there's not a communion table there. That's why we have communion. Do you know that that's why the Lord established communion in the churches? Lest we stray far from the cross. And don't keep coming back to remember what he did for us that day. I'm going to stray from the text here for just a moment. And I think I I want to help you get a grasp of how you can know If you've left your first love. How would anyone in this room here this evening say That's a cute concept. I've heard that word, but does that mean that I have left my first love? Well, let's talk about it. If there's a coolness toward the Savior tonight, you've left your first love. A lawyer came to Jesus and said so in a testing fashion, said, What is the great commandment of the law? Jesus said, How readest thou? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. This is the first and great Commandment. How scattered is your love tonight What are the other things that find its way into your emotional system? The heart of you. Are there things that you love tonight more than that you love Christ or God the Father? There have been people down through the ages that have diminished their love, cooled off toward the Savior. Are you as in love with the Lord tonight, now, tonight, as you were the day that He saved you? What's it going to be like when we meet him again? We will see him. We will be like him. We will see him as he is. That's either a frightening thought, or it is an expression of we can't wait. Now, I'm not hoping anyone goes to heaven tonight. But I'm telling you, in my line of work, I've I've ushered several people into heaven, been there by by their wayside, by their bedside when they pass. And almost at times, almost at times, I feel jealous. Because to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. He's prepared a place for us. We don't Float around somewhere and haunt people at Halloween. Okay, we don't turn into angels. We go immediately to a place called heaven, and one of God's promises there in John chapter 14, if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, receive you unto myself. That where I am, there ye may be also. Just trying to stir up a little bit of this, of your love for Christ tonight. We are walking by faith right now. Please don't come and tell me about how you saw Jesus yesterday morning. Okay? You see him in the scriptures, obviously. You see him in the person of the Holy Spirit, obviously, yes. But we will one day get to see him as he is and never have to leave his presence again. I'm almost jealous when these patients of mine get to go to heaven. Our faith will become sight. I'm just saying that because it's by faith, and because that's out there somewhere, we sort of tend to leave it We don't connect with it. We don't get it real. Our love for Christ is what compels us to do everything that we do. The love of Christ, Paul said, constraineth me. So I'm saying this tonight. How do you know if you've left your first love? It's identified by a coolness. To your Savior. Say coolness to your Savior. Those of you that are married, establish that intimate relationship, you know when there's A coolness there. And you know what I'm talking about in that relationship. You're both not on the same page. You're not as in love as you used to be. Secondly, I think it's identified by a callousness toward sin. I think that the fact that we leave our first love shows up when sin isn't exceedingly sinful. And we sort of count our sins like we count our calories. Oh, that's not that many. Have you ever done that? And I don't mean spiritually minded, have you have you ever Do you remember in our class I made you, uh in FIZED class, I made you do a calorie count for a week of everything? Yeah, my students are all nice. Yeah. It amazes you. That's why you don't have a scale in your bathroom. Because you got a number up here that may not match that number down there. You know what I'm talking about. We sort of generalize. Oh, that's not bad. That can't be that many calories. Oh my goodness! No wonder it doesn't fit anymore. And sometimes we do that with sin. And God puts his finger on something in your life and you say, well, that's not that bad. You know those that's not that bad accumulate? And they get bigger and bigger. And this is what Paul dealt with in Romans chapter 7 when he said sin became exceeding sinful. Sin became exceeding sinful. We talked, I shared a devotion the other day with the men of a parable that Jesus gave on the topic of Forgiveness. And Jesus gave a parable, and through that parable, he illustrated how much we owe God. For our sins. Ten thousand talents And when you break that down, it comes up to an exorbitant amount, and he had the audacity to say, I'll pay it all back. No. But I think sometimes we get a concept of, well, I'm not as bad as, and take a look around And you may not be, but you're not as good as either. And that's where we ought to be looking. He's called the Holy Spirit. We have a holy Bible because God wants us to be holy. And we need to be working out the sin in our life. And if we're not, there's a possibility we've left our first love. Thirdly, a contentedness towards self. I think it is an expression of our leaving our first love. The Apostle Paul, my hero, said, I, in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 9, I am less Than least. Now you live in a world sometimes and probably in a family where you've got to scramble and do everything in your workplace to get attention. To get noticed. Look at me, look at me, look at me, help me, help me, help me. And that isn't that isn't the plan of God at all. And sometimes that just spills in towards ourselves, and we become self-satisfied. And all that Job went through, losing his family, losing his all of his land, losing all of his crops, his livelihood. Didn't lose his life. Job's the one that said, Lord, when you've tried me, I shall come forth as gold. And then in Job chapter 42 and verse 6, he said this. By the way, God chose Job when Satan came. God said, this is the most perfect man on all the earth Do you know what that most perfect man came to the conclusion of at the end of all of his trials? I abhor myself. I'm not doing much for your self-esteem this evening, am I? But I want you to remember without Christ you're nothing. All that we are and all that we ever hope to be is through Jesus Christ himself. So never, never be content and say, I have arrived. That's an indication. I think another indication is the carelessness about souls. When we can go out and rub elbows with the John Hugh public out there and not know stories behind those faces. But are obviously aware that there's a world out there not only without Christ, but hurting. Hurting. Deep hurt. Not everything looks like it really is on their faces. And many go home if they have homes to go to and don't know where to turn. And I don't know what you've been reading about the suicide rates in America today, but it's astounding. And we can't lay it all to the hands of mental illness. There's some emotional distress and anxiety that's way over the top out there. And just being a friend and handing them a few dollars on uh when they're standing there begging for it on the corner. Isn't what they need? What they need is the man of peace. What they need is Jesus Christ. Who can give them the peace that passes all understanding? Deep down through their mind and their emotions and their will. And who's gonna do it? This Orthodox Church down here Who's going to do it? God's going to send angels from heaven. Gabriel and Michael got uh Michael got that job This church. And churches like this church, and believers like you have the awesome responsibility. Of telling them there's a better way. And there's a Savior that loves them and can redeem them. And then I noticed one more thing over the years of an indication, I think, of Of the losing of our first love, and that's the competitiveness among saints. And I'm not talking about who's going to win the basketball game tonight, guys. I'm not talking about that sporting competitiveness. I'm talking what found itself into the midst of the carnal church of Corinth. I am of Paul. I am of Apollos. I'm of Cephas. I am of Christ. And there was division in churches. God's people, good people, trying to live right and competing with one another Aren't you thankful? I told you earlier, we are this church. The members of this church are a body. Aren't you glad that your body doesn't compete like that? That your hand, right hand, is not competing against the left hand, your right foot's not competing against your left foot. Unless your brother Derek, your right knee's not competing against your left knee. That it's all working together, every part doing its part. Can I tell you a secret? Don't have time to take you to 1 Corinthians chapter 12, but every member of this church has a gift to give. You want me to tell you something else that'll help inspire you? You are somebody in his body. You are somebody in his body. Use your gifts to help each other and get God's work done in this world. And I don't know about you, but um I'm I'm thankful I still have my appendage. I've never seen it I'm thankful I uh I uh my liver is working tonight, as far as I know. I can feel my heart working But nobody sees it. And if you've ever looked at a biology book and looked at somebody's heart, it's not all that impressive. Unless you make human ones, you don't take actual pictures of a human heart and put them up in your room and decorate your room with hearts or livers or kidneys or spleens Or in my case, kneecaps. Well, what would you do without it? What would you do without it? Your body can't function without those things. This body, Hunt Valley Baptist Church, can't function without you, the spleen. Without you the kneecap, without you the liver. You are somebody, and everybody working together makes it work. That's what it's all about. And let's pray that God will never look down on Hump Valley Baptist Church and say, I have this against you. You've left your first love. You're busy. You're trying to do my work in my name, but you've just left the heart behind. You're not doing it for me, you're doing it for you. God's commendation for this church, God's condemnation for this church, thirdly, God's correction for the church. Thankfully, God has an answer. God has an answer. And he says, you members of the church at Ephesus, here's what you must do. And he says in the next verse, or else. Yeah. But here's what he says, you must do three things in verse 5. Do you see them? First one's right there. Remember. Therefore, from whence thou art fallen, repent and do the first works. Three things. First of all, remember. Remember where you came from. Remember those miracles of the past. Put memorials somewhere along the line, some love letters to God, or whatever it is you need to do to remember That day that you came to Christ, and every step of the way, these interns here just gave a couple of reminders to themselves. That was a miracle of God. That was a time in my life I can put a stake down right there. Because that's going to increase my faith when I start looking forward and need another one. Just like the memorial stones. That the children of Israel, after they crossed into the promised land, they put a stack of stones there, twelve of them. And the whole purpose of that was so that when the children come by and say, Daddy, daddy, what's that? And Dad says, Well, let me tell you. Sit down, son, I got a story to tell you. You haven't heard this yet? Let me tell you. Or let me tell you again. We can't be looking so fast and so far forward that we forget where we've come from and what God's done in the past. This is what makes God's work real and worthwhile because we know that He has, so we know that He can Remember, remember. And sometimes we just need to get back to Calvary. And go back. And I would invite you to do that if you haven't already done, if I talked through your little exercise here earlier. Go back tonight. Get alone. Turn off the radio, turn off the TV. Just sit and remember the day you got saved. And if that's not shouting ground by the time you get out of there, I don't know what else I can we can do for you. Because it's all about Christ. It's not about you. You come out of there thinking, man, God got a deal, didn't he? Man, look how far I've come and what I've done for him. Oh wait, go back, go back. Go back in. No, no, try it again. But we need to remember, and here's the word not often heard. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen and repent. Repent is not regret. Repent may involve regret. Judas regretted, but he didn't repent. I'm convinced that had Judas, when he knew what he had done and knew how how dastardly his deed was, had he come to Christ at the cross, and he could, he was still there. That he could have found forgiveness. But instead, he regretted what he had done. He got filled with guilt. And instead of taking that guilt to Christ, he went and indulged himself and then took the 30 pieces of silver that he thought at one time was so valuable. And in One swoop threw all those coins into the chief priest. And they went they went out and bought a field with it, and then he went out and hung himself. And even failed to do that. He regretted, but he didn't repent. Repentance is a work of God. Let me say it that way. It's as simple as that. Repentance is not coming and weeping and wailing at an altar and saying, I've done wrong, I've done wrong, I feel so bad, and the emotions are running high, and you're teared up and you feel guilty in all of this. Unless God takes that repentance and all of that and turns it into a changed life, you're just going to be fighting the same battle over and over and over again. That's God's view of repentance. And God turns our hearts. We just have to be willing to let Him do it. And then he said this in verse five Remember, repent, and repeat. He's not letting us off the hook, is he? And sometimes we have gotten off, and we call it backsliding, I guess. And we've gotten off the trail that God has put before us and the path that we're supposed to be going. And let me tell you, you don't just catch up down the road somewhere. God says, go right back where you got off and start from there. If you've grown cold because your Bible reading has gotten frosty, If you've grown cold and you come into church services and you still put on your smile because you don't want anybody to know that you're really not getting anything. That the well seems to be dry, and nothing is happening And you're just kind of feeling, well, I'll just get through this, I'll get through this. No, recognize it for what it is. Get on your face before God, repent, and go back to where you got off track and get back on. And continue on for the Lord. God's correction for this church. And then lastly, God's caution for this church. Nobody in this pulpit should ever tell you that if you sin and continuously grieve the Holy Spirit of God, that you're not going to heaven. Okay. If Peter the denier can go to heaven, so can you. If David, the adulterer and murderer, is going to be in heaven, so can you. It's not a dependence upon your work or your failures, it's upon the grace of God. and your acceptance of his salvation by faith. So what would we lose then? What difference does it make? Here's the difference that it makes. At the end of verse 5, or else I will come unto thee quickly, doesn't mean soon, but suddenly. And will remove thy candlestick out of his place. You're going to lose your testimony. You're going to lose your effectiveness for God. You're going to lose your cutting edge. You're going to lose the ability to reach out to others and bring them to Christ It's all going to come snowballing down on you. This candlestick was the only light in the temple. And when your light goes out. The candlestick's still there, but your effectiveness is gone. I don't know about you, but I love my Lord way too much. To lose my light. And I there's I don't think there's any greater privilege than any of us have in this room. Than to let the light of the glorious God of heaven shine through us. There's no greater privilege. And that's where we get our spiritual satisfaction from. So I ask you tonight, I'm sure you're doctrinally sound. That you've got all of the where the lines are drawn, and this is truth, and we will stand for truth no matter what. But have you left your first love in the process of all of that? What would this church be without it? If you lose your first love, you've lost everything. And you can sit here with the King James Bible in your lap and you can have a beautiful facility and you can sing these wonderful uplifting songs and you can have special music and you can go out in the community but nothing's gonna happen. Because you've lost your first love. Father, I pray that you would help us tonight to get a glimpse of your glory once again. May you have your will and way in our lives. May we be sensitive. Help us to get past ourselves and get to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.