Well it's uh uh uh if you would turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter 12. That's we're gonna be where we are uh tonight, and uh uh that's where we will begin. Uh we'll navigate through some uh Proverbs. And uh hopefully you'll you'll you'll follow along. I I'll read them out to you, but uh uh want to share with you just a a message on a uh on a topic that's uh a little bit heavy, but I think one that we can learn about today and certainly applies all around us. And I really hope that uh that's really my goal this evening is for us to see uh uh the the the truth of the matter, uh how we as Christians can can look at ourselves. and uh uh uh make that a change in our life. Uh the topic we're covering today is uh the topic of pride and So we'll go through it and we'll start off here in Romans chapter 12, verses 1 through 3. The Bible says this. It says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind That ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. For I say, through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith Let's pray. Father, we do love you, and we thank you again for this day and for this time to gather around your word. And Lord, as we As we look at it, Father, your word is a a mirror that reveals to us the areas where we struggle. Lord, the things that we need to change. And Lord, I just pray that as as your people, uh Lord that you would help us. Uh Lord, this is something that uh the world around us uh embraces and and is completely fine with uh but Lord as your people I I just pray Lord that you would help us to to be sensitive uh Lord that you would uh prod us when we when we get out of line or when uh pride is is seeping into our life. And Lord, I just pray that through this time in your word that you would help us to to understand Lord what it is and how to change it. And uh Father, I just pray that you would help us to learn from your word tonight. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. I want to tell you about the 1940s. There was fear in England, and there was a growing concern about the threat of invasion and a long war. To reassure the people, the British Broadcasting Corporation, or as we would know them now, the BBC. uh decided to expand its religious broadcasting to include some some short ten to fifteen minute talks That were hosted by an Oxford fellow named C. S. Lewis. The BBC's director of religious broadcasting had been impressed by Lewis's works in apologetics and he had written several books and so they approached Lewis about doing this uh these segments and of course Lewis agreed Now one thing to know about C. S. Lewis is that he had been an atheist for many years. He had become a Christian recently. And so Lewis really understood those who struggled with the Christian faith or certain aspects of it. So his first two sets of talks focused on apologetics. And then in the fall of 1942, he had a third series of talks that covered Christian behavior, including morality, forgiveness, faith, and the great sin. And so I wanted to quote that uh portion of that talk for you this evening because I think it's very uh insightful. And uh if you've read anything of C. S. Lewis and and he is uh uh a Christian thinker and and his things will definitely get you get you thinking. Uh but he said this What is the great sin, and what sin is worse than any other? C. S. Lewis replied to this question with clarity. There's one vice of which no man in the world is free Which everyone in the world loathes when he sees it in someone else, and of which hardly any people except Christians ever imagine that they are guilty themselves. There's no fault which makes a man more unpopular, and no fault which we are more unconscious of in ourselves. And the more we have it ourselves, the more we dislike it in others. According to Christian teachers, the essential vice, the utmost evil, is pride. Unchasteity, anger, greed, drunkenness, and all that are mere flea bites in comparison. It was through pride that the devil became the devil. Pride leads to every other vice. It is the complete anti-God state of mind. I agree with this. There's a thought today that pride is some type of virtue. And I would say to you that I believe it's absolutely not a virtue. Now I think we're I'll I'll try to clarify some things that that maybe uh we have a tendency to be proud of and just uh as as Christians, as the people of God just to change, maybe adjust our thinking so that we speak more clearly and are not dis deceived and to go this route of pride. It seems that anytime even that I would use that word, that I'm proud of this or that, there's always something in my mind that that just kind of just Stops and pauses just because that word is carries with it so much weight. And so I hope that you understand, and I hope that I'll be clear in terms of what I'm trying to present this evening, but understand Pride gives us an air of elitism that gives the idea that I am better than you. And this is a problem that we see all around the world today that we have to, as Christians, be wary of, but also guard against. What I believe pride is, I believe it's a perversion of what thankfulness is. Now, if we look at this passage Just these verses, uh the the sum of the message is is just in this part If we understand this, the context of the book of Romans here, Romans 12 actually marks a transition in the book of Romans. The the this is a book that we give out when we distribute uh literature. We give out the books of John and Romans. And the first part of Romans Have a lot of doctrinal teaching, teaching about salvation, teaching on sin, very clear subjects on how to be saved. And Romans twelve transitions into practical teaching. It's in this pat it's in this chapter that we have this memorable verse that we we often memorize about having make About making sure that our that we present our bodies a living sacrifice, that we be conformed to this that we not be conformed to this world, but be transformed Chapter 13 talks about our role and our responsibility with government. Chapter 14 talks about Christian liberty. So there's this very clear transition in the book that we see and it begins in chapter 12. And if you're following along, this section talks about how to live the Christian life and it begins with our mindset. If we're going to live a Christian life honoring the Lord the way God wants us to, what does it begin with Not by being conformed to the world, but by the transf but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. And then right after that The next verse, we look at verse 3. For I say, through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, to every man, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. So that's the backdrop of what we're discussing today. There's this transition that happens in Romans 12, and the first, if we're going to have a renewed mind, where does it begin? In verse 3, with humility. To not think of ourselves more highly than we ought. That's the beginning. That's as we open up these chapters, that's where it starts. So understand that bear with me. I feel completely inadequate teaching this lesson because if there's anything that men struggle with. If there's anything that I personally struggle with the most, it's this matter of pride. But this problem, understand, I believe it's all around us. So we have this problem that culturally we're in a very difficult place. And this is kind of what brought this to mind and really made me develop this for this evening. You know, I taught a lesson on this topic back in 2018 and again, even since then, so many things have changed And what I find interesting is that w regardless of your perspective on the political aisle or in terms of your values from one side to the other, what we find is that both sides see problems with elitism. There are concerns with elitism in government. There are concerns with elitism in the financial sector. There are concerns with elitism in academia. And this is coming from both sides. This problem is where people appear we see this because People act like they're above the law. Or people act as if they are of some kind of special class that gets special treatment. Now, the thing about this generation is this generation is very vocal. They're very quickly to identify and call out maybe an injustice or something that's unbalanced. Perhaps there's an injustice going on that they want to bring attention to and what it is their accusation, their accusation is that something is toxic. The problem they identify, the problems they identify are toxic. So that's why I titled the message tonight, The Toxicity of Pride. So there's this problem that people talk about the Toxic masculinity and toxic leadership or a toxic work environment, toxic religiosity. There's all these problems that people identify and it always it it as a Christian it makes you think it makes me think. Because there's people that see as corrupt that there is a God-given role established in the Scripture for a man and a woman in the home And many people will try to blanket, cover it, and say, oh, this is toxic masculinity. So it makes it really gets me thinking, like, is is Is the Bible wrong here? And of course not. The Bible is not wrong. Is the Bible wrong for establishing these roles? Is the Bible wrong for establishing uh the the imperatives that are given about the role and the place of men and women. Is there is the Bible wrong in terms of how to how leadership applies and how we are to act towards leadership The Bible's not wrong. The problem is that men corrupt these ideas, and what corrupts them is when pride seeps in. And so I want us to look at that, and I want us to really just kind of point that out. The root issue for many of the problems that we deal today stems from pride. We have a culture that elevates pride, and we need to in that sense be against that aspect of the culture. So first we're going to look at the facts about pride. Alright, I'm going to walk through a couple passages in Scripture. As I mentioned, this is actually taken from the previous lesson. uh that I taught in Sunday school the facts about pride. I'll read for you some verses and hopefully you'll understand. Otherwise you can jot down the references and look for yourself and see what the Bible teaches But first off we'll see that pride disgusts God. The Bible says in Proverbs 6, 16 through 19, a very familiar passage. These six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him, a proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, and heart that deviseth wicked imaginations feet that be swift and running to mischief, a false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren. And the first thing that we see here That disgust God, that's an abomination. That word is such a heavy, heavy word to use because it means something that's vile, something that's disgusting, something that is offensive. And that is pride. Pride disgusts God. I'm not minimizing the verbiage that's being used here. It's absolutely the case. that pride disgusts God to the point that he calls it an abomination and he uses the word hate. Pride disgusts God. Proverbs 16, 5 says this, everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord, though hand Join in hand, he shall not be unpunished. And you see that the book of Proverbs here is talking about pride is something a proud heart. Everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination. to the Lord. It's this idea that God is disgusted by pride. Another thought that we see in the scriptures is that pride defiles man. Proverbs 6 16 verse 4, or excuse me, Proverbs 21, verse 4 says this a and high look and a proud heart and the ploughing of the wicked is sin. Alright? Plain and simple. Very clear passage of scripture there. That's there's not a lot that's open to interpretation. It's very simple, so much that the youngest in the room could understand that pride it's not a virtue, it's not something that's good, it's not something to be sought after. The Bible says that it's sin. Now the problem is that this is the one that we allow. Many times as Christians we can look at someone and that they may be living in sin. They may be living in a way that's vic wicked and vile that we would never act that way. But when we when we stop It's still the pride that we hold in our heart, the lifting of ourselves up, the mindset that we have, that if it's a if it's rooted in pride, is sin as well. That is sin as well. Pride defiles man. Also see that pride divides people. Proverbs 13, 10 says, Only by pride cometh contention, but with the well advised is wisdom. Only by pride cometh contention. Also in Proverbs 28, 25, he that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife. But he that putteth his trust in the Lord shall be made fat. So we see here a couple situations where there's strife, where there's contention, that means there's conflict, and the root of that is coming from a play a place of pride. Only by pride cometh contention. So if there's a conflict, if there's a problem, if there's a disagreement, if there's an argument, if there's a debate. Somewhere in there is pride. Again, plain and simple. And so these things. There's people also that the Bible calls being of a proud heart that stir up strife. There's people, you know them and I know them, that they're looking for a fight. that they're going out and they're throwing out their opinions or they're throwing out their perspectives with the purpose alone to get you to fight back. To speak back, to say something that you shouldn't. And that is someone of a proud heart. For example This is a problem with social media. Alright? In social media, we can't see what's going on with a person's intentions. And what do we do? We're really good at reading into their intentions And saying, well, this is what they said, but this is what they meant. And it goes back and forth, or we we blow things out of proportion, and this is one of the problems, this is one of the areas where we see pride so much. Is when people provide so much information on their opinions and their perspectives and they do it online. But if there's contention, if there's conflict, there's pride. This can also, and again, we'll develop this a little bit more, but this can also happen in the church where we can be What we can call doctrinally proud. And where we guard our position and when we see, oh, this is something that I'm Uh this is how I believe and this is the only way to believe it. And you know, I I've heard about it, and you maybe you haven't, but I've heard about sometimes and I've been in churches in a lot of places, and thankfully I've never been in a place like this, but you hear about places where a preacher will get up and say We're the only ones that are doing what God says. We're the only ones that are right. And just completely casting a broad brush on so many people and saying I'm the, you know, in essence, saying I'm the final authority. I'm the one that's right on this matter or on that matter. And we can be doctrinally proud as well. And we have to be careful. We have to guard against that. If you look at the scriptures and you look at the the the epistles that are written, especially to pastors One of the very biggest things that are that's given in there as a warning, as to something to be careful about, specifically to pastors, is this matter of pride. It's very clear. And so, again, what's good for the goose is good for the gander. It's something that goes all the way across the board, and you and I, not just the pastor, not just uh uh maybe deacons in the church or leaders in the church, whatever the case may be All of us are susceptible to this problem with pride, and it could be in what we believe that we can be causing strife. Do we go into a situation trying to cause strife? And you know, maybe you meet somebody, maybe you meet a pastor, and the first question you ask them is, what is your eschatology like? What do you think about the end times? Why? Because you're trying to pick a fight And we have to be careful about that. We have to be cautious. Now, granted, on the other side of that coin, there are times where we have to stand for what the Bible says. We have to stand for what's right. But we have to do it in the right spirit and understand what the purpose is and defending the truth. Alright? This one's kind of a sidelight When you look at the scriptures, there's certain passages that talk about defending the faith. Standing and we see standing as fighting back The Bible does say earnestly contend for the faith. However, most of the instruction that we're given is to stand. And the idea is like a wall. We're supposed to defend. Yes, we'll push back But we're not so much on we're just trying to stand firm where we're at. And so many times we see uh we see that we're trying to pick fights and we're trying to go after something. But it's actually scripturally is that we're supposed to defend the the position that we have. Now the problem is we do have to go forward because sometimes even in our defense, sometimes we can get pushed back. And we do have to push forward But we have to be very cautious about that and and what we're s what what it is that we're supposed to do Only by pride cometh contention. If you're seeing, if you're seeking after strife, You have to be careful about pride. If you're not listening to other people, you have to be careful about pride. That verse says, with the well-advised is wisdom. There's only by pride cometh contention, but with the well-advised is wisdom. So there's this idea of there's somebody that's well advised, and then there's somebody that's not well-advised. The one that's not well advised is the one that's proud. The well-advised, there's wisdom there. And so there's that contrast. And understand why is that? Is because a proud person is not going to take advice. A proud person is not going to seek a multitude of counselors. A proud person is not going to be finding out what the best matter in their situation is and seeking after counsel, seeking the word of God No, they're just standing there by themselves and causing contention. So pride divides people Pride also disgraces. If you look at Proverbs chapter 11, verse 2, the Bible says, when pride cometh, then cometh shame. So right after pride, if there's pride that's marching through, if there's a pride parade, right after that is going to be shame. Pride disgraces. Now usually we think of it the other way around. We think that if we're proud and if we're we're we're full of pride, that we're you know like a peacock parading through. But the Bible says something completely different, and that after that there's shame. The next one is pride destroys. Proverbs 15, 25 says, the Lord will destroy the house of the proud. But he will establish the border of the wit of the widow. Pride destroys. Pride tears down. Pride is a demolition tool. And so we have to be careful with it. So these are some of the things that I call the facts about pride. Now I want to quickly go through the effects of pride. I'm going to lay some groundwork in terms of some Bible stories to give you the examples that we're seeing of pride. And hopefully you'll follow what it is that I'm saying and you'll see where it is that we can apply it to our life. If you look at the the book of 2 Samuel 14, 25, you find the story of Absalom. Absalom was a son. Absalom was the son of David Let me read for you what happened. Of course, you know what the Bible says in verse 25 of 2 Samuel 14, but in all Israel There was none to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty from the sole of his foot even to the crown of his head. There was no blemish in him So there's a lot of lofty words and description given for Absalom. But we find that Absalom, what does he do later on? He leads a revolt against his own father. He was so lifted up in pride that he thought he would be a better king, that he wanted the kingdom so bad that he lifted himself up and he went after and tried to Established a revolution to turn over the kingdom from his father David. And that started from a proud heart. It began with his pride. Pride affected this father-son relationship. Pride undermined the authority of the father. There's another passage in 2 Samuel chapter 6 about David and his wife. His wife, Michal. Some people say Michael. There's a lot of different ways that we may say it, but this was Saul's daughter. And what happened with David is that David was so excited about what was going on in the kingdoms and the victories that they had seen that he The Bible indicates that he humbled himself and went down among the people and just enjoyed the time with him. Now let's let me read this for you in verse 14 of 2 Samuel 6. And David danced before the Lord with all his might, and David was girded with a linen ephod. So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet. And as the ark of the Lord came into the city of David, Mikal, Saul's daughter, looked through a window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the Lord, and she despised him in her heart And so we see something happen here. It's a it's a very interesting uh account that we find in the scriptures This goes on to the point that later David finally comes home and he sees his wife there, and something happened there at this point that we just read where Michael got just, she was bitter There was something that was going on in her heart that she looked down on David for what he was doing And David was just praising the Lord with all his heart. David did not grow up in the palace. David wanted to be among the people and celebrate this great victory that God had given them, and he was actually there among the people, but Michal, who was his wife was Saul's daughter and she grew up in the kingdom. And the idea is perhaps that maybe she looked down on him because he this was act activity and things that a king should not do And it says that he put on a linen ephod, and the idea is that that was too low for a king to wear. And so these things happened, and this pride got welled up inside of the heart of his wife. And so much so that the Bible says that she despised him. Something happened in this partnership. There was a change of mindset, and it ruined this relationship between a husband and a wife. And she came home, or David came home, and McCall confronted him about it with about him with sarcasm and just with a really nasty spirit. And David was just appalled, like, what did I do wrong? And this point in time, really destroyed their relationship. And the idea here is to understand that when that pride comes up, it has the potential to destroy a relationship. To destroy a relationship with someone that you love, even a husband or a wife. And sometimes, especially in those types of relationships. Pride can come up and your your thinking is all off. And in your heart, you know the thoughts that you you feel against that person. And it'll ruin a relationship. Pride will. Next, we'll go along to 1 Chronicles 21. I'll expedite the story It's a story when the Bible says in 21 verse 1, Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number Israel. So Satan tempted David to look at the kingdom. And how many people are there? And how many horses do you have? And what's the population? What's been the population growth in the kingdom? What's been the economic growth since you've been king, David? And so Satan stemmed tempted him, and obviously David went through with that. There were some friends of David that said King, you don't have to do this. You're the king. There were people that went up to him and said, you don't have to be proud. You don't have to go through this process. But David overrode And we see that even sometimes, many times, government officials will be proud. Government officials may be infected with pride. And so that can become a problem. We see that. Lastly, in this example of the effects of pride, I want to point you to 3 John, chapter, or there's only one chapter in 3 John But there's an account in verses 8 through 11 about this man in 3 John, who John writes about, the Apostle John, and his name is Diatrophes. And Diotrephes, the Bible says that he loveth to have the preeminence among them. Diotrephes was this aloof. We don't know if he was a pastor or if he was some leader in the church, but he Liked to as another reference in the Bible would say, Lord over the people And he was very much in control of what was going on, so much to the point where he was just, so the Bible says, we therefore ought to receive such That we might the help the fellow helpers to the truth. I wrote unto the church, but diatrophies who loveth to have the preeminence among them receiveth us not. So John wrote a letter to the church, and Diatrophes was like, oh, don't read the letter. I don't want you to hear what John has to say. Now we don't know what that letter said, but diatrophies put that aside. And he said, No, I don't want this to influence the people in this church. And then the Bible says in verse 10, wherefore if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth. Praying against us with malicious words, so he was talking negatively about them, and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church. There's some crazy things going on here with Diatrophies. There were people, good people, good believers that would come to the church, and they maybe wanted to spend time with other people in the church, and Diatrophes would be like, Why did you spend time with them? Get out! He'd kick them out of the church. And so we see pride infected diatrophies. Why? Because he loved to have the preeminence among them. And again, we don't know what his role was. But in some way, shape, or form, he took on this leadership in this church community. And it he was so infected with pride that he was spoken about negatively here. So why do I show these examples? Because these are examples that we see that live today. Parent and child relationships are damaged by pride. You have a child that perhaps doesn't see things eye to eye with their parents and they say they don't know what they're doing, they're foolish in in in what they're trying to do, they don't understand, you know what what I want or what the things that I want to participate in. They don't know what's going on. And a child is infected with pride against his parents Husband-wife relationships are damaged by pride. Of course, we see this. Our officials and the citizens, the relationship between those two are damaged by pride. Our pastoral relationships or relationships in the church are damaged by pride. You hear stories upon stories, and again, I don't. You know, I'm I'm not I'm not saying this to in response to anything that I've seen here or that I've understood here That's not what I'm talking about. I'm addressing this because these things you hear about them and you hear about things that happen and where people are so lifted up in pride. Maybe there's somebody in the choir. See, we haven't had a choir, so we're not talking about the choir. That's like Well that person can't sing. Well, that's okay. They're not singing for you. They're singing for the Lord. And so we have to be careful because sometimes we can think, oh, we're singing a special. Well, I don't want them in our group. That could happen. Why? Because we get lifted up in pride. Well, our group only sings, you know, these songs. Or maybe you're you're there's a group that's practicing and they're practicing a song and they're like, man, we sound good. And maybe it's a joke, but we have to be careful because those things can easily infect us with pride. Many situations come in where pride seeps in. So many things can be perverted, corrupted by pride. Now, let me just add this as well. A proud response to a proud problem does not fix anything. It's another way of saying two wrongs don't make a right. Sometimes someone will approach a situation, maybe they see pride in someone, and they approach it and they say something proud themselves. That's not going to solve anything, that's not going to help anything. We have to be careful. So, what is the fix for pride? The fix for pride. It goes back to this verse that we're looking at today. Romans chapter 12, verse 3. For I say, through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. This has to be done at an individual level. This has to be done for you and me. It's not easy because We want to think of ourselves more highly than another person. It's easy to do that. And here's the thing: we can identify it in someone else and say, oh, that person's proud, and that person's proud, but When we talk about ourselves, we're like, well, you know, maybe I mean I I could have said that different. You know, maybe that came off a little vain. And we give ourselves more of an excuse. But we have to be careful that pride does not seep in. We have to be careful to not allow pride to infect and infiltrate our life. We have to be able to identify it in ourselves when pride is coming up, when pride is making its way in, when that pride is welling up inside and is going to come out in some way, shape, or form. So my goal in tonight is not to guilt anyone in any way. My goal is to help us to identify How to see the markers of pride in ourselves to see where these things will come up. And there's story after story about Politicians, elected officials, that they say, oh well, once they got to Washington, things totally changed. Why? It's not because their position is wrong. It's not because the government should be completely overrun It's because of pride. That's the problem that needs to be fixed. In our education system or in our churches, and perhaps there's Someone that's gone through an experience with a pastor, maybe the pastor lifted himself up too high. Maybe he just got too full of himself, and that can happen. The thing is not to just completely destroy, say, you know what? There's no need for church. Church is no good for I'm never going to church again. That's not the responsible thing to do. The problem is pride, and the pride needs to be taken care of. So those are the things that I want us to identify. Now lastly, I did say that we have to change our thinking a little bit. Here's the thing. It's easy for us to say, for us to say to our kids, I'm proud of you And we have to be careful what is it that we're really trying to say? If they stand up for something, maybe we're saying I'm thankful that you're acting the way you have been trained to act. That encourages me. And it's different to say that than to say, oh, I'm proud of you. And we can look at it and we can say, I'm proud of being an American. And we have to be careful with that because why? Pride gives us the idea maybe that we're better than somebody else. And the same thing can happen in Christianity where we say, oh, I'm proud to be a Christian. And yes, that may be true, but we don't want it to sit f people to think, oh, I'm a Christian, so I'm better than you We're all equal. It's by God's grace that I get to be a Christian anyway. And so what I'm trying to really convey is I'm glad that I had this opportunity to live in this country. I'm glad that I had the opportunity and I accepted Christ because that changed my life. And so when we have to change our thinking, just tweak it just a little bit. Times where I've said to people, oh well, you know, being proud, you know, isn't necessarily bad. And the more I look at it and the more I think about it, the more I read the scriptures, pride is not a virtue that we should be going after. And so I caution you church family to make sure that we identify those things and to be able to think about them differently. So that we do not allow pride to grow in our life because pride is going to destroy, pride is going to divide people, it's going to cause problems, and most of all, it's going to offend Almighty God. And we don't want to do that. And so I'll encourage you, church family, tonight, where are you at with pride? This is what is Infecting all around is this problem with the toxicity of pride, and it's all around. And as Christians, we need to be careful not to take part in that.