I want you to turn your Bibles to Nehemiah chapter number five. Nehemiah chapter number five this evening. Balance in the Christian life is vital for success in the Christian life. It's an easy thing for us to become uh consumed uh with one thing or another, oftentimes at the expense of another very worthwhile pursuit. We may oftentimes end up forego growth that is necessary for our lives Or fruitfulness that God wants us to have because we've become consumed or endeavored to accomplish Something else that may very well be good, but we are too heavy in that area. We can become so busy with work that we leave off worship. It is something that's a problem and a major concern in Bible colleges because the students are so much in the Word of God for their study, for their classes and for, you know, the their pursuit of uh passing their their getting their degree and they've involved in ministry and they're doing all of these different things for the work And yet oftentimes you'll find uh young people whose hearts are very cold. They're very they're a long ways from God, and you wonder, how is it? That you could be studying the Word of God every day and serving God every weekend, and yet your heart be so hard, your heart be so cold, it's because they've lost the balance. They've invested all of their time in the work of the ministry and left off the worship of God. So balance in the Christian life is absolutely necessary. We certainly enjoy amusement We love taking a break and we need to. Vacations are good. They're necessary. But amusement must be balanced with accomplishment. You need both in your life. You can't live as the mindset of many Americans today is just living for Friday It's just all about the next break, the next place of enjoyment or fulfillment or satisfaction that they can get. We ought to have a balanced Christian life. And tonight I want to encourage you to have a balance in your life regarding privilege. We're going to speak about the idea of having a balance of privilege and responsibility. Beloved, with every privilege that we receive, there comes responsibility with it. And you cannot correctly hold one without the balance of the other In Nehemiah chapter number five, let me just take a moment to bring you up to speed. We're five chapters into this book where Nehemiah, of course you know he uh is called to rebuild the wall. He's empowered by God to fulfill this great work. And the people recognize it. In chapter 2, he says the the hand of my God is good upon me And the people see that. The people recognize it. Can I tell you, beloved, that when God is blessing your life, when God is doing a work in your life, other people will see it. They'll recognize it. The people saw uh Nehemiah and what the king had done and how the king had sent letters of recommendation and the king had Given him all the wood and the king had provided him passage and the king had provided him uh possessions and the king had provided him protection to go do this. And they said, Yeah man, I think God's in this And they wanted to get behind it. You know, remember they said, let's rise up and build. And they began to do the work. But beloved, we get to chapter number five, and it's the only chapter in the book of Nehemiah where there is no building taking place. The reason no building takes place in chapter number five is because of the fact that there was what devil could not do with external persecution or attacks. He was able to accomplish by internal disruption. That's right. And so we see what happens here in chapter number five And we're just going to walk through this chapter quickly and get to our text, which is verse number 14. But I want you to see here in chapter number five, we see first of all the cry of the people in verses 1 through 5. And there was a great cry of the people and their wives against their brethren, the Jews. For there were that said We, our sons and our daughters, are many. Therefore we take up corn for them that we may eat and live. Some also there were that said, we have mortgaged our lands, vineyards, and houses that we might buy corn because of the dearth. There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king's tribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards, yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren our children as their children, and lo, we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought unto bondage already. Neither is it in our power to redeem them for other men Have our lands and vineyards. Beloved, these were some loan sharks. There were some other people that were taking advantage of the situation. They came and they saw that, oh, you don't have enough money for the king's tribute, oh I'll loan it to you at twenty-eight and a half percent interest Oh, you need some food. Your fields are kind of sparse. We'll give you some money for food at 28. 5% interest. And they put these people over a barrel and they said, oh, but you know what? You're going to have to put up your land for collateral. And then they lost the use of their land. So now they had no means to pay back the the loan that they got and they were un they were basically in servitude. The people cried out and they said, Now what are we gonna do? We've been investing in this wall, we've been working We've been giving all of our time and energy. There's been a dearth in the land. We we we're we're we're in uh a straight between two. Boy, we're we're in a rock and a hard place. We see the concern of the prophet in verses 6 and 7. He says, And I was very angry, Nehemiah. He cries out, he says, Boy, I was very angry. He was upset. But notice beloved he says and I consulted with myself. You know what that means? He stopped and said ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five. He waited before he flew off the handle. He was ready to rip somebody's head off. He was ready to just lose control. But beloved, I've said it before, there is no place for that in the Christian life. You need to be in control of yourself all the time. And we see that example here. Nehemiah pauses. He consulted with himself. He said, okay, wait a minute. How should I deal with this? The Holy Spirit gives him wisdom, and we see the contraction the correction of the propheters here. He says, then I consulted with myself and I rebuked the nobles. and the rulers, and said unto them, Ye exact usury, every one of his brother. And I set a great assembly against them. And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed our brother and the Jews which were sold unto them the heathen. Will ye even sell our brethren? He says, boy, we just got these guys back. They were in bondage. They just got to come home. And we're going to put them in bondage again? Why would you do this? Notice that in verse the end of verse number eight there, he says then held they their peace and found nothing to answer. They they didn't have th they couldn't they couldn't say anything. They couldn't say, oh oh yeah, uh well we had to do that. No, they had no explanation because they knew they were taking advantage of those people and their situations for personal gain and profit. And he was upset about it But we see here the commitment of the penitent in verses 12 through 13. Nehemiah goes on to tell him, listen, you shouldn't do this. This is not good what you're doing. He says in verse number 11, he says, Restore, I pray you. He tells them that they need to restore what they've done. Look in verse number 12. Then said they, we will restore. And I tell you that repentance involves more than just remorse. Yes, right. Amen. Repentance involves restoration. It's not just boy I feel bad about that, but there's some restoration there. There's the the problem needs to be fixed, and these people were repentant because they said Okay, we're going to return what we've taken. Okay, we're going to give them back their lands. Okay, we're going to forego all the interest that we said we were going to charge. We're going to let all that go so that this problem can be fixed. He said, we will restore. And we see in verses 14 through 19 our text tonight the character of a paragon. Now a paragon. Is a stalwart example. A perfect example. And this is what we're looking at tonight. As we see the balance Between privilege and responsibility in Nehemiah's life here as he sets himself before them and says, Here, let me give you an example. So picking up in verse number 14, I want you to see first of all the privilege that he possessed. He says, Moreover, from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah. From the 20th, even unto the 20th and 32nd, 30th year of Artaxerxes, the king, that is 12 years. I and my brethren have not eaten the bread of the governor. But the former governors that had been before me were chargeable unto the people. And had taken of them bread and wine, besides forty shekels of silver, yea, even their servants bear rule over the people, but so did not I. He didn't do it. He said, listen, I have the privilege. He served people as their governor there for all of this time, and as the governor, he had the privilege. He had the right But he didn't take a salary. It was normal. It would have been expected. People thought of him as the governor. He would have filled that position in that role. and people that were before him, they they took a salary. It was not wrong for them to do. You know former governors were Zerebabel and Ezra And they took a salary. That was not wrong to do, but the condition of the people, the state that they were in, Nehemiah said, You know what, I I haven't drawn a salary during this time I haven't taken of the of the money that's been given. Oh, he had the privilege he could have, but he didn't. They were granted a food allowance as well. And he didn't take the food allowance. Most of the time the people would give food to take care of the governor and the governor's family. They would take a portion of the taxes that were collected. to take care of the king's family. The tribute that was mentioned there. They they would take a portion of that and care for themselves. And uh you know in the New Testament the big problem with the tax collectors is is they would take in a bigger portion than they were supposed to Taxes were 10 bucks and they were saying you owe 25, keeping 15 for themselves and sending 10 to uh uh Rome. You know, that that was the big problem why they hated tax collectors so much But uh Nehemiah didn't take a tr take anything from him. He was there serving without that. Beloved, just because God has blessed you with a position does not give us the freedom to engage in uncontrolled indulgence. You see, privilege has to be balanced with responsibility. As believers, brothers brethren, we have the privilege. Of prayer. We have the privilege of the gifts that God gives to everyone. Severally as he will it. God gives us gifts. We have the privilege to use and exercise those gifts, but you understand that there comes a responsibility. I have the privilege of prayer, but our prayer should not just be a submission of our want list. There's a responsibility with prayer that there's also confession and there's also intercession that we're praying for one another. We have the privilege of a family, a house of God, but with the church family comes a responsibility to care for one another, to hold each other up in prayer. The untempered privilege leads to bondage. We see this in America today, in just complete and utter chaos that is Put out on the news channels every week. Where where where because we are now dealing with second and third generation of people that have had untempered privilege in this country. They have no self-control, and they've completely lost any sense of responsibility. You understand, beloved, that uh the privilege that you have when you are given a license and an automobile to drive is to be tempered. That you drive that within the bounds of the law and responsibly and don't go out and kill somebody But if you if you're gonna drive it irresponsibly, what's gonna happen? Ultimately, you're going to get caught. You're gonna lose your privilege. That's what happens when we live un untempered in untempered privilege What about our homes? What about in marriage? What an awesome privilege it is to be married. To have somebody who loves you and you love and walk through life together. That's a wonderful privilege. But with it comes the responsibility that you're no longer single. You don't talk like a single person. You don't engage online in social media like you're single. You control who it is you're communicating with. You no longer have boyfriends or girlfriends. You're married now. The privilege of marriage. The problem is, is in America people have uh wanted to engage in the privileges of marriages of marriage before they're married. That's not supposed to be. Hey, marriage is an awesome privilege, and with it comes some some wonderful things, but it comes some responsibility too. Listen, if your focus is just on the privilege of marriage, Which I believe is a current problem in society today, what happens is you become selfish You begin to look at your mate and begin to feel like they are not meeting your needs. Because all you're looking at is the privilege of marriage. What am I getting out of this? The privileges that I have. Marriage is a balance between what I'm entitled to receive and what I'm obligated to give. When privilege dominates the relationship, the mindset is: you exist to meet my needs. And there's a problem in that. Because, beloved, they will never completely, fully meet your needs. Because the heart of man is deceitful and desperately wicked, and nobody can know it, and by nature we are selfish people, and if you don't guard against that, you're going to be very upset and unhappy with your mate. But that's because your expectations are too high. You are simply living in the realm of privilege. But do you know what happens when you live in the realm of responsibility? The opposite happens. When you live solely in the realm of responsibility, marriage becomes cold, hard, and just a duty. Everything that I do for my wife, whether that's come home and and uh mow the grass or provide for the family or she caring for the kids or cleaning the house or serving a meal, it's all just a matter of just, well, this is what I have to do. Instead of an expression of love. You see, beloved, when we exist in a balance between the two, then we have Love that's expressed gladly, and we gladly meet each other's needs because we're thrilled with the privilege To love and be loved. And so we gladly meet each other's needs, but the balance must be there. Yes, there's things that you should do because it's your responsibility and you should do them. But you shouldn't live just in responsibility. Let's just apply this to raising kids for just a moment. A parent that that is a indulgent parent is living in the realm of privilege Man, having kids is fun. Boy, they're such a joy. They're they're they're I I'm so happy and and I want them to be happy and I want them to love me and and I don't want to ever make them sad and we're gonna give them every ice cream cone they want and we're never gonna say no. It's all about that's an indulgent parent. They're living in the privilege of kids. But they've completely forgotten about the responsibility. The responsibility is not to be their buddies, to be their parents. Amen. To train up a child the way he should go. And so you go to the other side and you have a parent over here that lives in responsibility. This kind of parent is very hard. This kind of parent has no mercy. This kind of parent has no heart. This kind of parent, I mean bless God, we're gonna get it done and we're gonna get it done right or else. Do you see where then there's a balance for that? There needs to be a balance. between the two. And beloved, I believe the balance is possible, but really in and only in and through the power of God. When we're led by the Spirit of God. Like Nehemiah paused and said, How should I handle this? What should I do here? Because we need wisdom when we're dealing with our mate. We need wisdom when we're fulfilling our responsibilities. We need wisdom when we're raising our kids. I want you to see the principles that he practiced here. We see uh I guess let's pick up in verse number 16. He says, Yea, I also continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we any land, and all my servants were gathered thither unto the work. Moreover, there were at my table a hundred and fifty of the Jews and rulers besides those that came unto us from among the heathen that were about us. Now that which was prepared for me daily was about one ox and six choice sheep, and fowls were prepared for me And once in ten days store of all sorts of wine, yet for all this required not I the bread of the governor, because the bondage was heavy upon this people. Well, you see, the principle that he practiced is he tempered his privilege with his responsibility. You see, he had a responsibility to these people. He understood their state. He used his privilege to help the people instead of the people to gain more privilege. You see, there's a problem today. When a politician who is supposed to be a servant of the people goes into office and is worth 200,000 and at the end of their first term they're worth 200 million There's a problem there. They used their privilege for personal gain. Instead of tempering their privilege With their responsibility, the responsibility to serve the people So we need to have a balance there, whether that's at work or in the home or wherever you are. You need to temper the privileges that you have with the responsibility. A correct understanding of our responsibility causes us To temper our privilege. Paul said it like this: All things are lawful unto me, but not all things are expedient. He said, there's some things that I can do that they are my privilege to do, but I'm not going to do them. Why? Because I have a responsibility to reach the lost. And although I could do these with a clear conscience before God, I'm not going to do them because I want to see people saved. I have a responsibility to the brothers and sisters in Christ who have come from a background which would cause the them my actions would cause an offense unto them, I would be a stumbling block to them, and although I have liberty to do this, although in my mind I could do this with a clear conscience I'm not going to do it because I got a responsibility to help these brothers and sisters in Christ go and grow and be what God wants them to be. Well we don't live like that today, do we? We live like, well, forget them. I have liberty to do, I can do what I want to do. They're responsible for themselves, I'm responsible for myself. We don't want to temper our privilege with our responsibility, thinking about what it is. When I was a drywall contractor in college, you see I left the job at Walmart. When I was at Walmart, they told me I had to be there at 2 o'clock. When I got there, I had to punch in And then if I worked over four hours, I was required to take a 15-minute break. But not more than 15 minutes, but I had to go and I had to punch out. At the end of the 15 minutes I had to punch back in. I got an hour for lunch. I had to punch out and punch back in. When I became a drywall contractor, you know what? I could do whatever I wanted. I could take as long as I want for lunch. I could go to lunch and decide, man, I ate too much. I'm not going to go back to work today. And I could just go home. I could just say, you know what, I gotta study for my midterms tonight. And I'm just gonna go home because I don't feel like working. But you know what I found out real quick? I have a responsibility to get the job done in a timely and quality fashion. So now my privileges that are many as the owner of the company, I could do a lot of what I want But I have a responsibility to fulfill to the people that I gave a contract to that I was going to get this job done And I found that although I didn't feel like working, and although I would love to go and enjoy a long lunch and sit down in fellowship, I found that, you know what, I have to temper my privilege with the responsibility to get the job done. And that's what we need to do in our lives. He lived his life in light of his responsibility, not in light of his privilege. We see that in verse number 16. Would you look back at it with me here? He says, yea, also I continued in the work. You see, beloved, He got down in the ditch. If you study the book of Nehemiah, you'll find out that he went to the lower part of the wall. Which I believe was the most difficult, the hardest part of the wall. It was the wall that the enemy was probably most likely going to come and attack to try and get over. It was maybe the part of the wall that had broken down to the lowest point. He went, and that's where he that's where Nehemiah went to build. He went to the lowest part of the wall. He got involved in the work. See, he led by example. I'm thankful for that. For a leader that leads by example, that is willing to get in the work. This is what he did. He he said, you know what? It's my privilege. As the boss, as the governor, I don't actually do any work. I just tell you guys what to do. That's what uh he did. He it's what he could have done because of his privilege, right? He was a governor. You guys get this done. But he said no. I'm gonna get in the ditch. I'm gonna grab some some rocks. We're gonna get this rubble out of the way. We're gonna build these walls back up. And he got invested in it Well, he continued in the work. Not only that, he committed his resources to accomplish it. He says there I'm trying to see where it's at. Now I think it's the end of verse number sixteen. I'm not seeing it, but let me just read it. He says, uh Oh yeah, here he says, the latter part he says, even their servants bear rule over them, but so did not I. That's verse number 15. Sorry, yes I also continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we any land, and all my servants were gathered thither unto the work. So he said, not only am I going to get into work, my resources, the ability that I have, all these guys that are with me, like they normally would be out in my fields, they normally would be taking care of the governor's palace They normally, no, they're going to be down here. We're going to whatever resources I have, I'm going to put into the work as well. He got invested in it. He gave of his resources We see, beloved, that a wise leader is going to avoid personal entanglements. We see in verse number 16 there at the beginning, he says, Yea, also uh I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we any land. There's a lot that could be said here from a leadership standpoint, but he didn't want to get weighted down with something that could be a distraction. He didn't buy any land. He didn't go over and and pick up that responsibility. He says, no, we're going to focus on what needs to be done right now. They're not going to worry about going, and you know what, we've got to be careful about limiting what God wants to do because we've assumed or taken on too much in this world. Does that make sense? I know there's only a few young people here, but you know God may want to call you to the mission field, but when he when when he gets to the place where he says, Hey, it's time to go and you're like, Well, I can't because How else am I how am I going to pay for my fifty thousand dollar car and and I bought this house already and how am I gonna what am I how am I gonna pay for this house and I I've already you know, we've assumed too much of this world, we've got too many weights And we're unable to go do what God wants us to do. He said, I'm not going to get involved in that. I'm not getting entangled in this. I'm not going to pick up this land because I don't want to be distracted. He was just going to avoid it altogether. Instead of personal gain, he practiced personal sacrifice. The phrase there that he said about the servants coming, he says, At my table not only was he feeding his servants, not only was he feeding his family, but he was feeding they said there's a hundred and fifty people coming for dinner every day that I'm not even sure where they came from. Like they're from the the town nearby or whatever. We're just feeding whoever shows up. Like some of you ladies, whoever shows up, you're gonna put the food out, right? You're gonna you're gonna feed 'em. And that's what at Nehemiah's house he said, boy, we're we're we're just we know people are hungry and if somebody shows up, we're putting the food down. We're let we're letting people eat. The amount of stuff that's being prepared every day is astronomical But I didn't demand anything of you for this. The phrase at my table literally means at my expense. He said they came and they're sitting here at my table. He's saying they're at my expense. We're taking care of this. He said he didn't want to be chargeable unto them. That word chargeable there He said, you know, the former governors they were chargeable unto the people. That word chargeable means burdensome. That the people had to come up with the monies to provide for the governor, he says, I I'm not doing that. I'm not asking that of the people. Because Nehemiah didn't want to charge, didn't want to add to the hardship of the people. Listen these TV preachers that are going out and buying Bentleys And uh talking about how they have to have a new jet because the old jet is not fast enough. Buy buying jets because they they they don't want to fly on public uh transportation They're being chargeable to the people. I believe they'll answer to God for that. We need to have a right spirit in these things. You know, just throw this out. But the preacher ought to have the mindset, listen, God's taking care of me. I don't need anything. I'm doing fine. Don't worry about it But you know what the people ought to have the mindset we want to do everything that we can. We want to provide for you. We want to make sure that your family's taken care of. We want to make sure that you don't have any needs. We want to make sure That you can drive a good car. We want to take care of you. But the pastor ought to have the mindset, no, I'm good. God is good. You guys are good. Don't worry about it. And when you have the correct mindset, this thing called the church, the church family and the servant of the church, the shepherd, the pastor, the works. Oh, God set it up. It works. And and Hunten Valley Baptist Church is very good to me. Better better than I deserve. So don't think I'm insinuating anything in the message tonight. I love how Satan can put little things in people's minds. Bastard was insinuating that no I'm not. God is so much better than than to me than I deserve and through this church, you guys' love for our family and uh care for us through these years is i it leaves me humbled, believe me. I'm not saying that. I'm just caution us to have a right spirit and a right mindset from both sides. The preacher shouldn't be like, well, I'm gonna get all I can. No, it ought to be, you know what, I'm I'm okay. Let's take that money and let's put it in missions. Let's take that money and let's put it in a bus route. Let's take that Money, let's do do what we need, let's fix the roof or whatever else it might be. We just need to have a proper spirit, a proper attitude. You see, he understood the poverty of the people, and his love for them caused him to deny what he could have taken. I want to move on to the last point. We're going to bring this to conclusion relatively quickly. I want you to understand the perspective that he possessed. And the reason that he did what he did. The reason that he was able to have a proper balance between his privilege What in his mind he had perfect right to take advantage of, but his responsibility to the people, how did he balance that? Well look back at verse number 15 with me, if you would. But the former governors that had been before me were chargeable unto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, besides forty shekels of silver. Yea, even their servants bear rule over the people, but so did not I. What is the last part of that sentence? Because of the fear of God You see, he was not concerned about the applause of men. He was concerned about the approval of God. He was more concerned, it wasn't about what he could take home at the end of the day or what that he could end up putting into his coffers or setting away aside for his retirement. He was more concerned about being approved a workman that needed not to be ashamed before an Almighty God who sees and hears everything. And therefore, when the option came for him to take advantage of his privilege or to serve the people, he said, I'm going to serve the people. He had the right balance. And beloved, when you go to work, you go to work and it's not about you balancing your benefits with how you perform that day. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. And you and I, we serve God and we work hard in the workplace, not because of the benefit package. Or because we feel like they well, I've heard so many people say this over the year. Well, they only pay me fifteen dollars an hour, so all they're getting is fifteen dollars an hour out of me. No, they ought to get as good as you can give. By the way, if you give as good as you can give, you won't stay a $15 an hour employee. But when you're trying to balance that out, you work to honor and glorify God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, somebody that's seeking the approval of your Lord and Savior, and when you do that, God will lift you up You will be magnified and God will take you places that you can't even imagine and things will happen that you're shocked with. Why? Because you're working for the honor and glory of God, not just for the benefit package that you feel is sufficient. He was motivated by the fear of God. When you fear God, your honesty and dedication is not dependent upon how good things are, if they've been good to you or not. No, you it's because you're honoring and pleasing God We see in verse number 19 that he was satisfied with the goodness of God. This is a big part of it. You're not going to forego the privilege unless you're already satisfied And where are you finding your satisfaction? We see here in verse number 19, he says, think upon me, God. For good, according to all that I have done for this people. You know what? He trusted God He said, God, you see the sacrifice. You see what I've done. You know exactly what maybe I've given up or the privileges that I've forgotten and And Lord, I understand that you are a debtor to no man. And I understand, God, that you're going to bless me how you see fit. You just, Lord, just think upon me and remember the good that I've done. Can I tell you, beloved, it's an awesome thought when you consider the fact that When you confess your sin, he's faithful and just to forgive you of your sin. And God says that he will cast your sin away, beloved, he has chosen to forget your sin, but he will never forget your sacrifice. What you do for God and for eternity, however small somebody in this world may think it is, it is for eternity and God remembers it. God knows it. God sees it, and he's keeping a record. And can I tell you that God will bless you for doing it? Whether that's passing out a track. Being a witness to somebody. Nobody else saw you be that witness. Nobody else saw you take out that trash. Nobody else saw you vacuum those floors or clean that bathroom. Nobody complimented you on the back or said, oh congratulations. Nobody saw the sacrifice you gave to over and above offering last year. But God saw it. God is keeping a record. And we can be like Nehemiah and just say, Lord, I know you're keeping track. And I'm just Looking for the day. I'm just thrilled about the time when I I'll look back and I'll see your blessing. I'll know your goodness. You're faithful, and he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. And God will reward you. That's enough for me. I don't need to take advantage of my privileges. I'm going to balance them with the fact that I have a responsibility to the people that God has allowed me to lead. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?