Switch microphones here. Now before we get Uh too far along, a couple things I would uh wanna want to do is find out has anybody memorized our theme verse? Has anybody got our theme verse for the month down pat yet? Um got got that memor m memorized, got it down to he's got it on the screen here, right? Um well let's see here. Uh I'll I'll try it. I'm working on it. I'm not saying I got it, but I'll try it. That we henceforth be that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine. By the slight of men. Alright, Bob, give me a second, let me think here. By the slight of by the slight of men whereby they uh no by the slight of men All right, Bob and Carolyn. I'm trying to make everybody feel good here. That they don't have to worry about all right. That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men, where and cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive That we may grow up. Is it that or but? But but that? But what? But speaking the truth in love. I think this is the key part and I messed it up. But speaking the truth in love, that we may grow up into him. No we, Bob. I'm just standing here reading Bob and Carewall now. All right, I need to work on this, but seeking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things which is the head even Christ. So we've got some work to do. By next Sunday we've got to have this down. So hopefully you're you're working on it And uh I'll be working on it. We want to get this memorized as uh uh kind of a goal for for our class of the adults of the church here. And uh as we are looking in Sunday school th this morning, we're looking at the Ten Commandments. be looking at the first one of these Ten Commandments. So I want to review those Ten Commandments with you. Let me see if I can get this turned on again. We are missing gusts this morning, so let's find out if I can get this to work. All right. This is the Ten Commandments. This is our first one. And then um I had him just put the outline up there all in one time so I didn't have to worry about it. I don't want to have to switch it uh But that's what we're covering as far as points here this morning. So the Ten Commandments, let's uh review those together. Uh first of all, uh number one with one pointing towards the sky is thou shalt have Number two, thou shalt make unto thee no graven images. Number three, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Number four, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Number five, honor thy father and thy mother. Number six, thou shalt not kill. Number seven, Number eight. Number nine. Thou shalt not bear false witness. And number ten, thou shalt not covet. So uh hopefully you're you're learning those. We'll run through those each uh week here um as we are reviewing these Principles. I want to find out again right before we get into the the lesson today, is there anybody that would have something that you got from your devotions or your Bible reading this week? uh that uh God spoke to you that we wouldn't mind sharing. Uh Bob? Actually I don't know if you should talk in Sunday school anyway. Day's devotions, it it just struck me, uh and it's just for the first time when I've read this many times about uh defeating the five thousand and how the fall passes left over and it just struck me that no matter how how many times we read God's word, there's always something left over that if we just keep reading it, we're we're going to continue to be fit. And uh that we can never get all there is. Amen. Good good application uh and good uh insight into God's word. There's always gonna be something left, no matter how much we uh dig in and and Prepare, that's good. Anybody else something not just from today maybe, but any time this week? This is probably not political politically correct, but as I was reading over the story of Melazar, it occurred to me that But in today's society, if any of those people had been homosexual, if any of them had been pro-abortion, we wouldn't have it wouldn't work out because he was choosing the the animals two by two to go onto the arc and the families two by two to go onto our to kind of save the world and to grow back its know, and in today's diet it would have been a nightmare. So I know that's kinda weird, but that's what I thought about was God had a plan for the way things should be and Yeah. Amen. God has a plan and when we get away from that we mess it up, that's for sure. And mankind as a whole. It's good I have enjoyed the uh the thoughts throughout the week. Uh different people have uh emailed me or uh we've talked in the the foyer at church about things that people have gotten from the devotions and that's been uh a lot of fun to discuss the word of God. Um anybody else have anything, something that you got from your your devotions this week or from reading reading God's Word? Well dig in the first time, as you're reading and look for things that God would speak to you. And, you know, you want something you can carry with you. Not just reading passively, but something that can go with you throughout the day. And then share that with somebody. And it might be encouragement to them. Alright, so here we have in uh Exodus chapter number 20 and I'm in Genesis 20. So that won't do us any good for today's topic here, but um let's read together uh this morning instead of responsively, Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 through 16 And God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt. Anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. Serve them. I am for jealous God, sorry, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and the fourth generation of them that that hate me, and showing mercy unto the thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh His name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. It thou shalt not do any work, thou nor thy sons, nor thy daughter, thy maidservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in the six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them in Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long in the length Which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy Neighbor, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his man Maid servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's. So the list here of the Ten Commandments. We looked at and talked briefly last week about these Ten Commandments. And how they are still applicable today. They're just as relevant today as they ever have been. We looked very clearly and distinctly at that by way of introduction. to this top topic. The law of God was originally written on the heart of man, but uh sin came and ruined that, took that, pulled that away. And uh so and as we've looked at these Ten Commandments We've stated, and you should know if you've been in church for any length of time that these ten commandments are divided into two logical groups. Commandment 1 through 4 deals with man's relationship with who? God. So 1 through 4 deal with man's relationship with God, and commandments 5 through 10 deal with man's relationship with man. And we'll see the the relationship here, the division of this as we study these out. This first commandment, the that thou shalt have no other gods before me, this first commandment is not just first in the relationship to the others, but it should be first and foremost in our lives as well. Uh first in place of priority. Because if you're right on this one, if you've got this commandment Right, you'll get the others right. The others will fall into place. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Um what does he tell us in uh Matthew chapter twenty-two? Um thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. Heart, mind, and soul, uh, and this is the first and the greatest commandment. Uh so he tells us there that this is the uh Not just first in place or in new number, but in priority as well. Putting God first, not having any So we want to look at several things here with regards to this commandment in our lives. First of all, I want us to be aware of and see the credentials of the one that's giving us this commandment. Commandments, the credentials. This he says here one, and God spake all these words, saying, I am. See, God spake all these things. God states that emphatically that He is God. He says, I am like Him. He like he told uh you know, he says, I am that I am. He says, What should I tell Pharaoh? What should I tell the people uh who sent me? And he says, Tell them I am sent you. I am is is God is God, and God always was and always will be. Just as the Bible starts in the book of Genesis, as we reading through and have just read within the last two weeks here the beginning of the book, starting out your year, uh the book of Genesis starts in the beginning, God In the beginning, God. And it all starts with Him, and one day we'll end with Him. And we in our lives, day by day, need to be sure that we do the same as well. Can I understand the fact that God always was and he always will be? Can I explain it that he always was and and I can't wrap my mind around that. I d I don't know how to explain it or to define it or to quantify it. But I don't know that I would want to. I don't understand some who would want to have a God who they can explain They would want to have a God that they understand everything. I would want uh the God like we have that uh we get the opportunity to serve that. There are some things that we just don't know. There's some things that we can't quite explain. I mean, if I could understand it all, if I could explain it all uh and define it all, then Is he really God? If I'm on equal terms with him, but his ways are above my ways. His thoughts are above my thoughts. And I can't understand it all, can't explain it all, and wouldn't want to In in light of that, I want a God that uh is beyond my capabilities, beyond even my understanding. It's amazing, uh, these proponents of intelligent life. in other places, that they don't have a hard time saying is advanced way beyond us. They talk about this intelligent life in other other places in the U universe and how that one day we're gonna come across them and meet them. And as they talk about, explain it, or even illustrate it or or display it on movies and things, uh this intelligent life is advanced so far beyond us that we can And yet with God they want to simplify him. They want to break him down and and make it uh uh understandable. Well, we can't, but we know that God is. And God states here emphatically at the beginning of giving us this list of commands. He says, I am God. Creation itself declares the existence of God. Romans chapter 1, verse number 20 says, for the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. We can clearly see God in creation around us. It's amazing how uh this creation Is so finely tuned, every detail of it uh is exactly as it needs to be in order to sustain and maintain life as we know it. I mean it's proven proven by the the scientists that if our earth was just fractionally closer to the sun We would be radiated and we'd be gone, that we could not exist here. The heat from the sun would scorch the earth and we would all be dead. Or if we were fractionally further away, we would be be in a uh you know we'd all be living in the Baffin Islands. Uh or actually we would all be dead 'cause the the the earth could not sustain life because of the the frozen Arctic. That would be on the entirety of the earth. And yet this earth just mysteriously, in some grand explosion, uh Uh bam, ended up right there. And has been at that distance from the sun and maintained life all of these thousands of years. And it hasn't changed. You know, that has all happened by chance. In creation itself, and you could take any single part of creation and look at it and see the finite m details that are there and that are needed to sustain life and from the smallest beetles and what they do to the ecosystem, to us as humans and our bodies, and the the miles and miles and miles of veins and arteries that we have in our bodies and how they are all connected and they work correctly. And I mean all the advancements that we have today, and they they can't make a thing last seventy years And this is a living tissue. You try and take something, anything that's manufactured, and and and And for 70 years, get it up, shake it around, drop it down the stairs, throw it up in the air, drop move it around. For 70 years, beat the thing to death and see how long it lasts. It's not gonna last. But man's body lasts. You think about what I mean I don't even know the statistics, but what your heart beats in one day. And And you know, for most people it continues to do that for 70, 80, 90 years. And uh that's just amazing. That just continues to cry out uh that there is is a creator. And people should see that and know that. This whole world is without an excuse because creating itself is evidence to the existence Of God. For someone to believe in chance is equivalent to uh a tornado passing through a junkyard and building a Ferrari. I mean It's the same thing. Tornado comes through a junkyard and builds Ferrari. There's never been in the history of recorded history a quantifiable, measurable, or provable instance of evolution, where something that was worse got better. They tried to take a few mutations and say that uh, oh look, here is uh evidence of evolution Uh but it's not evolution if I take two plants and crossbreed them and I be I build a new plant. That's not evolution. It was just Done on purpose. So we know that God is in control and that God exists. The Bible says only a fool would deny God. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. It's only a fool that would say there's no God. And the reason is because it's so evident in every part of life. There there's every instance of life that just cries out that there is a creator. And so the Bible clearly states that only a fool would say there is no God. There is uh no room in God's plan for polytheism. That is many gods. There are many people that believe in many gods. Um, you know, we we just talked about the the atheist, somebody who'd say there was no God and the Bible calls him a fool because we know there is a God But then there are the polytheists who think that there are many gods. And uh God's dealing here with his people and uh he knows that These people are gonna be in places where uh like Egypt, where they served and and praised uh uh and worshipped animals. And in Persia, where they where they worshipped fire and they worshipped the sun god. And he knew there'd be places where people believed in other gods or mini gods, and there's no place in that for For the God we serve. He says, I am a jealous God. He says, I am God. There's no place for polytheism. This is the fact from the beginning that God, his credentials, he is God And uh when we take these Ten Commandments we need to understand that we're getting them from God. It's not just a book, not just a nice book and and a great uh uh you know, a book of poetry or history or what have you. These are the words of God's to us. Now let me give you the concern here. The concern. He says, I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. out of the house of bondage. He says, I am the Lord. He wants to be not just God, but he wants to be your Lord. He wants to be the King, the King of your life, the Lord of your life. You know, nothing should take his place on the throne of your life. Yes, he is God and he will rule and reign over this world, but he you have to as an individual put I'm gonna follow these commandments because it is my God that has told me these things. He wants to be your God individually, personally. And that's an amazing thing when you think about it, that the God of the universe, the creator of this world, who is all powerful and all-knowing, wants to have a relationship with you. He wants to know you. He wants you to to acknowledge him. I don't know why We fight this so much. I don't know why we fight him being Lord of our life. You know, actually I I mean I know We have a sin nature. And the sin nature fights against that. But we fight against him being Lord of our life when what he wants is what's best for us. It's uh I watched a little uh thing this week on uh an encouragement from from an immigrant, a young immigrant, a millennial who's an immigrant, and And uh she put together a little thing and she was encouraging all her other immigrants: don't vote for things That are the reason you left the country you left. You left your communist country, you left your broke dead beast Backslidden socialist country and came to America. Why did you do that? Because there was no hope where you were at, because you didn't have anything there because there is no chance for free enterprise, because there is no chance for advan advancement. You left your country like I did So why are you going to vote and try and put into office people that are going to do what your socialist communist country is that you fled from? It doesn't make sense. She says, Why are you doing that? You'd look at somebody that's a socialist and he's the same kind of person just like you left your corrupt communist government that you fled from And you're going to put somebody in office that's going to take this country that direction. That doesn't make sense. Well, the same is true. Why would we go back to wanting to rule our own lives? Why would we go away from having God as Lord of our life? Don't go back to the way things were. God, through his Son Jesus Christ, who died on the cross and gave us a home in heaven and a relationship with the Father, has saved us from sin. He's lifted our feet out of the miry clay and he's set us upon a rock. Why do we want to take him off the throne in our life and go back to running things ourselves? That's we just get into a mess. That's what we don't we don't want to do. God, he wants to be Lord of your life. He wants to be Lord of your life. It's his love that motivated him to do for us what he did. And it is his love that commands us to do Just like a parent would command a child, you know, don't touch that. Because he knows it's going to hurt the child. And God loves us and we know in our heart of hearts that he wants what's best for us. Yet we just don't like being told what to do. Just like a kid who you can say, don't touch that, it's gonna hurt. And when you're not looking, he sticks his hand up there and touches it, and then you start screaming, you turn around, and you say I told you I I tried to tell you and God looks at us and says the same thing when we do that. He says he is he is he wants to be your God, thy God. Just anybody's God, but personally. He's taking for granted that we would desire that as well. God wants to know you and who you are, and you can know him. You can know him, the God of heaven. He is uh beyond our understanding, he is beyond our knowledge as far as being able to completely understand and know everything about him, but we can know him personally. We can Matthew 11, 25 says, At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the water. wise and prudent and has revealed them unto babes. He says, hey, those that wanted to know, you've revealed them yourself to him. Those that didn't, you've hid hid hid those things from them. Those that want to mock and laugh, you've hid that, but you've revealed yourself to those. Um this week one of the things that spoke to me in in the devotion time is in Matthew chapter 13. Um he says, but blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears for they Here. You have been blessed because you have eyes that see, and ears that hear. Not physically, but that you have eyes that see God And if you read that verses right before that, right after that in in Matthew chapter, you can see that the first one is a very good idea. 13. He says, there's a lot of people that want to see. There's a lot of people that want to know. There's a lot of people that want to hear, and they can't. But blessed are ye. For ye see, in our family devotions I told the kids, you are so blessed, you don't even realize how blessed you are growing up in a Christian country. Growing up in a home where parents teach you the Word of God and what God's plan is for man and how you right now know you're on your way to heaven that when When you die, you're going to go to heaven. There's a lot of people in this world that they would love to know, but they don't know. Because nobody showed them. Blessed are you because you see. You're blessed because you can hear Because you have these things. And we shouldn't take for granted how blessed we are that we get to see and we get to hear the truths of God's Word, that we get to carry them around with us. Languages are there that they don't have even one copy of the Word of God to be able to sit and read daily, like we get the privilege of doing. We are certainly blessed. His he is concerned for us, and it's his concern that motivates him to give us these commands. Now let me give you the command. The command, thou shalt have no other gods before me. There's a little the the little G that he uses there under under gods. God's not uh saying that there are other gods out there and that we don't want to put one And he says, you're not to do that. He says, I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. So God knew that there were men that would put things up into position of God, whatever they might be, they we have an innate desire inside of us, something that looks for a higher being. And that's why you see these nations out there that they they set up these statues and these carvings. And they they bow down to and worship these carvings. A chunk of wood. Because they are looking to there's something beyond and more more than just us. There has to be. Well, we know what it is. Our eyes have seen or ears have heard because of the principles of God's Word, but there's much of the world that hasn't seen and hasn't heard. And he says, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Don't lift something up like a piece of wood, like another person, another person man or something in your life and put it before me. He knew that man would serve other gods. The fact is is God wants first place in our life First place. We've got to give him first place in every area of our life. To trust in anyone more than God is to have something before him. You you could say it's finances. To trust in something more than God is to be putting something in front of you of him? Do you trust in your finances more than God? Into the wealth that God has blessed you with? Do you trust in maybe maybe the arm of the flesh? That seems so foolish, especially to those whom the arm of the flesh has started to fail. And you realize how weak these bodies really are. And that God is in control, isn't he? And I'll tell you what, you get the call, you y you go to the hospital with for a doctor's appointment And all of a sudden, even all the doctors, you're thankful for them, but you say, Lord, I need your help. We can't trust Trust the arm of the flesh. It's going to fail. And uh so don't put that in front of God. The hu hu human wisdom or knowledge to love anything more than Him. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God. Love love him first and foremost. To love anything more than God is to put something before him. Do you love your possessions? Do you love your your your pleasures, your enjoyment? You say no. Pastor Caleb, I don't. Have you ever gone on a boat on out on a boat on Sunday morning? Your actions speak otherwise. If I told my wife I loved her but it was time to meet with her and I went out with some friends instead, what did I just tell her? Oh no, I I would rather be with friends than you. So do you do you love love pleasure more than God? What about, this is going to be hitting close to home, what about your children? We put in our children before God. You see, God, He said, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. He is supposed to be first in our life. And everything we trust should come from Him. Everything we love, we should love him first and foremost. And if we do, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Other things will come. The pleasures. This j just this week. Pastor Derek was talking to me and the Lord has uh blessed Me and um he made some comment about something with regards to some purchases I just made. I bought a meat slicer this week uh on Craigslist. Uh, you know, I like cooking. So and I like getting a good deal and you can buy meat and slice it yourself a lot cheaper. And I've already talked to the staff and to a couple others, like, hey, we can buy some bulk meat and we'll slice it And uh, you know, like we bought a big chunk of roast beef the other day for two forty a pound. But you know roast beef is in the stores five, seven, nine dollars dollars a pound. So it'll be cheap. But I bought this meat slicer and it wasn't cheap. It's a commercial meat slicer. Don told me to get it, so uh blame it on Don But I got this meat slicer and then uh of course the I just got this grill at Christmas. This this grill and it's it's a nice grill. Uh it's expensive. And uh my kids just bought a four wheeler knot six months ago or something like that in the summertime. And he was talking about that. And I I just said, you know what? Um let me just explain to you what has happened here. I said the meat slice uh I was able to get because the church family was very generous uh with the Christmas gift. And uh the Christmas gift that I got from the church was used to buy by the meat slicer and the grill was bought for me by a family member who knew I wanted it and that didn't cost me anything. And the four wheeler that we bought was all Craigslist money, stuff that we had sold and saved to buy with Craigslist money. And he came to me and he's about two days later and he said, Listen And I want to uh apologize to you because I was not being critical of you and making these purchases or whatever. He said it just and I said, No, I said, I I did not take it that way, no problem at all. not. I said, but here's the thing, and I I'll never forget it, and I see it coming true in my own life. When you do what God wants, God will bless you to the point where you're embarrassed about it. When you follow God, God will bless you to the point where you're embarrassed about it. And I say quite frankly, I'm a little embarrassed about how good God's been to me. I don't feel like I should have this much stuff. I don't feel like I I don't deserve it. I haven't earned it. God's been so good to me. He's he provided these things, some of which I didn't have to pay for, some of which is a gift from others, you know. And And I don't deserve it, but look at God's blessing. And that's what we're talking about. When you put God first, when you follow this first and greatest commandment, in our life. God will bless you to the point where you're embarrassed about it. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. Lord, we thank you for this time in Sunday school. And Lord I pray that we would have this uh principle down in our lives that Lord we would put you first, that we would seek you first when when things are going good, and we would seek you first when things aren't going as well. Lord, in the trial, in the storm. Lord, I think uh I thank you, Lord, for your blessing and how you always looking out for the best for us. You want what's best for us. I pray that we would trust you. First and foremost in our life and follow you. Well, go with us now as we go into the morning service. We pray that you would speak to us and that you would uh use the challenge from your word to uh grow us as Christians. We ask this in Jesus' name Alright, thank you very much. And I went a couple minutes long, so choir, we need to come this way pretty shortly here.