To you. I believe there's going to be some lessons that you could take and apply to your life and certainly it will be meaningful in light of the fact that we're observing the Lord's Supper. It'll be meaningful in light of the fact that this is Palm Sunday and we are on the brink of celebrating Easter But I had a church member ask me uh uh some very good questions uh concerning the Passover this last week. And uh I thought it would be very fitting uh to do a little bit of teaching on the Passover Why do we as Christians not observe or try to remember or commemorate the Passover as the children of Israel did? It is a very special time for them. What do we do instead and what does it mean for us? And uh you you hear especially people talk a lot about it uh this time of year and the Passover and the you know that uh what does it all mean and how does it tie in and what do we believe about it. So we're gonna do a little bit of a Bible study and for some this will be very basic. It'll be very rudimentary. Uh but I believe there's enough of us here that are young in our faith that it also will be instructional. And you'll see the truths that are there and the picture that really we are observing in the Lord's table here. And uh this is why we do this. And every time that we observe the Lord's Supper, we are remembering that lamb that blood was shed for us. So we're going to look at that. If you would turn to the passage that describes and talks about that in Exodus chapter number 11 is where we're going to begin. But I'm going to read for you. First Corinthians verses uh chapter five verses seven and eight. Uh says Christ, our Passover. Has been sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. So beloved, Christ is our Passover. And as we begin to uh talk about and and dig into this passage of Scripture and see the typology and the picture of what uh that Passover feast that the children of Israel observed annually uh in picture of the Lamb that would come. And uh we look back into the Lamb that has come. So there was no holiday in the Jewish calendar that was of more importance historically for the nation of Israel than the Passover. This was quite literally the foundation of their nation. If you remember historically what happened, God uh miraculously orchestrated the events. Uh you know, Joseph's brothers sold him into slavery and uh they meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Why? Because he needed Joseph down there so he could interpret Pharaoh's dreams so that that would open the door for God to be able to bring uh the nation of Israel, which at that time was a very small group of people, a family to Egypt. And there in Egypt they would be protected and they would be provided for through the famine and through the coming days. And they would be 430 years in bondage there in Egypt. and uh the nation would begin to grow. So the Passover was the literally the the foundation or the beginning of their nation as they were freed from Egypt. It also was a time of remembering how the lambs that were slain for them uh bought for them their freedom to be able to be freed from Egypt and to go to the promised land where God wanted them to go. And so very powerful time of remembrance for them as they considered that picture. But for us it is a picture of the Messiah, who John the Baptist would one day stand and say, Behold the Lamb. Behold the Lamb that taketh away the sins of the world. For thousand years they've been observing and sacrificing and following the rudiments of the law But all the sacrifices of the Old Testament could never remove sin. It only covered sin. But this lamb that would take away the sins of the world, it could remove sin. In bondage for 430 years, God ready to uh deliver his people And you guys know the story, it seems almost humorous when you read it, you think, man, how in the world boy Pharaoh was glutton for punishment You know, just like ten plagues, like one of them wasn't enough, two of them wasn't enough. You know, I wonder how many times in our life God's taking us through stuff and he's just like How many times you gotta go through this? How many times you gotta I'm trying to get you to do something and and it's ten plagues Pharaoh had I imagine there was some people in Israel that were not very happy with Pharaoh Plague number three, four, five, I mean they were probably like, enough already, let them go, let's get him out of here. And Pharaoh hardened his neck again and wouldn't let him go. But God knew that uh Pharaoh would let them go at the conclusion of this tenth. So we want to see tonight, first of all, the plague that brought forth this course of events in Exodus chapter number 11. Beginning of verse number one. I'm not going to read all of this, but we're going to just kind of jump through some of these verses here. We see at the beginning of verse number one. And the Lord said unto Moses, Yet will I bring one plague more upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt afterwards, he will let you go. Hence When he shall let you go, he shall surely thrust you out, hence altogether. Jump down to verse number five. And all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne, even unto the firstborn of the maid servant that is behind the mill, and all the firstborn of beast. And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it anymore. But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue against man or beast, that ye may know how that the Lord doth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. God knew that Pharaoh was going to let his people go at the conclusion of this last and tenth plague. Every home That did not bear the blood, the death angel would take the firstborn. It was every home There had to be a substitute. The firstborn Or the substitute was going to die. This Lamb that gave his life, that became the substitute for the firstborn in that home. You know, every home has a firstborn. Uh there's a firstborn, you I mean it's not just sometimes we think about the firstborn being the firstborn that's still a child that's still living in the home, but It's every home, the firstborn of every home. The amount of heartache and turmoil that struck the Egyptian people this night Is astounding. But beloved, I want you to know that it was not just the Egyptians' home. There was any home that did not have the blood. You see, the Israelites were just as guilty, they were just as much a sinner before God as the Egyptians were. They were many times given in the same idolatry that the Egyptians were involved in. They've been in that land for 430 years and were involved in many of the same practices that the Egyptians were involved in. But what they had to do is they had to believe and obey what God said would happen in order for the death angel to pass over. It was not their position. It was not their family that saved them. It was obedience to what God said to do. It was the blood of the lamb that died in their place. The price of their freedom was the death of a substitute. The substitute had to die to give them their freedom. And from that day until now, every lamb that has been slain in the observance of the Passover Was done so in a picture, in a representation of the lamb that would be slain for us. Every year they observed the Passover, and every time the practice of fulfilling this and observing the Passover was remembering the lamb that was slain, and the lamb that would be slain, that would take away the sins of the world. So we see secondly tonight if you move to Exodus chapter number twelve, I want you to see the plan. The plague was promised. The plague was coming. They knew that the firstborn was going to die, but God made a plan. God provided a way through which the firstborn didn't have to die, but they could escape it. So we see, first of all, the choosing of the Lamb. Every man needed one. We see in verse number three, Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month. Now that is notable. We're going to get back to that in just a moment, but just mark it in your mind. He has told them on the tenth day to do this. They shall take to them every man a lamb according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for the house. So every man, according to the house of their fathers, you understand as I was saying that every home has a firstborn. according to the house of the fathers. Every firstborn had to have a substitute. Every single one of them had to have a substitute according to the house of their fathers, that home, that family, they had to take a lamb, and that lamb had to give himself as a substitute for them. Every person, every single man needed one. It is a personal thing. It's not something that, oh, it was okay if your brother's home had a lamb shed for their firstborn, and you say, well, that's okay. You're not covered. You it's every man according to their home has to do that. And in the in a like picture, salvation for us is a personal thing. Every single person has to call on the Lamb of God personally. So we see it was everyone needed one. We also see it was to be a lamb without blemish. It was to be perfect. We see in verse number five and six. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year, ye shall take it out from the sheep and from the goats They were to go among their sheep and goats, and they were to find a lamb without blemish. It is noteworthy there, just as a side note and a plug, I want you to see it tells them very clearly that it was to be a man. It was to be a male. Why? Because it was a picture of the Son of God who would give his life. So they couldn't just choose whatever they wanted. They had to get a male, and they had to pull it from the flocks, and they had to test the lamb. There was a time of testing, a time of trial. They pulled the lamb from the flocks on the tenth day, and now look in verse number six. And ye shall keep it until the 14th day of the same month. You see, beloved, there was a three-day trial. They had to observe the Lamb. Just in case they didn't notice when they first pulled it out that that lamb had a limp. That one leg was bad or that the lamb had a fever or was sick and they didn't really realize it the first day. They wanted to watch it for three days to make sure that it wasn't sick, that it was uh pure, that it was without blemish before it was offered in this sacrifice. And in much the same way, beloved, Jesus Christ, our Savior, ministered here on earth for three years During that three-year period, he was on display before the world. And Satan came and tried to do all he could to disrupt the plan and try and get Satan to sin. to be a lamb with blemish, tried to blemish that spotless lamb, the Son of God, but for three years, well on display, Jesus sinned not And continue to be that lamb without blemish for you and I. The picture given to us here. Then we see the blood of that lamb. They in verse number six, and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening. If you pay attention as you're reading through this, you'll see here he doesn't say that they shall kill them There is a singular use of words through this entire thing, again, pointing to that one particular lamb that would die. We're talking about the all of Israel and all the anywhere from a million to three million people Sacrificing these lambs and observing in obedience to God and protecting their firstborn. So there were many of them, but there's a singularity given here because it was appointing to the one lamb. One individual lamb for each firstborn, but also the one lamb that would take away the sins of the world. They were to kill that lamb. Can I tell you, beloved, that the lamb had to be slain? The living Lamb, no matter how perfect it was, was not a substitute for their sin. Beloved, the time had to come And you remember Peter was not real excited about it and he didn't want Jesus to be slain. Jesus said the time is at hand and uh he was going to go and die, and Peter said no, and God said, Jesus said, Get thee behind me, Satan. Because the lamb had to be slain. As perfect as the lamb was, and praise God, he was perfect, the day had to come where the lamb had to be slain. It was not his sinless life But his atoning death that purchases our freedom They would take that lamb that was going to be a substitute for them. They would slay it, and they would catch the blood of that lamb in a basin. But I want you to know, beloved, that that that blood that was shed, that was caught in a basin, was still not enough. You see, the fact that the blood was there and it was in a basin is proof that the blood was shed. The fact that they had it there in the basin is proof that the blood was available. But the blood had to be applied. And the sinless Lamb of God was slain to take away the sins of the world. He was a perfect lamb. He was slain in fulfillment of all the prophecy and in following of God the Father's plan. But can I tell you, beloved, that blood being available Is not enough. The blood has to be applied. Each and every individual must personally apply the blood. Had they left the blood in the basin and not followed and done what God said to do, the firstborn in every home would have died. But the blood had to be applied. We see here in verse number 7. In Exodus chapter 12 and verse number 7, he says, and they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two sidepost, and up and on the upper doorpost of the house wherein they shall eat it. Only then, beloved, did that blood, the blood of that lamb, become a substitute for the firstborn. When the blood was shed, When it was preserved and then applied to the door. In a like picture, the blood of Jesus Christ has to be applied to the heart of every sinner. It is a personal thing. It's not enough just to know that Jesus died for you. It's not enough just to know about the sacrifice that was given for you, but you have to personally Apply that to your sin. It is noteworthy, beloved, that it has nothing to do with the worthiness of the occupants in that home The occupants in that home could have been the least worthy in all of Israel. That was not the determining factor. The determining factor was did they believe and obey? Did they apply the blood on the door? There may have been some neighbors that looked at some other kids and thought, boy, I know that firstborn boy, he's gonna get it for sure. Boy, that kid is terrible, man. He doesn't deserve it. I mean he's gonna tomorrow they're gonna be weeping And then the tomorrow comes and that child is okay. Why? Because it is not the worthiness of the occupants. It is the worthiness of the blood that was shed for them. I'm thankful my salvation is not dependent upon my worthiness, but on the worthiness of the blood that was shed for me. That blood covers all sin. We see in verses 12 through 13, they had to be obedient As the death angel would pass. He says, For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and I will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt. both man and beast, and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lord, and the blood shall be to you For a token upon the house where ye are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you. He didn't say, and when I see how good you are, when I see how well you've done, when I see how sincere you are, how committed you are. No, he said, when I see the blood When I see that you had enough belief to be obedient to what I said to do, then I will pass over you. And the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. They had to believe the word of God. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. It is belief and obedience in what God said to do. The simple plan of salvation has been ridiculed because of its simplicity. It's far too easy. But beloved, if it was dependent upon us for salvation in any way, we could not do it. We would fall short. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. It's not up to us. It never has anything to do with our worthiness. As a matter of fact, if you feel you're worthy, well you're too good to get saved. Because Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to save the sinner. And if you're not a sinner, you can't get saved. Because that's who Jesus came to save was the sinner. It's the worthiness of the blood. We see The blood of that lamb. We're going to back up to verses 8 and 9. The body, I'm sorry, the body of the lamb. It's noteworthy here that he says, and they shall eat the flesh in that night, roast it with fire, and unleavened bread, and with bitter herbs, they shall eat. Eat not of it raw, nor sodden it with all with water, but roast with fire his heads, with his legs, and with the pertinence thereof. There's several things in this verse that are important to point out. First of all, the lamb was not to be broken up. The body was to be placed complete and whole in the fire. Again, As a picture of Jesus Christ, whose body was broken, but his bones were not, because it was prophesied that his bones would not be broken. Even though it was a normal pattern and habit for those that were crucified on the cross after a certain amount of time, they would come through and break their legs. to end their suffering or to bring it to a conclusion because everybody wanted to go, uh the prophecy was that he would not his b his bones would not be broken. They had to s serve this this thing altogether. It's also noteworthy that they were to put it in a fire. They were not to boil it. To diminish the heat in any way through water, but it had to go through the fire. A picture of the fact that the sinless Son of God had to go through the wrath of God the Father. when the sin of the world was laid upon his shoulders. The fire of God's wrath fell upon him. And only after Jesus endured the wrath of the Father could he declare It is finished. It wasn't until he had been through that fire that the work could be done. And they were to take this and everything that was Served at this meal was to be eaten, and anything that they could not eat was to be burned because they could not allow any part of it to become corrupted. And food that is left given time corrupts. And we know that there is no corruption in the Lamb of God. And so keeping that picture true through the whole of the observance of the Passover, the body was not to be broken. It was to be Served whole, and it was to go through the fire. They also were to serve it with two different elements. They were to serve it with unleavened bread Which is what we use and is supposed to be, and we go to the New Testament, look at this. We've done that in other services, but that is what is a picture of the sinless Lamb of God, the unleavened bread. Leaven is always a picture of sin. And therefore you remove the leaven. So you have bread without leaven, or you have a man without sin, and Jesus Christ was without sin. They served it with unleavened bread, and they also served it with bitter herbs. This was to show the children of Israel, although they were going to be free, there was still going to be some bitter things they had to endure. It wasn't going to be all sweet and nice, and the journey from Egypt to the Promised Land was going to how hold some bitter things. The Christian life, beloved, God never promised that it would be easy. God never promised it would be without trial. As a matter of fact, in his very picture of what happened to the children of Israel, he was saying, uh, listen, even in the Passover feast, you're going to have some bitter herbs. There's going to be some things that aren't as sweet as we might like them. And letting them know right up front what they had in store. In this picture given to us, there are other things that could be drawn out and applied to our lives with regarding to the Christian walk and so on. Tonight, what is most pertinent is the picture of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, of his blood that was shed for us. We as Christians do not observe the Passover as the Israelites do because Jesus is our Passover. He is the Lamb of God which purchased our redemption. And every time we observe the Passover together, I mean every time we observe the Lord's Supper together, we are remembering that sacrifice. The Passover, beloved, looked forward to what Jesus would accomplish. Old Testament saints always looked forward to what God was going to do and to the promised Messiah that was coming. Hebrews eleven twenty-eight tells us that through faith he kept the Passover. Moses. He kept the through faith he kept the Passover. He did that. Why? Because it was faith that caused him to observe the Passover in looking ahead to what Jesus would do and the sprinkling of blood lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. They continue to do that. The Passover was then a picture, just like the Lord's Supper is now a picture for us, where we remember what Jesus did for us. Lastly, tonight, as I bring this conclusion, we see the punishment in chapter 12, verses 29 and 30. the horrific events of this promised plague. Just two verses. And it came to pass that at midnight the Lord smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his throne, unto the firstborn of the captive that was in the dungeon and all the firstborn of the cattle, and Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all his servants, and all the Egyptians. And there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead. The national pain here is shocking. The cry for the whole nation. I mean, can you imagine Pharaoh being woken up in the middle of the night? Can you imagine not not a house in Egypt that did not experience a death And they woke up. And I mean you can imagine the chaos and the concern and the trouble in one home. when their son had died, but the entire block Not just the entire block, but the entire city. Not just the entire city, but all of Egypt And the cry was great as God said it would. And I tell you, beloved, that that punishment was promised. As it has been for you and I. And the only way they escaped that is by belief and obedience, and the fact that there was a substitute for them. A substitute, that lamb that gave himself. And for you and I, we have a lamb that gave himself so that we would not have to experience An eternity in hell, but could be given the promise of a home in heaven and restored into fellowship with God the Father. Why? Because that Lamb whose blood was shed for you and I, and his blood was applied to our account. That's the picture of the Passover. And the picture of what we're doing as we observe the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper is to be something that we do as a church, and you're not to take of the Lord's Supper unworthily. You as an individual before God are to be sure that you are right with God and if you are clean, that you know there is no sin in your life. And so we want to have a time of examination here. I know that the lesson this evening, hopefully it generated gratitude and thankfulness in our hearts as we ponder and think about what Jesus did. But secondarily we need to be sure that our hearts are clean before we partake