Well if you look at Philippians chapter number three, our text verses for tonight are going to be verses twelve through sixteen. He says, Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect, but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forward to those things which are before. I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Verse number 15. Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained Let us walk by the same rule. Let us mind the same thing. You know, as I ponder this and think about it and think about vacation Bible school starting, it's Quite an amazing feat when you consider the athletes that compete in the Olympics. One of the reasons why it is such a a draw and why so many people are interested in Olympia in seeing it is that these individuals have given of themselves to represent their country I'm not gonna run this rabbit trail that I really want to run right now. They are there as a representative of their country, and the reason people enjoy watching them is because they have mastered their field of expertise, whatever they are competing in. They have dedicated their life to achieving this. We are impressed by the level of desire, dedication, and discipline that's needed for them to compete at that level. I mean it's a whole nother level. It's way beyond a casual pickup game at the park. These people are committed Most Olympic athletes have been training their entire life for that One chance to compete. Sometimes they train every single day of the week for years on end. It's all they think about. As a matter of fact, really, many times it is the entire family that's involved Because this person has to be transported to all these meets and they gotta stay overnight at this place to be ready to compete in a tomorrow morning and and all the rest of the kids and our mom and dad and all of them their focus is on getting this one child to be able to be in the Olympics one day. It's a level of commitment that's astounding. And in our text tonight, Paul takes that kind of focus and applies it to the Christian growth process. Tonight we want to look at this text and these texts here in an outline that I've entitled The Growing Christian. The Growing Christian. It is the most important endeavor of anyone's life to be growing as a Christian. Yet sadly, many Christians give very little effort to their spiritual growth. It it seems like there is a a beginning, like when somebody first comes to Christ, there's a passion, there's a hunger, there's a desire, they want to grow and and they begin getting into the Word and they begin to study. But that passion and that desire begins to wane as people find the f the they they get the basics down. They find a comfortable level of Christianity that they're enjoying, and they kind of establish just a smooth path for them, and they shift it into neutral? And they coast from there until eternity. It's really th sadly, but that really is the way it is for most Christians. That passion and hunger and desire to continue to grow for God is gone, and they are just coasting in their Christianity. Oh, they might be stirred a little bit here or there. There might be a message once in a while that pricks their hearts and they say, oh, that was good. And yeah, I'm glad I was in church tonight. But that driving passion that should be part of every Christian's life to grow and to be what God wants us to be is not present Well, salvation, beloved, is by grace alone and through faith in Christ Jesus. That's all. But growth as a Christian takes work. Growth as a Christian takes effort and time. Paul lays out for us how that takes place. I won't be very long tonight. I got a nine hour drive when we get done here this evening. But would you stick with me? I want you to see first, Paul said if you're going to grow as a Christian, you see how he Ponder God's purpose in his life. We need to ponder to consider God's purpose, God's plan. He says, not as though I had already attained. Either were already perfect, but I follow after that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ. He is saying, beloved, that God has apprehended me, God has seized me, God has grabbed me. The Greek there literally means tackled, like Paul was knocked down from his horse. there on the road to Damascus literally means he was seized, he was grabbed a hold of by God, apprehended of God for a purpose. And not Paul only, but all of us have been apprehended of God for a purpose. And what is your attitude tonight concerning God's purpose for your life? What do you think about God's plan and God's purpose? Do you know what it is? Do you know what you're supposed to be doing? Are you going after that? God has a purpose for your life, and this is something that we talk about here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, and I don't need to spend time here and develop this for you. But just to say that you know you've been apprehended for a reason. Right? Christ saved your soul for a reason There is something that we're supposed to do. We see the description here of Paul's attitude concerning this. We see Paul's attitude that he said, listen, I haven't attained. Paul said, I have not reached perfection yet. He says, not as though I had already attained Okay, that he says, listen, I I haven't attained, I haven't reached what God wanted me to do yet. If there's anybody in the Word of God that could say, possibly could say, listen, I've done enough. It couldn't be Paul. I mean if there's I suppose if there's anybody that could say that, you see Paul had already gone on some missionary journeys. Paul had already started a number of churches. Paul had already carried the gospel to the Gentile nations, which is what God's plan was for him. Paul had already been beaten, He had been stoned, he had been imprisoned, he had been shipwrecked. I mean Paul could have said, Hey, I've been through enough for Christ, I've carried enough burdens, I've dealt with enough struggles, I've done my part, somebody else is going to have to do it But Paul says, I haven't attained. I haven't attained. I haven't accomplished all that God has for me to accomplish in this life. And it doesn't matter how old you are or how young you are, if you still have breath and still have the means to do anything at all, you haven't accomplished all that God has for you to accomplish. There's some in our church who their capacity to go is limited, but they certainly can pray. There there may be their capacity or ability to do other things might be hindered, but there is things they can do, and as long as we have breath to breathe, we should be saying, Lord, what is it you want for me to do, and realize we haven't attained. We have not accomplished all that God wants us to accomplish. We need to accomplish this for His will. Doing what God wants us to do. Not only that, beloved, we see here that Paul says, not only, have I not done all that God wants me to do? And I think all of us would say that we haven't done everything God wants for us to do. But he says here, he says, I am not personally all that God wants me to be. He says there in that verse, he says, either were already perfect. He says, I haven't attained. And he says, you know what? I haven't reached perfection. You of course know this is not talking about as in sinless. This is talking about completion, maturity. I mean, if anybody in the Word of God could say that they had reached maturity as a Christian, I think it'd be Paul. I mean if anybody could look at their life and say, I mean you take up all the writings of Paul and think about the standard that he has put for any one of us, if any one of us could live up to the standards that Paul puts in this book We would be super Christian, amen. I mean we would be looking at that thinking, wow. But if we had the mind of Paul, we'd be saying, I haven't reached perfection yet. I haven't matured yet. I haven't, I'm not personally all that God wants me to be There's still some growth that needs to take place in my life. And I know the story of Paul, and you know the story of Paul, and Paul preached all these things, and and we we have them for us, for our edification But uh Paul tells us very clearly that the things that I would, them I don't. The things that I would not, them I do. Paul was a man just like you and I, and although he preached all these things to us and we have these standards and these goals and these things from, of course, through the Holy Spirit given to us to attain to. Paul was like us and he struggled in some areas. And Paul says, hey As much as God has allowed me to do, I have not reached perfection yet. There is still some level of growth. There's still some some things in my life. He wants me not just to do more for him, but he wants me to be more for him. This is what I should be. I haven't reached this level of pre perfection for Christ. Can I tell you this tonight? God wants progress, not perfection. Now we're shooting for that level of completion, maturity, but Christian, God wants progress And every single one of us here can be making progress. There is nobody that has an excuse. There's nobody that can say, oh well, I'm exempt from progress. No, we can say we're exempt from from being perfect in the literal sense of the word, but God doesn't require that of us. He wants progress in our Christian life. Are you headed in the right direction? Are you growing? Can I tell you tonight what the number one motivator for progress in the Christian life is? The number one motivator without question Really, the number one motivator for progress in any area of our life is dissatisfaction. Dissatisfaction with where you're at. You know why I decide to go on a diet? Cause I don't like it when I can't see my shoes. You know why you know why? You know why the runner decides to get out there tomorrow morning at five thirty and run again? Because he's trying to shave two seconds off of his time He's not satisfied with the time that he's got, and he knows if he's going to compete at this level or at this level. He's got to find a way to improve it. The motivator for progress is dissatisfaction And Paul said, I haven't attained. Paul says, I'm not perfect. And personally, I'm not satisfied with where I'm at and with what I'm doing for God. Christian, we gotta get dissatisfied. I have in my notes right here that some people have ha they feel like they've attained. But you know what? I I don't know that that's really as much the problem. I don't think there's too many Christians that feel like they've attained, but I think there's a whole lot of Christians that just don't care They haven't attained, but they know it. They know they haven't attained, but they just don't care. They're satisfied where they're at. And if we're going to have the kind of progress, if we're going to have the kind of growth that God wants us to have, as we see Paul set forth here, we've got to get very dissatisfied with where we're at spiritually. Are you going to apprehend that for which you've been apprehended? Listen, beloved, salvation is just the beginning. Here is where we see that level of desire that's in an athlete's heart to succeed. But you just see if we're going to grow how we should be growing as a Christian, we see this pursuit of God's plan He says in verse number 13 and 14, he says, brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth to those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. In this area we see this focus of the faithful. He says, this one thing I do. This one thing I do. Is there, beloved, an overriding ambition in your life? Paul said, This one thing I do. There's a lot of things I might enjoy, but there's one thing that I do. There's one thing that I'm gonna get done. If everything else has to suffer, I'm gonna get this done. What are you focused on tonight? Do you if if if life gets busy, what is it that you let go? What is the one thing? I mean you might say, you know what, I got time to do everything I need to do, but the laundry. I'm letting the laundry go. Amen. You might say, you know what, I got time to accomplish everything that I need to this week, except I'm not gonna have time to get the car washed. I'm gonna let the car wash go. I'm not gonna get the car washed. Oh well. Have to be next week I what is it in what I'm talking about this is a way to kind of figure out where your focus is. You say, man, I I'm so busy this week, I've got this and this to do. Uh I in order for me to get done everything I gotta do, I'm gonna have to let my Bible reading go. Where is your focus? This one thing I do, many years ago, I personally saw in my life a need to narrow my focus. To realize that I can't do everything that I would like to do. I mean I can't be involved in everything that I would like to be involved in. We become a jack of all trades and a master of none. It's one of the reasons why I'm not a hunter. I w I think I could get into hunting. I could enjoy that. But I on purpose have stayed away from it. Because I think, well, if I'm into hunting, that's one more thing I gotta do. That's one more thing I'm gonna try and squeeze into my already two-full life. Joe and Kim, man, you guys are such a you know, I gotta fight against getting into guns and every time I get around you people It's this temptation to get into guns. And there's nothing wrong with guns and man that's I mean I I just I like that and talk about 'em and and getting into 'em and buying guns and I mean, hey, after all, we're gonna need 'em one day Um I mean, I'm interested in that and I would like to maybe get more involved in that and boy I enjoy doing it when we get to do it, but I gotta be careful. Because I could end up putting a bunch of my time into that, a bunch of my money into that. So I have to use some wisdom and say, listen, stay away from Joe and Kim. I mean I mean I mean don't don't go off the deep end. You know, I mean you can enjoy it some and and and have a good time and shoot somebody else's ammo, amen. But but don't don't go too far What area in your life do you need to narrow? You got some interests that are distracting you from the one thing that is of utmost importance. And these aren't bad, those things, there's nothing wrong with them. They're great to have a good time. But are they taking us from what is most important? We see not only the focus of the faithful, but the forgetfulness of the focused. If you're focused, you're going to forget some things. He said forgetting those things which are behind. If you're focused on what is God's plan for you, you're going to forget those things that are behind. Listen, you don't have enough brain power to hold on to something that happened five years ago. And hold on to hope for tomorrow. You're going to end up dwelling on one or the other. And can I tell you where Satan wants you to dwell? He wants you dwelling on yesterday. He wants you dwelling on the past. Forgetting those things which are behind. And beloved, there's past failures. I mean how many Christians have have failed at something and they've said, I'm never going to try that again because I tried it and I failed. You got to let that go. You gotta let it go. Listen, if God has forgiven you You should never pick that the weight of that sin up again. God is forgiven. God has let it go. Don't let Satan bring those past failures up before you Let those past failures go. You need to let past suffering go. Boy, this world really loves to hold on to past suffering. Yeah. This world I mean it's it's big money today. You know, where you can grab a hold of something that happened Twenty-five years ago, and because you had to play on a merrow-go round, your brains got shaken, and therefore you have an excuse. For why you're an idiot today. I don't know. I'm just saying they these psychologists today, man, these people they they grab a hold of every little thing. I mean they're talking they're they they're saying the the reason that you have a personality disorder, the reason that you can't be successful in life is because somebody called you names when you were in grade school. Okay? Now listen, I'm I I'm sorry for some hardship and there's people that have gone through great hardship in their life in different scenarios, and I don't belittle or make light of those in any way, but through Christ we are more than conquerors. You can have a successful life today, and you need to stop letting believe in the world's philosophy that you can't be successful because of something that happened 30 years ago God can give you the victory and you can let those things go and focus on the future. There's past suffering. Not only that, we need to be careful about our past successes. We can use a past success for motivation to achieve and accomplish something today, but if we use it as a means by which we get complacent today Listen, you can wear your Super Bowl ring and talk all about how you won the Super Bowl twenty-five years ago, but that's not gonna do anything for this year's Super Bowl. This last week I told a story of a time where God used me to lead somebody to Christ in a very unusual situation. If the Holy Spirit told me, shame on you, Caleb, that you have to tell a story from that many years ago. How come you don't have a story from last month to share? We gotta be careful about past victories. And we rely on those instead of letting God use us today. Not being content with something I did yesterday, being dissatisfied. Say oh oh I had a I had a miraculous thing happen to me once, so I'm good. No. I want to see God do it again, again and again and again in my life. And we'll see it, beloved, if we have the fulfillment of the forgetful. We see that he is reaching forth unto those things which are before. This reaching forth is a continual, patient pursuit. Now that right there is a is a boatload of wisdom Reaching forth literally is a continual, patient pursuit. And I want you to understand that a very large majority of the Christian life is a continual, patient pursuit. If you've ever done any long-distance running, You know that after the three, four, five, six, seven mile mark, you kind of get into a rhythm and and the the tiredness and that initial uh weariness wears off And it just turns into the hum of your feet and the beating of your heart. The rest of the world drifts away. You're just one foot in front of the other. Just a continual, patient pursuit. You don't have the finish line in view yet. You're not worried about that. You're worried about taking one more step. One more step. Just in one more step, I just one more step. Just a continual patient pursuit. Day after day after day after day. And much of the Christian life is a continual patient pursuit of the things that God wants you to do. You're in church Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Thursday night, Sunday morning, Sunday night and Thursday night. Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Thursday night, and you go and you go and you go. And and it's not all pomp and circumstance and exciting and and going through the finish line and roopla It's a continual, patient pursuit, that reaching forth of the things that God wants you to do. Can you do that? Continually, patiently pursuing what God has for you to do. Getting up day after day after day after day and continually patiently pursuing God in the Word of God. Say, well I read the Bible yesterday and I didn't get anything. I know. Read it again tomorrow. Just keep going. Just continually, patiently pursuing the things of God if we're gonna grow as God wants us to. Listen, there's a cancellation of the past, and there's a concentration on the present that takes place in every believer's life. This continual patient pursuit is what's necessary for us to continue to grow. There's a lot of people that start the race. But when it gets hard they quit. And you know what? Sadly today it's not even when it gets hard, it's when it gets boring. When it gets boring, they quit. Church is not as exciting as it used to be. Church is not as thrilling as it once was. So I gotta go find a church that has drums and a band and a laser light show and a performance to give me something from my religion There's a lot of people that start for Christ. There's a whole lot less to finish. Because that continual, that reaching forth, that continual patient pursuit is wearisome. But the Bible says, be not weary in well doing, for in due season you shall reap if you faint not. Here's what I'm talking about. Can we get down where the rubber meets the road? I have no idea. Nobody has told me. But I wonder how many started reading The kneeling Christian, by the unknown Christian, and haven't finished it. You see we start things for God. But are we going to continually pursue? Reach forth. And then he says, I press towards the mark. This is that fun that this is the fun time. Pressing towards the mark. That's that home stretch. That's when that finish line is in view and there's you and two other people and you're you're gonna give it an intentional extra effort. You've been running for a long time, but there it is. It's in view and you think, I don't have anything left, but I I've got to give it a little bit more. And you push a little harder. The reason so many runners collapse When they crossed the finish line is because they didn't have anything left, but they gave a little extra for that last hundred yards, that last quarter mile. They pushed as hard as they could to cross that finish line and be victorious. Pressing towards the mark. Are you Christian pressing towards the mark? Do you have the end in view? This is an intentional effort that we give to be more for God because our eye is on the prize The Olympic athlete who trains tirelessly day after day after day is because they have in their mind's eye a view of one day standing. on that platform. Amongst all the w the on the world stage, with all of the athletes The best of athletes from every country there, but they are standing in the position of the gold medal winner. Well, you and I, beloved We're looking for a day when we stand before the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, the Creator of the universe and the Savior of our soul, who gave himself for us. And he's going to look at us and he's going to say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. That's what we have the opportunity to hear. And that should cause us to press towards the mark, to push a little harder, to go the second mile, to go beyond casual Christianity, to committed Christianity for Jesus Christ. Lastly, I want you to see the practicing of God's principles. You see, that second point is where we see the dedication. It takes dedication. Just to keep continually pursuing. But in this point is where we see the discipline. The discipline to be what God wants us to be He says, Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. And if anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Nevertheless, whereunto we've already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing. It takes discipline to reach perfection. To be complete, to be mature. You know, it's a sign of immaturity. It's a lack of discipline. Little kids don't have much discipline. It's it takes training. You know, we bring the kids in out of nursery to the after the evening services and stuff when they're three years old. Those first few services are pretty rough on a three-year-old sitting in sitting in church for uh 45 minutes to an hour. You know, that's that's some that's that's taxing Because they haven't matured yet. It takes discipline to mature. We're to be thus minded, of course, that is to have the mind of Christ. I'm not going to take any time on that. We've looked at that as we saw in last Sunday in Sunday school. But I want you to know to be thus minded is that that there's a way in which we're to run. I think everybody here knows that. You don't just say, well, here's a 26-mile race, but I know if I go around the block and come back, I'm gonna be back in 15 minutes instead of three and a half hours. So I'm gonna do that Well, sorry, that doesn't count. There's a way in which we're to run. Timothy tells us that we're to strive, but we're to strive lawfully. That is, we're to do it God's way. It takes discipline to live how God wants us to live, to strive lawfully. It's not just living our life however we see fit and call ourselves holy, but to live as God wants us to live, to have the mind of Christ. And you've got to discipline yourself to do it. Sometimes we don't have the mind of Christ because we're immature. We don't have the discipline. Well, you need to grow up as a Christian. Sometimes we don't have the mind of Christ because we're carnally minded. We don't have a spiritual mind, and we need to get a spiritual mind. You might need to clean up some things to have a spiritual mind. And sometimes, beloved, we don't have the mind of Christ because we're just ignorant. That means we don't know what this says. Well maybe we need to study up. So that we can be thus minded. I listened to a message by Clarence Sexton. A little over a week ago in preparation for this. And uh be on I'd be glad to send it to anybody that would like to have it, but I think it would stir your heart. The idea of being thus minded Having the mind of Christ. But it takes discipline. You know it takes discipline to keep from backsliding. He says, nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained. Listen, beloved, if you've if you've attained some things, if you've gained some ground for God, don't let Satan have it back. And do you know that backsliding does not start when you go to the bar? Backsliding does not start when you start doing things that are wrong. Backsliding starts when you stop doing the things that are right. And if you've already attained some ground for Christ, man, we got it take some discipline to be sure that Satan doesn't get any of that back. We gotta stand our ground for Christ. And be sure Satan doesn't win victories and get that ground back for him. As God has revealed to us, light in his word and shown his grace, given us victory. You've got to strive to not lose that ground, even to carelessness. Do you know carelessness is a sign of immaturity? A child does not know the value of the things that he has, and therefore he's careless with them. You know you might see a child with his mom's cell phone and he's throwing it around. Oh, that's gonna that's gonna hit the ground. Oh man I mean it's not my kid. I I don't know, I mean should I say something or not? They're just careless because they don't understand the value of what they have But maturity is you start to understand that. You realize it's not yours. You take extra care. You're more careful. Sometimes kids have to learn that lesson the hard way when they lose something that they had and then they realize how much they valued it. Well, carelessness as a Christian can cost you a lot. That's why we're to be sober and vigilant, because our adversary, the devil, is out there. It's a sign of maturity when Christians are careful, not careless. The most important thing we've ever been trusted with is our salvation. Are we being careless with it? Let's not be careless, beloved, with the precious Christian life that Christ has given us. Let's mature into what God wants us to be. Let's be a growing Christian. As we ponder God's purpose for us, being dissatisfied where we're at. As we pursue God's plan with dedication and we practice God's principles with discipline.