Tonight we are back in the book of Nehemiah. I of course am studying and teaching the book of Nehemiah on Tuesday nights. uh down at Sherwood Baptist College uh for the college I teach eight students there uh on Tuesday nights for a couple of hours and studying uh these chapters. And so uh this last week I was studying for chapter number eleven and Nehemiah chapter number eleven is where we are and the really uh the Lord impressed upon my heart just the importance of this and it's an it's a thought that I gave them as I was discussing leadership is from the book of Nehemiah is uh kind of one of the main focuses of the class that I'm teaching, uh but in this we see several things. I want to just read Nehemiah chapter 11, verses 1 and 2, and uh we're going to speak tonight on the heart of a volunteer. Nehemiah chapter eleven, verses one or two. And the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem, the rest of the people also cast lots to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city. and nine parts to dwell in other cities. And the people blessed all the men that willingly offered themselves to dwell at Jerusalem Now, I think that you guys know and understand, but let me just lay the the groundwork here with regards to this as far as setting the stage. Nehemiah, of course, received a burden from God uh burden that stirred his heart to go and rebuild the walls and having been commissioned and uh empowered by the king to go do so and actually even provided for by the king, he travels back and begins to construct the walls. And you know God uh miraculously blesses and the people get behind him and the wall is built in fifty two days. Well the wall is completed in Nehemiah chapter number six And uh so what's that's that's like not even quite half the book and so what happens to the rest of it? Well the wall was completed and then uh they begin Ezra comes and begins to start to read read the law. They They begin to read the Bible and uh they called for Ezra specifically because of the testimony that he had as a prophet and a scribe and he read the law to them and revival breaks out they begin to uh recommit and observe to uh uh commit to observe the feast of the tabernacles in the way in which God had commissioned them or told them to do it. Instead of doing it their own way, they decided that they would follow the Lord. And beloved revival always results in obedience. When the heart of men are revived into a right relationship with God, we are stirred to submit to the Lord, to surrender to the Lord, and just to do what God would have us do. We see that he's building these walls in this holy city. In verse number one, there it's mentioned that they went to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city. It was a holy city because that's the place where God chose to dwell. Remember, this is in the Old Testament. It's not where we are today. We're blessed with be of believe in the priest priesthood of the believer and that we know Jesus dwells in our heart and that we have God's presence and his Holy Spirit's power on us. But in the old testament God's power would come and rest in a place. God's power sometimes would fall on a man, like it did with Samson, for different situations to empower him to do a particular thing, or God's power would come into a place. His dwelling place, the Bible tells us in Psalm seventy-six, verse number two, in Salem also is his tabernacle. and his dwelling place in Zion. It was the dwelling place of God. That's why it was a holy city. And Psalms 87, verse number 2 says, The Lord loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob. God loved Zion. God loved Jerusalem and God had there his dwelling place and he was excited about the walls being built. and the people coming back to him and responding in obedience to what he had commanded them to do. Things were going good, but Nehemiah realizes That the nation is never going to be great, not as great as it can or should be if Jerusalem is weak. And so although the walls were built, there was still a problem. Would you look back at Nehemiah chapter number seven? We're just going to point out where this burden started in Nehemiah's heart. In Nehemiah chapter number, you know, Nehemiah 6, they completed the walls. That was what he went for. And you know, you would think Nehemiah would be like, oh, hallelujah, the walls are done. We're celebrating. We're all good. Everybody go home. But look at the burden that starts in Nehemiah's heart in Nehemiah chapter 7, verse number 4. He says here, now the city was large and great, but the people were few therein, and the houses were not builded. So he says, the work's not done. The work's not done. I mean, yeah, the walls are complete, but you know what? There's no people here. And and a city without people is just land. There's nothing, you gotta have some people in the city if it's gonna be a great city. Nehemiah wanted the city of God, that holy city, to be a testimony to the rest of the world, what a Christ-honoring community would look like. And beloved, can I take just a moment and apply this to the church? The church should stand as a testimony to the world what a Christ-honoring community looks like. We should have that. We should have that fellowship one with another. We should have that focus on the Lord and that testimony out in society. Oh, the security needs had been met, the wall was built. The people had turned to God and worshiped chapters uh eight and nine. Really were just them worshiping God and observing the feast that they had been commanded to observe. But the practical truth is There was no people there. The work of building a city still needed to be done. Do you know that there are some practical sides of ministry? A Sunday school class without any students is just a room There's some practical aspects of ministry that you need people there. You need people willing to serve. You need people to fulfill the responsibilities. In order for it to be a great Sunday school class, people had to be willing to move to the city. People had to be willing to work and fulfill the responsibilities of maintaining a city. Somebody had to guard the walls, even though the walls were up. You got to have people positioned to guard them. Somebody had to open and close the gates each day. Somebody had to uh you know serve in some type of uh administration in the city. There was lots to be done. Nehemiah was concerned about the testimony before the world concerning his great God, and this city that at this point looked weak and anemic. Can I tell you tonight that a empty church A sparsely populated church is a bad testimony to the world. It's a testimony to the world saying That, oh, what God has done for me, the difference that God has made in my life, is not important enough for me to be in God's house And I'm not saying a small church. We're not supposed to deny or despise small things Not it's not a small church. That's not what I'm talking about. There are many small churches, but what it is a sparsely populated church, and that would be a church that Has 200, 300 people on their rolls that would say if you ask them, oh, that's my church. But then on Sunday, they're nowhere to be found. It's sparsely populated. You got a lot of people that are supposed to be citizens, members of the church, but they're not showing up. They're not around. That's a bad testimony to the world. That's a bad testimony of the difference that God has made in your life and his work. Nehemiah was concerned about this testimony. We see three groups of people in these first couple of verses, and we're still in the introduction, but we won't be too long tonight. But I want you to see Butler uh A commentator by the name of Butler, he uh defined these three groups this way. So I'm just using his outline here. First of all is the dignitaries. And the rulers of the people dwelt in Jerusalem. That's the first group of people right here in these first the dignitaries, the rulers. Do you know these were men who were leaders You're going to find that true leaders are already out front. True leaders have already seen the need. True leaders have already engaged in the project. If you have to be assigned a position or given a title before you lead anything, You're not a true leader. Because you'll find the true leader sees the need. The true leader already picked up the shovel. The true leader is already taking out the trash. The true leader is already vacuuming the floor. The true leader is always helping with the problem child that's in church here. being a distraction. The true leader is the one that saw the problem and said, oh, we need to do something about this. They're already out front, and that's what we see here, these dignitaries, these leaders, they were already there. They were already in the city. They were already trying to do something, even though they're Their numbers were small and they didn't have a whole lot of help and they felt kind of alone. They were there doing the job. Then you see the drafted. The rest of the people also cast lots to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem. So you have those that were drafted. Basically they said, okay, guys. One in ten, that sounds a lot like a ties, doesn't it? One tenth of you're gonna send one-tenth of your family, you're gonna send one-tenth of your tribe. One out of every ten of one of you ten of you boys are gonna move to Jerusalem. And those guys are like, no, we don't want to move to Jerusalem. Well, it's not really an option. We need some people to move to Jerusalem. So you know what we're gonna do? We're gonna draw some lots. And whoever joins the short straw, you're up, buddy. You're going to move to Jerusalem. And the drawing of lots was a means by which they would find God's will. It was an accepted means of finding the Lord's will. You can read in the book of Proverbs and I think it's 633, but not 100% sure on that. But he says that you cast the lots into the lap And and the basically the idea is you think that it's random, you think it's chance, but it's not, that God is in control. And God used lots in the Old Testament many times to find and uh to give his will that they would know what his will is. For instance, when they divided the land in Joshua 188, they cast lust. And God administered or divided the land as he saw fit. To expose Jonah. Remember on the ship, they cast lots to expose Jonah. Okay, which one of you guys are the problem? And nobody would fess up. When that happened in my home, my dad used to say, Well, we're just gonna spank every one of you since nobody's gonna fess up. We're just gonna start right here at the beginning and we're just gonna spank all six of you. And he would pull out the paddle and then one of us would say, Oh, it was me. Usually it was one of my brothers. Obviously. But uh one of us would fess up eventually, but ultimately they didn't, and so you know, they cast some lots and Jonah was, oh, you're you're the culprit. Jonah owned up to it. The priests used lots to burn incense and to define and see God's will. A successor to Judas was chosen in Acts 1. 26 by the casting of lots. This is how they found God's will. I just want to throw this out. That is not an acceptable means of finding God's will today. In Acts chapter 1, you see the casting of lots there in 126, but in Acts chapter 2, the Holy Spirit comes. And you no longer anywhere in the New Testament will you find a leader. You'll find people casting lots, but not Christians. And Christians now have the Holy Spirit and they have the Word of God to define it and to di discern, sorry, the word I was looking for slipped in my mind, to discern the will of God And so we don't we don't live by chance. Amen? We live by direction. And the Holy Spirit and the Lord gives us direction, but this is how they uh determined here who was going to move. You had those that literally, Butler calls them drafted. They said it's time you're moving. And lastly we see the dedicated. Those that were moved in their heart to take action of their own will, we see in verse number two, and the people blessed all of them that willingly offered themselves to dwell at Jerusalem. So there was a bunch of people that were saying, nope, we don't really want to do this. It's going to be a sacrifice. It's going to be hard. I'm not real interested in it. And they said, well, we need some people to move. So If nobody's going to sign up, we're going to cast some lots. And they started casting some lots. And then there was a group over there that said, you know what? I'll I'll do it Don't you appreciate it when somebody just says, hey, I'll get that done? I mean, I know my family, I appreciate it when My kids, one of them would just say, you know what, I'll I'll take care of it. I I'll get it done. And and they they volunteer to do it. Because obviously I'm dad, right? I could look at them and say, You got to get this done And and they'll do it, but it means so much more when they volunteer to do it. Well, these the dedicated did. So I'm going to give you three points here on this, the heart of the volunteer. First of all, we see the choice to volunteer, that it was a choice. They personally, individually made the choice to volunteer. Jerusalem had a need. It needed to be inhabited. The walls were built, but the practical aspect of filling the city and serving this every city in everyday life needed to be maintained. A ministry needs to be maintained. A ministry needs people that are willing to serve and fulfill, and it's not just the exciting day. It's not just the day where uh you know it's it's a packed house and it's all fun and and we're we're gonna be here and boy we're thrilled about singing in choir on anniversary sunday or we're thrilled about you know doing a special or something special something something fun for Christmas Sunday. But who's gonna fulfill the need or serve week after week after week after week after week after week after week after week after week af The wheat Who's going to just serve and fill a position and do? And you guys know there there are many positions in the church and many people serving to it's mind-boggling to me when you just pause to think about the involvement. in one service. What takes place? How many people are involved in having one service? I mean we we may look at it as the you know the the preacher is preaching, but that is a very small part of the overall service. Weeks and sometimes months ago, people began to practice to be able to sing a special. You have the different instrumentalists that are involved in the service. You have the ushers who are prepared and are serving the service. You have the security team that is working outside. You have nursery workers in every service. In some services, you have uh the toddler nursery and the infant nursery, and then you have the men in the sound booth uh that are involved and you have the the the the graphics that get put on the screen and uh the the say after the service you have to save all the files and those files have to get uploaded to the website and put on sermon audio and Before the service, somebody has to log in and start the live stream so that people at home can watch and all the people involved in the service, it's amazing how many people it takes to have one service. Many people that nobody ever knows, recognizes, or sees what they do to accomplish that one service. We shouldn't take them for granted. Beloved, an increase in the population would provide greater protection, obviously. If the enemy looked and there was 300 people there, Or there was 3,000, there would be a big difference. Now if you read chapter number 11, you'll find that there was 3,000 people there, 3,044. God lists them, gives you the numbers of how many were there. Um and if they if you take the example of one in ten, I don't know if the volunteers are in that number or what, but you if you did the one in ten you could extrapolate that out and say that means there's about thirty thousand. in the surrounding area, you know, in the in their land, in in the in their inheritance that God gave them. And then they needed one in ten to come and move into Jerusalem so that Jerusalem could be strong and established. Why? Because a greater population provides greater protection. An increase in population also provides a greater witness for God. When the world looked and saw a city that's It's growing and it's being established and it's getting being filled with people and and things are happening there. They look and say, Wow, I thought Jerusalem was dead. That holy city, that place that they looked at and said, that's where God rests. I thought that was dead, but it's not dead. I wonder how many churches around the country that people look at and say, oh, I thought I thought that church was dead But it wouldn't be if God's people would return, if God's people would volunteer, if they would show up and Do what God needs to be done in the work. Beloved, God has always worked through volunteers, like Isaiah. He said, also I've heard the voice of the Lord, whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, hear my, send me. Beloved, that's what we need. We need volunteers that will hear the voice of the Lord, that will submit and say, Look, there's a need. I want to fill the need. People willingly volunteer for different reasons. First Nehemiah here saw a vision. He saw something. Your eye affects your heart. You see the need and so you go and you do it. Many times people are called to the mission fields around the world. Why? Because they saw the need And so they volunteered and they said, Okay, God, here am I, send me. And they chose to go to Africa or to Ireland or to India or to Mexico or you know, Cambodia, wood wherever that God burdened their heart for the need that is there and they said, Boy, I'll do it. I'll go. Maybe you see the need, some volunteer because they see the need, some volunteer because they possess a skill or a talent. I volunteered to help Jason do some work out of his house. Why? Because I have the skill. I can do that. It's an ability that I have. So hey I'm yeah, I'll come out. I'll help you for a little bit. I'm glad to do that because I I have that skill. Last year I went to the men's conference in Odington and the reason this is on my mind, because I'm cooking brisket tomorrow for the men's conference in Odington The reason that I volunteered to do that last year was because he spent a boatload of money having the meal catered from someplace for their men's conference. And I said, listen, I if you'll buy the food, I'll cook it for you, and it'll save you a bu a bunch of money. I just volunteered. Now I'm wishing I didn't, but I did, but uh but I did Just kidding. I I don't wish I did. It's it's a lot of work, but I'm glad to do it. So sometimes it's because you have the skill to do it and you'll say, Man, I can meet that need. I mean how many of you have been a blessed by somebody in this church that has a skill And they said, Boy, let me help you with that. I think most people here uh because of what sits out in that parking lot have been blessed with somebody in that regard in different ways. Somebody helped you with your car or a need in that regard, or sometimes with a need at your home or or maybe even something uh spiritual, but they have a need And they say, boy, I've got that skill. I can help you with that. Another reason people volunteer is because they want to be a proper example. They want to be an example to others. You know, people see what we do, and it makes a difference in their lives I would guess that probably Lissa's the youngest in here. How old are you now, Alyssa? Four thirteen? Yeah, so you know, she's watching and and she sees You other ladies in the church and the areas where you jump in and what you do and oh they just jumped in and they just helped with that or they they did this or they did that and and in their mind in her mind she says boy I want to do that someday I want to serve in that that ministry. I want to help in that way. Uh that sets an example for the next generation and for others. That choose to you know, so many missionaries that are on the field today, if they gave their testimony, they would say that they're there because they followed another missionary. The testimony of another missionary that volunteered to go and they and they thought, well, if they can do it, I can do it. And God touched their heart, God could touch my heart, and they were willing to do it because of the example that was set Isaiah heard a voice that called him. Sometimes you volunteer because the Holy Spirit volunteered you. You know, the Holy Spirit comes down and says, you need to do that. This is what you need to do. And if we're sensitive to the Holy Spirit, we say, but Lord. It's not really what I enjoy, or that's not really what I like, or that's not really up my eye, you know, whatever, and the Holy Spirit says you need to do that I was talking to Aaron outside just before church tonight and he was uh coming out of a store this week and uh He came out of the store and he almost tripped, but as he did, he saw a guy that was standing there and the Holy Spirit said to him, You need a witness to him. He was voluntole. And Aaron submitted to that and led that man to this to the Lord. Right in the front of that store. Just being willing to be sensitive to the Holy Spirit and let him lead you. We volunteer because the Lord touches our hearts so that we hear a voice from God. He speaks to us And sometimes that voice might be just the leadership putting out a plea. Maybe a missionary gets up and he preaches and he says, we need people to surrender to go to Africa. We need people to surrender to go to China. We need people to volunteer to go to Cambodia. And that touches your heart and you say, boy, I I need to do that. Whatever it might be I appreciate volunteers. Volunteers that are willing to do the hard things. The inconvenient things. You guys know I have a hard time like Uh asking. Especially if it's hard thing. I have a hard time asking for stuff. Asking somebody to do something. you know, if it's a hard thing. And so I greatly appreciate those that volunteer. It really comes back, it's to the old saying that the heart of the matter is a matter of the heart. See these people were not forced to do it. They weren't constrict conscripted like uh those that were drew the short straw and basically they had to do it. No, they wanted to it. They chose to step up and Take on the responsibility. And you know, as the old saying goes, the best ability is availability. And God uses available people. Just available. Are you available? Are you available to do what God would touch your heart to do? Whatever that might be I wonder if sometimes we aren't very resistant to what God really wants us to do. But do you know, beloved, the greatest moments in ministry happen. When an individual says, Here am I, send me. The greatest moments in ministry happen when an individual says, Here am I. As we sat in the audience during missions conference and we listened to Brother Mickey talk about the mission field and what God was doing there in the mission field and how he was moving into the regions beyond. I don't know if your heart was stirred like mine, but I sat there thinking, wow. Look at what God did Look at how God used him to go into an area that nobody was at and to plant these churches. And now those churches are planting churches. And look at how this has grown and multiplied. Look at how God is blessing this. But you know what it took? It took him saying, yes, Lord. I'll leave my church of two, three, four hundred. here in the capital city where everything's convenient, where there's water already and where there's food and we can go down to KFC or we can get some You know, we there's there's restaurants down the road and and there's grocery stores and all that. And I'm gonna get on a boat and I'm gonna ride a couple day trip up into the regions beyond Many times we don't see the great moving of God in those great moments of ministry because we don't volunteer. We don't say, here am I, Lord, send me. I want you to think about the cost of volunteering. There's always a cost, and that's one of the reasons why we're resistant to it. We don't really want to step up and volunteer, but listen, instead of choosing comfort, they chose commitment. They had to move away from their families. They had to leave what was their inheritance, the land given to them by God Now they didn't lose that. You know, that inheritance was a precious thing that God had given to them for their family. And if by some reason that land was lost over a period of time that it was supposed to be returned to them in in the year of Jubilee so that that land could remain in the family. The inheritance was an important thing. You remember Naboth in his vineyard and he didn't want to give it up, uh you know, but whiny old Ahab uh wanted it But that was the inheritance. They had to say, you know what, I'm gonna let the inheritance go. Nobody's gonna work my fields for the next couple years because I'm gonna be in the city. I'm gonna help make sure the city gets going. I wonder I think about Mrs. Stumple. I went to visit her once in Lawrence, Kansas. And I walked into her living room, and her living room was a mess. And she looked at me and she said, Mr. Battrell, which is what they all called me there, was Mr. Bottrell. And uh she said, I I'm sorry My living room's a mess. She said, but I've decided a long time ago, my husband and I both decided we only have so much time in a day. And if there's something he's done at church or something needs done at home We're gonna do what needs done at church. And what needs done at home is gonna just have to wait. And we have decided to do that, and so that's how we we purpose to live for God and serve God and whatever needs to be done at church. And That was her testimony. She wasn't just saying that. She served God with everything she had, and they they as a family, and they're still there. Serving God just like that. Now all these years later, it's been 18 years since I've even I think probably maybe since I've even seen her, I don't know. I have been back there for church once or twice, but I don't recall. But uh she's still there serving the Lord. And that's just an amazing thing. There's a cost. Sometimes you have to give up some of what maybe you wanted to do because you realize what God wants to do is more important. Does that make sense? To be involved in changing somebody's eternity. You know, going out on Saturday and putting out some John and Romans. I know Saturday morning's a great day to get some stuff done around the house. But we need some volunteers to help get the maps done To go out and to put out some John and Romans and to drop those off. And you can say, well, you know, I I I need this time to do this or do that. But what's most what's more important? What's going to last for eternity And you decide. Are you going to volunteer to do it or are you just going to continue? They had to leave their inheritance. They left the security of their home to move to what would be a vulnerable place. Here's what I'm saying. You know the enemy? If the enemy was gonna attack anything, they were gonna attack Jerusalem. They could have been in their home a long ways from Jerusalem. Nobody's going to bother a little farmer out here in the middle of nowhere, but if the enemy was going to attack, they were going to attack Jerusalem. I remember when I went to Israel there was one night we stayed in a kibbutz which is basically a hotel. We stayed it was not very fancy. Actually the air conditioner in my room didn't even work. Uh it was quite warm. But this little kibbutz we were staying at was right next to the desalinization plant for the all of Israel. And standing in the lobby or in the in the parking lot of the kibbutz You could see the border of the enemy. And I looked at somebody else in our group and I said, I don't know that staying at this kibbutz is a good idea. Because I think if the enemy is going to attack, if they're going to launch a missile over here during this weekend, they may very well want to take out the water source I mean that would be a pretty strategic thing to take out for Israel, and here we are staying like 150 feet from it. I don't think this is a good place for us to stay. Why? Because it was dangerous. And that's what they had to give up. They had to give up living in their in their security of their home and move to a city that was very likely going to be attacked, very likely going to be under siege, possibly going to be involved in battle. But beloved, they were willing to go. They're willing to pay the price. You know what? They gave up riches for rewards. That's what we have to do. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Beloved, we could spend our life and pursue the riches and the wealth of this world, or we could spend our life and pursue the rewards that are in heaven. We can lay up treasure here on earth or we can lay up treasure in heaven. And those that volunteer are the ones that say, you know what, I'm less concerned about how much I have in my 401k And I'm more concerned about how many people are on their way to heaven. And I'm willing to give some time. And I'm going to go Spend some effort, and I'm willing to invest some finances, and I'm willing to volunteer to be involved in reaching the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. You remember Justin? Rodbeck. You guys know him? You remember during missions conference him talking about his story, about his plan? How he had a plan that he was going to be a bioengineer and when I was there in Tennessee, he took me around, he showed me some things and was talking to me about it, how this company was going to give him a lab. Basically a guaranteed salary and he was working on cutting-edge cancer research where they believe that they're gonna find a cure for cancer. The cutting edge research and he was going to be involved in that and obviously they they said you're gonna be a millionaire probably within how many other every year or whatever. But you know what? Justin said, Hey I'm gonna give up riches for the reward of serving God. That's what he did. He volunteered. Lastly, I want you to see the commendation of the volunteer. It's the first part of verse number two. He says, and the people blessed all the men. You see, the volunteers were appreciated. That's something that we need to remember. We need to remember to appreciate the volunteers. And I'm preaching it myself, but uh we just need to remember, you know, when's the last time you thanked the nursery workers for watching the kids? Thank the Sunday school teachers for teaching the children. Thank the prison workers for going and serving at the prison and ministering and seeing souls saved there. Thank the junior church workers. Thank the sound ministry guys. You know, the only time anybody notices the sound ministry is when they mess up. If they're doing it all right, nobody even notices, nobody thinks anything about it, and that's how it's supposed to be. But what about the security team? Hey, thanks for being willing to serve on the team. The the Bible here says that all the people blessed them. They blessed them and that I think that that blessing probably was beyond just a simple appreciation, but I believe that probably went on to some assistance. It's a blessing to know that somebody's gonna watch your home when you're away. And I think that maybe they'll move to the city. They probably had some friends that say, listen, don't worry about it. I'll make sure that your animals are fed, or don't worry about it, we'll go by and check on the house while you're while you're gone. And you know what, we're going to assist you and I think about it from the aspect of our our involvement with worldwide missions and you have these people that volunteer and they say, Well, okay, we'll go. But we as a church, we get to bless them, and yes, we're thankful that they're going, but we also get to assist them as they go and give so that their needs can be met, so that they can go and be a witness and serve on the foreign field. It's an appreciation that should be shown. It's an assistance that should be given. If we have the capacity to be a blessing to those that volunteered, we ought to. You have somebody volunteer to help you with something in your home or help you with something on your car. You ought to, at the very least, show some appreciation. Lastly, I want you to think about the fact that the volunteers were abounding. The reason I use that word is first of all because it fits with my alliteration. But secondly, because God has promised us an abundant life And we are supposed to be abounding in the work of God. And I think what I want to mention here is that not only are those people blessed by those that saw them give their uh sacrifice or saw them surrender or volunteer like they did. But I believe, although it's not explicitly stated in this verse I certainly can give you enough scripture to support it that God, well you know what? It is right here in this text because God recorded their names. God wrote down who volunteered. And so God is keeping a record. And I believe that God blesses you in a way that cannot be had any other way in this life. When we're serving him, when we're volunteering for him, when we're giving our time and energy and effort to him. You are receiving eternal rewards that are far greater than any riches you could attain here on earth. Oh, you might not have Mercedes or whatever you want to plug in. You might not have the the the toys or the things that uh you see your neighbors have But listen, you're not living for this world. In anybody over fifty. They realize this life here on earth is really not that long. It's pretty short. And we're going to have an eternity where we live in rejoicing with our Heavenly Father in a place called heaven, surrounded by his glory. And enjoying the benefit of what you've sent on ahead. The investment in eternity. Living for that world instead of this. We need people living for heaven instead of here. Do you know what happens when we live for heaven and God blesses us? Can I tell you that your confidence in God is renewed? Because you'll see God bless you in ways that you didn't imagine. You'll see God do things for you that you stand in awe and think, man, God is so good. And your confidence in Him will be strengthened. Your faith will be strengthened. But not only that, one of the saddest things and one of the greatest problems that people have in our society today is that they are living life without any purpose. And so they're overcome with depression. They don't see any meaning or any reason to it for it all. They're living life without any purpose. Do you know when you're serving God? You have purpose. You have purpose in life, and it gives you satisfaction. You know, that's something that a lot of people don't have. They don't have the satisfaction. of serving God, the satisfaction of knowing what they're doing throughout the day has meaning and and reason. And there's a reason for it. What about you? Would you be willing to be one of the volunteers? You see, beloved, God's still looking for volunteers today. Not perfect people, not even necessarily really talented people, but just willing people. People that will be like Isaiah and say, Hear my, send me. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?