We have been looking for the last couple Sunday school lessons on this idea of spiritual gifts. We've had three lessons that were all kind of sort of introduction. We talked about the idea of spiritual things that have been given, and there's a lot of things that are given to us as believers by God, and then we narrowed that down the second week to some spiritual gifts specific in the Bible. I kind of call it spiritual gifts proper, this list given to us in the book of Romans of spiritual gifts that we've been given for use in the church. And then we looked uh last time we were together at the gifts that are gone, things that are sometimes claimed today uh to still be in use or still be given, but the Bible makes clear uh that those have been done away with. Today we're actually going to get started on to the first of the seven spiritual gifts. So we'll take the next seven weeks, seven lessons, and look at each of these spiritual gifts in particular, see how they function, how they're used within the church, what it looks like, how it's demonstrated. in the Bible and then how we should all strive to use that spiritual gift in our life, even if it's not our spiritual gift in particular. That will make more sense as we go into the lesson today. So we're going to be beginning kind of as the reminder of what where we started our premise for spiritual gifts. I believe that each Christian has one gift, and it is one of the seven that are described in Romans chapter twelve. Christians will be gifted in other areas, and every Christian should desire to manifest each of these gifts in his life As we discuss the spiritual gift, we'll also be considering the positive and the negative ways that a gift can and will be manifested. So a spiritual gift is an ability that you have or a way that you do ministry that God has given to you And we understand that we can do things in the power of the Spirit and in the power of the flesh. And when we're operating the power of the flesh, things are not going to be handled properly. And so sometimes a spiritual gift can kind of be offensive to someone else because we're not using it properly. So we'll be talking a little bit about a positive use or a spirit-filled use of the spiritual gift. As well as the negative, if we're in the flesh and we're using our spiritual gifts improperly, what we can be on guard for. So, like I said a few weeks ago, when we get to this part of the lesson, some people are going to come to mind. I'm going to say this is the way that this acts in a good way and this is the way that this gift can be used improperly. And we're going to say, oh yeah, I remember when so-and-so did that. We're going to have people come to mind and we'll start to associate people maybe with these spiritual gifts. I could name a person in our church for each of these spiritual gifts because God's given them all to the church, but the only one I'm going to call out specifically is myself. When we get to my spiritual gifts, I'll say what it is. I'm not going to put you on the spot And say, I think so-and-so's spiritual gift is this, and this is all the problems with them. Um I'm just gonna do that. I'm just gonna do that with me, uh with myself there. Um You know, as we're going into some of these and getting more specific about these, there's opportunity for someone to be offended whenever a preacher starts talking when they perceive the preacher to be talking about them. And I'm going to preface these next seven lessons by saying, yes, I'm going to talk about you at some point. I believe that we all have one of these spiritual gifts, so when we talk about a spiritual gift, you're going to fit into one of these seven weeks. So I'll be explaining to the whole church why you act the way you do. But I'm also going to be doing that for everyone else as well. So there's no reason for us to be I'm not talking about you specifically, even though I am, as we get into these lessons. So as a reminder, what is a spiritual gift? Kind of how do we define it? It properly. A spiritual gift I've defined as a God-given ability that is distributed to individual Christians by the Holy Spirit. It's to be used in their service to God within a local church. So this God-given ability was given by the Holy Spirit to you to for you to use within the church. Now, I understand that that definition of a gift is uh is very very academic if you will So I like to maybe simplify it a little bit to help us understand w what how does a spiritual gift manifest itself. Basically, a spiritual gift has to do with the way that you react to a need or a problem within the church. It's the way that you react when something comes up, when there's a need that needs to be met, when there's a problem that needs to be addressed. There's going to be a way that you respond to that and it's going to be The old saying there's more than one way to skin a cat. That there's lots of ways to do things and no one way is right and you're going to be disposed to do things one way and someone else will be disposed to do things. thing is another way. And your spiritual gift plays a big part of that. That's why it's important for us to learn our spiritual gifts. It's so we can understand when I see a problem, I'm going to approach it this way. Here's the right way to do that. Here's the wrong way to do that. Here's the right response to have to that situation. So That's partially why we're studying this idea. You know, this idea of of approaching a problem a certain way, it carries out in other areas of life as well, based on your skills, based on your experience. I heard a story about a pastor, a doctor, and an engineer who were one day waiting behind a particularly slow group of golfers. The engineer said, what's with these guys? We've been waiting for like fifteen minutes. The doctor said, I don't know, but I've never seen people golf so slow. The pastor said, well here, here's the groundskeeper. Let's have a word with him. Hey George, say what's with that group ahead of us? They're rather slow, aren't they? George says, oh yes, there's a group of blind fire they are a group of blind firefighters. They lost their sight while saving our club's house from a fire last year, so we always let them play for free anytime they like to. Well the group was silent for a moment. The pastor said, That's very sad. I think I'll say a special prayer for them tonight. That's his predisposition. The doctor said, That's a good idea. I'm gonna contact my ortho orthomologist friend, the the to uh today and see if there's anything that he can do to help them. The engineer said, well why couldn't they just play at night? Um so there is uh there's a way that you approach a problem based on your based on your previous uh previous experience. There's another story I heard about three different engineers, sorry Brother Glover, that were riding in a car. One was a mechanical engineer, one was an electrical engineer, and one was a computer engineer. The car broke down and close to the side of the road. Hang on, the mechanical engineer said. The problem's probably with the engine. Let me have a look at it, and we'll probably be on the road again in no time. Wait, the electrical engineer says, the way it just stopped like that, I think it's the electoral system. Let me have a look and I'll see if I can get this going in a minute or two. Hold on, said the computer engineer, why don't we just open and close all the windows, turn it off and back on and see if it starts? So when uh when a problem arises based on uh on your previous experiences or skill or things like that, you're gonna approach that problem in a different way. And that's kind of how our spiritual gifts come into effect. When there's a problem or a need in the church We're going to have a way that we're going to try to address the issue. In both of these stories, each person addressed the problems based on their background and abilities. And in with us the spiritual gifts, we will approach a problem in different ways. A few weeks ago I gave the example of a flat tire on the church bus and how each of spiritual gifts would kind of handle that situation. Let me give another problem and describe how the different gifts might interact with it. So the problem is we come into church and there's some trash on the floor. Very common problem that we have when we're around the church. And different gifts are going to react different ways. When they see the trash, there's going to be this initial response. So those with the gift of prophecy will want to find out who dropped it and tell them that that's no way they should be treating the house of God. I need to find out who did that and give them peace of my mind. That's the gift of prophecy. Uh the gift of ministry will pick it up and then they'll look around the restroom and make sure there's no trash anywhere else and they'll clean um up that as well Someone with the gift of teaching will want to include in the next sermon or Sunday school lesson a reminder of how important it is to take care of the house of the Lord. Someone with the gift of exhortation will want to find out whoever dropped it and show them where the trash can is so that they can know where they should put it next time. Someone with the gift of giving will likely want to hire somebody to clean the church. Someone with the gift of ruling will want to tell someone else to pick up the trash Someone with a gift of mercy will go home and be bothered the rest of the day that someone could be so careless to drop trash at church. But hopefully no matter what gift you have or what you will want to do, you'll just pick up the trash and throw it away um as what what way that will handle it. But there's that initial response of of what I would want to do when I see this problem and how I'm going to respond to it. That pull plays into my spiritual gift. So today we're going to spend a lesson focusing on the gift of prophecy If you found your place in Romans chapter twelve, we see that described for us in verse number six. The Bible says there having their having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy Let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith. Let's open with a word of prayer this morning. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this house where we can come and gather together and study to be taught and instructed from your word, Lord, to be challenged in our daily lives. I pray you'd help us as we look at this idea of the spiritual gift of prophecy, Lord, see how it is used within the church. how you've given that gift to certain individuals, but also how we all should strive to manifest this responsibility, Lord, that we have of presenting truth to those around us, Lord. Pray you bless their time in your word this morning. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. If you have your notes there, and there are some available in the back if you did not hit those. We're going to start by looking at the idea of the gift defined. What is the definition of this idea of this gift of prophecy? Well we've got to back up a little bit with prophecy specifically because there's actually a broad range of definitions that prophecy can have in the Bible. We've brought this up as an example in our other lessons of how there are different gifts, administrations, and operations within the church. So the operation of prophecy, that is the power of God behind an individual. So the power, the operation of prophecy was when God gave his power to a man to predict the future or to give the inspired word of God. That is prophecy as an operation, and we see that throughout the Bible. That's not the gift of prophecy. That's the operation of prophecy. God empowered them with the ability to prophesy, whether that is to reveal future events or to reveal inspired scripture. However, with the completion of the canon of the Bible, this operation ceased. We looked at that last time in 1 Corinthians 13, verse 8. Charity never faileth, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. There would be no need for further revelation from God once the Word of God was completed, so the operation of prophecy has ceased. Prophecy was not only an operation, it was also an administration. Now an administration is a position of service. We would give this the title of a prophet. Understanding the Old Testament, there were a lot of prophets. A prophet was someone who gave God's word to God's people. This is defined for us in Deuteronomy 18, verse 18. I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee. I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak unto them all that I command him. So a prophet is one who brought a message from God to God's people. That's the Old Testament position. There's also a New Testament position of a prophet. described in Ephesians 4 verse 11, where it talked about Christ giving to the church these gifted men. He gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. Now, this New Testament office of the prophet with the apostles would be people who gave inspired Scripture, but that office still continues in the form of someone who preaches the Word of God. That would be this idea. The focus of that word prophet is on the preaching ministry. These different words, we won't take time to study all of them, but the apostle is someone who is sent. A prophet is someone who preaches, then you have the evangelist is someone who who shares the gospel, a pastor is someone who shepherds people, and a teacher is someone who gives instruction. So there's kind of all different aspects of the preaching ministry of the church described in those five gifts. or gifted men that were given to the church. So it's the focus of that is on his preaching ministry. Acts chapter 15 describes this for us of some prophets in the New Testament that were not authors of Scripture Verses thirty two thirty through thirty-two. So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch, and when they had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle. So Paul had sent an up or someone had sent an epistle to this church Some men got up, they read the epistle to the church. And then what happened after the epistle, which was the word of God, was read, which when they had read, they rejoiced for consolation. And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhorted the brethren with many words and confirmed them. So here we have an example of a church service. They got up, they read the epistle, then these men who Were prophets or preachers expounded with many words what was delivered in the epistle. They preached the sermon. And that's the ministry of a prophet in the church, is someone who is preaching, and the focus is really on the message that he's given. So that is the administration of prophecy, the office of a prophet. And then we have the gift, and that's our focus today the gift of prophecy. This is the spiritual ability to be bold in speaking truth. Again, the focus of the word prophecy is on the message being given. That's what's being emphasized. So when we get to prophecy being defined, we see the Greek word prophecy carries the idea of predicting. It means to speak before. Definition was given. The word prophecy means that which has been spoken forth This referred to both future predictions and past truths. No future predictions are necessary after the completion of the New Testament. It comes from the word for prophet, and the focus of that word is on the message he's giving, just like we talked about with that with the administration. The focus is on what's being said by the prophet, the present presentation of truth. When we talk about prophecy in the Bible, it's important to differentiate between the idea of foretelling and forthelling. As we mentioned already, Scripture and Revelation from God has already been given A prophet in the Bible was foretelling, telling beforehand, what was going to come to pass. We no longer are giving new truth, but we're preaching truth that has already been given. We are what is called forth telling. A prophet today is not telling anything new. He's telling what's already been told in the Word of God and presenting that truth. So when it comes to prophecy today, the picture that we see from this definition and other passages of scripture is someone who boldly speaks the truth. That is kind of this gift of prospective, is that there's a boldness and a strong desire to maintain truth. Someone with the gift of prophecy will have a strong uh likely have a strong confrontational nature, uh especially regarding biblical truth Now there are some confusions regarding the gift of prophecy that take place. One of these is that it is no longer necessary, and this comes from from not understanding the difference between the um operation and the gift, uh that they would say it is uh no longer necessary to prophesy we're not prophesying the truth. But we as Christians still need to stand up for the truth of the Word of God. That would be an aspect of this gift of prophecy. One other confusion regarding the gift of prophecy is that some claim that prophecy is only for pastors. I mentioned a couple weeks ago we were talking about finding your spiritual gifts that there are these spiritual gifts tests that you can take. The one that lines up closest with what I believe in Scripture actually leaves off the gift of prophecy because the person that put it together believes that only pastors can have the gift of prophecy. Some will claim also that a pastor must have this gift in order to fill the office of the pastor. But from what I believe that the scripture teaches, I told you in the first lesson that no gift is limited to an office, no office is limited to a gift, and no gift entitles you to an office. Just because you have this gift doesn't mean that you should be the pastor. Just because you are the pastor doesn't mean you have to have this gift. God gives these based on how He wants to put them out within the church. So I said you don't have to have the gift of prophecy to be a pastor. I actually don't think that any of the three pastors at our church has the gift of prophecy. Right. So we we I don't believe they have we we have that, but that's okay. I don't believe that you have to in order to be a pastor. Um just because you have the prop um gift of prophecy doesn't necessarily mean you will um be a pastor. We have people in our church that have this gift. They're not the pastors that we see there. One proof for this we can find in Scripture is found in Acts 21 and verse 9. This is talking about Philip the Evangelist, one of um the the men there in the New Testament church it says the same man had four daughters, virgins which did prophesy. These ladies were gifted in prophecy and prophesied, yet were not serving in or qualified to serve in the position of a pastor. described therefore in the New Testament. So some confusions there regarding the gift of prophecy. So let's go on from the definition to the description, the gift described. When we see the gift described, we go back to Romans chapter 12 here, and we see that Paul starts with a caution regarding the gift of prophecy. Look there in verse number 6, it says, having gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us. whether prophecy let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith. So he follows this gift. Some have the gift of prophecy. Now, if you have the gift of prophecy, he says you need to use it this way. What he says is, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith. We'll see in a minute that Paul himself had the gift of prophecy. And because it was his gift, he was well aware of the dangers that are associated with his gift and when it is used improperly. So this is probably or likely or partially why he starts by talking about his gift, and he gives this warning immediately afterwards. So when he says here prophesy according to the proportion of faith, what is he saying? First of all, you have prophesy. Prophesy, that's boldly speak the truth. So when you're boldly speaking the truth with this gift, he says, do it to according to the proportion. Proportion carries the idea with the appropriate amount. There is giving truth and it is necessary and we need to do it. But then there's also You need to give it according to the situation that you're dealing with. So he warns to do it appropriately in an appropriate amount, an appropriate manner, and he says, according to the proportion of faith. Now this word faith is stressed or focused on the idea of the doctrine. So of the faith is the idea that this is we have our articles of faith that we have in church. So this is doctrine. So he's saying, when you prophesy, when you speak truth, You do it appropriately and make sure you're in Scripture. Make sure you're still in the Bible, because you're going to have some strong opinions if you have the gift of prophecy. So when you're going to go confront somebody, do it appropriately and make sure you stay within the bounds of Scripture when you do so. So a warning that he gives when it comes to using the gift of prosty. He goes on in the rest of this chapter, and it seems to be from the construction of the passage that he gives some extra definitions to each of these gifts in verses 9 to 2 through fifteen. Each one of these verses kind of ties back to one of the gifts that he just listed of the seven that are there. Some very clearly, others others um less so, but the way it's constructed, it seems like he's using these to expound on these definitions. So taking taking that understanding, we see verse number nine would tie back to the gift of prophecy. He says there, let love be without dissimulation dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil and cleave to that which is good. So here he is expanding the teaching regarding the gift of prophecy. As he does this, the first thing he brings up is the idea of love. Those with the gift of prophecy are great at speaking the truth. They sometimes need to be reminded about the in-love part, speaking the truth in love. Because their nature is confrontational. They have a strong, passionate uh uh desire to defend truth. And so Paul, when he admonishes them, he says, let love be without dissimulation. Put that focus on the love that we're to have as believers. He brings this up again in the passage regarding his gift of prophecy in 1 Corinthians 13, verse 2. He says, For though I have the gift of prophecy, Later in the verse he says, and have not charity, I am nothing. He's emphasizing that connection between having the gift of prophecy and exercising it in love. He reminds those to express their gift in love. He also reminds them to make sure that their love is real. The word dissimulation is the idea of faking it. Don't just pretend like you love somebody. That way, because you feel like you have to within the bounds of the church, love them for real and then give them truth is the admonition that he gives to them when it comes to Let love be without dissimulation. He concludes that verse by saying, abhor that which is evil and cleave to that which is good. After talking about their love, he reminds them that they're to abhor evil and cleave to good. Abhorring evil is very natural to someone with the gift of prophecy. They stand for truth, uh they hate evil, they hate sin, they love fiery preaching, and uh you give it to them, Pastor. Um so abhorring evil, that's that's very in intrinsic in their nature But it also is the tendency to fixate on those things and saying we need to stand for truth, we need to stand against that and against that and against that and against that and that's wonderful. We need people to stand against some things Paul reminds them, hey, there's some things you should stand for as well. You cleave to the good things. Don't just stand against the bad things. So in their stand for truth, it's easy to ignore what is good. Paul tells them to do both. We look at characters in the Bible, we see this gift is depicted for us. We are given an example of someone who has this gift. This is the most uh One of the most clear of the seven gifts, because Paul says, though I have the gift of prophecy. He he lays it out, I have the gift of prophecy. So we look at the character of Paul, we see that he had this gift. He was one of the characters in the Bible that had the gift of prophecy We understand that Paul was a very outspoken preacher. In Acts chapter 9, verse number 20, the Bible says about Paul. This is right after his conversion, when he makes it to Jerusalem, and straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues that he is. the Son of God. So no hesitation. He went right in the midst of it. They're gonna they're gonna hate you. They're gonna want to kill you. Uh it's amazing right there at Paul's conversion, the focus went from persecuting the church to persecuting Paul. He made himself the forefront. He didn't care what anybody else thought. He was going to go tell them the truth. So straightway he boldly went in to preach the gospel. That was part of his gift, an outspoken preacher. We also see the boldness he had when he spoke about the things of Christ and things of the Word of God. And in Acts 9, verse 29, it says, And he spake boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus and disputed against the Grecians, but they went about to slay him It didn't matter what other people thought, Paul was going to give the truth. He was bold in giving the truth. He was immediate in giving the truth. He was more than happy to share the Word of God with anybody that was willing to listen. That ties back to his gift. So we see that in the life of Paul. Paul is a good example for us of some of the positive characteristics of the gift of prophecy. He was out there sharing the gospel. He didn't care about persecution. He was willing to give his life for the cause of Christ. He would stand against sin and error in the church. And he had great boldness in doing so. We've been reading about that as we've been reading Corinthians. And some of his back and forth to church about him saying, hey, you're you're you're kind of harsh when you when you write us those letters, Paul. Um and that's the boldness that he had to present truth. Now, on the flip side, if we look to Peter prior to the day of Pentecost, he's a good example of some negative ways that this gift is manifested. Peter was also a very outspoken individual, a very opinionated individual, didn't mind sharing what he thought. Paul is really, or Peter is really well known for three things. Walking on water, denying Christ, and being the first one to put his foot in his mouth. That's kind of what we know about Peter when we think about these three things. If you think about it, all three of these related to him being forthright with his words. Saw Jesus on the water? Hey, if it's you, tell me to come out there with you. Um he spoke up. I wonder what he was thinking when Jesus said, Okay, come. I didn't think he was gonna say that. Um I don't know, I don't know what his response may have been, but he was he was bold to speak when he denied Christ It was about his words and what he was what he was what he was able to say, even to the point where he denied Christ with with cursing to change his language to not sound like a follower of Christ. So all theory of these related to him being rash with his mouth. It's very likely that Peter had this gift of prophecy as well. As I said already, Peter is a good example prior to Pentecost of the ways that the gift of prophecy can be negatively manifested. He was very quick to quick to speak up, even to the point where one time he rebuked Jesus. Not so, Lord. And Jesus had tell him, get thee behind me, Satan. He had to learn to control his tongue. But once he was filled with the Spirit, once he was under the control of the Holy Spirit, we see that changes, and his gifts begins to manifest in a greater way. At Pentecost, he rose up very quickly to be a spiritual leader in the church, and he used his gifts mightily. And we read Acts chapter 2, he is the first one to speak up on the day of Pentecost. That takes place in Acts two verse fourteen. But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and said unto them, Ye men of Judea, and all that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you, and hearken to my words. Very clearly he stood up, he presented truth. He didn't care what other people thought. He didn't mind being the one in front. He didn't mind being the one to take the brunt of attack. He wanted to speak up for the Lord And thousands of people were saved when he y used his gift under the control of the Holy Spirit. Once it was spirit-filled, God used his gift mightily within the church. When he was acting on his own in his own power and using his gift wrongly, he created a lot of damage and a lot of problems and a lot of heartache for himself and others. But once his gift was under control of the Holy Spirit, it's used mildly within the bounds of the local church. A good example overall for all of our gifts. using them in the control of the Holy Spirit. This next point, after we look at these examples or depictions of the gift, I want to kind of give the gift discussed a little bit. And this is where we're going to get into kind of Here's some characteristics or some attributes or some ways that this gift is manifested in individuals that have the gift. This gift would be seen in someone who is very passionate about sharing truth This gift would be evidenced by someone who has a strong aversion to and is quick to denounce error. And as we said already, every gift has a way that is used properly and improperly. Now when we look at these kind of discussion points, we're going to talk about some proper things, some improper things. The Bible doesn't give us a list. It doesn't say here's gift of prophecy, here's way it's used wrong, here's way it's used right. We're taking these from the examples of Scripture. And as I've read and studied other men that have been in ministry for a long time and have dealt with people, they say this is kind of what we've seen of people that have these gifts. So these are not a list from the Bible, but they're taken from biblical example and an experience within local churches. It's not exhaustive either. We're not going to talk about every attribute, but this is just kind of gets you an idea of how this gift manifests itself. If you have the gift, what to be aware of. If you have a problem with somebody else, you can kind of think, well, maybe they have this gift and that's just the way they are. They need to grow a little bit. Let me have some grace with them. Praise the Lord, God had grace with Peter when he used his gift improperly. That he didn't just push him aside and say, I'm not talking with that guy again because of how he just treated me. He had some grace with him and he let Peter grow. We need to have grace with one another. So some proper characteristics, some good attributes of the spiritual gift is that they have a very direct approach to ministry and delivering the truth. They have an abil an ability to be verbally passionate and persuasive in argumentation. They have a fondness for strong preaching and doctrine. They love, man, Pastor Starch preaching on sin. They're going to amen it and write Talk about people that are going to die and go to hell. They're going to be right there in that. That's the kind of preaching. They love confrontational preaching because that's their nature. They like to be confrontational as well. And they're also willing to stand for the truth. They don't mind confronting error when they see it come up. So they're willing to stand for some proper characteristics. Some negative characteristics of the gift of prophecy is that they have the tendency to be abrasive, reckless, when we see Peter's example of that. They can have the tendency to be unadvisedly dogmatic. Paul said to prophesy according to the proportion of faith. Make sure when you have these strong opinions, they're biblical opinions I've seen some guys and heard some preachers that I believe have this gift. They'll say, bless God, this is this, and if you don't do this, you're a heretic. And well, that's not quite Bible. Um that is a very strong opinion you how you hold, um, but we need to be careful that we're staying according to the proportion of faith when we do this. They can be um unadvisedly dogmatic. Um they can be be over um focused on proper behavior, uh legalistic maybe even in emphasizing proper behavior, and they can tend to focus on error and miss things that are good, going back to Paul's admonition. in Romans chapter um Romans chapter twelve. And then some cautions regarding this gift, not necessarily positive or negative in in particular, but just things to be aware of if you have this gift. This gift, um the gifts are kind of half and half. Some are more task-oriented, some are more people-oriented. And there's problems with both, being too focused on people and not enough on tasks, and too focused on tasks and not enough on people. This gift is more task-oriented rather than the people-oriented. It's very easy for this gift to ignore people in pursuit of truth. One other caution regarding the gift of prophecy, as I said, I believe anybody can have this gift. So when it comes to women that may have the gift of prophecy You need to beware of usurping authority in the church and in your home because you're going to be given to strong opinions and being given to speak in your mind as part of your spiritual gift Also be careful not to correct or instruct a man within the church. So just some cautions regarding this gift. As we continue this morning, I'd like to look at the gift developed. If you have the spiritual gift, Paul tells us and tells Timothy to stir up the gift that is in you. Don't let it go dormant. You need to be developing. You need to be strengthening. So how do you develop the gift of prophecy? If you have this gift, God wants you to use it within the church. Once you understand that you have it, you can grow in and you can develop this gift. So how do you develop the gift of prophecy? Number one, you can study to show yourself approved. You with the gift of prophecy, you have a very natural affinity for truth. You're going to love truth. So take that love of truth and pour it into growing in the Word of God. You have that desire, you have that affinity to be in the Word, to know the Word, to know truth. Use that to grow in truth, to grow in your understanding of the Word of God. It's something to study to show yourself approved. Another way you develop this gift is by standing for truth. You need to be willing to confront error. Now understand there's a right and a wrong way to do this That goes back to some of the cautions regarding this gift. There's a right way to confront error. There's a wrong way to confront error. When it's you believe a pastor may be in error, when you believe a brother or a sister may be in error. The Bible describes how that should be done and understand the biblical pattern for that, but we be willing to stand for truth and to recognize error. Also, develop your gift by reaching people with the gospel. You have a love for truth. You have a confrontational nature. Put that to use in reaching people with the gospel of Christ. The two greatest soul winners in the Bible. Peter and Paul had the gift of prophecy. Peter saw thousands and thousands saved. Paul saw dozens of churches started and hundreds, if not thousands, of people saved. These men had to get to prophecy. They were confrontational about truth. If this is your gift, use it for the Lord. Don't be don't use it to pick apart the church and every problem that you have. Use it to take into this world and say, look, here's the truth about the Word of God and present that to people and reach people with the gospel. So reach people with the gospel. And fourthly, another way you can develop this gift is to grow in love and in grace. Do not forget to exercise your gift in love. I heard one person say truth is already offensive. I don't have to be on top of it. So we need to we need to learn to grow in our grace and our love. Ask yourself the question, is this truth worth hurting that person? Sometimes it is. Truth, there's truth we're going to stand on, and I don't care what anybody thinks about it, we're not compromising. But this small little area and this new Christian, is it worth driving them away from the church to maintain this aspect of what we believe and what we think? Is that worth it? So take that into consideration as you present truth. There are many people that are no longer in church today because they were offended unnecessarily by someone in church. Here as we talk to people and knock on doors, why don't you go in church? Well this happened. And they explained it and they was, why? Why did that person feel that was necessary to uh to to to to uh confront that person about when it when a brand new Christian and they didn't know any better and and it and it wasn't doctrinal error that was going to come in and overtake the church? Was it worth destroying that person in spiritual life to stand up for that aspect of truth? So like I said, it is it there are some times when it's necessary. We're not going to compromise on things like the Word of God. And all the doctrines, if we go through the fundamental doctrines of the faith, we're not compromising on these things. But we need to be careful about handling souls, the precious things. And we need to be careful with that. I'd like to conclude this morning with the idea of the gift desired. I've said several times that although each of us have one gift, we should desire to express all the gifts. And I'm going to kind of distinguish it this way You have a gift, but all of the gifts are spiritual responsibilities. You have a gift. This is going to be your natural tendency, but just because this is your tendency doesn't mean you don't have the responsibility to fulfill these other gifts as well. This is why I've said that you can have one gift but be gifted in other areas. We should all be getting better at all of these spiritual responsibilities. So two things really to challenge all of us, if this is not your spiritual gift, well that's not me. I'm not that confrontational kind of person. I'm not I I mean I I want to know the Bible, but it just I I don't have that fascination with truth that you're talking about and that confrontational and just wanting to correct errors and things like that. That's not that's not part of my nature. So Even though that's not your nature, there's some aspects of this gift of prophecy that we should desire because it's a responsibility that we all have as believers. Number one is that we should share the truth. We should share the truth. Mark chapter 16, verse number 15 says, And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. We all have the obligation to share the truth. We all have, according to this verse, been, quote, called to preach. Now we use that, we understand how we use that expression, and it is called to the ministry of the pulpit. But here, you go preach the gospel to every creature. One-on-one, you have the responsibility to deliver this message of truth. Now that's more natural for those with the gift of prophecy, but just because, well, Pastor, that's not my nature, so I'm not going to go soul-winning. That's not how it works. We all have this responsibility to share the truth with others. Whether you have the gift or not, whether it's natural to you or not, whether it's easy for you or not, you have the responsibility to take the truth into the world and to confront people with it. So we have the responsibility to share the truth. We also have the responsibility to stand for truth. Jude one verse three says, Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints As believers, we have the responsibility to stand for truth. Now, the people with the gift of prophecy, they can be on the forefront. They can be the front lines of standing for truth. But we all have the obligation. We all have the responsibility to stand for truth. This verse is really interesting in the book of Jude, because what he's saying there, he's saying, I wanted to write you a letter about salvation. But it was more needful for me to address this idea of contending for the faith. Because there are those who want to come into the church and subvert that false teachers that have crept in unawares. He says, so even though I wanted to talk about salvation, we need to talk about doctrine and need to stand for truth. So if we're going to stand for truth, we need to know the truth. You as a Christian should be able to tell someone why you believe what you believe. You should be able to recognize error and stand for truth. for truth. If you've been saved for any any length of time, very quickly, when you're want hearing a sermon on the radio or something you c somebody shared with you on YouTube, you should very be able to quickly be able to identify that's error. Because how do you know it's error? Because I know it's true. We go back to the example of of counterfeit money. We don't teach somebody how to identify counterfeit money by giving them a bunch of counterfeits for them to learn all the nuances of counterfeiting We give them a bunch of the real thing, and when they know the real thing so well, it's easy to spot what's fake. So we stand for truth by knowing the truth. The responsibility that we all have when it comes to this gift of prophecy. Share the truth, stand for truth