Morning, Genesis chapter number seventeen. We have been looking at and studying the names of God for a better understanding of who he is. That we might fully uh know him, that we might more adequately follow him and be A profitable child of God fulfilling the will and the work of God in our lives. This morning we are going to look at the last of the compound names using the uh first word L, which by itself in the found in the Word of God 225 times, but that word L means God or mighty God. But when you put another characteristic with it, there's a descriptive characteristic with it, it is God. Whatever, we we've had the privilege of looking at Elohim. Elohim, that is the powerful creator. We've looked at El Elrond, the Most High God, that God who is above all else. We have looked at Elroy, that God who sees, the God who sees and beholds all. We've looked at El Ulam, the everlasting God, the eternal God, the God that always was and always will be. Today we are going to look at El Sharai, the all-sufficient one. Now back in February when Dr. Brennan was here, he spoke on Sunday evening about El Shaddai. And that actually was the message that spurred this course of study for me and brought along these messages. However, there were a number of you that weren't here for that service because it was a Sunday evening service. Also I'm not going to preach his message. I'm going to take our message from this text here this morning, but uh want to cover El Shaddai. This is the last of the compound names that use the word L as the first part and then we're going to move on and there are other names of God. My plan is to design and print a bookmark for you to keep in your Bible that has all of the names that we've covered and will cover and uh give you the references and and maybe the uh the meaning of that name, uh the names of God, and so you'll have that in the coming weeks we'll do that. But today we're going to look The first place that this name of God that appears to us in the Bible is in Genesis chapter number seventeen and you in your mind might be, well, hey, we're back in this passage and we're uh again talking about Abram Uh well uh this is the beginning and Abram's walking with God and as he is journeying through his life, as he is learning more about God, he is being introduced to another aspect of God. He is being shown another whole another characteristic of God that he might better understand who it is. that he serves. And so we see in Genesis chapter 17, verses 1 through 3, as we begin this morning, I want you to see that what happens is there becomes there comes a challenge to your belief. A challenge to your belief. We see that here in Abram's life. In Genesis 17, 1 through 3 says, And when Abram was ninety years old and 9, the Lord appeared unto Abram and said unto him, I am The Almighty God. That is El Shaddai, is the interpretation of that. When you see that in the Word of God, the Almighty God, or God Almighty. That is El Shaddai. That is his character, his person of El Shaddai. And he says, walk before me and be thou perfect Now you understand from our looking at this story in previous chapters that God had promised to Abraham and Sarai uh a baby, that God was going to give them a son. We know that back in chapter number sixteen, as we studied that out and looked at the conflict and all of the problems that arose from them trying to solve the problems themselves. You remember when Abram went in at the recommendation of his wife to Hagar, his his her handmaid? And uh they had a child named Ishmael, and they thought, well, surely this is the way that God is going to provide us a son. And Ishmael was born and That conflict rose in the family, and ultimately Sarah tells Hagar, get out of here. I don't want you around. I can't stand you. She says, Leave. And Hagar is going away, but God meets with her And you remember that story where you met El God El El Elroy? God who sees because she thought she was all alone and she thought nobody knew where she was at and what she was dealing with. But El Elroy, Elroy, God who sees all. Saw where she was at and understood what she was going through. But this story continues on, and we see that now Abram is 99 years old And he still has not seen the promise that God has made. You see, 24 years have passed. I mean, it wasn't just yesterday that God made the promise that they were going to have a son. I mean, if they thought things were bad twenty four years ago, now he's ninety nine. I mean who's going to have a kid at ninety nine And and we this is time and and the challenge to their belief, like Lord had said there was gonna be God had said they were gonna have a child, but Man, their faith maybe begins to waver a little bit, begins to falter. Can I ask you this morning, beloved, have you been in a place where your faith was challenged? Where your belief was challenged, where your your faith in an Almighty God who knows where you're at and knows what you're going through and is still in control, that's challenged, and you begin to wonder or you begin to question I mean, this is where Abram was at. This was not the time for somebody to be having kids. It's way beyond childbearing years. Actually, God in Hebrews says that he was basically dead I don't know if you remember that, but in Hebrews chapter 11, that hall of faith and his description of Abram, he says, Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead. So many are the stars of the sky and multitude. He's saying because of his faith in Hebrews chapter eleven that this man who was as good as dead. Of him sprang a great multitude in fulfillment of the promise of God. But there was a time when Abram was questioned, he was faltering, his faith was challenged. Beloved, have you been between a rock and a hard place? Where you didn't see any way out, where you where you where you looked at it and you said, man, I I just don't know how God is going to meet this need. I don't know how I'm going to get through this. I don't know how this is going to be solved. And I don't know. I know God, but I wonder, is God there? Does God know? Can God help? You know, beloved, the young people have to come to the place in their life where they personally know God themselves. This is very much on my heart right now because my kids are all at that age. They're all during they're right now those ages where they they're reaching the place where oh They've done what they were supposed to do when they were in church because they were kids and and dad and mom brought them to church. But now they're going to be making decisions for themselves. They have to decide what they're going to do In recent conversations with my older children several times in the past year, I've sat down with one of my older children. I said, now here's the thing, you're an adult. You can do what you want to do. You can make the decision because you're an adult now. You have to decide, are you going to do this or are you going to do this? But as your father, here is what I would advise you to do. Now you you do what you believed was right, what God would want you to do, but you have to decide that, young people, you've all got to come to the The place in your life where you know God personally and you understand that He is your God, He is there for you, and that He knows you and knows where you're at. And if you don't have that, when the challenge comes, you won't remain You won't remain. There was a challenge to his belief. There was a trial that came. There was a hardship. There was something that he said, Man, I'm not sure I can see my way through this. Excuse me. Have you had a crisis of faith? Those of you that know your Bible, you may be wondering, well, what about in Romans where it tells us that he staggered not? Let me read it for you, Romans chapter 4, verses 19 and through 21. He says, And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead. When he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb, he staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith. Giving glory to God and being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able to perform. Now, that's what Romans tells us about the faith of Abram. And you say, well, Pastor Kay, why do you say he's staggering at his faith or he's he's questioning? I can't help but think that he had a challenge because in chapter 16 He went in unto Hagar and tried to find the solution that way. He did not know, and and when the when the prophet came to him, or when the angel appeared to him and said they were going to have children, do you remember he laughed? And the angel said, Why are you laughing? What I'm saying here this morning is that something happened between chapter 16, where him and Sarah were trying to solve the problem themselves And the book of Romans, where he said Abram had faith that staggered not, that Abram stood strong, that he did not waver, he did not falter, and God supplied. Why something happened, what I tell you this morning is that he met El Shaddai. He met the God that will supply, the all-sufficient God, the God who is a pourer out of blessings. He met El Shaddai. The question I have for you this morning is: have you met him? Do you know him to be not just a God, but the God? Not just the God, but your God that you have a relationship with, that you know is watching over and caring for you, that He is your El Shaddai Is he your El Shaddai today? Have you met him? Can I tell you this morning that God hasn't given up on you? Where you're at, whatever you're going through, God has not forgotten you. Maybe you're a child of God this morning. You know that you've met him, but you've wandered far from home. Can I tell you that God is saying, come home, come home He's calling you back to him. He has not gone anywhere. If you will turn at his reproof, draw nigh unto me, and I will draw nigh unto you. Can I tell you that God is there and he is ready? and willing to be the pour out of blessings upon your life. He is the all-sufficient God. He is the Almighty God and He can and wants to do it for you. E. You see, beloved, something miraculous happens when you meet El Shaddai This is what happened for Abram. Something miraculous happened in this passage. His name was changed. His relationship was changed. A new covenant was established. He met El Shaddai and his faith was strengthened. When you and I meet El Shaddai, can I tell you that you'll have a change in your behavior? There will be a change in your behavior. We see the strength of Abram's faith is established, but I want you to look at verses 2 through 5 in Genesis 17. He says, And I will make my covenant between me and thee. And will multiply thee exceedingly. And Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations. Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham. For a father of many nations I have made thee. There's a couple things I want to point out for you here in his change of behavior. When you meet El Shaddai, there's a change of behavior. First of all, there is a bowing in adoration. We see here, and Abram fell on his face before God. There is a bowing and adoration when we come to the place where we understand who He is and the ability that He has, the all-sufficient God. There's a lot of things in this world that we're enamored with There's a lot of things in this world that impress us, that draw our attention, that maybe pull us aside from the busy pattern of our life and would cause us to pause and think and think, wow Look at that, that's amazing. But have you ever sat in adoration of an Almighty God who gave his son for you to die, to be your Savior, who is the El Shaddai, the all-sufficient one for you Have you sat in adoration of him? He fell down and he bowed before him. He worshipped him. When he understood his ability, the fact that he is God and He is able, beloved, there is nothing in your life that needs done that God is unable to do. Is anything too hard for him? No. A God can do anything. Anything, anything but fail. Amen. He bowed in adheration as he considered the ability that he has. But not just describing or thinking about the sufficiency or the strength that is there, his ability, but thinking about the sufficiency that is there The sufficiency for his ability to be able to meet the need. He vowed in adoration as he continued the attribute of God's goodness. God is good all the time. And all the time? All the time. It is his nature It is God's nature to be good. That's what he wants to do. He wants to bless his people. Dr. Brennan, when he was here, he shared the definition that God, this El Shaddai, is a pourer out. of bountiful blessings. A bountiful provider of fruitful blessings. The idea of the pouring out is El Shaddai has all-sufficient God. He has the means and capacity and the desire and he pours out blessings on his people. Else should I, this term has with it the idea of that bountiful provider of fruitful blessings. We see that here in Genesis chapter 17. Look at verse number 6. He said, and I will make thee exceedingly fruitful. And I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee. Later in his life, when Jacob introduces his son Isaac, To El Shaddai. You don't have to turn there, but in Genesis chapter 28, you remember the story that Jacob says, well you don't You don't need a bride. We don't want you to choose a bride of of these people. You need to get a bride from among your own people. So I want you to travel to Laban. I want you to go to another land. You need to find a bride of your own people. And I mean Guys, how would you like that? Like you're gonna drive to Indiana this weekend and find a bride. I mean, this is a uh a hard task. This is something you you know basically impossible, but when he sends him on this mission, he introduces his son to El Shaddai. And let me just tell you parents, we need to introduce our children to El Shaddai He got we need to be sure that our kids see that it is God the one that meeting the needs in our home, that it's God the one that is answering these prayers, that God is the one that's providing for us on a week-to-week basis that God does this. And if you don't take time to point to God for your children, your children won't see them. They won't know him. He points him to El Shaddai in Genesis 28 verse 3. He says, the God Almighty, that's El Shaddai. The God Almighty bless thee and make thee fruitful and multiply thee. Genesis twenty-eight three When he was going on that mission again, recognizing and seeing that he is a provider of fruitful blessings, Jacob, uh God speaking to Jacob in Genesis 35, 11, he says, and God said unto him I am God Almighty. Else should I be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations shall be of thee. Fruitful and multiply. God wants to bless you. And he has the capacity to do so. He is the all-sufficient one. We see Not only did he bow in adoration because he began to acknowledge and understand who it was that he was worshiping, but he also realized he was walking before a new audience. You see what he says there? Walk before me. Walk before me. You know, there's a lot of things. I remember one time when I was a kid, this is indelibly just written on the pages of my mind. because of the humiliation that I still feel today for the foolishness that I did. One time we were having an activity at our church and we were doing an Olympics. And all the kids were participating in this Olympic activities, and we were all going to be running long jump and short jump. standing jumping and all the Olympic activities and I was involved in one of the running activities and there was a young lady in the church I was very impressed with and I wanted to impress. And so I stood back by the window and waited till her mom and her and her sisters pulled up in the car. They got out of the car and they started coming towards the church. And I've walked out the door just nonchalantly like like uh it just happened to have happened at that time But of course we were gonna be running, so I needed to stretch. Mmm So I was doing all of my stretches and getting, you know, getting ready to run, all for the benefit of the young lady that was coming my way, you know. And still to this day I by the way, I lost the race miserably, so all my stretching didn't help me at all I did not impress the young lady, but here's what I'm getting at, is that a lot of times we do things for the sight of other people. The activities we're involved in, the participation at church, our service here at church. Oh, I want people to see me taking the offering, singing in the choir. We should be doing it for an audience of one. He said, walk before me. and have that relationship with El Shaddai. Our service for God is not about who sees us, who might give us accolades or pat us on the back. It's because we have a God in heaven who we are so grateful for his love for us. That we're willing to do whatever we can and we are walking before Him for that audience of one. There's a change in our behavior. No longer are we out to impress the world, but we're out to serve our Savior. Yes. So we see When a challenge to your belief comes, you've got to be sure that you know that you've met El Shaddai. And when you've met him, there's a change in your behavior. But I want you to realize this morning that there becomes also a commitment to a burden There is a responsibility that comes with our knowledge. There's a responsibility that comes with our blessings from God. Look in Genesis chapter 17. We're going to begin reading in verse number five and read down through verse number seven. He says, neither shall thy name anymore be called Abram. But thy name shall be Abraham, for a father of many nations have I made thee. And I will make thee exceedingly fruitful, and will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee. And I will establish my covenant between me and thee, and thy seed and after thee and their generations for an everlasting covenant to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee In verse number eight, he says, And I will give unto thee and to thy seed after thee the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant, therefore, and thou and thy seed after thee in their generation. You see, he had a responsibility to keep the covenant. You can read on and see that They had the responsibility. God told them, listen, you're my people. You are to be separate. You're to come out from among them and be ye separate. God calls them to holiness. He calls them to perform circumcision as a mark, as an identification, as a child of God. You can read the balance of the chapter there where he's giving them instructions regarding that. And Abram follows and does exactly as God commanded. There is a responsibility, there is a burden to carry to to be and to do what God calls us to be. When God's people were disobedient, the pour out of blessing becomes a pour out of judgment and justice. I would have you see that this same name, El Shaddai, is often tied to the judgment of God. As much as we enjoy and love to ponder and think about, he is the all-sufficient All-powerful, the Almighty God, God Almighty El Shaddai, understanding that it gives him the power and the ability to pour out great, bountiful blessings upon us and make us fruitful at the same time. That God is a God who pours out judgment. You see, God must judge sin He pronounces judgment on wicked Babylon in Isaiah 13, verse number 6. He says, Howl ye for the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord, throughout Scripture, is a mark of judgment day. The day of the Lord is at hand, it shall come as a destruction From the Almighty. The Almighty, that is El Shaddai. So judgment was going to come because of the fact that they were uh living in rebellion against God. Babylon has always been a type of somebody who that that Babylonian spirit that is a rebellion against God, that is a rejection of what God wants you to do and a a will to do and serve yourself and go your own way. And God said that he was going to pour judgment upon them from El should I. Beloved, I think that we often have the wrong image of God. People like to think about Him as That mean God up in heaven, standing over the portals of the universe, waiting for his child to mess up so he can rain down fire and brimstone upon him. That might be due to uh some of the preachers and the communication of that message But beloved, instead of seeing him as a hateful God, what we need to be is see him as he is, as a loving Father. 2 Corinthians 6. 18 says, And I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty Saith, El Shuddhai. I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters. Il Shaddai is watching over you as a loving father. And beloved, a loving father must punish sin. The same father that picks up a child when he is hurt. Will discipline a child when he wants to touch a stove. Both actions are for the child's good. That loving Father that carries him when he cannot carry himself is the same father that will discipline him when he reaches to pull that hot pot off the stove. He says, no, you can't do that. Why? Because it is for his good. And let me just throw this out, parents that are working with younger children, when you are disciplining out of anger or frustration, you are ceasing to function as a loving father. A father disciplines always for the benefit of the child, the good of the child. And yes, it is punishment for sin. It is punishment for doing wrong. But it is training for their good. And that's what our fat our Heavenly Father does for us. The Father chastens all his children, whom he loves. Beloved, the Father knows that sin is just going to destroy your life Sin is just going to destroy it. It is hurtful to you. And the loving Father is trying to do all he can to protect you from that. Sin will destroy your life as sure as a hot pot full of scalding water would burn the skin of a child. That truth is inescapable and the loving loving Father is looking over from heaven. He's watching you and he's trying to protect you from that. Every aspect of sin is designed to destroy and hurt you. Beloved, the thief cometh not but to steal, to kill, and to destroy. That is his objective. That is Satan's goal is to destroy your life. And so it is not a restrictive father who says, you know, you cannot do this. It is a loving father who compassionately compels you to not go hurt yourself. Second Corinthians six, seventeen and eighteen says, Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. And touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, and I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. Saith El Shaddai, he'll be a father unto you. And that loving father says, Hey, don't go the way of the world Oh yes, El Shaddai wants to bless you. Wants to pour bountiful blessings upon you. He has the power to do the miraculous Things that we can't even comprehend. He's the all-sufficient one. I read or I heard this week of a young man. Married, couple of kids. I don't know if he was in a vacation home or if he was in in his home, but he was in the home. He's a Christian. He's actually a young assistant pastor serving the Lord. His family was away, or they weren't there at the place where he was at. And while he was asleep, a drug addict broke into the home to try and rob it. He heard the noise downstairs. This man wakes up from his bed, Kevin is his name. He gets up and he starts coming down the steps. Well this drug addict was in the kitchen looking for whatever he could find and he hears Kevin coming down the steps, so he grabs the biggest knife he could find. And he comes to the stairs and he starts coming up the stairs as Kevin is coming down the stairs and he stab him in his gut And then rips as far as he can. And he stabs him again. And then again. And then again. In the struggle, they fall down the stairs to the bottom of the stairs. The man reaches over. Kevin is now laying face down on the floor in his own blood. and this man turns around and he stabs him in the back of his head, in his neck, and in his back. The drug addict gets up and begins to look through the house to steal whatever he can to try and go get some drugs. And while Kevin is laying there in his blood. He liter literally begins to think, this is it. I'm done. And he thinks, I wish I would have said this to him My wife, I hope my kids aren't bitter at God for me being taken. He's laying there thinking it's all done, but he said, of his own words, he said, it is almost like an audible voice said to him, Get up, I'm not done with you yet. Kevin laying face down in his own blood, he stands up and literally holds his intestines inside his own stomach. He walks through the house past the guy who's trying to rob him. Out the door, across the yard, up the steps, and knocks on the door of his neighbor. His neighbor said Kevin was so covered in his own blood that he couldn't even recognize Recognize who he was. He could not tell what a necessity he was. They called the ambulance. The ambulance came and took him to the hospital. They found that Kevin had been stabbed 37 times. And in thirty-seven times not one vital organ was struck. The blood loss was substantial. But in the police report They actually noted this. They said, we cannot explain. And what they noted is that They saw the footprints of Kevin standing in his own blood at the bottom of the stairs His feet, his bare feet. They saw the beginning steps, this first step of blood. And then there was no more tracks. From there all the way to the neighbor's house, up the steps, there was no more footprints. They said we can't explain this. But we know God. El Shaddai, who can meet every need. He wants to meet every need. Not only does he have the power and the ability to do the miraculous, but can I tell you this morning that God also wants to do the mundane. Even the small things for you. This is God's desire. He is the pourer out of bountiful blessings. But at the same time, we understand that he is also a pourer out of justice and judgment. Listen. Thirty-one of the forty-eight times El Shaddai is found in the Old Testament. It's found in the book of Job. And listen to what Eliphaz tells Job in Job 517. He says, Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth. Therefore, despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty He said, despise not the chastening of El Shaddai, the loving Father, who is doing it for your good. Here's the truth for today. El Shaddai is the poorer out of bountiful blessings, and he wants to bless you. But he also is a poorer out of justice and judgment. The thing is, is we determine which aspect of El Shadai is upon our life We determine that because there is a responsibility there we have, a burden to be a follower of Christ and do His will and to obey His commands. And if we are doing that, like He said over and over again to the children of Israel, if you will, I will Over and over again, and the promises of God are there, and God wants to pour bountiful blessing upon every one of us. But we choose if he's going to be El Shaddai, the poorer out of blessing, or if he's going to be El Shaddai, the poorer out of justice and judgment. Those of you that have raised children, sometimes you discipline the child for going in the street or or reaching for the stove or getting getting next to the to the hot fire and and y you discipline 'em say you can't do that, that will hurt you. And the child goes back to it again. And you as a parent are like, come on. Like, why won't you get this? Why don't you understand this? You can't do that. That's gonna hurt you. Our loving Father is looking down from heaven and he's saying, Why won't you get it? I could be pouring out blessing upon your life. Instead, I've got to keep being the father that pulls you back from the brink of destruction. You and I get to determine who, what aspect of El Should I is being poured upon our lives. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed?