We have been looking at the names of God, compound structures that give us a glimpse of the character and the personality of who God is. We began a few weeks ago discussing and looking at the idea of Jehovah. And last week, Jehovah Rahi. Rohi, sorry, and then this morning, the name that's under consideration today is one which comes to us when the children of Israel are in the midst of great trial. They're in the midst of a time of heartache. And oftentimes in the pages of Scripture, you'll see God introduce Himself in a new way because life circumstances become life's situations have catapulted his people into a place where they have a great need. They're in a situation where they need something, and then God comes and introduces this secondary name. And they're able to realize that God has already met the need. Life circumstances have brought them to a point where they realize that they need something special. They need something that maybe they haven't experienced yet. And then God comes on the scene and he introduces himself, and they're able to see that they've already got their need. We need God to do something this morning. Can I tell you that that that Satan is at work in this world? He is an enemy and he's here and I don't know where each and every one of you are at. I don't know what trials or tribulations, I don't know what situations each of you are facing in your life, but I can guarantee you that I know enough to know that there's people in here that need God this morning. They need God to do something real, something powerful, something definitive in their life to bring about change, to bring about victory, to bring them through their current battle, and I want you to know that God can do it. He wants to do it, and he's introducing us today to another name. The name under consideration comes to us from a book of the Bible, from a period of time in Israel's history. When every man did that which was right in his own eyes. How many of you would know which book of the Bible that is found in? Over and over again, men did that which was right in their own eyes. Which book of the Bible would that be? Judges. The book of Judges. Turn to Judges chapter number six. In Judges chapter number six this morning, we are introduced to this name of God. We're going to read Judges chapter number six just by way of introduction here. The entirety of the chapter really gives you the picture of the whole thing. It lets us know the need that transpired, but we're going to see the name. Begin with me, follow along as I read verse 22 through 24. And when Gideon perceived that he was an angel of the Lord, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God! For because I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face, and the Lord said unto him, Peace be unto thee. Fear not, thou shalt not die Then Gideon built an altar there unto the Lord, and he called it Jehovah Shalom. Jehovah Shalom. I would venture to say this morning that there are very that that most everybody here knows what this name means. Jehovah Shalom, the God of peace. He is the God of peace. He is the God that brings peace. He's the God that Delivers peace to his people. They have come to a place in their life here where they are under oppression. They have been put into captivity by the Midianites. The peace that they once knew was gone. And they needed something. They cried out for it. And God introduces himself as the God of peace. I would have you see, first of all, here the ruin of peace. I think we all understand that there's times in our life where the peace is ruined, where the reality of life has brought us to a place where the tranquility that we once enjoyed is gone. The peace that we once enjoyed is no longer present. We are in the middle of a storm. We're in the middle of affliction. We don't see any light at the end of the tunnel. The battle has gotten long. The peace that we long for is not there. And this is where God comes on the scene and he introduces himself as Jehovah Shalom. the God of peace that will bring peace to your life. There's things that ruin our peace, but I want you to see sometimes, as is the case with the children of Israel here, Sometimes that loss of peace is a result of our own actions. Turn back to chapter chapter 6 but verse number 1 there in Judges chapter 6 and verse number 1. And the children of Israel did, what's the next word? Evil in the sight of the Lord. And the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years. And the hand of the Midian prevailed against Israel, and because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made them dens, which were in the mountains, and caves and strongholds. Because they were being attacked, the peace that they once enjoyed was gone. The Midianites were there and they were threatening them. They were putting them into captivity. They came and destroyed all that they had and because of that they were on the run. Anybody that was free enough to do it ran up into the hills. They were no longer living in their homes They were living in caves. They were living on the run. They were living off of the land. All the peace that they had enjoyed was gone. But can I tell you, beloved The reason is because the children of Israel had done evil in the sight of the Lord. Ultimately, I want you to know the Bible says, be sure your sin will find you out. The Bible says, be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap, and there's times when the chickens come home to roost. And sometimes the battle that we're facing and the turmoil that we're in, the storm that we're in, can I tell you, we know full well why we're in that storm. Beloved, when I was seventeen years old, I was driving from Crossett, Arkansas, to El Paso, Texas, about an 18-hour trip. I was fifteen hours into that trip, and I was Uh I fell asleep at the wheel and I drove off the side of a bridge. My car flipped end over in twice and rolled several times. It stopped upright. I climbed out of the car myself and ran a half mile to a gas station to call my own ambulance Meanwhile my head was bleeding profusely. This is why I went bald. I don't know why I went bald, but I uh my head was split open from front to black. They thought I was dead I was gone and there was blood everywhere and they thought that I'd got hauled off in a paddy wagon already. They didn't realize that I ran and called my own ambulance. This is pre-cell phone days, but the windshield they said had had come loose from the vehicle and spun through the vehicle and the wind heeled windshield just r basically just split my head wide open, uh seventy-two stitches uh in two layers to put my head back together. That was the only injury I sustained. But can I tell you that I laid in the hospital that day as a 17-year-old boy and I had no question why I was there I have no question why I drove off the road and sustained such injuries. God didn't take my life, but he said, you better wake up. You better wake up, be not deceived, God is not mocked, whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Can I tell you, beloved, the peace that I had even had been enjoying was gone. Why? Because I knew I wasn't living right and doing right. And God is calling our attention sometimes, and the peace that we want to have at the foot of Jesus and in the presence of Jehovah Shalom has been removed because of our own actions. Can I tell you, beloved, that their idleness was disrupted? Do you know that one of the real problems in society today is that we have too much idleness? When we are too idle physically, it allows our mind to be too active. And we get into trouble. We pursue things we shouldn't be pursuing. We end up doing things we shouldn't be doing. One of the things that'll help you tremendously stay out of trouble is just be where you're supposed to be. You know, if you're supposed to be working, you ought to be at work. For sure enough, the day that you stay home when you were supposed to be at work is the day you're going to get in trouble. Why? Because I don't hands are the Come on, that's what it is. The idleness that they had got disrupted and they did evil in the sight of the Lord. I remember one time as a boy, I got taken to youth camp. because my dad was the pastor and there was nobody to watch me. So here I was about seven or eight years old and uh I was not a youth child, I was not a teenager yet, so I really shouldn't be at youth camp, but there was nobody to watch me, so I got taken to youth camp. Well not being part of the activities, I had to find my own fun. You know what happened. Sometimes, have you ever looked at your child and said, what were you thinking? And their answer is, I don't know. Well that was me. I have no idea what I was thinking. Now I was a young boy and I had started I started driving young. My dad grew up on a farm and he did not hesitate to put me behind a steering wheel and we drove lots of stuff. Well they had a tractor there at the campground. And I took it for a joyride. Now that wasn't the bad part. That was fine. Nothing got hurt. I had a good time. But when I got done, I'm like, I looked at to this day, I still don't understand what got into me. I think it was Satan. I pulled the keys out of that tractor. And I walked over to the lake and I chucked them into the lake. Like, why? Why would you do that? Right. How dumb can you be? Well, ultimately they were looking for the keys. And then I don't know why they would suspect me. Why would they even ask an innocent child? Where the keys to the tractor are? Like what what why would I have anything to do with the keys? But dad came, he's like, where are the keys? Now I did a lot of stupid stuff, but those of you that have been around a long time, you know my dad had a special paddle in our house. It was the lion paddle. And you might get a spanking for something for, you know, that you need, but this lion paddle hung on the wall. And if you got if you got caught lying, you got spanked with a lion paddle. And nobody wanted to get in and we were taught not to lie. Dad looked at me and he says, Where are the keys? I said, They're in the river. He's like, What? Where'd you throw them? That way. They were diving in the river trying to find these keys. They didn't have a spare set anywhere. I mean how stupid. What I'm saying is idleness is the devil's workshop You need to be where you're supposed to be. Ultimately, their peace was destroyed. Why? Because they were too busy enjoying it. We this one thing we have entirely too much time on our hands in this society that we're living in. We're too busy consuming stuff on this right here We're too busy watching the world's entertainment, too busy relaxing and not busy enough doing what we're supposed to be doing. The ruin of their peace, their idleness was destroyed. You see, beloved Moses and Joshua Joshua were long gone, and the children of Israel had forgotten that God is the one that fed them in the wilderness. They forgot that God was the one that fought for them as they entered the Canaan land. They forgot all that God had done for them, and then they turned back to the idols. They began to worship idols made with hands. After all God had done, and sometimes after all God has done for you and I, we would turn back and begin to worship at the feet of the world instead of worshiping God. Their increase was destroyed. Look at verses three and four. And so it was when Israel had sown that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites and the children of the east, even they camped against them. And they encamped against them and destroyed the increase of the earth, till thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass. Their increase was destroyed. Have you ever felt like that? You ever felt like the devourers come in and just taking it all? Like you got holes in your pocket. You know, I was making money, I was doing this, and and now it's all gone. Where where is it? I mean it's like it's like no matter how hard you work, you can't get ahead Sometimes a devourer comes in, sometimes Satan comes in, he attacks you, and it's a way in which he can use to rob you of your peace. I don't know anything that's more uh tumultuous or disrupts the peace we have more than the Inability to take care of our needs, the inability to pay our bills, the inability to cover this month's expenses, and the stress that that puts on us, beloved, can I tell you that Jehovah Shalom is there and Jehovah Shalom knows what you're going through and Jehovah Shalom will bring and be the peace that you need Even in the time when your increase is destroyed by a foreign force or by Satan coming in and taking it. We see their impoverished state was desperate. Look at verse number six. And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried. Unto the Lord. Oh, beloved. They long for deliverance. Sometimes God's going to get us to that place. Where we've got nowhere to look but up. Where we've got no other solution than Jehovah Shalom, the God of peace. And it's only then that we stop looking to ourselves, it's only then that we stop looking to others, it's only then that we actually turn our hearts and minds up heavenward and we call out, we cry out to God and say, Lord, I need Peace. We see the reception of peace. John 14, 27 says, Peace, I leave with you my peace, I give unto you, not as the world giveth. Give I unto you, let not your hearts be troubled, neither let it be afraid. The peace of God is there. So we see the reception of peace. They cried. They cried out to God. Can I tell you when you cry out to God, God hears. He is a God that is able to answer. He is a God that has ears to hear and hands that will help. Look at verse number 7. And it came to pass when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord because of the Midianites. Listen, they cried out and God heard. When they cried, their intercession was delivered. They They came and they called out and asked God, Lord, we need you to do something. We need some help. And if you're here this morning and your life has brought you to a place where you see the end of the road, you see a battle, you see a struggle. You be you're carrying a burden. I want you to know you need to cry out to God. You need to lay down at the foot of the cross and you need to get a hold of your heavenly father And let them know what's going on in your life. Let them know the burden you're carrying, the struggle you're facing. Because God wants to heal your home. God wants to help you meet those needs. God wants to be the deliverer of peace to you. But you're not going to have it if you keep looking to yourself. You're not going to have it if you keep thinking you're going to find it on YouTube. Put down the device and get on your knees and ask God to do something in your home. This is what we need. They cried out to God. Wow. God hears. Look at verse number twelve. Judges 6, 12, and the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. Or the angel of the Lord appeared unto him. They cried out, and God came and revealed unto him the presence. Now this the angel of the Lord. Now you remember from the last few weeks that Lord, all in caps, what is that? Whose name, what name of God is that? Jehovah. Anytime you see the word Lord, all caps in the in the King James Bible, it is Jehovah. That is what it is. And you know that consistently. He appears here, this the angel of the Lord. Is in fact what the Bible calls, or what we call, a Christophany. It is an appearance of Christ in the Old Testament. The angel of the Lord, Jehovah, appeared unto him. And he says, the Lord is with thee. Are you glad this morning that God's with you? You know, his presence is there. There's been times in my life that I just needed that presence to get me out of bed in the morning. To get me to put one foot in front of the other. To get me through one day till I could go to sleep again. If you're in that place right now, I want you to know that he's with you. If you'll call out to him, Jehovah Shalom will come and be with you. He calls him a mighty man of valor and Gideon looks around. He's like, who's he talking to? It's like, oh, not me, surely. You guys know the story that Gideon is called to deliver the children of Israel from the Midianites, and Gideon is a little hesitant. Do you know why he's hesitant? Because Gideon knows that he is not the answer to his problem. How many of you realize that? We're not the answer. We we we try, we do what we can, but we're not the answer to the problem. We need something bigger than ourselves. We see in verse number fifteen. And he said unto him, O my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? He says, How am I going to save Israel? Behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I'm the least in my father's house. Lord, surely you meant to call somebody else. Surely you're looking for somebody else to do this job. How can I do this? And sometimes God may call upon you or he may say, hey, I am with you and you're going to be able to do this. And you look at yourself and you say, I can't do this. I can't get out of bed in the morning. I can't do what I'm supposed to do. I can't fulfill this call or this duty in my life. But God says you can, and I'll be with you. I will help you in your hour of need He is the God of peace and he wants to carry you through, but we need to understand the answer is not in and of ourselves. So facing this dilemma I think that Gideon was like a lot of us. We would say, okay, Lord, if it's really you and you really want me to do this, I need you to give me a sign. I need you to show me. Make it so there's no question that I that I know this is what you want. We see in verse number 17. And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou talkest with me. He begs God to give him a sign, to show him. He said, I want to know without a doubt that you're the one telling me to do this. God comes and uh Gideon takes leave and he goes to prepare a gift, uh some meal and bread and uh uh an offering of some kind of drink. He brings it back and the Jeh Jehovah, the angel of the Lord, says, put it down right here. He puts it down and Jehovah uses fire to consume. That gift that Gideon brought. And as soon as Gideon saw that, he recognized who he was speaking to. When he saw that is when we come back to the text in which we read at the beginning, how Gideon understood who he was looking at. And immediately he builds an altar and says, I've just met Jehovah Shalom. I've just met the God of peace. Now, the amazing thing, beloved. Look at verse number 23. He acknowledges, he recognizes here. He says, And the Lord said unto him, Peace be unto thee, fear not, thou shalt not die. Now it was in verse number twenty-four, right, that he calls him Jehovah Shalom. So in the midst of this great conversation, in the midst of this battle, well, from one thing to the next. He acknowledges the God of peace is present. And can I tell you that he has given peace in his heart? Now, beloved, nothing had changed. They weren't all of a sudden delivered from the Midianites They weren't all of a sudden able to go back to their homes and not have to live in caves. They didn't all of a sudden have food in a cupboard and all of a sudden have money to pay their bills But immediately Gideon had peace. The peace was present before the problem was solved. Why? Because the God of peace was present. When he began to look at and recognize whose presence he was in, He realized, you know what, it's going to be okay. It doesn't matter what's going on in the world. It doesn't matter what battle I'm facing. It doesn't matter what storm I'm in or what struggle I'm dealing with. I know ultimately that the God of peace is in control. He had peace in his heart immediately. Beloved, why? Because he had the word of God on it God said, peace be unto thee, fear not, thou shalt not die. How many of you have been to a doctor and you were expecting the worst? The doctor looked at you and said, Oh, I checked it out and You're still ugly, but you're gonna be okay. He says you're you're gonna be alright. Oh Immediately, right? It's like, oh, I I just I needed that. This is what God comes on the scene and he says, listen, Kidding, you're not gonna die. The only assurance that Gideon had of that result when he went into battle was that he had God's word on it. Beloved, we have God's word on it. Ye shall not die And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. If you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, you've been promised eternity in heaven. Your sins have been forgiven. You have been given peace with God And you have God's word on it. The question is, is can you believe? Can you take God at His Word? That peace should be present because we have God's word on it. He had that peace. He is, God is, Jesus is our peace. Ephesians 2, verses 13 and 14 says, but now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off, So there was a time when we were a long ways from God. He says, you were far off. The Bible says in other passages that you're dead in your trespasses and sin. He says, but you've been made nigh by the blood of Christ. You've been brought back into a right relationship with God because of the blood of Christ. Verse number 14 says, For he is our peace. who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us You ever had a relationship that you felt there's a wall there? Like I've been trying real hard to fix this, and there's this wall. There's just something we can't get past. There's just this struggle between him and I This wall is just there. Jesus Christ came and broke the wall down that was between us and God and restored us into a right relationship. gave us the possibility of peace with God. And it's only when you have peace with God that you can have the peace of God in your heart as you go through this life. Beloved, the greatest need of the heart of man was met by the greatest gift ever given. Peace. And Jehovah Shalom delivered it to us. Lastly this morning, can I give you the result of peace? Beloved, the believer should be the most have the most peace of any people in all of the earth. And we are living in a tumultuous time. We are living in a day where people, it seems there is turmoil on every side. There is wars and rumors of wars. There there is struggle on every debating and and conflict and every situation out there, there's battles at work and battles in politics and battles in society and battles in your your your retirement and battles and and and and that's not even to get into the the the n nature and it seems like every week there's another storm that hits somewhere and disrupts society and And and everybody's like, man, when's gonna come next? What's the next storm gonna hit? When's the next tornado gonna hit? What's the next I mean this is just there's no peace anywhere, but God's people can have peace. I'll show you what one defining or definitive characteristic of God's people right now is that we should have the peace of God as we're going through this life, even in the midst of all this turmoil. Because it's with us all the time. Beloved, peace means that there's harmony. Can I tell you that harmony has been bought by the shed blood of Jesus Christ for you and I? We have harmony in our relationship with God. We've been reconciled back to God because of what Jesus did. Can I ask you, do you know the Peacemaker? Do you know Jehovah Shalom? Have you accepted him as your Lord and Savior? The Bible tells us the extent of this peace. In a very familiar verse, Philippians 4. 17. And the peace of God which passeth. You guys know the verse? And the peace of God which passeth. All understanding. This is a piece that we can't even really comprehend. Have you ever known a loved one who went through a great loss? And you just look in awe and you're like, I don't know how they're handling this. Because that grace that we talked about In the beginning of the service today, that mighty, merciful grace of God that is sufficient in our hour of need. ministers to the heart of the individual who's going through that loss and that peace is something that's given miraculously and we stand back and look and say, wow How can that happen? Where does that peace come from? It comes from Jehovah Shalom, the God of peace that ministers to us. It is a peace that passeth all understanding. And it says it shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus or the impact of this peace is that it keeps us It keeps us even in the midst of a storm. I'm sure many of you have seen the artist rendering A a some famous person, some king or something was he uh asked for or commissioned, I was looking for that word, commissioned uh some artist to draw a picture of peace. And these different artists were submitting their pieces of of peace and and uh they of course pictured these very beautiful, serene country uh hills, the rolling hills with the wild flowers growing and You know, they had all these different ideas of peace, but there was one artist that drew a very dark image with the storm raging and the rain pouring down and the the lightning striking and the clouds were on us and the entire image was dark and and you just looked at it and you thought, what in the world? But then there in the middle of that image, sitting beneath the cleft of a rock, was a little bluebird. Singing. Just sitting under that rock without a care in the world. This entire storm was around him, but that didn't really matter. The bluebird was protected by the cleft of the rock. Beloved, you and I are protected by the rock which is Jesus Christ. We are He keeps your heart in mind through Jesus Christ and in the midst of the storm when it's raging at its greatest, when the rest of the world is like, what are we going to do? You're standing there with a calm peace in your heart because the God of peace is with you and He's carrying you through the storm. That is the picture of peace. This peace is available to all. It keeps us Would you turn to the book of Colossians and we're going to bring this to a close? That's all the way in the New Testament. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians. I want to get to the book of Colossians. I just want to show you a couple of verses. This is important for you to see. I know the verse I'm going to give you at first. You guys know that one. Most of you could quote it. But I want you to see it in context, to see the second verse we're going to look at and why it's so important. Oh, Colossians 3. 15. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Beloved, we are to let the peace of God rule in our hearts. One of the reasons that you know you're making a right decision when you make a decision to do something is you have peace in your heart. You need to learn how to walk with God so that as you take a step, you know that you're doing right because you're used to the feeling of peace that comes upon you and you know that when you're taking a step that's not right, when you're going a direction you shouldn't go, that piece is gone. And you know that something's not right. And you say, wait a minute, that's not the direction I'm supposed to be going. We need to step back. Okay, Lord, what do I need to do? You need to let the peace of God rule in your heart. Beloved, as God's people, that peace should be guiding us through our life. We should be dwelling in that peace. And when that peace is not present, then there's something wrong. We need to look for it. We need to long for it. We need to enjoy it. We need to learn to live in that place. Beloved, I'm burdened for Christians who are saved and they're on their way to heaven, but they do not know the peace of God. They're living the Christian life, but for them it's a turmoil. For them it's a battle. For them it's a struggle. They don't understand the peace of God. Do you know why? Can I tell you it's because there is no submission in their heart, and there is no scripture in their heart What is it that gave Gideon peace before the battle ever changed? I pointed it out earlier. What was it? He had the Word of God. Right? He had the Word of God. Look at this passage of Scripture where it says, Let the peace of God reign in your heart. Look at what is tied to this. Look at verse number 15. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord, and whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Beloved The peace of God there is directly tied to the Word of God. When you let the Word of God dwell in you richly You have that word that's gonna that promise from God that's going to keep you in the midst of a storm. When you neglect the word of God and you leave it off as part of your life and you're going through the storm Without any submission to the will of God and without any scripture, uh that word of God that's in your life, you're going through it without him. And that's why you don't have the peace that you should have Jehovah Shalom wants to meet you there in the midst of the storm, but we've got to pause, we've got to come back, we've got to submit to his will, we've got to absorb and let the word of Christ dwell in us richly. I'm gonna bring this to a close. You guys remember the story of Hannah in First Samuel? Hannah longed for a child. This was her heartbeat, her desire. She wanted a child so bad that she went into the temple and she knelt down and she began to pray there. And she prayed so fervently that the man of God and all his piety thought she was drunk. And came and began to rebuke her for being drunk in the house of God. And he and she says, Nay. That is not. I I no no I am calling out to the Lord and he begins to see her heart and her desire to have a child is so great that she she was just Almost like in convulsions, just earnestly and fervently praying so that he would think she had lost it. Well he sees her faith and he looks at her and he says, the Lord has heard your prayer, and you're going to have a child. And she came into that tabernacle weeping. But the Bible says that she walked out and she was sad no more. Now let me ask you, did she get was she expecting as soon as she left? No. She didn't all of a sudden have a child. She didn't have a child waiting for her out in the car I mean, what changed? Why is it that that heart that was broken and the burden that she was carrying was more than she could bear? But then all of a sudden She was sad no more. What did she have? She had the Word of God. And that brought peace to her heart. And the sadness was gone. And she was able to go out and face life. Why? Because Jehovah Shalom was with her. Beloved, we need to know the God of peace, Jehovah Shalom, and let it guide us in our life. And when we are not experiencing that peace, we know something's not right. We need to get back to that place. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed