Walk around throughout the day and and say it, you know, different ways, uh that we henceforth meet no more children, uh and just quickly uh try and say it real fast or try and say it, you know, that we henceforth Be no more children tossed to and fro. You know, was trying to say it different ways with every wind of doctrine, you know. Uh just try and say it back and forth. So I wonder, uh I don't know how many of you have been working on that, but you might have the memory versed down. Do you want to try and say it this morning in Sunday school? Nobody. Ms. Lois in the back, she's gonna try and say it for us. But anyway I'll get rid of it. Um that um Hence for we no longer need children. Possibility rows and queries this word makes it like Something wind but every wind of doctrine. And here you got by the window. With every wind of doctrine. Mm-hmm. And and um by the slider command and um kind of crap and those uh their right their ride is um it's they they like But uh speaking the truth and love, uh no, it's like speaking the truth and love maybe So I'll spend the name uh in all ways. Um which is the head being right Miss Lowe's, thank you very much for doing that. Give her a hand. So uh, you know, obviously she turned a couple of words around or that kind of thing, but You know what? So did I. So and uh at least she uh she you know, here I mean she is still a young lady, but she's not a whippersnapper, you know. And uh she can still learn God's word. She And uh start to try and commit to memory the word of God. And uh that is wonderful. Um Um so would there be anybody else wanna willing to give it a try uh this morning? All right. Bradley? 14 or 15 that we have 14 or children talk to forby they write But speaking of different exotics and nothing with the heavy thing Very good. You did the same thing that I did last week. I don't know, that just gets left out the and carried about. Uh that we had fourth feed no more children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. Somehow that and carried about gets left out. At least when I said it last week I think I left that out. Uh but thank you for working on that. We're gonna try to see who would be willing to do it in the morning service as well. But uh we're going to look at the third commandment this morning and uh So you can turn to Exodus chapter twenty. the Ten Commandments we have been tackling here in Adult Sunday School, just uh one a week. Now because of the church schedule, uh different things that are going on, like we have some guest uh speakers coming in. Uh we have uh brother Starr who's coming in going to be speaking uh on the fifth and he'll be in Sunday school of course dealing with what he learned during cancer in his fight in battle with cancer and be talking about that in Sunday school. We want to invite people out for that. And then also uh during the morning service and the evening service on that day. He'll be uh dealing with the family. Kind of during the month of February, we look at the family and I don't know exactly what direction he'll be going, but he'll be speaking something about the family uh on those days and then we have um Mike Edwards coming and speaking for our banquet. Now he can only stay for the banquet. He has a church in Woodwood, Woodbridge, Virginia, and uh can't stay. He's got to get back. He'll drive back Saturday night. uh to his church so that he can be in his church on Sunday. And so we won't be able to hear him on Sunday. If you're going to hear him you'll have to come to the banquet. And he is a preacher that I have known for a lot of years. And He has continued to be faithfully serving God there at that church in Woodbridge. And just uh God used his messages many times in my life To challenge me personally. And I think the first time I heard him preach was probably around 1990. Might have been a little earlier than that. I'll have to look at uh some of the I have some of his tapes, cassettes from back uh in the day and uh when he preached some messages and I can still remember some of the messages he preached. One time he preached a message called It's the Holy Spirit, stupid. And uh so uh talking about how the work of God gets done and it's not us, it's the Holy Spirit and I never forgot that title. Uh but he's Preached uh a lot of messages over the years that have spoken to me, and I know that he'll uh be used of God to speak to you as well uh at our Valentine's banquet. He preached a message entitled He Left But He Took the Key. Great, great message from a text. And one of these days I might get the opportunity to preach it. But uh he left but he took the key and uh the idea uh of when the individual in the scriptures who Swept and garnished his house. He came and he cleaned his house up, and talking about the heart and the life, he you know the scripture says he cleaned his house up, he swept it and he garnished it. He had kicked the devils out, uh, but he left, but he took the key because the Bible says that they came back and they were seven times worse than when they left. And uh so just talking about victory in the Christian life. So several messages like that. So you want to hear uh him uh at the Valentine's Banquet and then because he can't stay through on Sunday, we have Brother Ed Hampton uh who's been with us So I said all that because what I'm saying is then we run into missions conference. And I want to be done with this before missions conference and so I have to a couple of these weeks I'm gonna have to join some things together. I got to put several of these together in order to get done So kind of the schedule of where we're at. But uh you should be in the book of Exodus, chapter number twenty. We've read through this several times. Hopefully you You uh are are getting more and more familiar with it. What is the action for this third commandment? What is the action for the third commandment? Can you remember? Your hand action that helps you to remember the third third commandment. Correct. Yeah, there's a couple of you correct three fingers and towards your mouth. Thou shalt not take So Exodus chapter twenty verse number seven says, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Vain. And this passage of scripture, uh, this topic here is something that as Christians or people for some reason we we think it doesn't hold the same weight as the others. You know, we kinda look at it and say, oh well, you know, I only talk that way a little bit. Well, one of the other commandments is thou shalt not kill. I only kill a little bit. I only kill once in a while, so it's not too bad, you know. Thou shalt not commit adultery. I only commit adultery a little bit. Well those why do those carry more weight than this one? It doesn't. This is just as important and just as powerful for us and just as applicable for us as any of the others And as we look at this, it's amazing to me that out of the ten commandments that we have, two of them deal with the tongue. Two of them deal with what we say. Here, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Does anybody recall what the other one is that deals with what we say? Right, number nine. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Uh you don't want to, you know, so two of them out of the ten uh deal with what we say, how we communicate. This week I started reading, uh, well, you did too, hopefully this morning, started reading the book of Galatians. Uh today was the first day you read Galatians. Galatians chapter number one, and uh in preparation for that I preached a brief message. Uh well I don't know if it was brief Maybe it wasn't brief, but I preached a message Thursday night on the introduction to Galatians. And if you didn't if you weren't able to be here, uh here is a outline by Warren Wersby just kind of to break the break it down for you and then an outline of the life of Paul which kind of shows when those books were written that you're going to want to to get. I'm going to leave Leave this setting up here, and you can come up afterwards and get a get a copy of that if you would like it, an outline of the book of Galatians. But the book of Galatians talks to us about how we are no longer under the law, that we have liberty. that in Jesus Christ he came to fulfill the law and that we as Christians aren't under the law. And continually the Apostle Paul is uh giving the the uh Jewish Christians there in Gol the churches of Galatia a hard time for going back to the law. He says, How quick you go back to what you what you were doing. Jesus came and he died on the cross to forgive us of sin. And continually he he gets on them in Galatians chapter three, verses twenty-three through twenty-six, he says, but before faith came We were kept under the law, shut up unto faith, which should afterwards be revealed. Wherefore, the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ That we might be justified by faith. But after that faith has come, we no longer are under a schoolmaster. For ye are all children of God by faith in Jesus Christ. In Galatians chapter 5, verses 1 through 4, he says, Stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free Be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. He's saying Christ has made you free. Don't be entangled again with the yoke of bondage, which was the law. The law kept them in bondage, kept them under bondage He said, Behold, I, Paul, say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing. He's saying, if you're observing the law, then Christ isn't going to be What Christ has done for you doesn't profit you. For I testify again to every man that is circumcised that he is a debtor to the whole law. He's saying, if you're going to observe one part of the law You have to observe all of it. And the law was there to show man that they couldn't observe all of it, that they could not meet all of it, and therefore needed a Savior, Jesus Christ. He says, Christ is become of no effect unto you. Whosoever of you are justified by the law, you are fallen from grace. So he says, what Christ did becomes of no effect if you go back to trying to earn your justification under the law. So as you're reading this week, you're going to see that over and over again in the book of Galatians. And so the obvious question comes up, well, Pastor Caleb, if we're free from the law, uh we're no longer under the law and we're under liberty, then why are we taking time in Sunday school to look at the law? Why are we looking back at this And I just want to remind you in advance as of your reading this week that this is important. It was for us. The scripture tells us in Romans chapter fifteen, verse number four, For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning. The things that were written aforetime, he's saying the the scriptures that we have thus far were written for our learning, for us to learn from, for us to benefit from. He says that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. He says these scriptures they aren't been done away with in in that we disregard them, that they're no longer relevant at all to our lives. We don't live under the law, but there's still much there that was written for our benefit. And in 1 Corinthians 10 11 he says, Now all these things happened unto them. He said, These things are given to us as an example. These things are given to us uh for our benefit, for our learning. And so that's why we're looking back at this, even this message here, the third commandment. Uh one of the things that makes us different from the world or from the animal kingdom is that we have the ability to communicate in a meaningful way. You know that's that's what makes us different from the beast of the field. And I know there are some animal lovers who would want to say, animals communicate. Okay. You understand it's not on the same level. We don't really know how much communication animals have and I understand that uh they can express affection and animals can communicate uh in some way but I haven't come across one that has a written language yet. Um I haven't come across one that has a a dictionary or a lexicon. I think there's a different level of communication that God has given to us, and our communication is very important. That's why two of the Ten Commandments deal with what we say to one another How we communicate. But man has taken this gift of communication, and because of the sin nature, we've perverted it. We've taken what was good and and positive and turned it vulgar and evil. The fact is that language used by the average American today, whether it be boy or girl, For man or woman is vulgar. Um it's amazing to me in my study I came across the uh uh there's uh plethora of information but a psychiatrist was doing a study and the effect of vulgar language on children and they said in quote by the time kids go to school now they are all saying all the words that you are trying to protect them from on television. That's what they believe. He went on to say, we find that swearing really takes off between the ages of three and four. That is what is commonplace in the world today. Now my daughter just turned sixteen, to my knowledge. Now I could have my head in the sand as well, but to my knowledge she's never said a curse word. Uh and it shouldn't be commonplace. in the world that we live. And when your your kids go to different uh schools like uh um Onani You know, she went with us today and she has to go to a a school, a a public institution. And those situations that kids get in, not only do they hear this language constantly Constantly, but they are actually encouraged to speak that way. I read of one man who Said for his entire college career, it was a constant battle with all of his friends. They would just say, Come on, say one word, say one word, come on, you can do it, you can do it, just say it, just say it Friends, friends, just trying to get them to curse because he had it as his habit not to curse. And and it's just y you're not your it's not the norm to use dignified language. The norm is to speak What is absolutely paramount about this commandment for us Is that we understand the reason why we don't communicate that way. The reason why we don't take the Lord's name. In vain. The reason why we don't curse. You see, in my reading I came across this. This man It's amazing how profane our world has gotten and in the what I would call the complete secularization of our society. To the point where that is not just embraced, but it's sought after. This man is talking about his two and a half-year-old daughter, who he is waiting to cuss He said, I'm not ready for Sienna, his daughter's name, to have her mom's sailor's mouth. But eventually when she's a I wouldn't want her to be afraid to speak to me in the language that she and her classmates communicate in. I hope that I'm ready to hear her speak in such words in my presence as part of normal conversation. Because the reality is that cursing is ordinary and sometimes even acts as a release for pent-up stress He goes on and says, I wish I could have that release, but I am terrified of what people will think of me. I believe that this is from my father, who in turn got it from his mother, my grandmother who does not curse at all. My dad never cursed in front of me when I was growing up. And it seemed, he seemed terribly uneasy when he heard my mother do so. And I think I took that discomfort, that uneasiness, and internalized it to the point where today I cannot say a curse word in front of anyone, not even my wife He says, 18 years out of college, and now I cry in front of my therapist about my inability to curse. Tears streaming down my face. My face scrunched and red with embarrassment, and my insides filled with anger. She says, you're safe here. Just say it. Just say it. Here's somebody completely confused. But what he believes the reason for not cursing is, is that he somehow internalized the discomfort that he felt because his dad didn't want to curse This is what happens when you remove the book from why we do things. To teach morality outside of God's Word makes it just subjective. Makes it just, this is what I do and this is why I do this. It's because I like it. And children get the idea that the reason they don't curse is because dad didn't like it. That has nothing to do with it. It's because God says, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain That's why we don't. The authority is in the Word. And how we communicate is very important to God. And this is why this is important for us today because it gives back the authority for what we do and why we do it. It's not just a matter of how I feel or what I think about it. It's what does God say about it. So I'm going to give you a couple of things about this commandment here. First, The priority of God's name. The priority of God's name. Psalms 8, verse number 1 says, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. God's name is excellent, lifted up above everything else. God's name is high and lifted up. We know that names have meaning, especially in the Bible times. People were given names that signify uh you know they were born at a particular time or that they were a gift to the family or that they helped them through a s certain situation. Names were given for a particular purpose or meaning Names meant something. Even today we give our names and and we say, This is your grandfather's name. Wear it well. Keep it keep it well. This is something that means something. Our name means something. There are over 300 names for God given to us in the Bible. That's because I'm not going to give them all to you. That's because one name could not it by any means give us a picture of what God is. One name couldn't do God justice. We have 300 names, and these names give us God's character. They tell us what He is. He is faithful He is true. He is honest. He is just. These names explain and give us his character. They give us his nature as a Person. He is powerful. He is omniscient. He is all-knowing. They define what he is to us. These names, God's name is So meaningful for us. Your name says who and what you are. People hear your name and they think. Now your name, you have uh defined it by your actions. After the Civil War, there was an insurance company. And he came to General Lee and said, we'll make you the president of our company if you let us use your name to sell our insurance. And he said, no, I'm sorry. My name is all I have left, and it's not for sale. He felt so strongly about his name, he says, it's not for sale. And he taught to deny that position. We must understand that God's name is not just a designation of identity But is it a description of who and what He is for us? God's name defines this for us. His name, Jehovah. Was so holy that the priest would only say it once a year. He would only speak the name of Jehovah once a year. In Leviticus 23, 27, he says this. Also on the tenth day of the seventh month there shall be a day of atonement. It shall be a holy convocation unto you. And ye shall afflict your souls and offer an offering by the fire unto the Lord. That Lord was Jehovah, unto Jehovah. They on the day of atonement that the the priest would speak the name of Jehovah. You know, uh if you've been in church for a while that the priest or the scribes when they would copy the scriptures down that when they came to the word Jehovah, to the name of God, they would stop, put their pin, go bathe themselves, go clean, come back, pick up their pen, write the name of Jehovah, stop, put their name down. That's how holy and reverently they handled the name of God. How far we've come. in our country today. It was considered precious. God's name. There there should be a priority. I could spend all the rest of Sunday school and the morning service. service uh just talking about the names of God and what they mean to us. And many times as we have the Lord's Supper here, uh we'll say, you know, what does God mean to you? And throughout the room, people will, just in one word, sum up what God means to them. And many times they are that is capsule encapsulates a character trait. a nature uh of God. One one area of what God is. He's a friend. He's a friend. And we know he's a friend. Closer than a brother. So, God's name, the priority of it. There is power in God's name. Now, there are some things that we are supposed to do. uh with God's name. We aren't supposed to take it in vain, we know that. But there is power in God's name. And there's some things that we're supposed to do as far as that goes. We uh depended upon how you take this, but Swearing in God's name. Now that's a biblical term. We're not supposed to curse, but swearing is taking an oath. Uh, you know, and And the thing is, is you take God's name in vain when you take an oath and don't mean it. When you don't follow through. When you make a promise and say, This is what I'm going to do, you know God is my witness. I'm gonna do this. And you're swearing in the name of God that this you're gonna follow through with this, and you don't do it, you're taking that name in the name In vain because God always follows through. God is always He's all knowing. And uh when you uh swear by the name of God and don't follow through, you take God's name in vain. Another thing that we do in the name of God is We receive salvation. There's nothing other name given among men whereby you must be saved. is the name of Jesus Christ of God. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby you must be saved. It's Jesus' name that we receive salvation. In Matthew 1. 21, and ye shall bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus, for he, what? Shall save his people from their sins. Jesus came to save people from their sins. And we receive salvation Through and by the name of Jesus Christ. We also are supposed to use Jesus' name in supplication. When we come in in prayer, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. The Lord's Prayer, the example of how we are supposed to pray, starts with our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. the holy, precious name of God. He says we come into God's presence by calling his name. In John 14, 14, he says, if ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it. That's why we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. Because that gives the authority behind what you're praying, what you're asking for. You know, if uh Brother Taylor pulled out his checkbook today and he handed it to me and I wrote a check for $10,000 and signed it and gave it to Joe. But it wouldn't do any good because it signed Caleb Batrell. That doesn't matter. Not gonna help Joe a bit. It there may may be even ten thousand dollars there. But it doesn't matter because the name that's on the check, their bank's gonna look at that and say, Caleb, uh this does not work, Joe, I'm sorry And Joe will be utterly disappointed. Why? Because the authority's not there. I don't have the right to write a check out of his bank account. But when he signs it Merle Taylor. That authority's there. And that's why we pray in Jesus' name. We come because Jesus has told us we can come And he said, you can pray, and you can talk to the Father, and you go to the Father in my name. Go talk to him in my name. And whatsoever you ask in my name, I will give you. I mean that's a powerful thing. So we use pr we use the name of Jesus in supplication. We also find security in the name of Jesus. Jesus in Proverbs eighteen ten he says the name of the Lord is a strong tower, the righteous run into it and is safe. So what is the problem with taking the Lord's name in The word vain mean literally means uh unreal, empty, frivolous, insincere. You know, it just it's just not real. Um they labor in vain that build it. Uh you know, the man that builds his house on sand, uh except the Lord build the house, they labor The effort is unreal. The effort is useless because they're doing it themselves. Well, the same is true when we take the Lord's name in vain in a in a insincere uh way, uh empty when it doesn't really mean anything. A lot of times people that are talking this way don't even think about what they're saying. You know, people that uh uh you know the the word D-A-M-N uh is an abbreviation or a shortening of damnation. And people will look at somebody and say say they want God to send you to hell. That's what they're saying. when they use God's name like that at you. I don't think in their mind they they've even got that register that they even realize what they're saying to people. They're just talking. But what they're using is they're using the authority of God's name and saying they want God to send that person to hell. And if people knew that, I I think they would people would use it less. But it has become such a commonplace a way of talking and communicating that people do it without even thinking We shouldn't show a lack of reverence or contempt for God by using his name in these vain ways. Using God's name as curse words Um it's amazing to me why they don't curse anybody else. Uh you know, they don't they don't say Mickey Mouse whatever. You know, one of the reasons is because Mickey Mouse has no authority. Even they don't say uh you know Muhammad, whatever, uh it's always Jesus and God because that's the authority. And even somebody that's an atheist and wan wanna deny God God. They use they use his name to curse others. In 1 Samuel 1743, the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest? To me with staves. This of course is Goliath, looking down at David, and he says, And the Philistine cursed David by his God. The Philistine knew where the authority was. And he cursed David by his God. And that was the problem that David had with him. This disrespect for God is disrespect for God and for the for those people around you. You're not showing a respect for them, the people around you. Use of even slang language or acceptable replacements. As Christians, we have our Christian cuss words, you know. um which it's very evident that what they are and what we're doing, you know, when uh you say, oh fudge Okay. We know what it means. We know what you're saying. We know what darn is an abbrev abbreviation for, or what it was supposed to mean, or gosh. And when you put those together, you're saying the exact same thing the world says, just in a quote, acceptable way. And uh as a Christian we shouldn't have, you know, your kids will never cuss if you don't let 'em say gosh and darn and things like that. And uh so I think it's something that as Christians we should really watch. The Bible here says that God will not hold you guiltless. There is a cost for using for speaking this way. God's going to judge us. And He's not going to hold you guilty as we know from Matthew chapter 12 that you're going to be judged or you're going to be blessed by the way that you communicate, the words that you use. Those around us will not see God. When we use perverse language, those around us do not see God for who He is, but they see Him for who we have betrayed. Him to be. I didn't say portrayed. I say betrayed. They see him for who we have betrayed him And then portrayed him to be. Because that's what we show for God. The proper use of God's name is essential for us to have a true understanding of who God is. We need to protect ourselves from the misuse of his name. If we truly know him to be holy, to be powerful, to be limitless, to be faithful, then we need to use conversation and terms that would lift up and honor those things. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. name. As Christians, we need to lift high the name of Jesus Christ, of God, and don't let those around us tear it down with uh what has even become commonplace or acceptable language. Today, but we should not be speaking that way. Very important for us as Christians. Let's uh close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and the opportunity to be in your house. We pray that you would go with us as we go into the morning service, that you would speak to hearts. Lord, would you help us in our conversation to lift high the name of Jesus and Lord to honor you with it. And uh not lower or degrade or uh the the name of Christ in front of others. Lord, we'll thank you for it. Go with us now. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, you're dismissed. We have uh choir in about ten minutes. Maybe what you want to do is