God still addresses this time period. He does so in prophecy in the book of Daniel. So we do have a reliable narrative from the Lord about this time period, but Once again, it's in prophecy, it's in symbolism, it's in pictures. And so what we're going to do through this brief I was shooting for three weeks, pastor, uh study is look at what happened to God's people during this time and what happened to prepare the world for the coming of Jesus Christ in the New Testament. Of course, we leave the Old Testament, the last book of the Old Testament, we have Malachi, and we had the returns. And we had the Jewish people returning to the promised land. We had them rebuilding the land. the temple, we had them rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem. And then magically 400 years later Jesus comes, but the Romans are there? And there are these people called the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and now there are synagogues, and now there's like, what happened to get us from there with just the temple? To hear with Jesus Christ. And obviously he didn't have a problem with the synagogues. He taught in them. We're going to be looking at what happened to get the world from point A. to point B from the Old Testament to the New Testament. And so we've got to lay some building blocks, and they're actually going to start with some historical events. uh in scripture. Uh lesson one, I'm looking at the return from exile, a look at the shift in Jewish culture prior to and during The Persian rule. So there were a lot of changes that happened with the Jewish people, but they really started with them being taken from the promised land. Is this going to work? Yes. Okay. We of course remember the fall of Jerusalem. We remember the northern kingdom even before that being taken away into captivity. If we were to put these on a timeline, roughly in the year 722 B. C. , Sargon of Assyria conquers northern Israel. and replaces the population with a mixed people, the Samaritans. We know that they are going to be a problem And they are a problem for the Jewish people all the way back here, 700 years before Jesus Christ They were brought into this region. They were brought from outside of Israel. They were made to intermarry with people there. And then they even started their own religion. based on the Jewish faith. They had their own version of the Pentateuch. They had their own temple in Samaria that they built They had all of these things that were mimicking Jewish culture, and it became a problem. And we're going to see later on what happens to these people and what really builds the animosity. between the Samaritans of the Jewish people. It's going to come around much later to them being introduced. Of course, we also remember in 586, Nebuchadnezzar destroys Jerusalem. and carries off the best citizens with him to Babylon, to his home region. Why? Because he has a policy that he wants the best from every nation to serve his kingdom. It doesn't matter what region he conquered, he took the cream of the crop wherever he went. And of course we know this from the beginning of the book of Daniel, where Daniel and his comrades are shipped off and they tried to make them Babylonian. They try to make them integrate into the culture. And this was Nebuchadnezzar's policy. Everywhere. Everywhere he went, he did this. And so we see also then thousands and thousands of thousands, besides Daniel. of Jewish people were brought out, were brought out, were brought out, and dispersed all through Nebuchadnezzar's empire. Why did he do this? It prevented rebellion. It prevented problems from cropping up. If you lead large groups of people that are used to being independent in their home areas, they start to get fuzzy ideas about independence And that's not what you want when you have an empire that you're controlling and ruling. You want people to be uh subjugated. to be quiet, to integrate into how things are now. And so Nebuchadnezzar does this policy. But of course after his death and the death of his grandson, we see a change with the Persians. Um we see, of course, we go from the golden head of Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonian Empire to the silver chest from the picture in Daniel, the statue there, of Persia. And we see King Cyrus of the Medo-Persians overthrows Babylon. And begins allowing captives to return home. This is where we have the first return. This is where we have them begin to go home out of exile. There'll be a few different returns. Does anyone remember from our already previous established Old Testament survey. Does anyone remember who led the first return from what was Persia back to Jerusalem? Does anyone remember who did that? Zerabbel, right? Zerebabel, and he leads this expedition back. The people which stay behind are branded as the diaspora. These are the dispersed Jewish people still living in what would be modern day Iran, Iraq, Syria, other regions besides Israel They were taken, they were moved, but after a few decades, they've kind of settled in. They've got businesses, they've got families, they've got farms, they've acclimatize to the area. He said, I know there's returns going back to the promised land, but I'm kind of happy where I am now. And so they stay. These groups are addressed in and referenced by New Testament writers James and Peter in Peter, in 1st, 2nd Peter. We see them address these people. And also, to some extent, the book of Hebrews was written to all Jewish people, but we see that this was a s almost a split. in Jewish tradition and custom and everything. Because the people that returned were the ones who got to encounter the Messiah eventually. The ones who returned rebuilt the temple. The ones who returned rebuilt Jerusalem. But there was a large contingency that stayed out and stayed away. And that became a shift in Jewish culture we would see. Finally, in 516 BC, Darius orders the renewal of the temple, and they begin to reconstruct that I got this kind of just generic map of the region because I wanted you to see kind of the area and some major cities that were here. We have Susa. Right here, uh over above Elam. Elam is a region, kind of like a province, and uh Susa is where the book of Esther takes place. It's where Morchai is. It's where these things are happening. We see Babylon right there in between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Of course, Kadar, that region, it's all desert. You're not going to go through that area. You're going to go up and above and then down to Jerusalem. All the way over on the right, though, you see this city called Persepolis. And while this is not necessarily referenced in Scripture, Persepolis was a second palace, a second capital, a second city that was built up in the mountains that was almost like a retreat. Uh the only thing I could think of to compare it to today would almost be like Camp David up in Thermont that the president could kind of retreat to. But imagine if it was an entire city that functioned just like DC. Had the same thrones, had the same courts, was even more lavishly built. The Paul and Persepolis had a thousand columns Holding up the roof of it. A thousand columns taller than the steeple of this church. Enormously built, inlaid with statues and gold and all the Splendor that you would have found in the capital of Susa, you found in Persepolis. And this city is going to come into play later. uh and why it's important. But the same amount of time that a king would spend in Susa, he also sent in spent in Persepolis. And we see that uh the Empire of the Persians would have covered everything that you can see on this map. They conquered into modern Turkey. They conquered over into Iran, all the way to the borders of India. They conquered and went down into Egypt. How did they rule? A nation so large without modern communications, without, you know, I mean they essentially invented the first mail system How in the world would they pull that off though? It was by splitting up the regions and appointing local governors that they called satraps And these satraps were essentially minor kings that got to rule their own region. And then they would go back once, twice, three times a year, whenever the king called them, and report to the king on how they were doing. How was the harvest? How many soldiers could you raise? What was the tax revenue like? And the king could often appoint or dismiss satraps as he needed to. It's why they gave the Persian rulers the title King of Kings. He had many kings underneath him, but he was the king of kings. Now it's not uh neglecting, of course, God is the king of kings, right? He's the Lord of Lords, the ruler of all. But this was a title that they used. King of Kings. During this time period, we see that there starts to be some tension though, even though it's not recorded in Scripture, and we have Scripture for this time period. we start to see some tension between the Persians and this little fringe country on the border of their empire. Up here at the top, very top left of the map, we see the edges of Asia Minor, the edges of modern Turkey. Right along those coasts are a series of little cities, Greek cities independent city-states that when the Persians rolled into the area, they conquered these Greek cities, these Greek colonies. And if you know anything about the Greeks, they appreciate democracy and can't stand the idea of a king, let alone a tyrant, ruling on a throne thousands of miles away, telling them how they're going to live their lives. So, even though it's not on the map here, just to the west of this we have Greece and the independent city-states that you maybe would know just off the top of your head, Sparta. Athens, Thebes, several of these city-states begin silently shipping weapons, money, men, material To these conquered Greek city-states and help them foment revolt. Several times, these Greek city-states on the edge of Persian rule Declare independence, rise up, kill the local Persian satrap, whoever was put in charge, conquer the region, and then the King of Kings would have to go over and stomp them out again And again, and again, and again, and it became a thorn in the side of the Persians, even though we're familiar with the kings of this time, even Queen Esther's own husband had to deal with this. It's not recorded in scripture, but we know it was happening. This led to an eventual invasion. Because the Persians got tired of it. They said, if you're going to sit across this little body of water and keep fomenting rebellion in my empire, I'm going to deal with you. And they try and they fail to invade. During Persian rule, 478 BC, Esther Esther becomes the wife of Xerxes the Great, otherwise known in history as King Hazuerus. Prior to the marriage, literally just about two years prior, He tried to lead an invasion into Greece with nearly two million men. How do we get that number? Seems a little excessive. What he did was he formed a square on the ground and crammed 10,000 men into that square, and instead of counting by head, what they did was they refilled the square square again, said okay, this square can hold 10,000 men, right? He filled it again and he filled it again and he filled it again and he filled it again and he f people to watch the camels, you know, people to cook the food. Hard enough as it would be to assemble an army this large, you've got to feed an army this large. And he launches an invasion into Greece. We know that he ultimately fails to conquer it, but he does take Athens. And once he takes Athens, He burns the Parthenon, which is one of the most famous structures there, and the Acropolis, which was a large mountaintop where all the temples to their gods were, and he burns it to the ground. He says, if I gotta leave, I'm gonna at least leave a mark on you. This sets up a grudge. between the Greeks and the Persians that is ultimately going to lead to, about a hundred years later Alexander the Great invading Persia. This is so ingrained into the hearts and the minds of the Greeks that they need to get revenge. for what happened to them, that you'll see something that you would never see the Greeks do otherwise. They cooperate. They start to ally together. They help each other. Because normally they're busy fighting each other. Athens and Sparta, Thebes and Athens right next door. They fought each other more than anything else. But if there's one thing that you will knight a people. Even if they're feuding with each other, it's an outside invader, an outside influence. When the enemy comes knocking, listen, you and I might not agree on everything as Americans. Or fine, let's break it down. We might not agree on everything as Marylanders, but if some Pennsylvanians come down here and start making trouble, it's like, okay, Pennsylvanian there's And I know we got Pennsylvania's here, so fine. Maybe we're East Coast versus West Coast. Maybe we're, you know, I don't know how you want to, but whatever it would be, it would unite us. against the common enemy. This is happening at the same time as what we have recorded Scripture for, right, Pastor? But the purpose of Scripture, and I feel like we need to lay this out, the purpose of Scripture is not God telling us everything that's ever happened. It's Him telling us everything that we need to know for our relationship with Him. That is what the scripture is for. That is what the Bible is for. It's not a record of everything everywhere. It's not an encyclopedia. But it is everything we need to know to have a relationship with God. And so while He does give us details and information about historical time periods, he doesn't give us everything that happened because at the end of the day. It's not all that important. But why are we talking about this? Because it's setting the stage for what's going to happen. It's the steps leading us Excuse me, to the prophecies that are about to be fulfilled. During Persian rule, we see in 458, Ezra leads another return under Artaxerxes. He comes back This is where we see them reading the law. This is where we see them beginning to build. Under Ezra, a council of elders is formed, the beginning of the Sanhedrin The Sanhedrin, the seventy elders that would be ruling, the seventy elders that would one day condemn Jesus Christ. The beginnings of that group, that ruling body, started all the way back here Almost 500 years, 450 years before Christ would come, we see this body form. We also see a practical need. for the people of God to retain their culture and their knowledge of God. What do you mean by that? Even though a portion returned to Jerusalem, I would say the majority of Jewish people, even practicing Jewish people that were faithful to God, did not. They stayed in the diaspora. They stayed dispersed. So how did they maintain their Jewish culture and traditions? They created a place called the synagogue. The synagogue was the practical answer. to the need to maintain Jewish culture in a foreign and increasingly hostile world. The synagogue was a meeting place that they began to form. Eventually the rule became, if there were at least 10 Jewish men in a city, they would found a synagogue. We don't know exactly what the requirements were in the very beginning, but we see these places begin to appear during this time. These places became social. educational and spiritual centers and became vital for the Jewish way of life. That is why it is such a problem later on in the New Testament when followers of Christ, if they were Jewish, were cast out of their synagogues, like in the book of Acts, it would cost them their job, it could cost them their family, it would cost them they were social pariahs. It used to be, even in the founding of America, that more or less everyone would attend a church. And so churches took on a little bit more than just a gathering of Jesus Christ churches, at least in New England, far up there, you had to attend the church to vote, to be a part of government in Massachusetts. It was written into the charter you had to be a member of the Congregationalist Church to even hold an office or to vote. It took on a very significant portion Of the Jewish way of life. It became everything for them. It was where they would have a business meeting. It would where they would have their children attend to learn how to read and write. It was everything that the Jewish people needed to maintain their way of life wrapped into one. And we see that this became the hub of their life. Every synagogue had a minimum of four things. A chest containing a scroll of the law. We would call it what today. We have these nice, amazing books that we can carry around with us. But realistically, how were they maintaining theirs? Scrolls. Large scrolls. What did you need to do? Keep that safe and protected. They would have a chest to put that in. They would have a platform With the reading desk from which scripture was read. They would have lamps for lighting, and finally benches or seats for the congregation. If you replace the desk with a pulpit, you've got more or less the bare minimum of a church. In fact, the parallels that we see between the synagogue and the church, even in the order of service which is next, are strikingly similar. The order of service. They would meet every Sabbath and two nights a week for services. Get on that, Pastor. Two nights a week for services Can't be outdone here. At the beginning of every service, they would open with the Shema, Deuteronomy 6, 4 through 5. Anyone want to look that up real quick? We finally get to use our Bibles today. I'm sorry. Deuteronomy 6. Verses 4 and 5. If someone wants to stand up and read that aloud, that'd be awesome. Someone with a nice voice other than mine before I lose it. Deuteronomy 6, verses 4. You want to do it to Johnny? Go for it Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart and with all thy soul and with all thy might Four and five. They would open with that, and then they would also incorporate other passages. Anything that started with blessed, they would put in there. They would talk about the Lord. And then they would get into a scripture was read aloud. And then a sermon was preached on that passage. We see this exactly played out with Jesus Christ when he taught in the synagogue Of course he read a very short passage and gave a very brief sermon, then sat down and they wanted to kill him, but that was the standard mode of practice for a synagogue service. And finally at the end they would end with a blessing if a priest was present. And if they didn't have a priest, then it was substituted with prayer. Just a prayer. The synagogue really became the place where the Jewish people were taught their faith. And they were taught how to read, they were taught how to write everything they knew about God, more or less they learned here. And so later on, the people who controlled the synagogues had a lot of say in what theology the people would have. The most prominent group of teachers to later control the synagogues are the Pharisees, even though they're not on the scene for another 200 years. Once they start to get their fingers into the synagogues, I can almost understand why the common Jewish person missed the Messiah. Because what they were taught from the time they could read and write was a very skewed view of their Messiah. You can very easily influence even a modern church pastor by focusing on some passages of scriptures and neglecting others. It's why we're warned to teach the whole council of God, not just the parts we like, not just the parts that are popular, or not even just the parts that keep us maybe separate as a denomination. The whole council of God, even those problem passages, even the ones that might be a little difficult and take some time to study through and teach through. Why? Because we never want to be found neglecting of God's Word. This was the order of service. This looked vaguely familiar. This looked vaguely familiar maybe to a Sunday morning. Slightly different. Slightly different. A few different things. But I've been to some I've been to a few different kinds of Baptist churches. Maybe my wife has been to far more different kind of churches than I have. I know many of you might know, but she traveled with her father in evangelism. It was in hundreds of different churches all across this country. And I've been to at least a few churches where a very simple order of service like this is this is exactly what they do. This is exactly what they do. Sometimes there would even be singing. It was unaccompanied. They didn't have a piano. Didn't have an organ. Didn't have a timbrel or something. But there would often be songs sung. These are the different sects and groups of Judaism that formed during this time. Most of these do not really form until near the end of the silent years, the 400 silent years. But these are the different groups that were around when Jesus came on the scene. Of course we have the Pharisees. These were reactionaries. What do I mean by that? They formed in reaction to something that they did not like. What did they not like? Well, it hasn't happened yet in what we're covering, but eventually the Greeks conquer the world. And when they do, they bring their culture and their teachings and their language with them. And the Persians kind of let people do their own thing. But the Greeks were going to start to put their thumb on the scale and say, we're going to make you Greek. You're gonna worship our gods, you're gonna speak our language, you're going to adopt our philosophies. And the Pharisees formed as a group. trying to maintain the traditions of their people and their culture. And honestly just kind of took things too far. They were a reactionary group that formed. The Sadducees were an off spin of that. They took the opposite view on a lot of theological positions. Would they say they wanted to protect Judaism and Jewish culture? Sure. But they did not believe in the supernatural. They didn't believe in angels and resurrection and all of these flights of fancy They thought that God's word was an okay set of moral principles to live life by. You can strip away all the supernatural, and it's just a good thing to live your life by. I can show you about 20 motivational speakers that are very popular people online that are Christians, that more or less that defines their philosophy. If we took away all this fluffy spiritual stuff, then then we can at least live, you know, by these set of principles and everything should be okay. My friend, you can't have a godly society without God. You can't have a moral philosophy without Our source of morals. You can't decide what's right and wrong without the God who defined what right and wrong is. And with that comes the supernatural, comes miracles, comes angels and demons, comes all of those things that people shy away from. Because it's not quite exactly logical, but God operates outside of that. The scribes, of course, were dedicated to maintaining written word. Their job was to make copies and accurate copies. We could go through how and why they did that. uh at another time the Essenes rejected I mean these were monks before they were monks they rejected all modern trappings in society everything was sin everything was corrupt let's just go live in a cave That's literally what they did. These people did embrace ritualistic washing and baptisms every day, every time any if they uttered God's name, they washed themselves. I mean these people lived out in the desert in a cave. You say, how were they influential around the time of Christ? Some people thought John the Baptist was an Essene because he was very minimalistically you know, clothed, he ate locusts and honey out in the wilderness. It was a very Essene thing to do. He was not though. Alright, but there were people around this time that were doing that. This is far later. The Herodians were people that embraced Roman culture. and Roman rule, which we will get to, how they came on the scene. The zealots were if you're Roman or sympathizing with Romans, we'll kill you. Jesus had a zealot In his twelve, Simon Zealotos, Simon the Zealot. He wasn't the zealot anymore with Jesus. But he was one. He also had Matthew, the former tax collector. If Simon Zelatus and Matthew would have bumped into each other on the street Simon would have chanced Matthew and gotten a promotion for it. The zealots were known for killing people in broad daylight. Roman officials, Jews who cooperated, very serious, and of course the Sanhedrin, that body that we said was established 150 years later. We'll get just a hint more into this the closer we get to these group groups being formed. But now we've got to shift gears briefly and in the time I have remaining try and get you guys through one of the most impressive feats. That a human has ever done. Conquering the known world in 13 years. So, the unyielding ram, the conquest of Alexander. Daniel chapter 8, verses 1 through 8. Daniel chapter 8, verses 1 through 8. The book of Daniel Of course, the beginning of the book of Daniel is kind of the history. It's what happened. It's what got him to that place. But then we see a lot of prophecy. And in Daniel chapter 8, we see this prophetic vision that Daniel is given, and we're going to kind of talk through it, and then we're going to show it. In the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar, a vision appeared unto me, even unto me Daniel, after the which after that which appeared unto me at the first. So he already had a vision. This is the second vision. And I saw in a vision, and it came to pass when I saw That I was at Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elam, and I saw in a vision, and I was by the river Uliah. Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, there stood before the river a ram which had two horns, and the two horns were high, but one was higher than the other. and the hire came up last and I saw the ram pushing westward and northward and southward, so that no beast might stand before him. Neither was there any that could deliver out of his hand, but he did according to his will and became great. But look down in verse 6 And he came Oh sorry, I skipped a line. And it and I in verse five, and as I was considering, behold, and he goat. So we have the goat. came from the west on the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground, and the goat had a notable horn between his eyes And he came to the ram that had two horns, which I had seen standing before the river, and ran unto him in the fury of his power. And I saw him close unto the ram, and he was moved with collar against him, and smote the ram, and broke his two horns, and there was no power in the ram to stand before him But he cast him down to the ground and stamped upon him, and there was none that could deliver the ram out of his hand. Therefore the he goat waxed very great, and when he was strong the great horn was broken. And for it came up four notable ones toward the four winds of heaven. So we see here in these verses a description of the Persian and then the Greek. empires. One of the family coat of arms pictures that the Persians had was actually of a ram. And the coat of arms that the Greeks would use the Macedonians specifically was of a goat. Very fun fact in history. So the goat was going to rise up and destroy the ram. And we see this happen very quickly. and with great power. And that is exactly the words I would use to describe what happens in these few years. Some foundational information. Darius I, yes, that Darius, the one from Scripture, the one who okayed the restoration of the temple. right it was Darius agreed to the restoration of the temple, con failed to conquer the Greeks and was defeated at the Battle of Marathon. Uh if you think that sounds familiar, marathon, it's because we where we get marathons from. A Greek citizen saw the fleet trying to land soldiers in a surprise attack. He swam, he ran, he did all the things you do in a marathon to make it to Athens to warn them, and he died. He put his body through such physical exertion, but by the time he made it to the city, he died. And the Athenian army was able to assemble together fast enough to rush to the coast, and it was almost if D-Day went bad and we lost. The Persians were trying to land on the coast and the Athenians were there and it didn't it was not a good day for the be a Persian. Xerxes, a few years later. Esther's husband failed in his invasion. This is where you get the famous battle of Thermopylae with the 300, the Spartans. Okay? This is where of course it was far more than 300 Spartans. Okay? But they b battled there. The naval battle of Salamis is one of the largest naval battles of antiquity. Thousands of ships were involved in this. Thousands of people drowned, not a good day. And of course finally at platea. You can look into all of these on your own time if you wish, but I'm just establishing this. What was the difference between the golden head And the silver chest. What was the difference between Nebuchadnezzar and the Persians? Why would the Persians be described as silver, even if they were extremely wealthy, to the gold of Nebuchadnezzar? And it was this. For the most part, despite their immense wealth, they were horrendous at warfare They failed so often in battle, it's amazing, that they were able to maintain an empire at all, uh, let alone uh as long as they did. They never quite held the luster. that Nebuchadnezzar had. And we see that. Now, while that is happening, the Persians kind of retreat. They don't do anything for a while, and in Greece, some things start to change. The northern part of Greece is an area called Macedon. And in Macedon, they were even looked down upon by other Greeks. They said they're not really Greek. They're those barbarians up there at the top. Well, a king assumes the throne, Philip II, and he reforms his nation and his military. This is where we get the famous Greek Phalanx. He has 16 men stand on each other, all with pikes bordering 18 feet long. 18 feet long. And on these ranks of soldiers, they march forward. And I'm sorry, but there's not much you can do when you have a porcupine headed towards you. He reforms the military. He proceeds to conquer and ally with several other Greek city-states, all of them except Sparta. But then, right before he launches his invasion, he is assassinated. He dies in 336 before his planned invasion. Why is any of this important? Because of his son, Alexander. At the age of 19, Alexander assumes the throne The age of 19, an already experienced battle commander, he establishes and quickly stomps out revolt, rebellion, and makes a promise to the Greeks. I'm going to avenge the Acropolis. I'm going to avenge what the Persians did to us. We're no longer going to be set on the spy sidelines and be invaded. I'm invading them. And so he does. In 334 BC, he crosses the Hellespont, the body of water in between Asia Minor and Greece, right there at the edge. And he wins a major battle at Granicus. He destroys the local satrap king and his armies and begins pushing through Asia Minor. He manages to then move south and engage Darius III, not the Darius that we know about from Scripture. At this point, we're beyond the point of Scripture. We're into the silent years. But Darius the Third manages to corner Alexander in a little six-mile sliver of land between the ocean and a mountain. And he gets behind them. He has a hundred and twenty thousand men With Alexander only having 40,000. And he loses. And he loses. King Darius took the field. And fled in terror before Alexander. There was no strength in his army. Thousands dead in this little six-mile sliver of land between the mountain and the ocean. We s this is a uh a fresco, a wall relief of that battle Darius fleeing in his royal chariot, Alexander over there on the left on his horse, charging into battle. It got that close. They made eye contact. Darius having to flee in his chariot Not a good day to be a Persian. Alexander then moves farther down the coast. He's in what we would call the Promised Land. He sieges the city of Tyre. By this point. They had built the city of Tyre on an artificial island off the coast And when Alexander came down, he sent an emissary to the city and said, I want to, they initially surrendered. They said, We'll surrender to you. We don't want to fight you. He said, Okay, let me come into the city and make a sacrifice in your temple. And they said, No, we're not gonna let you in the city. And in fact, they lopped off the head of his emissary and threw his body into the ocean. Alexander then raises, it's not seen here on the map, but over here on the side, let's say over here if this was landfall, the city of old Tyre was there, the city prophesied against in Ezekiel. And he raises that city to the ground and uses the buildings to build a rampart out into the sea. And invade the city, and he takes the city, fulfilling the prophecy in Ezekiel about not a stone being left standing on another, that nothing would ever be built there again, that it would be totally and utterly destroyed. We see that Alexander makes it down the coast. According to legend, he is presented in Jerusalem. A priestly procession comes out and meets him outside the city. and gives him and shows him from the prophecy of Daniel about his conquering of the world. And uh he treats them, this is the most important thing you need to get from this. Alexander gives a favorable view and a favorable policy to the Jewish people. He gives them citizenship of his empire He establishes kind of a safety net for them and he promotes them kind of other over other people. We see that he then proceeds to conquer the world. I got there the picture of the goat attacking the ram. Finally, he defeats King Darius another time. And he flees into exile, is assassinated. Alexander was actually mad at the people who assassinated him and had them executed, and he buried King Darius with royal honors in the royal tomb. And at the end of the day, this is fulfilling the prophecy, this is setting up the stage. Ultimately, the Greeks would conquer all of the known world. All of it. All the way to the borders of India, all the way to the borders of the steps of Asia. He conquers it all, and he's unrivaled. He returns in 324 BC, he ends his conquering, he establishes Babylon as the capital, and he'd be dead within a year at the age of 32. Nineteen to thirty-two. He conquered the world. Next week We'll look at what happens to his empire after his death and pick up from there. Thank you all for your attention