Uh you should be in uh the book of 1 John and we of course are in chapter number two uh of 1 John. We had the privilege of looking at the joyful life, the beginning of chapter number one, the the cause and the motivation, the reason for writing of the book, uh is that your joy may be full, and that's the the message that John is imparting. And then we looked at the honest life. uh living a life honest before God and if somebody says that uh hey uh you know uh I I have the light but walk in darkness he says Uh you're a liar. That's that's not true. We need to be honest in our life and in what it is that we're doing and before God and before men. And then we looked at the satisfied life and how that Jesus Christ is the satisfaction. He's complete satisfaction for the debt of sin that we owe. And then he also brings satisfied life to the believer. And tonight we want to look at what I'm titling the consistent life, the consistent life. We see here in uh the book of 1 John, chapter number 2. Verses three through six. Uh follow along as I read these verses, and then we're going to get into them this morning. Uh this evening, sorry. I'm a little bit tired tonight. Last week uh brother um Brother Joe and Nelma were telling me, Man, you seem very energetic tonight. That was that was fun, you know, and and uh I felt bad coming to the pulpit tonight because I'm tired and I I feel like I'm the the the energy's not there and I'm gonna try. I'm gonna try and bring it. But uh I don't know why I'm tired either. I mean I got a good night's sleep last night. You know, you ever been there? You thought there's no r no reason I should be worn out, you know. I've been studying, I haven't done a lot of hard work today, you know, outside of studying, so I don't know, but for some r we were singing this song, I hope you didn't see me. I was yawning. I'm like, that's that's bad. Uh but we see here in John chapter two verses three through six he says, And hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk even as he walked. And these verses I've encapsulated and put into the idea of the consistent life, and I hope that as we go through this it will make sense to you. I have given you a small handout uh that has on it a a small list, a list of questions that you could ask yourself or ask someone else to see if they're truly saved. some tests of salvation that are found in the book of 1 John, not just in this chapter, but in 1 John as a whole. We looked at the first couple uh already in their do you walk in darkness? We know that's in chapter one, and do you walk in sin? We know that that there is in chapter one. But tonight we're going to look at the third one. Do you keep his commandments? And we're going to dive into that a little bit more. Now, we're not going to get into the rest of these. Do you love your brother? Do you love the world? Do you Do you confess the Lord Jesus Christ before men? Do you practice righteousness? Do you participate in sin? Do you hear God's Spirit? Do you love Do you have God's Spirit working in you? Do you have the Son? Do you have understanding? These are questions that are asked and statements that are made that can be used to You know, as a test, do uh do I have life? Do I know Jesus as my Lord and Savior? These are some evidences that are very clearly taught in the book, and I wanted to give them all to you We'll be touching on those, I'm sure, as we go through the book and look at the different chapters verse by verse, but because it was a concise thought, I wanted to give it to you in print so you would have it. And tonight we're just looking at the third one, but not necessarily for the purpose of determining salvation, although it is evident and we will be touching on that. But this self-checklist you might have there. We want to look tonight at do you keep his commandments as we consider the consistent life. How consistent are you at keeping the commandments of God? So the first test here, or the first thing, I'm sorry, the first thing that we want to look at this evening is this third test, and so I have titled this first point the test declared. The test declared in verse number three, he says, and hereby we do know That we know him if we keep his commandments. He said, here's a pretty good measure. Here is the standard. Here is the thing. If you keep his commandments, you know him. And if you're not keeping his commandments, the fact of the matter is, is you don't know him. That's what he says here. He says, hereby do we know that we know him if we keep His commandments. Here is somebody that can have assurance of their salvation because they're keeping the commandments of God. They're living a consistent Christian life. A consistent Christian life. I don't understand, beloved, how anybody could or want to doubt the sufficiency of Christ. We know that Christ paid our debt, and he paid it all And if it was not all up to Christ, how could anyone have any faith in themselves? I mean, I know myself If my salvation was in any measure up to me, I know that I would be as lost as can be. Because I understand, I mean I don't, I, I don't It doesn't make sense why somebody would doubt the sufficiency of Christ and then think that their small measures of righteousness are somehow gonna make up the difference. It doesn't make sense how how they would portray that or think that and to me it seems a a very weak stance for somebody to stand behind a pulpit and be preaching the truth and say, listen, uh it's not all up to Christ. You have to do this or do that. You have to try and work. You know, obviously the question is is when have you worked enough? How how much faith do you have to have? How righteous do you have to be? When have you measured up? Have you ever accomplished it? And if you did really good for four or five days and then you happen to total lie and then you get hit in car and in in a car wreck and die, are you going to go to hell because you told that one lie? I mean I don't it doesn't make sense. I want you to understand that we believe that Salvation is by grace through faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone. It's not up to us at all. But there is here a test, an example, he says clearly, the way to tell if you have life is are you keeping the commandments? Now, beloved, have I stretched this in any way? Have I taken this out of context or applied my own interpretation? He says, hereby do we know that we know him if we keep his commandments. It doesn't get any more plain than that. It doesn't get any more simple than that. And this whole movement today of it doesn't really matter how I live, it's all under grace, I can do whatever I want, is a bunch of hogwash. It's a bunch of foolishness. It's an excuse to live in sin, and according to the testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, according to this verse, they don't have life. They don't have life because they're not following and obeying the commandments of God Christ himself asked, And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? He said, listen, buddy, two plus two is not equaling four here. You're standing up in church and waving your hands and singing kumbaya, and oh how I love him. But your life doesn't match that. You're not obeying the commandments. And he says, listen, if you're not obeying the commandments, you don't have life. There's something that's going to motivate you to obey the commandments of God if you do have the Holy Spirit living in you. I don't understand the proliferation of thought that is so contrary to our Lord's commands today. I just don't understand it. I mean nobody's making you be a Christian. Nobody's making you, it's not a state religion. Nobody says you have to be a follower of Christ. You can do what you want to do, but for heaven's sake, stop saying you're a follower of Christ and living like the devil. If you want to live like the devil, say you're a follower of the devil and go after that if that's what you want. But I don't understand why it's so popular in Christianity today for people to say I'm a follower of You know, I get so fed up with these movie stars getting on television and talking about how they're Christians And the life they live, the debauchery and the filth, stuff that can't even be mentioned in here, the proliferation of the of the uh wickedness that they they portray. The movies that they're involved in, the language and the promotion of drugs and sex and alcohol and promiscuous lifestyle and everybody sleeping with everybody else And yet they want to get on open whip fore and talk about how they're Christians. Not according to the Bible. Not according to God Rob Bell, who's uh was a pastor, now he's a surfer. He uh he's not he's not he doesn't even go to church anymore. At one time he pastored the what was the fastest growing church in Michigan. They say he grew it to around 10,000 members. But he said he doesn't talk about the cross and he doesn't talk about sin. In his book, Faith Wins, uh, he talks about might be love wins. Love winds, yes. in promotion of his book, he he talked about how that uh he he he believes in homosexual marriage and in the book he put it in there that homosexual marriage is okay. And of course Oprah's like, you know, this is amazing that you embraced this and that you included this in this book. I mean, that's so great. How come you don't think that the church has come around to this yet? And Rob Bell, who's supposed to be a pastor, said that the church is going let me let me quote it for you. He says, the church is going to be even less relevant if it keeps relying on a 2,000-year-old stack of letters as their best defense. I don't understand it. Claiming to be a Christian leader in the in the world today. He said, and I quote, All of these things that people think dropped out of the sky by divine edict are actually just reflections of our ongoing human evolution. And thousands of other factors that have shaped the way that we humans live and what we do. He in that book denies uh the existence of hell. And and you could go on and on. It's just a the idea of people wanting to live however they want. And yet still claim to be a Christian. You can live however you want, but you can't claim to be a Christian and live however you want. He says it pretty clear here that there is this test. He says, and hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. Are you keeping his commandments? Rick Warren, the pastor of Saddleback Baptist Church, or No, I don't think there's Baptists in there, Saddleback. It's a Southern, it was a Southern Baptist Church But I think it was just Saddleback Church. Uh was just kicked out of the Southern Baptist Convention because last year he ordained three women preachers. I'm shocked because the Southern Baptist Convention is not a stalwart of of you know standing on the faith. I'm shocked if they're kicking him out and it wouldn't surprise me if sometime in the near future he's allowed back in and he's running the thing. But uh they did take a stand on that. And uh, you know, of course now he's gone on the offense uh to defend his position for why he did that. But the Bible's pretty clear about the office of the pastor. And who can hold it? You can rewrite whatever you want uh, you know, in in scriptures and reinterpret and change things all you want. The Bible is pretty clear on that. But it's not a popular opinion. In today's world, Rick Warren said it wasn't culture that changed his mind, it was the scriptures. But uh I wonder why he came around to this belief currently and not thirty years ago. Beloved, I'm just telling you. Matthew seven twenty-one says, Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth, he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. That's what the Bible says. The fact of the matter, beloved, is it's not what you say, it's not how high you hold your hands in the air or how many verses of a worship song you sing, it's what you do. It's what you do. That's what God said. And and listen I described it already and and we believe in the sufficiency of Christ. It's not we don't do to earn our salvation. We do because we're saved. I mean, how foolish would I have to be to think that I could possibly earn my mansion in heaven? I mean you have got to work your entire life to earn a pile of bricks here down on Duke Street or Fifth Street or wherever street you're on. You've got to work 30 plus years, hopefully, to try and pay off a house here down in a neighborhood in town. How foolish do I have to think that I could earn or pay my way to heaven where there are streets of gold And and my neighborhood is is surrounded by walls of jasper and the gate protecting the property is made of pearls. And the the the river down the road and and and and all everything lighted up with Jesus Christ and not only that, there's never any taxes. Not only that, uh that that the light of Jesus Christ is going to shine forever, not only that, uh oh how much would people give to say, listen, you're never gonna have another acre pain All of your pain is gone. You're never going to have any more sorrow. All your sorrow, everything that you've ever earned in this life, people would give it in a heartbeat to have all their pain taken away And all of that is ours in heaven. How foolish could I be to think that I could earn that? That somehow I could pay for that myself. I can't. But Jesus paid it for me. Because he's perfect. And I can accept his total, complete payment for my sin. And because of that, I begin to obey and follow his commandments. Yes. Todd White, who's a false faith healer Who talks so passionately about his love for God and declares his faith according to himself all over, everywhere Uh his testimonies continually talk about how he's approaching people and and God gives him insight into this man and And as he's walking up to him, God told him in his heart that this man had pain in his neck. And he walked up and said, God just told me you had pain in your neck. And he heals them. And I don't know where these people are that he keeps healing. How come there's not other people talking about all these healings, but he's always talking about it? But what gets me is he talks so passionately about how much he loves God and he has dreadlocks that go down to his waist. And you say, Pastor Caleb, you can't judge him for that. The Bible says, doth not even nature itself teach you that if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him? That's what the Bible says. And then our text says, if you love me, you're going to keep my commandments. Here's how you know that you know him. And I don't understand how those two could not somehow line up. The fact of the matter is, if you really know him, you have a desire to please him. My my testament of my wife, who normally sitting here but downstairs today, you know, she My testament to you all is that I love her. Well then there should be something in me that desires to please her. There should be something that love should be a motivation to say, oh, I want to do what she would want me to do. I want to try and be the kind of husband she needs. I want to try and accomplish what she would enjoy. And if there's anything that I can do, I want to try and do it for her. I'm not always the best husband. She's I've said it before, she's a far better wife than I am a husband, that's for sure. She she makes me feel guilty all the time, and I don't think that's fair. She's she's too good to me and I I mean I just I'm I'm just like man I'm such a bad husband. I'm so uh just so guilty. But I did do something nice yesterday She forgot of something at home and I was already gone. I said, Oh, I'll go back home and get it for you. And she's oh thank you very much. So I did something good yesterday. I was so proud of myself. But there should be a desire there to please because there's love. That's what should be there. Beloved, the natural man is living for self. For self-satisfaction. But one who has been bought through the precious blood of Jesus Christ, who has experienced a new birth, they are indeed a new creature. They're not perfect, but they are a new creature, a forgiven creature. And you want to please him and you want to obey and follow his commands Beloved, I was talking on the phone today with somebody that called the church out of clear blue. They just got saved a few weeks ago by studying their Bible. They're currently in a Catholic university and they begin looking at their life and they said, Something's not right here. I'm studying the Bible and I'm supposed to be studying for ministry and our lives, everybody, is is is wicked. He said, I was reading in the book of Corinthians. And I saw this Corinthian church and how wicked they were, and I thought, that's exactly what I am. And then he started looking for the truth. He found the truth. He put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And he called here and says, I'm looking for a place I can grow in the Lord. The place that I want to get and be taught the scriptures and learn. And he says, and I'm getting out of the Catholic University, and I'm going to go enroll in Lancaster Bible College if they'll have me. He's only been saved a couple weeks He said, I'm trying to witness to my mom and dad, and they don't want to hear it. And I said, You're asking them to take anything that they what they've believed for their whole life and say it was wrong. And that is truth. But you're going to have to pray and you're going to have to live. And they'll see your life and God will bring them to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I believe it's possible. So you pray he comes Sunday, he's supposed to be here. What I'm saying is immediately he was saved and his heart changed. His ambition changed, his desire changed, everything he was pursuing in life, he said, that's not what I want anymore. That's what happens when you're a new man in Christ. The fact of the matter, beloved, is anyone that ignores the commands of God And involves themselves in sin will have problems with assurance. That's a fact. Now I don't have time tonight to get into the commands. What are the commands? We're going to obey the commands. We could obviously take uh way more time than we have to talk about the commands, but you know well let's just sum it up with uh the whole law is contained in these two. Love the Lord thy God. With all thy heart, with all thy soul, and all thy mind, love thy neighbor as thyself. And we could just say those two commands, and your love for God motivates you to obey the rest of the commands. They it will cause you to do that. Then I want you to see in secondly, verse number four, he says here, the trouble diagnosed. He says here, and he has said He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. You see, here's a man that has false assurance. In our first passage, first verse there, we saw a man who has true assurance, right assurance, he's obeying the commandments of God, and that assurance is built and strengthened because they see that truth. But here somebody says, Oh, I know him But they have false assurance. Because he says, if you keep not the commandments, you're a liar, and the truth is not in you. You know, beloved, when you uh have trouble with your car and you take it to a mechanic, if you have a habit of doing that, uh the mechanic asks questions. Okay, so what when does it happen? Is it when just when you accelerate or just when you brake? Or maybe when you hear the noise when you turn left? But not when you're turning right. Oh, okay, well then I know that that and they they ask question to diagnose the problem. To figure out what the problem is and Well here the problem is diagnosed. The trouble is evident, and that is that this individual does not know him. Because he's not following the commands. The Bible doesn't pull any punches here. I mean you just look at somebody today and say, Well, you're a liar. That's not going to go over too good. But that's what God says. He says here very clearly, he that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments is a liar. Doesn't get any plainer than that. Titus 1, verse number 16 says, They profess that they know God. But in works they deny him, being abominable and disobedient unto every good work, reprobate. The word of God is pretty straight, huh? He says they profess that they know God, except in their works, that is what they're doing, they're denying God. They're abominable in their actions, they're disobedient in in their what they're doing, and in every good work, they're a reprobate. Beloved, we're not talking tonight about a sinless life. We're not talking about living a life that's minus failure. But what we're describing or talking about is one that's marked by forward movement. A Christian life that's marked by forward movement. You know, when I climbed the Grand Tetons, our objective was the peak, right? That's where we're going. We're gonna get to the top. It was a long day. But you know, sometimes during that day we weren't going up. There was times that we were going down. And that didn't make sense. The shortest place between two the sort of distance between two points is a straight line, right? But you can't really just do that when you're climbing a mountain. Sometimes you gotta climb over this ridge and go all the way down here in order to get over here to go up to there in order to get around here. You know, there's a path that you gotta follow and And sometimes in our life things are that way. We may be inadvertently took a wrong trail, we maybe inadvertently uh began to fail our Lord, but when you uh you know you You get further away from something and you look back, uh the distance allows you to have pers perspective. Vance Habner said, distance leads enchantment to the view. And that is when you look back over your life It's going to either show you something grand or it's going to show you something gross. You're going to have a view of something that not has been perfect. Not that it's been without failure, not that you never went down, but there has been a pattern of progression of forward movement, of uphill movement. The songwriter said, I'm pressing on the upward way, new heights I'm gaining every day Still praying as I'm onward bound, Lord, plant my feet on higher ground. We want to go higher for God. We want to move forward for God. And sometimes we fail wretchedly and terribly and we fall back And we we begin to drift and we wander, our hearts are prone to wander, but is your life marked by a forward, upward movement My heart has no desire to stay where doubts arise and fears dismay. Though some may dwell where these abound, My prayer, my aim is higher ground. Is your life marked by a forward movement onward and upward for the Lord? Beloved, you will not have any doubts about your salvation indeed if you are a new creature You won't have any questions about whether you're saved if the fact of the matter is is the things that you used to do, you don't do them anymore. The things that you used to that you used to love, you hate The things that you used to hate, you love. When that new work is being performed in your life, you don't have a question about God changing you. You don't have a question about all things being made new. There's not any doubt that what you used to be, you're not anymore. You're not maybe what you should be, but praise God you weren't what you were. That's what salvation does for us. And that leads us to our next verse here, verse number five, where we see a transition discharged. He says in verse number 5, he says, but whoso keepeth his word in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know that we are in him. It is though, beloved, that through the act uh through the act of keeping of God's word, his commands, The love of God and all that God has planned for you is perfected. You know that word perfected means completed. It is completed. It is accomplished. It is fulfilled in your life. This is the transition from the old man to the new man, from what I was to what God wants me to be. Discharged over time in your life because he says, verily is the love of God perfected in you. What God wants to accomplish in your life is being is happening over time. A little by little, step by step, decision by decision, as you try and yield to Him when you get saved, you don't know everything that God wants you to do. You begin to learn those things. And the heart that submitted to God says, okay, that's what I need to do. And you take that step for God. And over time, and literally, it takes a lifetime of yielding to God. Following biblical principle to be what God wants you to be. But God is taking that and perfecting you over time. That transition taking you from what you were to where God wants you is discharged over time to the place where your practice reveals your possession. We see the prophet here in keeping the word. Not only are we given a present assurance, but we see that the love of God is perfecting us. Beloved, those who do not make it a habit of keeping the words of God are missing out on the very purpose and the meaning of life. They're sacrificing the possibility that is theirs to have a rich and abundant, joyful Christian life. This is the message that John is portraying. He says, I'm giving this that your joy may be full. In observance and in fulfilling and completing God's commands, the joyful life, the abundant Christian life is yours to be had. He gives us this present knowledge. He says, hereby know we that we are in him. He says, listen, I not only know what I did the day I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, and not only know what I did, but I know what I am. I know what God has done in my heart. I know how He has changed me. I know how He's brought me from where I was to where I am today, and I see the direction that He's taking me. It's evident, he's saying, of the work of God, him performing that in you until he comes again. It's not about a past experience or an emotion. It's a present knowledge. Feelings come and go. Feelings, you you know, you feel on top of the world one day and you feel underneath the world the next. If our salvation is based on an emotional experience or some event that we had, it's not going to be a very stable assurance. But is based based on the work of God that He's perfecting in us a little bit at a time. Then we see lastly here this evening and don't be disappointed the obligation is described. I know it's not a T It's the obligation. I could have stretched it and put trust there, because trust is a sentiment of obligation, but It was too weak. It was too far, so I left it out. The obligation is described, and here's what I want you to say. He says, he that saith he uh he abideth in him Ought himself also to walk even as he walked. That word ought literally means obligation that you are bound to You know, you tell a kid, listen, did that guy just give you five dollars? Well you ought to tell him thank you. It's something that you should do. It's expected. It's what a a a good young man or young lady that has a grateful heart would do. You ought to express gratitude. And what the Father says here, what the Word of God says, he that saith, He abideth in him, saying, God is in my heart, then he says, Well, if he abides in you, then you ought to walk even as he walked. So he's saying, does your practice match your profession? He made the claim. He said, I'm a child of God. He is my Lord. He's saying if you're going to make the claim, then you ought to walk as he walked. There is, beloved, a constraint that's felt. You know, the love of Christ that constrains us, that motivates us, that pulls us to walk as he walked. You know, the whole what would Jesus do movement. had at its foundation a very biblical truth, a very sound doctrinal thought process behind it. Uh I I wouldn't wear what would WWJD shirts because most of the people that are wearing those bracelets are wearing those bracelets and not following God. They're wearing shirts and they don't even go to church. That's basic Christianity. They're they're they're they're wearing you know WWJG uh crosses around their neck. And and haven't read one verse out of the Word of God in years, maybe in their life. But at its base, at the foundation, that should be how a Christian lives. We're to walk as he walked. And Jesus Christ we know is the example of the believer. He is every I'll tell you what, you want to know how to live as a Christian? Live like Christ. Do what Christ did. Talk like Christ talked. Walk like he walked. Love the things that he loved. Pursue the things that he pursued. Be consumed with the things that he was consumed with. Seek after the will of the Father. Lay up treasure in heaven, not on earth. Set your affection on things above, not below. Be content with what the Father has given you. You can look at the life of Christ. Say, man, tell you what, if we could even do a fraction of that, we'd be pretty good Christians. What he's saying, beloved, is if you're going to make the claim, then your conduct should reveal the same. If you're going to claim that he abides in me. That I'm a Christian, that I know Christ, then my conduct should reveal that. Alexander the Great one of the greatest military minds that ever lived, conquered most of the known world at that time. was in camp one night and he was known to not be able to sleep very well at all and uh you know very tormented soul But uh he was up walking through the camp late late one night and he found a soldier asleep at his post Now, the penalty for being asleep at your post at that time was usually death. The generals would usually pour kerosene on the sleeping soldier and light him on fire. That's how they killed him. But Alexander the Great was approaching, and this young man heard some noise and woke up and stood to his feet very quick, obviously trembling in fear, afraid for his life. Realizing who he was addressing, Alexander the Great looked at him and said, Young man, do you know what you've done? He says, yes. He says, do you not value your post? The man stood with his head down and he said, he said, what's your name, soldier? And the young soldier said, Alexander, sir, just like yours. And Alexander the Great looked at me and says, what? What is your name? And he lifted his head, he said, Alexander, sir, just like yours. And he asked him a third time. He says, What is your name? He said, Alexander, and he says, son, either change your name or change your conduct. He said there should be nobody bearing that name that's asleep at their post. And Christian, I think God sometimes looks down at us and says, What? What did you say you were? A Christian? Either change your name or change your conduct Because we're supposed to be living a consistent life. One of the biggest reasons people struggle with assurance is they're not living a consistent life. There's no question, beloved, that we fail. I've failed. I let my Lord down. I know that. But can I tell you tonight that I desire, that I want to please him? That I that I Am full of regret and remorse when I fail him. That I know that I've let him down and that I am sorry for coming short once again. This is the heart of one who desires to live a consistent life. Not that you never fail. Not that you never falter. Not that you never sin. But that you recognize and acknowledge your sin and confess it to an Almighty God who's faithful and just to forgive you of your sin and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. And you continue to move to higher ground for Him. The consistent life, it is from that passion that one has full assurance of the work that Christ is doing in their heart. You don't wonder about it because you know that God is changing you and making you slowly into His image. Tonight, do you know that you know that you're saved? Do you have new life? Is there any question? Is there any doubt? Have you been struggling? With assurance because you you haven't been obeying his commands, maybe maybe you're lost and you need to get saved. Maybe you're a Christian, you just need to change your concept.