Acts chapter number 10. We're going to get into the Word of God this morning. This is our missions month. I've got a lot of information to cover this morning. It's going to be a little bit of teaching. Uh maybe a little bit of preaching plugged in there, but uh hopefully you're able to stay alert, alive, awake, and enthusiastic this morning Amen struggling after that. I don't expect to keep you too long, but I do want to share with you a message that I've entitled The Mission's Mandate. This is our missions month, and this is a uh we are to be involved in missions. We are to be getting the gospel to the world. It's our privilege to have one of our missionaries here with us today. And throughout this month, we'll be putting a focus on that goal. In a week from Wednesday, we're going to have our missions, annual missions conference A time where we really take a focused look at what we do as a church with regards to missions for the coming year. And uh we really use this as a culminating, a focus point for us as a church to get a world vision and to determine what we're able to do as a church with regards to missions for the coming year. Uh we bring in missionaries from other countries. This year we have two missionaries coming that we are ready support, brother uh Charles Long. Uh he's with the the The prison ministry here this flag right in front of us, this is their flag for the prison ministry, and then uh the daikus to the Fuji Islands, uh they'll be with us. And then we also have two missionaries that we have not supported before that new opportunities if the Lord would lead for us to support uh the Fleming family and uh their missionaries. to China and they're gonna be going there so pra praying for them and seeing what God's called them to. Uh and then the Shadell's uh church planters up in Pennsylvania and uh so So they're gonna be planting a church and the nice thing about uh in the last year or so God really uh touched my heart and and we talked to several people about the idea of really kind of really investing in and getting more excited about church planters. Because you understand when we get behind and we're able to help a church planter get going, that's that's an investment that's multiplied over and over. Because within a year or so, that church will be having its own missions conference. And they will begin to start supporting missionaries. And if we looked at our the churches that we've helped start, and we ought to do this by Missions Conference, Pastor Gus. Um okay, you got it done already. Um so we want to see how many missionaries are supported through those works. As we've helped start these churches and now those churches are helping start churches and they're supporting missionaries all around the world. So any investment that we give towards a ministry like that that gets started Very soon they as a group will start supporting more and it's multiplied over and over and uh as far as dollar for dollar benefit of what you get out of it, uh church planting is certainly a a great investment for world evangelism. And so we're going to have a church planter here for our missions conference and looking forward to that. Now, I think that you would agree with me that God's command given to us in the Great Commission is to be fulfilled by the church This great commission that God has given us, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, is to be fulfilled by the church. We are to be doing this. It is God's method of carrying the gospel to the world is in and through the missions program of the local church. Yes. That's God's plan. That's God's way. Now we can give these different programs fancy titles. We can write elaborate mission statements for them. We can develop and print brochures and flyers to explain and talk about what they are. But when it gets right down to it. Every missions program, when it gets to the brass tacks of it, is one sinner telling another sinner how to find the Savior. That's what missions is. It doesn't have to be across the world, it can be across the street. It's one sinner telling another sinner how to find a savior. This is the mission's mandate that's been given to us. Someone said this every heart without Jesus is a mission field. And every heart with Jesus is a missionary. That's what we want to have soaked in in our hearts and minds with regards to this, because truly it is the greatest privilege of a Christian to have the opportunity to share the gospel of Christ. with the lost and dying world. Let me give you just a couple of simple thoughts this morning as we talk about missions. Again, I'm going to give you some teaching which will kind of explain uh the philosophy, the the mindset, the heart of what we have here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church with regards to reaching the world with the gospel. It'll give you a little bit of the plan of how we plan to accomplish this and how we do it here at our church. But let's start first with the priority of missions. In Acts chapter 10, verses 1 and 2, he says, there was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius. A centurion of the band called the Italian Band, a devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people And prayed to God always. Now, this man, Cornelius, a centurion, means he was a leader of men. He was a soldier, but he was in charge of a hundred other men. Which is why he was called a centurion. Cornelius had at some point decided to believe or at least to adopt some principles of Judaism. He had left some of his pagan beliefs. He had adopted the practices of Judaism. He was known by all to be a man of faith. A generous man. He was a religious man. Everybody that knew him knew he was religious But I want you to understand this morning that missions is important. Missions should be a priority for us because even though you're religious doesn't mean you're righteous. Just because you're religious doesn't mean you're righteous. Do you understand that we that righteousness is imputed unto us by Jesus Christ. It's not something that we can gain by doing a particular thing. The Bible says that our righteousness is as filthy rags. Our actions, our things that we accomplish are as filthy rags, but righteousness is given unto us by Jesus Christ. Only in and through him can one become righteous, yet much of this world is engrossed in and sincerity of heart practicing religion. The world has a religion that they hold on to and and it may be a secular religion like evolution. It may be a secular religion like socialism It may be secular things that they hold on to, but it also may be a religious religion. That they are practicing in all fervency, in all sincerity of heart. But just because they're religious doesn't mean they've been made righteous by Jesus Christ. They they you see here Cornelius, I mean he says, hey, he was a devout man. He feared God with all his house. He gave alms to the people. He prayed to God always. All of that did not get him saved. Let me let me show you. Turn to Acts chapter number 11. We're going to come back to 10 in a second, but turn to Acts chapter 11 and verse number 13. And fortunat uh you know what? We need to we need to read the context here. You you're not gonna have the context. I'm sorry. Um Acts chapter number 10. Turn back to Acts chapter number 10. We've got to read the rest of this. I just read the first two verses to you. Follow along with me. Let's get the context here. So what he says. He says, in verse number two, he says, A devout man And one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God always. Verse number three. He saw a vision, evidently, about the ninth hour of the day. And the angel of God coming into him, saying unto him, Cornelius. And when he looked on him, he was afraid. And he said, What is it, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms have come up for a memorial before God. And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname is Peter, and he lodgeth with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the seaside, and he shall tell thee. what thou oughtest to do. And when the angel, which spake to Cornelius, was departed, he called two of his household servants, and he a devout soldier of them that waited on him continually And when he had declared all these things unto them, he sent them to Japah. Now turn to chapter number 11. So an angel appeared unto him and told him, Hey. All that you've done, all your religion, all this sincerity of your heart has come up as a memorial before God. God sees it. And because of your devoutness to God, I want you to do something. Here's what you need to do. You need to go down to Japan. You need to find Peter. He's staying with Peter in the tanner's house. You need to go there and find him He'll tell you what you need to do. And what does it mean what he needs to do about what? Well in chapter 11 it tells us. What he needs to do about what? Look at chapter 11 in verse number 13 and in verse number 14. He says, and he showed us How he had seen an angel in his house, which stood and said unto him, Send men to Joppa and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter. In verse number 14, he says, Who shall tell thee words Whereby thou and all thy house shall be saved. You see, all the sincerity that he had, all the religion that he had, all the devoutness of his heart, all the practicing, he in today's world we would say he went to church every Sunday. He gathered in church every Sunday. He spent every morning. He he bowed down and he prayed and he asked God to bless his day. Anytime he saw somebody in need, he was quick to pull out a Oh, he was generous and he would give anytime the opportunity was there. He he gave alms all the time He was a devout man. Boy, if anybody asked him, does God exist, he would say, yes, God exists. Man, he blesses me every day. All of the sincerity of his heart. God saw that. And he says, hey, the angel appeared unto him and says, Go find Peter and he'll tell you how you can be saved. Right. Just because this world is full of religion, because there's people whose heart is sincere and they want to know God The world is full of people who have not met God. All the religion that they have, and they haven't had the privilege to meet God yet. That's why missions is a priority. I'm not doubting the sincerity of their heart. I'm not doubting the desire that they have to know and to please God. That's why we've got to go and tell them about Jesus. Only by one putting their faith and trust in Jesus Christ is a man saved. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by him. Only through Jesus Christ. The world has a lot of religion, but religion doesn't make them righteous. That's why missions need to be a priority for us. The purpose of missions. Turn back to Acts chapter number 10. Look at verse number 3 through 6 here. He saw a vision, evidently, about the ninth hour of the day, and the angel of God coming to him and saying unto him, Cornelius! And when he had looked on him, he was afraid, and he said, What is it, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms Are come up for memorial before God. What I want you to understand is the purpose of missions summarized, stated clearly, is to reach the world with the message of the gospel. To reach the world with the message of the gospel. You see, the world is full of sinners who are seeking the Savior. Cornelius here was seeking the Savior. Every time he bowed and prayed and talked to God, he's saying, I want to know you, Lord. I I desire to please you, God, I want to know you. He was praying, but he did not understand how to accept. the gift of God's Son. He hadn't been told the truth, the message of the gospel, which is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Oh, he was sincere, but he just didn't know how. The world is full of sinners who are seeking the Savior. They need somebody to go and tell them. You understand God has put it in the very heart of man. To need. Somebody said it's a it's a God-shaped hole in the heart of man that can only be filled by God. It's in the heart of every single man, woman, boy, and girl ever born. There's something in there that says there's a God. The Bible says, doth not creation itself declare the handiwork of God? They know anybody that has not on purpose shut off their mind to the truth. They know, they look at the world and they say, they may not understand it, they may not know how or why, and and don't know what they even believe about it, but they'll say somebody had to design it. Somebody had to figure all this out. Somehow, it didn't just happen. Creation itself, the heart of man itself, desires to know God, to worship. It's in our heart. And they're seeking for that. And God has put it in the hand of some other men. The messenger The truth that the world needs. It's in our hand and it's our job to take it. They they need to hear the truth of the gospel. But just like Cornelius, who who was sincere and wanted to know the truth, somebody had to carry it and tell tell them Romans chapter 10 and verse number 14 says, And how shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? Somebody needs to be willing to share that truth with them. There's a world full of people that are looking. And yes, I know there are some cynical and there are some hard-hearted people that aren't looking. They need the gospel too. They at least need the opportunity to trust Christ They need a Savior. And it's our job to go and to tell them. Romans 10:15 says, and how shall they preach except they be sent? That's what missions is. Whether we at Hunt Valley Baptist Church start here and we send groups out into the neighborhoods and communities around us to preach the gospel, to present the truth of the gospel, to hang a John of Romans on somebody's door, to share the truth with anybody that will listen. Or whether we partner with somebody like the Pratt family and send the gospel to India. You know, God has given us the mandate, go ye into all the world. It is our job to go to the world and preach the gospel. Well, if I'm going to be here in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and the greater Baltimore area, and I'm going to be presenting the gospel and sharing the gospel in Baltimore I have a real hard time trying to also be in India. Does that make sense? I I can't do both, can I? And neither can you So you've got one of two options. You can sincerely pray in your heart, as we heard in Sunday school about Jonah, who was called to go, and he he ran from the calling of God. You can say, Lord, I want to go. Would you send me? Here am I, send me, Lord. And you can go to a foreign field. We've all been given the commission to go. Maybe God has not. Called you or touched your heart, provoked you to go to a foreign field. You've still been commanded to go. You should be going locally But if you're if you're going locally here, you're ministering here in this greater Baltimore area where God has you, then what we do is we partner with somebody like the Pratt's. And we help him go in our place. Understanding it's our responsibility to go. So what we try and do as a church is we try and find people that are going that can go for us. So Brother Pratt's doing a favor for us. Oh, and you know what? Since he's doing this for us, we're gonna go ahead and we're gonna give him a little bit of money every month to try and help meet his needs. Does that make sense? That's what we do at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. That's what these flags, there's people in all these countries that men and families have surrendered to go to these other countries for us. And because they're going for us, we partner with them and we support them. We give them a little bit of funds every month to help them meet the needs of their family. We send these missionaries in our place. There's no way for us to get the job done over there without them. I know that when they go to these other countries, there's some that they could get a job. A lot of countries won't allow them to get a job. You can't even be in the country y and and and work and receive a salary in the country b because they don't want you taking jobs. Does this sound familiar? From from people in their own country. Okay? So you go over there, you're welcome to visit. You're even welcome to stay and if you're gonna add to their economy then you could come and bring your money and add to the economy but you can't take out of it. So there's a lot of foreign fields that the missionaries can't it's illegal for them to get a job. So how are they going to exist over there? We we give them support. Us and other many other churches. In the countries that they could get a job, yes, a person could go over there and get a job. But then they're spending a large majority of their time over there working to to to earn enough money to take care of the necessities of life. instead of preaching the gospel, which is what we send them over there to do. So if we could support them and a few other churches support them to go, then we could take that burden of having to earn that for themselves off of their life. and be a blessing to them. Listen, missionaries aren't getting rich. Most of them are living on on uh peanuts. Just barely getting by, just living living, literally living by faith. Just trusting God to meet the needs. And they do it gladly to carry the message of the gospel to that country. And we get the privilege of joining with them. That's the purpose of a missions program. Because the world is full of sinners that are seeking a savior, and because the Savior is in the world seeking sinners. The Son of Man has come to seek and save that which was lost. know that he's living, whatever men may say. Jesus is in the world and the purpose of him being here in our hearts. Is that we could give that message to the rest of the world and share the truth of the gospel with them. The angel told Cornelius, God is aware of your devotion. Look, all the things that you're doing, it comes up as an alms before God. I mean, as a as God hears your prayers. Listen, here's where you can go and hear the message of the gospel. Do you notice that the angel didn't tell them what they need to do to be saved? That's not God's plan. The angel could have just told him there, Cornelius, here's what you need to do. Understand Jesus Christ died on the cross for you. He paid sin's pay penalty for you. He paid your debt. All you've got to do is ask him to forgive you of your sin, to accept his payment on the cross for your sin. Confess in your mouth and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead and thou shalt be saved. But the angel didn't do that. I don't know if maybe God didn't allow the angels to do that because the angels have never experienced the forgiveness of God. They can't know what it means to be dead in our trespasses and sins and be forgiven by God and brought back to life But if you're here this morning and you know what that feeling is like, you know how you've been forgiven of your sin and you've been changed from an eternity in a place called hell to an eternity in a place called heaven because of the grace of God. Man, we've got something to share. And it's God's plan that we share it, not the angels. The angels said, hey, go over here, and I've got a guy ready to tell you what you need to do. Let me ask you, could God send anybody to your house? Hey, uh Cornelius, go over here to John's house, and he'll tell you what you need to do. Could I ask you, would you have to call up the pastor? Pastor, I got some guy in my house here that needs to be saved. Hey, I'll be glad to come and call me anytime. I'll be glad to do it. Amen? Don't don't hesitate to call me, but listen, I'm I want to encourage you. You need to know how to share the gospel. We've all been told to go. You're saved by the blood of the Lamb, Jesus Christ, forgiving of your sins. You're on your way to heaven. You've got something to share, and it ought to be in your heart to share it. God told him where to go. Just like the day Tierra. Walked in the back of this church on a Sunday afternoon. Church was over. Most everybody was gone. She thought she was coming in church just to get some quiet time. But God had touched her heart and told her, I want you to go over here to Hunt Valley Baptist Church and walk in that back door because there's somebody there that'll tell you how to be saved. Thiara on a Sunday afternoon walked in the back of the church sitting down here. She was going through some things in her life. She said, I need some prayer. And of course the ladies sat down and prayed with her, but they said, You know what you need more than prayer? You need Jesus. Amen. They gave her the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Am I right, Tara? You trust to the Lord as your Savior. There's people in the world that are looking for a Savior. And the Savior's in the world looking for sinners. And God just needs some men that are ready, some ladies that are ready to share that truth. The responsibility for sharing the gospel is ours. I think of Paul in Corinthians chapter 9, verse number 16. He says, For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of. For the necessity is laid upon me, yea, woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. That ought to be in our heart. Man, I've got to do it. I've got to do it. Can I talk to you about the provision of missions real quick? The provision of missions. How do we do this at Hunt Valley Baptist Church? We partner with these missionaries and we send them across the world to Go for us. We have here Faith Promise cards. We use a program that's called Faith Promise Missions Giving. We believe at Hunt Valley Baptist Church that it's biblical to give an offering to God. We believe it's biblical to have faith. We're supposed to have faith. We walk by faith and not by sight. Amen? It's biblical to give an offering to God by faith. And that's what faith, promise, missions giving is about. Giving towards reaching the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. These two cards are on the Welcome Center. This green card is for kids. This helps us divide it. And if we get one of these green cards that says they're going to give $500 a week, uh we know that's probably not the case. It probably meant fifty cents a week. is probably what it was supposed to be. So we we divide that up. The kids, hey, all my kids have given to missions and many of the young people of the church give to missions every week since they were born. They've given to missions. And then these are for the adults. We have these cards. There's some on the Welcome Center back there. And throughout this month, you're going to be hearing about that. You're going to be hearing about this. Would you turn to Acts chapter? I'm sorry, no, you're in Acts. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and 9, we believe that this idea of faith, promise, missions, giving is taught. It can be seen in these passages of Scripture. Now the actual title, the name that we've given it is not there, but the principles are there And what I want you to see is that God has a plan to provide for missions. In Acts, in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and chapter 9, the word grace is mentioned. Over and over. I think seven times in these two chapters, the word grace is mentioned. What I want you to understand is by grace that we're able to give The Macedonian believers, the Christians there, gave out of their poverty. They didn't have anything, yet they were able to give even though they didn't have anything. Jesus Christ gave out of his abundance. He had it all. But the Bible says, for by grace are you saved through faith And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. God gave out of grace, through grace, because of grace. We give through grace and because of grace. So this has been titled Grace Giving by some. Here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church we call it Faith Promise, our Faith Promise Program of the Church, where we Give to missions uh on a consistent basis. You know, In Lucan chapter 8 and verse number 7, he says, Therefore, as ye abound in everything, in faith, and in utterance, and in knowledge, and in all diligence, and in In your love of us, see that ye abound in this grace also. He says, abound in this grace also. You ought to abound. To abound is to be plentiful, to overflowing, to have in excess. To abound, you should abound in this grace also. This idea of grace giving should be something that we abound in, that we flourish in, that we see God do great things for us. Now I'm going to give you three thoughts real quickly. about this idea of giving. Now nobody get been out of shape yet. I know we start talking about money and it gets uh little oh there they are in church. Listen, this is, first of all, it's personal. Okay? You're like, that's right, preacher. This is personal. I know. It's personal. It's personal giving. Look uh with you look at chapter 9 and verse number 7. Chapter 9 and verse number 7. What's the first two words there? Every man. So every man, everybody can be involved, every man. Then he says, according as what's the next word? He purposes in it in what? His heart. So let Him give. Listen, it's personal giving. This is between you and God. It's according to what you want to do. There you go. I let you off the hook. It's according to what you want to do. It's whatever you want to do. Every man as he purposes in his heart so let him give. It's whatever you want to do. In another verse there in uh Chapter, you don't have to turn back there, but chapter 8, verse number 12, he says, For if there first, if there be first a willing mind. It starts with a willing mind You have to have a want to do it. I want to do it. I want to see the lost saved. I want to see the message of the gospel carried across the world. I have a desire to do that. I want to do that. So what do you want to do? Do you want to see the world reached? Then you decide, well, you know what? I'm going to put my money where my mouth is. I'm going to give so that the world can be reached. It's not just according to what you have what you want, but it's according to what you have. Now this is personal. It's between you and God. Nobody's gonna nobody's gonna listen, I don't look at the giving records of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I have no idea here who gives a lot or who gives a little. That way I'm not tempted to play favorites. I can give just as much time to this Christian or to that Christian because I don't have any idea who's putting what in the plate. And if you're if you think, man, Pastor hasn't even talked to me and I put this much in the offering, I don't have any idea. Praise God. He knows. He's the one you ought to be given for anyway. Not for the praise of men. I don't know what you've given. And listen, if you decide that yeah between you and God, you can you you have peace about not giving anything to world evangelism, that's between you and God. Nobody's going to ask you for it. And if you fill out one of these commitment cards, there's not a place on here for you to put your name. There's a little spot here you can tear this off. This is what you turn in. This is just so we know as a church what you're doing This is the reminder for you. But there's no place for you to put your name. There's it's a commitment between you and God. It just kind of lets us know what we' what what we're looking at for the next year. Nobody's gonna come knocking on your door. Nobody you're not gonna get any bills in the mail. Okay, no collectors. If you decide after the second week, I ain't doing that. It's between you and God. Nobody here has any idea about it one way or the other. So there's no pressure here Just what is what do you want to do in your heart? What would you like to do? Not only that, it's out of what you have. It's not just what you want, but what you have. Look in chapter 8 and verse number 12. Chapter 8 and verse number 12. He says, there the second half of that, he says, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. You give out of what you have. Listen, if you only make $200 a week, God's not going to ask you to give $500 a week. That's exciting. It's out of what you have. You give out of what God has given you, how God has blessed you. The problem is most of us are willing to give what we don't have, but we're not willing to give what we do have. It's like the guy two farmers walking down the road and the farmer said to the other one, says, Hey, if you had two houses, would you give me one of them? He said, sure, man, you're my best friend in the world. If I had two houses, sure I'll give you one. He said, if you had two cows, would you give me one? He says, man, everything you've done for me. We've been friends all of our lives. If I had two cows, you know I would give you one. He said, if you had two hats, would you give me one? Oh man, you know I got two hats. That's how we are a lot of times with God. God, if you gave me a million dollars, sure I'd give you a hundred thousand. I mean that's definitely Lord. Well what if I gave you a hundred bucks? Ah Lord, now you know I got a hundred bucks. This is just it's out of what God has given you. You give out of that. Yes, sir. It's Personal giving and it's purposeful giving. Look at chapter 9 and verse number 7 again. Every man according as he purposeth, purposeth in his heart. This is where we get the idea of promise. That you purpose in your heart, you're going to do this. There's a promise aspect of this. In chapter 8, verses 10 and 11, Paul talking to them about the gift that they had given, and he says unto them, He says, And I herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you, who have begun before not only to do, but also to to be forward a year ago. Now therefore perform the doing of it. He says, hey, you guys decided to do this a year ago and you've been working towards it. I'm going to give you a year to complete this. So here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, we do this for a year. We have a one-year commitment that people fill out these little cards and they say, I'm going to give 25 cents a week. Every week, without fail, I'm going to give 25 cents a week to God. And towards world evangelism. And that's how we determine our budget for missions for the coming year, because every man purposes in his heart. Not only is it personal and it's purposeful, but it's productive giving Look in chapter 9 and verse number 8, and I'm almost done. We'll be done in five minutes. Chapter 9 and verse number 8. I want you to see these see these truths. He says here in chapter 9 and verse number 8, he says, and God is what? Able. God is able. I want you to see its productive giving. This it produces faith in your life. I think like nothing else in the world. Giving to God because money is so we're so tied to it. And we see God do miraculous things in a direct impact to what we are giving to Him. And this builds your faith in an amazing way. Probably in a more direct, impactful way than any other thing that you You by faith say, God, I'm not sure. Now you give out of what you have. You don't by faith say, okay, God, I'm gonna give you a thousand dollars a week. Okay, you only making two hundred a week. You by face say, God, I'm making two hundred a week and I've got these bills and it's really tight and I'm not sure how I can do this. But you know what, God? Maybe I could give up my Starbucks coffee every once a week. No no more tall tall macchiatos for me. Is that a coffee drink? I don't even know. Uh no more tall macchiatos for me. I I'm gonna give up my coffee and that's $5. 95. So you say God I'm gonna give five dollars a week. C, if you give five dollars a week, I will I'll bet you you will not miss very many coffees. Because God somehow makes it what you've got go further. And you think year after year this happens. You think, well last year I gave up coffee, actually I never did have to give it up. Uh so I'm I I give up this or I gave up that. There's been people that gave they took their their cable bill. Fifty dollars a month. They're like, you know what, I don't need cable I'll give up cable. I'm gonna get I'm gonna get rid of my cable. I'm gonna give the money I was given to cable towards n world evangelism. And they commit to give that to God. Whatever it is. So you look at what you have and you say, okay, what can I do? God, what would you want me to do? It's between you and God. Nobody else knows about it. You say, Lord, how can I impact the world with the message of the gospel and it produces faith because God is able to make all grace abound towards you. That ye, here's what I want you to see as well. It produces food. food, it produces food. That ye having all sufficiency in all things may abound in every good work. As it is written, he hath dispersed abroad and hath given to the poor, his righteousness remaineth for ever. Verse number 10, he says, Now he that ministereth seed to you to the sower both minister bread for your food and multiplied your seed sown and increases the fruits of your righteousness. It produces food. What I'm saying by that is it produces what you need. You having all sufficiency. When you're giving to God, God takes care of you. He gives the example there, somebody that's sowing in the field. He's saying he takes that seed and multiplies it over and over again. I want you to see lastly that it produces fruit. Fruit to your account. He says there that in that last part of verse number 10, I think it was, he says, and increases the fruit. of your righteousness. He gives fruit. It's fruit that's added to your account. When Brother Pratt or uh Brother Sasser or Brother Deku or Brother Kim, our missionaries and their families and their wives serving on all these other fields, when they're out there winning souls of Jesus Christ, that's fruit that's added to your account. You get to you get to be a part of that. And what a joy it is