Service today and as I began studying and thinking about the church and the Lord really impressed upon my heart to preach a message about the church And what the church is, the church entity and the body of Christ, this group of believers that gathers together to fulfill the will of God here on earth. And I began studying and and began preparing to preach a message on the church and Uh my message is uh my my points that I had, the first point was the foundation of the church, and my second point was the function of the church, and my third point was the future of the church. As those points each developed into their entirely own message. And I had several other the formation of the church and a couple other things I actually am going to begin today preaching a series of messages on the church. Today is going to be the foundation. The foundation of the church in Really the goal and idea that God impressed upon my heart and my own devotions, I was studying, I was praying, I was asking God, Lord, would you give Us a great church. Lord, would you make Hunt Valley Baptist Church a great church? And the Holy Spirit kind of pricked my heart and said, now what is it you're asking for, Caleb? What you're saying you want a great church, does that mean you want great numbers? You want a lot of people there? You want all that great excitement? Is that what you want? And as I began to ponder and think about it, what it really is in my prayer and our prayer to Hunt Valley Baptist Church is that we would have a church that's great in the eyes of God. We want a church that's great in the eyes of God. And I hope as we gather for church at Hunt Valley Baptist Church that we meet here, that we put a smile on God's face. I hope God is pleased and God is honored and the cross is lifted up and people are drawn to Christ because of the ministry of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We could spend some time and look at what makes a great church and what I believe that would honor and please God, and through these coming weeks we might get into that. Really, as I just studied and began to prepare and look at it, we want to focus in today on this, the foundation of the church. The foundation of the church. Look in Matthew chapter 16. Follow along with me as we read here verses 13 through 19. Matthew 16, verses 13 through 19, he says, When Jesus came unto the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And he said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremiah, and one of the prophets. And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. I praise God this morning that I serve a risen Savior. I praise God that He is in the world today, and it doesn't matter. What people say. I praise that I get the joy and privilege to serve a God that's alive and powerful. And Jesus was the Son of the living God. And verse number 17, and Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonath, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee. But my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. And the gate of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed. In heaven. Verse number 18 is going to be the focus of the message this morning where we'll be drawing the points And I say unto thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Let's pray. But we thank you for the time to gather in your house today and the privilege it's mine to share the Word of God this morning. I pray, Lord, that as we take this time and look at this thought, the idea of the foundation of the church, Lord, my heart's desire and I pray, Lord, that the Holy Spirit's work in the hearts of these your people would be that we would be drawn back into a great relationship with the church and that we would value and appreciate and and realize the importance of this Lord entity that you gave us to be able to worship you and serve you here on earth, the value of the church that we have and we thank you for it. And Lord, we pray that you would minister to hearts as we look at the word this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. I fear this morning That Christianity is a whole and and most people have come to the place where They have a casual relationship with the church. A nonchalant, almost kind of a I could take it or leave it. The church is nice if if I happen to have time and I could go. The church is good if I'm in need and I want somebody to be praying for me. But the church is not necessary or a vital part of our lives as Christians. And I hope this morning that as we see the truth in the Word of God, I don't know where you're at, but I hope your heart would be Stirred to value and appreciate what God has given us in the church. I wonder, do you love the church? Do you value it? What is the church to you? Some might think of it as a social gathering A place where we could just get together and spend a few minutes and it kind of fills and meets the need where we have to interact with other people. And If that's all it is, really, there's not any reason why missing it isn't is a big deal I mean during COVID we're not supposed to be socially interacting. And so therefore, if that is what church is to us. Well, we're not supposed to be interacting socially, so we're going to refrain from it. But is that all the church is meant to be? For some, the church is a physical building. It's a place. They just look at the church and they say, oh, look, there's Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Now they're not dri th nobody drives by our church and says there's on Valley Baptist Church. You gotta come here on purpose, amen. You're not you're not like, oh there it is. I mean nobody comes up here Uh that's one of the reasons we would love to get down on Shawan Road. You know, people would actually know where the church is. They would see it. But you might drive by and say, Oh, there is that church, or there is that church, but no no, that's just a building That's just a place where the church gathers and meets. For some, it might be a denomination. People look at that as a, you know, the the Methodist Church or the Lutheran Church or uh even the Baptist Church. They look at it as a denomination, a group of people, but that's not what the church is. The church beloved is possible because of the cross of Christ. He gave himself for the church. It was started by Christ Himself, and it was empowered by the Holy Spirit of God. After Jesus went and ascended up into heaven, the Spirit came down and Gave the church power to fulfill the work of God. And the church was left here on earth to fulfill and accomplish the will of God here on earth. And we as God's people are part of that. My goal is that we might be reminded and come to value again the church for what it is, this beautiful and powerful organism. That God gave us. And yes, I said organism. Because it's far more than just an organization. It is a living thing that God blessed us with. And every Christian should value. Beloved, for the world They look at the church and some wonder why. Some don't even some don't even want the church in their community. We don't know who those people would be, but some don't want the church. But, beloved, for the world out there, the church stands as a testimony of the love of Jesus Christ. It stands as a beacon of light in a dark world, and even those that would mock and make fun every time the church is Meets together and gathers in one place. It is a testimony to the love of Jesus Christ to a lost and dying world. That God loves them Boy, for the Christian, the church should be a treasure. Psalms 122, verse 1: I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Are you glad that you get to go to the house of the Lord? When I was younger, these young people's age up here, I can tell you honestly, there was times that I wasn't glad. Mom and dad would get us up and say it's time to go to church. And I'm like, oh man. You see, I've been to church every Sunday school, every Sunday morning, every Sunday night. Every midweek service and every night of revival, every week of my life, since I was two weeks old. I was brought home from the hospital and went to church that first Sunday. Now, I have missed a few services. I didn't say weeks, I said a few services because I was sick. I praise God for that testimony. I've been blessed. Blessed beyond measure But there was some times in there that I wasn't glad that I would had to go to church, you know. Somebody said, Yeah, I had a drug problem when I was a kid. My parents drugged me to church on Sunday, they drugged me to church on Thursday, they drugged me to church on Every time. Boy, that's my problem. You know, I don't know if you feel like you've been drummed to church and you don't it's not really where you want to be, but beloved, our relationship with the church ought to be. I was glad when they said, hey, it's Sunday. It's God's Day. It's time to go to church. Let's get up and go to God's house. Let's hear from heaven today. Let our heart be stirred and our mind be drawn away from the cares of this world and pointed heavenward for a few minutes. Amen That's what it's about. The psalmist says in Psalms 26, verse number 8, the Lord loveth the habitation of thy house. He says, I have loved the habitation of thy house and the place where thy honor dwelleth. Boy, do you love the habitation of the house of God? Do you just love being there? Psalm 65, verse number 4 says, Blessed is the man whom thou choosest and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts. We shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even thy holy temple. Beloved, is the house of God a treasure to you? A treasure of beyond measure, is this something that you value? You know, if you this morning by testimony would say, but let me just ask you, how many by by by a hearty amen, how many of you say this morning? I love God. Amen. My beloved, if you love God, you're going to love what God loves. And the Bible tells us that he loved the church. He loved the church and gave himself forth. Do you love the church today? Someone has said, my church is the place where the word of God is preached, where the power of God is felt, where the love of God is revealed, where the Spirit of God is manifest. It is the home for my soul. It is the altar of my devotion. It is the hearth of my faith and the center of my affections. And it is the inspiration through which I live my daily life. Is the church a treasure to you? I hope it is. Would you consider with me our text verse here today? As we think about the foundation of the church that Christ gave us, he says, And I say unto thee, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. First of all, I would have you see the person that is the foundation. The person that is the foundation. You see Simon Jonas said, Thou art the son of the living God. But beloved, the church, according to 1 Timothy 3:15, is the church of the living God. The pillar and the ground of truth. Jesus asked his disciples a question in Caesarea Philippi. He said, Whom do men say that I am? And Peter spoke and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son. Of the living God. Jesus said to Peter, Thou art blessed. He said, You've been blessed to have this truth revealed to you. Not by man, but by God. And I hope this morning as we look at this that the Holy Spirit of God will reveal the truth to you, the importance of this thing that we call the church. And that we once again would value it for all that it is. You see the person, the foundation upon this rock, the person is Jesus Christ I know that there are those that would falsely teach that Peter is the rock. You take this verse all by itself and don't study it and don't use Scripture to interpret Scripture, you possibly could come to that conclusion. But you've got to use Scripture to interpret Scripture, and you've got to study and look at the Word of God and As Christians were to study to show ourselves approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, but rightly dividing the word of truth. And when you study this out, you understand that Peter is Petras, which literally means small stone. But Jesus is the rock Petra, which means large or giant stone. The rock, the rock that the church is built upon, I want you to understand, is Jesus Christ. Don't let people teach you a false doctrine and dethrone Jesus Christ. Don't let people take Christ from his rightful place. He's the one that died and gave himself for the church. And he is the one whom the church is built upon. He is the rock If you look at Scripture, 1 Corinthians 10, verse number 4, he says, and did all drink the same spiritual drink. For they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. You see, all through the scriptures, Jesus, or even God Himself, is referred to and talked about as the rock. I'm glad this morning that my feet are on a rock, that I've been lifted up out of the sinking sand and the miry clay of this old world, and my feet have been set on a solid rock, an unmoving, unchanging. God, Jesus Christ, He is the rock. The Jews would have recognized Jesus as the rock. They would have recognized this symbol You see, oftentimes Christ, as he was teaching, he would reference or point to things that the Jews, having been familiar with the Old Testament, would know. Well, when Jesus said that upon this rock I will build my church, the Jews would have known he was talking about Jesus because in Deuteronomy 32, verse 4, the Bible says he is the rock. He is the rock. And Psalms 18, verse number 2, says, The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer. Psalms 18, 31 says, For who is God save the Lord? Who is a rock, save our God? Jesus is that rock. For somebody to take one verse and try and take that position from Jesus Christ, you have to ignore the rest of the Bible. Where over and over and over again, God is referred to as the rock. Jesus is the foundation, that rock upon which the church is built. The prophets predicted it in Isaiah 28. Jesus affirmed it in Matthew 21. The apostles preached it in the book of Acts. And Paul describes him as that firm foundation in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. He says, For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's building. According to the grace of God which is given unto me. As a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation And another buildeth thereon, but let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon, for other foundation can no man lay that is laid which is do you know it Jesus Christ. Jesus is that foundation. Jesus is the foundation. He is that rock. Don't let people take that from You are from the Word of God. Jesus is the rock that the church is built on. He is the chief cornerstone, that solid and sure foundation. The church is not built on a man. Not even Peter. The church is built on Jesus Christ. Church is not built on or around the staff or the pastor. An individual based on Jesus Christ. I'd like you to see the possession that's clearly stated here in this verse And he saith also unto thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build, what's the next two words? My church My church. Now, beloved, I know that we, as a matter of conversation, often refer to the church like Hunt Valley Baptist Church will say, that's my church. And uh some people even talking to me as the pastor, they might even say, Well, your church. But we understand that what we're talking about is that's the church in which we belong, but not the church that belongs to us. Because we know it's not our church, it's God's church. It's his church, it's Jesus Christ's church, and that beloved is what gives it its value. The fact that it belongs to Jesus Christ and it's his and he's the one that loved it and gave himself for it. Listen, in this world, there's people that have the wackiest sense of value It's mind-boggling to me what people will give for a possession that was owned by somebody famous. For instance, a pair of Michael Jordan's U Center shoes sold for five hundred thousand dollars Why? Because they belong to Michael Jordan. Sorry, but that does not mean you're going to be able to play basketball. Just because you put his shoes on You know the slippers? Who is it that played Dorothy? Uh is it Dorothy? That played who who Judy Garland? See you guys Sorry, I'm sure. So on uh on Wizard of Oz, you know her little red ruby red slippers? Those slippers sold for six million dollars. For a pair of red slip. I could go on and you guys know it it's just ridiculous, right? But what gives those things value? Because who owned it? The love of the church belongs to Jesus Christ. There's anything in this world that to our heart and our life should hold value. It should be that which belongs to God. That which Jesus Christ gave himself for. He said, It is my church, and he, beloved, is the head of the church. Colossians 1, verse number 18, and he is the head, the church, who in the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that is all things, he might have the preeminence. He is the head of the church Oh, I stand as the pastor, as the under-shepherd, and strive to lead and direct the church in today's world, but it is God Himself, whose Son Jesus Christ, that's the head of the church. Boy, it's it's all his. The church in the Word of God is given many different names We describe the head of the church is because the church is described as a body. The body of believers, which Christ is the head. You know, your head is what directs you, points you, leads you, gives you direction. Jesus Christ is to do that for the church. The church is described as the bride of Christ It's God's building. It's God's temple. It is the flock of Christ. It is a peculiar people, a chosen nation, a royal priesthood, a purchased possession. The church is the salt of the earth and the light of the world, and you could we could go on and on. Each one of these names given to the church has in it some descriptive characteristics which describe for us what we're supposed to be. As a church. We may look at more of those in coming weeks, but this term that we see here in our text, the actual name church, this is the first time it appears in the Word of God. in this text. This word church comes from the word ecclesia. And I'm not a Greek scholar and I don't give you a whole lot of Greek here and and don't try and dig too far into that because I speak English. Amen And uh I I I you know I can look up a word or two here and there and try and glean some truth from it, but I don't get too deep into that. But this word equosia by its very definition means called out. We're a called out assembly. The history of this word and its origin literally denoted a group of people. That had gathered together, had been separated themselves, had called themselves together for a particular purpose. And I know there's an aspect Of the church has been gaining much attention lately. And the idea of the universal church, or the idea of, hey, we're we're all the church. So we don't really need to gather together. I mean it's okay. It's okay. The church can just meet online. The church can just stream, and I praise God for the streaming service, and it it it gave a means by which many people who couldn't be here were able to be a part of the services for a period of time, but beloved, that is not the end-all-beat-all. That is not what it is supposed to continue to do. Now it's a it's technology, and we use technology to preach theology, amen? To steal Brother Sharp's uh slogan from his ministry. But we'll use the technology wherever we can, but beloved, the goal is for the church to be assembled together I, for the sake of illustration today, I have brought a car into the auditorium today. I have brought a car with me to church. I have here a two thousand five Sienna. You say faster, Caleb Vim's just parts. Well, if the doctrine, and you understand doctrine is teaching, if the teaching that is being purported today holds true for the church Then I have a Toyota Sienna here today. You say, no, no, no, that's just parts. In order to have a sienna, all of the parts have to be gathered together into one place. The Bible says that the church is fitly joined together. So you have a sienna when all of the parts are fitly joined together. Right? And you have a church when all of the parts come together. We're a called out assembly When you bring all of those parts to the church, yes, you as an individual are part of the church. But you at home by yourself does not make the church. The church is a called-out assembly of believers that are gathered together into one place. In the Bible, the word equity is used 114 times. Over 90 of those times It is referring specifically to a local, visible assembly of believers. Of the leftover 12 or 13 times, half of those is referring to the church when we're in heaven. When we're going to be in heaven, and obviously we're all going to be assembled together in one place. In heaven. And the other few uh could take some explanation. But the vast majority of all references to the church are to a local body of believers. A called out assembly, gathered together into one place. That's what the church is It stands to reason, beloved, if we are called out, that we are called out of something And as God's family, we've been called out of this world. You see, uh I not all that I should be, but I praise God I'm not what I was. And God is still working on me. But as God's family, as part of the church, we've been, you see, when you're called out, you're called out of one group and put into another group. And we've been called out of the world. You see, we're in the world, but we're no longer of the world. Why? Because we've been called out. We've been called out of the world by putting our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He saved our soul, and therefore we have a new life in Christ, a new relationship with Him. And what God has given the Christian To help him live for God and to fulfill God's will on earth is this thing called the church. And we need the church. We need to worship together. Lastly this morning, can I encourage you with the promise this scene here? The promise this scene He says, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. We have a promise from God that the church, beloved, is going to prosper. The church is going to prosper. God's church, I know sometimes we feel Like we're on the losing side, but can I encourage you this morning? We're on the winning side. Yeah, he has won the victory for us, and God has given us a promise that will not fail, that the gates of hell themselves Shall not prevail against the church. We are and can be victorious through Jesus Christ. He said, I will build my church. It's a work that Jesus Christ is going to do. Now He does that in and through you and I, through God's, through God's people. You know the stories? God said, hey, I could make the rocks cry out God could use the rocks, God could use whatever. It's all his creation, but God has chosen to use you and I. That's a privilege that we have to serve God with the time that we have on life here. The church is going to prosper. God loved you and I so much, He adopted us into His family. He made us part of the family of God. We are in this church. And man, it does not appear what we shall be. But one day we're going to be like him. He has promised us, beloved, and he's given us the power to do the work in Acts 1. 8. And he's promised to protect us against all the attacks of Satan Since the beginning of the church, Satan and all his dominions have worked tirelessly to destroy the church But the church is still here. The church marches on. The gates of hell aren't going to prevail, and until the day that Jesus breaks that eastern sky, the remnant that remains. Are going to stand and hold forth the banner of the cross, lifting high Jesus Christ that he might draw men unto himself That people who are living in this life and have no hope can have hope through Jesus That is a defining difference between one who knows Christ and one who does not. Because so much of this world has no hope. But beloved, on our worst day, we have hope On our worst day, it's still well, my soul, because of what Jesus Christ did for me And God has given us this church, the family of God that is fitly joined together to encourage, exhort one another, and to serve God together What a privilege we have. To serve God in a church I don't think I've adequately drawn a picture for you of what it should mean to us, but I hope that the Holy Spirit has reached in To your soul and disturb you, to value, to love and appreciate what God has given us. All of these things make up the church, but it's when we come together And worship Gimmick. Do you value the church today?