Uh I don't know that I've ever in my life uh heard somebody address this. Um But I want to share with you this evening the thoughts that kind of stirred my heart towards having this supper with the shepherd. Towards having the church family over to our house and uh why I wanted to try and put a priority on it. I want to preach this evening a message called the Hospitable Home. the hospitable home. We see in 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 7 through 11. He says, But the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves For charity shall cover the multitude of sins. We need fervent charity. We need love among the brethren. Amen. Because it's the love that covers a multitude of sins. And everybody knows that your brother or sister down the aisle is a sinner. And they're gonna do things that Rub you the wrong way or that they forgot to do or they they did on purpose or did by accident, whatever it might be, it doesn't matter who the who it is at some point Something's going to happen where you need to have love to overcome it. That's the nature of relationships. But then he goes on in verse number nine and he says, use hospitality one to another. Without grudging. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another. So we're to use this hospitality. It's supposed to be part of our ministering one to another. So we we put these things together, we're to have love for one another, we're to use the The opportunity or the availability of hospitality to show grace towards each other, to minister to one another. Verse number 11, he says, If any man speak, let him speak of the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever. Amen. We talk here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church about Hunt Valley hospitality. And I praise God this evening that I believe we have a very hospitable church. I believe that that is something that we don't just talk about. I believe it's present. I believe it's something that is is that we as a church family we work towards being hospitable We work to make sure everybody that comes through those doors feels welcome. We work to make sure that when they come into God's house that they they have a seat. that they know where the restrooms are, that they've met somebody else besides just us. And uh you know if somebody's coming down your aisle you you get up or scoot in and give them room and and you know if they get here a little bit late Listen, don't worry about talking in the service. Somebody comes in late, you meet them. Welcome them to church. Don't just ignore. They're sitting right next to you and you're singing. Don't ignore them. Say, hey, good to see ya. Welcome to Hunt Valley and give them your songbook because they don't know what page number we're on. And of course we're using the screens now and so it's a little less necessary But uh, you know, just that that spirit of welcomeness and and and inclusiveness that we allow people to come in and feel like they're part of the family right from the get-go. And I praise God for for that spirit that is prevalent in our church. This happened many years ago, but I believe it's a spirit that is probably present still in many places. There was an atheist that wanted to see how many churches he could go to and not be welcomed, not be addressed. He said that he went to 195 churches. And out of 195 churches, he was only spoken to one time. And that was by an official greeter who asked him to move his feet. That that was his his experience. Now let me just say that if you want to have friends you got to show yourself friendly. And if you want to be a grouch and go hide in a corner and sneak in the back, come in late and leave early, then you can get in and out of church without people talking to you too. But I go to churches all over this country and I never get out of the church without talking to most everybody. And that's not because they talked to me, it's because I went and talked to them. I've welcomed people to church before and found out that they were visitors and they'd never been there. And they're like, how long have you been here? I'm like, I'm a visitor too. I've never been here. So we're both we're both guests never I'm just like, Hey, great to see you tonight And they're like, Well good to see you too, you know and then I found out they were first time guests, never been there before I just w make a point to go walk around, meet people, talk to people. Make yourself uh uh uh be a friend. And that's what you should be doing, even if you go somewhere else. Don't hide in a corner and say, nobody talked to me. Yeah, we know. And we need to be welcoming. I'm thankful that we have a church that's welcoming. That we have a gracious spirit of hospitality here and Man, what a privilege to have a spirit that way. And God's given us that. And I pray that that continues in our church. But this evening I want to move this point of hospitality Or should I say the place of hospitality from the church house to our homes? As we talk about the hospitable home. What I see as I began to study this is that the home was a vital part of the early church. If you study, I think even by the end of tonight, I'll give you enough scripture that you're going to see that the home was a vital part of the early church. And if you just ponder that passage of scripture that we read about the idea of hospitality and all the truths that are encompassed in these verses I'm hoping I'll be able to reference back to them as we're going through this and kind of tie that in as we continue here. But I want you to see, first of all, that the home was a place of worship. It was a place of worship. And I'm not talking about the house of God. I'm talking about your individual home. The home in the New Testament was a place of worship. In Romans chapter number 16, would you turn there? We're going to look at some scripture tonight. Romans chapter number 16, a lot of it will be in Acts, but we're here in Romans first. In Romans 16, verses 3, 4, and 5. He says, Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus, who have for my life laid down their own necks, unto whom not only I have given thanks, but also all the churches of Galatia likewise greet the church that is what's those next words? In their house. The church that was in their house, they gathered and met and they worshiped God in the home. where the family was. In 1 Corinthians 16, 19, he says, the churches of Asia salute you, Aquila and Priscilla, salute you much in the Lord with the church that is in their house. The early church sets for us an example that the use of the home is a vital tool for hospitality. It's a vital tool for ministering to others, a vital tool for uh discipling and and bringing along other Christians. And I think that today we have just about all but lost the use of that tool. Because of society changes and life and other things, we've we're not taking advantage of and using this tool that we have, our homes. Part of the success of the early church, I believe, was because of their use of the home. Now you guys have, I've told you before how my dad started three churches. I was too young for two of them to really know anything about it, and probably was more of a burden than anything else. But uh the church in El Paso, Texas, I was nine years old when we started that. So I was old enough to be a slave uh and to have to have to work. Amen, uh Melissa and Caleb. Uh to have to work to accomplish things. And we started the church there in our home there out in the desert in El Paso, Texas, and Dad took the garage door out of the front of the house and uh boarded it up, put some, you know, T-111 siding on it, and put a 36-inch door with a nice uh picture um stained glass window in the top of it and that was the entrance to our church and we were right there in the garage and the church met in the garage. We put some carpet in the garage. It was still had the slope floor and everything but hey Up to the pulpit, amen. It sloped right uphill, so it worked out good. But uh, you know, it had the slope floor, we met in the garage and then we would in the house, uh mom and dad's room was the nursery. So a couple ladies would gather the kids and they would be in mom and dad's room every single Sunday. We would take all the furniture out of the living room and move it into the dining room every Saturday, and the living room was junior church. And then we would take the furniture out of the bedrooms upstairs. We go up the stairs and there was a hallway that went two directions. And in the hallway there was a nook. probably about the size of if you went from here to the wall and from here to the front of the stage, there was kind of like a maybe like a six by ten nook that was cut out into the hallway, not sure what it was for, but we would take all the bed and stuff like that out of the rooms and put it into that nook and hang a sheet over it and those two rooms became classrooms. And we did that every week for several years. and met in the house. We had church in the house. Now on the on the one year anniversary of of the church um starting um Dad said we need to build the building and we had groundbreaking to start building the building. But we built it ourselves over time and so it was at least another year of meeting in the house while we've well we built and worked on the getting the building done so we would have a place to meet But every week we had church in our house and I think that there's something special about beating meeting and being in your home. It's not convenient for you. It's your home. Certainly uh uh you know my mom went through it and with her her that her being her house and It opened up that way and as kids we had stuff stolen out of our bedrooms, we had things taken, we had stuff broken, you know, so many things like that. But that church is still growing strong today. I thought I thought about showing you some pictures of the house because you could see it on Google Earth, you know, and uh i it to me it brings back a lot of memories of uh our service for the Lord in that place, but the house was used Um I suppose that might have been a little bit like what the early church was like, meeting in the house and just kind of dividing up and take the kids over there and let's meet with them and and let's all whatever it might be, however they did it, but they used the house to teach and preach. In Acts chapter five, would you turn there, Acts chapter number five, down to verse forty-one and forty-two, want you to see The Bible says in Acts chapter 5, verse 41 and 42, and they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. And daily in the temple and in every house, they cease not to teach and to preach Jesus Christ. You see, they use the home to teach and preach. In Acts chapter 20, in verse number 20, a few pages over, you can look at that. He says, Paul speaking to the Ephesian elders, he says. and how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly and from house to house. They got together and they didn't just get together just to get together, but they got together for worship, to worship God, to learn, to be taught, to be preached to, to hear the lessons and the message from Jesus Christ. They use their houses for prayer meetings in the New Testament. We see that in many places. You can look in Acts chapter number 12. In Acts chapter 12, we know that James had just been killed. And uh that loudmouth uh you know the the one that was first uh you know open mouth and insert foot Peter was thrown in jail And we see here in Acts chapter 12 and verse number 5, he says, Peter therefore was kept in prison, but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. Now, you've got to go down to verse number 12 to see where they were when they were praying. In Acts chapter 12, verse number 12, he says, And when they had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John. whose surname was Mark, where many were gathered together what did it say? Praying. They used their houses for prayer. They gathered for prayer meetings. They met together and prayed. They worshiped. They preached. They they, you know, of course, worshiping, singing songs. They prayed together. But beloved, as time progressed, the church began more and more to have what is called dedicated places or houses of worship. The church became the place of worship, the building, this place of gathering, and although it's more convenient for God's people, I think sometimes it's probably done us as much harm as it's done good. Because what we've done is we've separated our homes from worshiping God We talk about the separation of church and state, but a long time before that ever became an issue, Christians were practicing the separation between the house of God and their home. Our homes are to be places of worship. Places where we gather and praise and sing and pray and preach. I want to encourage you tonight to use that tool to be hospitable. To have people over to your home. Invite them over, spend time with them. Get together. Yes, get together on a social level. I mean, come and have some fun. Shoot some guns. Amen. You know, do s do something fun. But with an understanding, beloved, that we're going to do something of eternal value. Because when we get together on just a simply a social level, we get together and just have some fun, it's it's It's important it's the beginning, but you understand when we take that beyond that level and we introduce the Word of God or We spend a few minutes in prayer, or we have a time of just praising him, or sing a song together. We take our social gathering and move it to a spiritual gathering, and now something of eternal significance is being accomplished. It's an opportunity that we have. Our home should be a house of worship. Do something spiritual. You don't need the pastor there to give us a thought from the Word of God. You can share something. Tell them something you got out of your devotions. Let them know what how God spoke to you this week. How did God stir you? Share a testimony about the goodness of God in your life. This has become so foreign to us, I know that it's uncomfortable. It's people would say, well I don't I I don't know I don't want people to think I'm being like super holy or something. Why not? I would rather they think I'm super holy than I'm worldly. I would rather they think that maybe I maybe I uh push the word of the Word of God a little too much than then discard or neglect it. Look look at the Word of God. Share something. It doesn't have to be super profound. It doesn't have to be something that that uh you know you think, wow, this is going to shake the world. No, it's God met with you, He spoke to you, and this is how He stirred your heart. You know what you just might do? You might challenge them to get in the word. Yeah, the pastor shares something, that's expected. People hear him share something all the time and they're like, oh, thanks a lot, Pastor. That was great. But uh you go visit Jake and Jake shares something he got out of his devotions. You know what it just reminded me, uh I'm gonna finish that and then I'm gonna talk about what it just reminded me. Somebody would hear that and say, Man, if Jake's in his Bible and God's speaking to him, I need to be. What it reminded me of is the testimony that uh Jacob gave about Pastor Derek. He he he looked at this young guy and saw him and listened to what he got out of the Word of God and listened to what he was teaching and saying, man. Basically the same age. Uh uh I should know the Bible like that. God could use you, you have no idea how far reaching your impact could be. If we would stop being afraid to be spiritual. Have somebody over and yeah, you can have some fun, but then say, hey, before we eat Why don't somebody share something that God did in your heart life? You know, let's sing a song. Let's sing one song together. Let's have a little little just a little bit of praise time and let's pray. Does anybody have anything you want to pray about? Let's pray together over these these needs. Mention a couple things off the prayer list. Something. Just do something spiritual. The exciting thing is, is then it becomes something of eternal value. Our time here in the church house is limited. The formality of church is needed, but sometimes it restricts the ability to really get to know one another. It it it takes time outside of this setting to really get to know each other. That's just the facts. You can attend church with somebody that if the only time you see them is here for a service, you can go to the same church for years and hardly even know them. Barely know them. Joe and Kim will tell you how they got to know me. It was a work party. Spending time together working. And so the church has other opportunities, activities, and things that we try and put in place that help build those relationships. But I can tell you, one of the most powerful tools we have available to us is our own homes. To be able to reach out and bring people in and minister to others. You see in this passage, you know, I want to point out a couple of things in the be our text in the beginning. He says, use hospitality one to another without grudging, as every man hath received a gift, even so minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Verse number 11 says, If any man speak, let him speak of the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth You say, well, I'm not that good of a speaker. That's okay. Use the ability that God's given you. Let him do it with the ability that God's given him. This is all here in the context of ministering one to another, using hospitality, ministering, sharing, speaking of the oracles of God. When you have somebody over, speak of the oracles of God. You say, well, I'm not that good at it. It's okay, just who you are, as good as you are, do what you can. I think God will bless it. He says here that God in all things might be glorified. So who are we trying to glorify? Me or or you or God? You know the reason that we're afraid to do things is because of pride. Because of how we're looked. Well, I'm not that good of a singer, so I'm not going to sing, but who are we lifting up? The reason we hesitate is we're worried what people will think of us when what we need to be doing is exalting Him. If it's about Him, there's a lot less concern for us. The home should be a place of worship. Without this opportunity, you know you don't have time here in church to build strong relationships. It really only takes place outside of these walls or in secondary ministry opportunities, other places like that. Sometimes just the number of people here makes it hard. I mean, on the way out on Sunday mornings, I'm trying to catch everybody. I'm trying to get, especially those that are newer to the church or just Sunday morning group or whatever, I'm trying to make sure I talk to them. I mean if you just spend a couple minutes with everybody that's here this morning, you're going to be here for an hour and a half. I mean you can't do that. So just the number of people make it difficult to try and build a relationship, but you can Have a smaller group over to your house and you can spend some time with them. Which is what the idea behind Supper with the Shepherd was. Just a smaller group. So we tried to break it into smaller groups. Now we put two groups together and ruin that tonight. But we're gonna have all the this is gonna be a madhouse with all these kids over there, right? But we'll have fun. We'll have fun anyway We should be using hospitality. Look in Acts chapter 28. Our home should be a home, a place, a house of hospitality. In Acts chapter 28 and verse 30 and 31. He says, and Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house. So we're seeing Paul here, I hear Bibles turning, that's why I'm kind of going slow. Paul dwelt two years here in this house he hired that he was renting. And it says, and he received all that came unto him. He received all of them. He was hospitable to them, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching those things which concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence No man forbidding him. So Paul used the hospitality. He used his home. He says, oh sure, come on over Got a captured audience. Get to preach to you a little bit. Get to tell you a little bit about what God's done for me. Get to share some truth from the Word of God. We get to discuss these things. And Paul, use those opportunities, and we should be using the opportunity. There's really something special about having someone in your home. You know, if you came to my house tonight, now obviously we're having everybody over, and I don't mean in that setting, but I'm saying, let's say tomorrow afternoon, you drop by the house. And I opened the door just a little bit. Yeah, can I help you? Well, preacher, I just wanted to stop by and say hi. Oh, okay, great. Okay, thank you. Hi You're like Alright, it was Zia. Okay, see ya. I didn't say it, but what I said was I'm keeping you at arm's distance. I'm keeping you at linked. I I'm keeping you over there. Okay But when I stop and open the door and say, hey, come on in, you're like, oh, oh, I just came to drop this off. That's all right. Come on into the house. You know, sit down a minute. Great to see you. How are things going When I bring you into the home, I'm at least saying, hey, I want you to be welcomed here. I want to have a close relationship with you. That's what I'm saying. I'm asking for that. I'm saying, hey, let's be friends. It at least implies a desire to be close, not holding people at a distance. It gives you time to learn and know one another, to hear about each other's concerns. You know how in the four-year, very rarely does the conversation in the four-year go beyond the weather? uh today's job application or whatever. I mean it's pretty you know it's pretty basic what you'd call surface conversation. Because it's such a brief meeting. It's such a you can't you know, somebody says, How are you doing? and you can't go into the fact that, you know, well you just heard about your brother in law and he's gonna go in for surgery next week and and this and this. I mean you don't have time to go into that so you're like, oh it's going all right, you know. I mean, could be better, but we're doing well. God's still on the throne. We know that. We're trusting him. I mean, but when you have hospitality, you can get together. You can spend time. You can talk about these things. You can learn about one another. Hopefully you get the conversation around to spiritual things and spend time praying with and for one another. You can use your home and you don't have to turn there, but in 1 Peter 4, verses 9 and 10, he says, use hospitality there one to another without grudging. That's what we're supposed to do. Minister to one another as manifold stewards of the grace of God. God will give you grace to do it. Now I know some of your homes you're going to have some natural limitations. There you go. You could not have sixty people over at your house. Okay, that's just there's some natural limitations there. I I I understand. You don't have the you know, the square footage that the parsonage has and and we you know but you could have somebody over. You can invite somebody. You can invite one or two people. You know, Joe Mary and I went over to eat dinner with Joe and Kim and they had to stand. Pretty much. I mean, you know, they got the one table there with two chairs and that's pretty much it. Like we had to bring some lawn furniture in or something out of it. Just make it work. But there's some natural limitations with your homes, but you can still try and find a way to be hospitable. Invite somebody over, spend some time with them, get to know them a little bit, invest in their life, and let them invest in yours. I know distance can be a limitation. Our church is really spread out for our for our size church. You know, much of the New Testament uh if not all of it takes place in less space then our church is spread out. Um if you think about it. I mean it's uh the the miles I mean if Lee was invited over to Matt's house He's got at least an hour and twenty minutes. I mean it might be more than that. I'm not sure, but just to drive does it see Matt. So sometimes I know distance is a limitation. And those those things you've got to factor in But it shouldn't be an excuse for us to never do it. Plan to have people over to your house. You know what? Get involved in the discipleship ministry. Set a spot up in your house. and start discipling somebody there. Bring them into your home. Let your wife bake some cookies. Amen, brother. Make some cookies and have people over. There's it there is something special about having people in your house. It means a lot. And as we're reaching more people, people are coming into the church, how are we going to get them tied in? Relationships is what gets them tied in. And if they come in and they sit here on Sunday morning and they walk out week after week and there's no relationship, they're not going to stay. We've got to build that relationship. We've got to start discipling them, bringing them along. Sing some songs together. Be a friend. Now as we said in the beginning, you could find your way into a church and and nobody would talk to you and you know you hide in the back and all that, you can do that. So I want to kind of apply this to the other side of this, and that is if somebody invites you over Be willing to go. Somebody's making an effort to be hospitable and they say, you know, hey, you want to come over? I've invited people to my house, some people two or three times, and for some reason every time they they can't make it. There's always something. Now a less spiritual person would take that personal. Somebody without the power of God might think that you were avoiding them. No, I really don't. I really don't take it personal. Um I just look at it as hey, I've always said it, if you're if you're willing to spend time with me, I'm willing to spend time with you. And uh I just want them to know they're welcome. And so I've invited people over. But y you know, I understand it takes a little work on your part too. If Lee was gonna go to Matt's house, he's gotta be willing to drive an hour and twenty minutes You know, th it takes some effort on on the person that's coming as well. You've got to say, yeah, this is worth this is important. It's time to to fellowship and and to get to know one another and pray together and it's going to be worthwhile to do this. And so accept the invitation. Participate. Let people invite you. And I know sometimes things are in the way, and the first time somebody invites you, you're going to be like, man, I can't say no because I mean sometimes that happens and and you have to you have to say I can't this week but would love to another time or something. Um, you know, but consider reaching out to those that are in need. Consider those that have spiritual needs or physical needs. You don't have to have the answer, you just have to be there. Just be present. This is what pure religion is. According to James chapter 1, verse number 27, he says pure religion and unfiled before God. And the father is this, to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. So my goal tonight was to kind of try to show you how integral the home was in the early church. And maybe we've allowed that separation to get too great. I think even in some respects uh many people have completely m removed i it's like well the church is for spiritual things and home I don't have to worry about that. I don't think this crowd is that way. We're talking to the Sunday night crowd. I think we understand that our spirituality and our Christianity carries over into our home. It's something that's part of our life. It's not just Sunday morning. Amen. But it's something that can happen for people. They kind of separate it, and we don't want to do that. Consider, especially as we're coming into nicer weather, consider having somebody over. Spend some time with somebody, sing with them, pray, and share some truths from the Word of God. You really don't know how far even the smallest act of kindness will go. Use hospitality to build strong and meaningful relationships with one another. This only gonna happen through consistent effort. And I know sometimes we don't want people to see the real us. And so we don't have them over. We don't spend time with them because we're afraid if they see the real us, they won't like us that much. Love covers a multitude of sins. And if your brother and sister loves you, they're going to see the real you and they're going to try and encourage you and exhort you in the right direction. But they'll still love you. And I think one of the problems we have as Christians is is w we're too good at at covering up or hiding the real us If we could get a little more just transparent with people, God might really get in this thing, might really do something. If we could just be more real instead of hiding the real us. I talked about it last week. Several ladies gave me a hard time about talking about cleaning your house. And I know the ladies that gave me a hard time It's usually the way it is. They're the people that keep a clean house anyway. They're the ones, you know. Uh but man, I like having people over 'cause it forces us to clean the house at least once a month. You know. It's like There's people coming. We gotta clean this up, you know. Let's get it clean. Hey, I I would have people ever every week. But I've got to dwell with her according to knowledge. And and I know that sometimes that can be too much. And Mary's very, very gracious and really obviously you know we we have we have fun with it. Um But I know that sometimes that's a hindrance too as far as, you know, getting the house cleaning and all that. It's so much work. It is a lot of work But does it need done? Needs done anyway. So let's just invite somebody over and say, okay, we got till next Thursday to get this cleaned up because they're coming. Ready or not, this is what it is. Hel it'll help you. It'll help you get it done. But I'm just saying tonight that we I think we're missing an opportunity as a church with this something that we have that God's given us. All of us have our our homes, a place we live or we rent And uh you could use that to really be a blessing to others and uh let them get to know you a little bit, let them see into the into the window of your life a little, and uh it'll it'll go a long way towards building meaningful relationships in the church. Let's stand together with the.