I'm excited about tonight's topic that we're going to be looking at. You of course should be in Philippians chapter number four. As I told you last week, we're going to We're going to expedite the conclusion here and try and get to the end of the book here in the next this service and next service. And I have already written part of next week's lesson and have found the uh the title and and got things ready for that and tonight we're looking at a good number of verses probably the biggest section of verses that we've uh looked at, but they do go together. It's not just that we're just skipping over some stuff. They really uh fit well together and they they go well with the theme and the idea um that we're looking at. We have Uh preceding our verses, our text for tonight, which is verses fourteen through twenty, uh we look last week at ten to thirteen, which is of course the verses that really have as their focus that idea of a contented Christian and that we live uh contented lives and that should be part of our focus that God would want us to be content with such things as ye have. And whether you're bound or abase or whatever's going on in your life, are you content with what God has brought into your life? Paul was content. We know that. The saints at Philippi were generous, even though they didn't have a lot. We see him continually thanking the the the saints there for their goodness to him, even though they were not necessarily pro prosperous themselves, but they had a heart of giving. In fact, this was not the first time that the Philippian people had helped Paul, the church there at Philippi. They had ministered to him on more than one occasion. They had helped him financially and brought and given him gifts. Um at at different times. And that ability to give like that is comes out of a heart of contentment. Uh when we We aren't content, we're always looking at for what else we could get, and therefore we're not in a place where we're willing to part with or to give of of anything that we we have. And the amazing thing is is that heart of contentment is what allows us as Christians to be the generous Christians that God wants us to be. That allows us to be giving as God wants us to. to be giving. Joy and giving are synonymous with Christian living. It's really part of Christian living is to have joy of the Lord in your heart and to be a giving Christian. Can I ask you tonight, do you enjoy giving? I hope that you do enjoy giving. I I was thinking as I was preparing this, which the title of tonight's message is The Giving Christian And I'm thinking that I don't know that in five and a half years, uh whatever since it I guess we're I started in twenty fourteen. Um but in all this time, I I don't think I've preached a message That the entirety of the message was on giving. Uh that I specifically dealt with giving and was was dealing with giving. And this tonight is going to be Uh although it is going to be dealing with giving, it's going to be a little bit different because we're dealing with the text and we want to see what the Lord has for us from these verses. But really, this is an important part of the Christian life. Is having a giving heart. Being ready and willing of God to be used to meet the needs of others So let's look at the text tonight, Philippians chapter 4, verse number 14, and follow down with me as I read 14 through 20. Notwithstanding ye have well done that ye did communicate with my affliction Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only For even at Thessalonica you sent once and again unto my necessity, not because I desired a gift, but I desire fruit that it may abound to your account But I have all and abound. I'm full. Having received of Paphroditus the things which were sent from you, An odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Now unto God and our Father be glory forever. Amen. Paul here, we want to see I'm going to divide this into two categories and in the categories we're going to walk verse by verse. First of all we see uh that they're reason for giving and then we see the result for giving and in under the reason for giving first of all we see that first it was to participate in his grief To participate in his grief. Verse number 14 says, Notwithstanding ye have well done that ye did communicate with my affliction. You see, they understood and they looked and they saw what Paul was going through and they desired to meet that need. They felt the burden that he had. They felt the need that he was carrying, and they wanted to do something about it. I want you to notice, first of all, that uh in their participation with his with his grief is that their sacrifice was recorded. It was recorded. Notwithstanding ye have done well, ye did communicate with my grief. Beloved God records and keeps track of every sacrificial gift that you give. Whether it's small, whether it's great, the size is not as important as the heart behind it. The woman with two mites gave far more than all the other people there. Why? Because of what she had left over. And it's not about the size of what we give, it's the heart behind what we're doing. And I want you to know God records every gift. Some people may make light or make fun of your gift. Some people may disregard or say that gift is not that important or why would you bother doing that? But God records every gift. For some reason, God chose to, in the Word of God, for all of time, record the fact that these people, these Christians at Philippi, they gave And God told us about it. Now, somebody might not know about it, but God knows. Saying as you give to meet the need of somebody else, as you give sacrificially to supply somebody else's need, God is recording that. And every gift, every sacrificial effort of service for God, anytime you sacrifice for the Lord, whether we're talking about a measure of service, Whether we're talking about a financial gift, whether we're talking about uh going and picking up somebody for church, right, Harry? Amen. Every time God sees that Nobody else maybe even knows. I asked Harry who brought him to church tonight, and uh he said Lucy. I said Lucy. And I'm trying to think, who was Lucy? And he's like, you know the girl that plays the piano. He says, I'm in the organ. And and I said, Oh you miss Amy He thought, Oh, now you know what I meant. He remembered and uh Miss Amy, anytime you do something for God, other people might not know. You know what? They might even forget your name. But God doesn't. God doesn't forget your name, and God knows that that service and that sacrifice is valuable and worth every bit of our effort. They were sharing in Paul's affliction. He said, You communicated with me concerning my affliction. They said that. I want you to know, he said, ye do well. He said, You've done well. It's good when you communicate with somebody's affliction. It's a good thing when we strive to minister to the needs of our missionaries, when we try and help meet the needs that they have. It's a means of communicating to them our concern and our compassion for them. You see, Paul understood, he says, you know what, you sent these things to me or you sent this gift to me. me, the gift is not as important to me as the message behind it. The fact that I know you as a church love me enough to do that. You love me, you're praying for me, you're ministering to my need, and what means so much to me is that you're communicating that to me. And ye do well. Beloved, we're doing well when we communicate. to our missionaries or to other brothers and sisters, our our church family. You know If you how many of you ever had opportunity to go out and see the redwood forest there in California? Anyone ever seen that? Uh years and years and years ago I saw it as a young man. uh my mom's mom used to live in San Bernardino, California, so we would go to California quite often. Uh but you know those redwood forests I was reading this week that Those huge massive massive trees actually don't have a very deep deep root system. Their root system is very shallow. What makes those trees so strong is the fact that their root systems grow into the other trees. And they interlock and they intertwine. They become locked together in a in a just an intricate network of strength. And you know what, beloved? The house of God is that way. Any one of us by ourself, we're not that big of a Christian. We're not really that much, we're we're not all that in the bag of chips. We're nothing to write whole about. Any one of us by ourselves, we know how how wretched we are. But when you put the church together, this is one of the reasons why the unity of the church is so important. You put the church together and we stand together, you stand like a redwood. You stand stall tall, you stand strong, and you become a mighty force for God because of that interwoven network of strength that comes from your brothers and sisters in Christ. Christ. Communicating with one another's needs. He they he they wanted to participate in his grief. Not only that, they felt it was vitally important that They promoted the gospel. They promoted the gospel. Look at verses 15 and 16. He says, Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel When I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning the giving and receiving, but ye only. For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity. You see, by their gift, they became partners with Paul in the sowing of the gospel. They felt it was vitally important and how fitting tonight it was not part of plan by any means. It's just today the John of Romans got picked up. The last batch got here and I thought, you know what, we ought to do something for Mount Zion. And I made that announcement. It did not even register until I was making the announcement. how fitting that is with this thought. That their goal was to participate with us in the gospel. They wanted to help us get the gospel out. And so they willingly sacrificed and did all the the labor, not just the labor, but they paid for all the signatures for us to be able to carry the gospel out in the Hunt Valley in the Baltimore region. And they they wanted to participate in that. They felt it was vitally important. And so they gave to make it happen. Their gift to Paul was a gift to God because it was God's work. And I want you to know, beloved, that any gift that we give towards missions, towards participating and helping in the Brother Hall or reaching out into Burma or whether we go towards Thailand or any missionary that we give in Cambodia, the the different means where we decide, hey, we're gonna give, we're gonna partner with them, it's a it is a matter of giving to God. It's God's work. And we feel it's vitally important that that we participate in that. And You see here that they did it from the beginning. They did it from the beginning. He says when the beginning when I first went out you know why that's why it's important for us to get to get on board with some new missionaries. These missionaries that don't have, you know, a proven track record maybe, they haven't been on the field for twenty years, they're just starting out, they're young. But they need some churches that would partner with them and say, hey, we believe what God's called you to do. We think we can get behind you. We want to partner with you. We want to help you from the beginning. And get you out there and get you doing what God wants you to do. And we're partnering with you and participating in the gospel going forward. Amen? That's what our mission is giving is for and what what we do it. You know, it's exciting to give when everybody's giving. Around here, I think about Vacation Bible School. When everybody's giving I mean the offering is growing, everybody's excited about it, all the kids are begging for money from everybody and You know, er it's all it's exciting. Like everybody wants to be a part, like, oh yeah, let's do it. And and uh man, that's great. But what if nobody else was doing it? You know, there's even some measure of that with even with just a missionary. I notice sometimes when a missionary comes, if no other churches have partnered with them. Missionaries will tell you, like, the first few churches are the hardest. Like it will take them six months to get their first church. Traveling on the road. Because nobody's partnered with them yet. But you get somebody where they're out and and And oh, you know, we've had seventeen churches take us on, and we've got two more taking us on next week, and we've got promises from these four churches, and then a church says, Hey, we want to be part of that too. Look at what's going on there. Yeah, let's join up. Let's let's do it Because there's an excitement there. But what if nobody else was doing it? What I'm saying here is what if there's a worthwhile cause and nobody else is giving? Are you still willing to give? Still willing to participate. No church participated except them only. They said, hey, this is important. We're gonna get behind it. We're gonna do it. And God may call us as a church to do that at times. And I hope you're for it. Their gifts met his necessity. That's what we do when we give to these missionaries who are meeting the needs that they have. So that they can go out and do what God's called them to do. It's vitally important for us that we give consistently. You see he said they they gave time and again. They that they you gave and then you gave again. And the idea of of just being consistent And being able to continue to count on that. And as these missionaries go out, we want them to be able to count on Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And so that means Hunt Valley Baptist Church members got to be consistent. in giving and realizing how important it is and just keep giving faithfully so that the mission work can go on around the world You know, a lot of times people don't know about the one that's back here giving. There's a famous artist. Whom I'm not even gonna try and pronounce his name. It's a German artist that I read about, but he had a friend named Franz. These two artists were great friends and they were struggling to, you know, the the old adage, starving artists, right? They were they were starving. And they realized that they could not Both continued down this road. So they drew straws, and whichever one drew the shorter straw was going to go to work full-time, so that the other could be an artist full-time. They did so, and this now worldwide recognized artist went and pursued his career. He became a recognized artist. After some years, he came back having his great friend who loved and supported him through all of his time of training and growth and becoming well-recognized artist. It is only then that he realized the sacrifice that his friend had made. For when he looked at his friends, those once nimble hands, which could skillfully Sweep a brush, were gnarled and stiff. From the labor which he had to undergo to provide money for this other artist to be successful One day he came in and he saw his dear friend with his gnarled hands kneeling and praying, and his hands were clasped in front of him. As he was praying. He looked at those gnarled hands and thought about the sacrifice that was made for him to become a successful painter. He sketched those hands that day. and turned them into a masterpiece which is recognized still today as the praying hands. Most people know and recognize those praying hands, but they don't know what made it possible. They don't know the rest of the story You know, as we give people on the mission field might not ever know who we are. and that we are what made it possible for a missionary to go. But God knows. Amen. What happens as we give towards missions and make it successful or possible Oftentimes people don't know the gifts that you personally gave. Maybe you're the only one that gave towards that particular need, or maybe you know you you gave You gave $500 towards this knee thinking, man, this is important. I want to give $500. And with the churchwide offering we're raising for this missionary. And then the next Sunday we announced that we want to praise God because $532 came in for this missionary. In your mind, do you think nobody else gave towards this? But you got behind it. No no nobody else knows, but God's going to use that gift. You know, I think about it from me personally, but how many pastors Could not do what God has called them to do, except for a wife that sacrifices in the background. I could not do what God wants me to do if it wasn't for the wife that sacrificed continually in the background. People don't know about her sacrifice. They don't consider the labor that she's invested, the time and work and all of even just being an encouragement to me when I need it. But it's her sacrifice that makes it possible. I wonder about how many ministries in the church wouldn't get done except for somebody, a church member willing to just Be in the background and sacrifice and say, I'm willing to do this. Nobody knows about it, nobody's patting anybody on the back, nobody's making announcements or recognizing anybody, but The the ministry wouldn't go forward except there's somebody willing to say, Hey, I'm willing to do this. But I'm saying is that participation in the gospel is what makes the work of the Lord Jesus Christ move forward. The reason that we give is because we want to participate in his grief and promote the gospel. Then we see the result, the results here of giving. He says, Not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that it may abound to your account. So there's profit for the giver. There's profit for the giver. Isn't that exciting? Yeah, you gave, but you're the one that's going to profit as well. There's profit for you as a giver. Paul had a correct view concerning this idea of giving. He understood the investment principle. And that when we invest in God's work, it comes back to us. It's not about what he was receiving, it was about what they would receive for their giving. He says, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that it may abound to your, what's that last word? Account. You know, account, that's a technical term for your balance sheet, your profit and loss statement, you know, your account. You know every one of us has an account. I wonder tonight, how's your account doing? How's your account doing? You know, I have some investments. For years and years, I mean for about 43, 44 years, I could care less what the stock market was doing Didn't matter to me one I owe it up. He would say, oh the NASDAQ's up. I'm like, what's the NASDAQ? Didn't matter, but now I have a little bit of investment. And there's some interest there. So I check it occasionally. Not a lot of times, but you know, two or three times a week I'll look at it, see how it's doing. Some days I look at it and I'm like, yes, made some money today. All right, that's awesome. And other days I look at it, I'm like, oh no, I lost all the money I made yesterday. It's all gone Oh look, today it's up. Yay! Tomorrow. Oh no, man, I lost it all again. I wonder if you could look at your account with Christ. How are we doing? If we think about how every sacrificial gift and every effort of service for him is recorded, if it's added to your account, Is your account growing? Could you look at it and say, man, look at what's been added to my account today. Oh praise God, boy, look at look at my account's growing today. Boy, God's noted this down and put this in the account today There ought to be some excitement there, and we ought to look at that account and be excited about it. We should be more excited about that eternal account than we are about the temporal one down here on earth. Everyone has an account. And every gift is recorded for you and I in that account book. Not only the prophet of the giver, but we see that it's pleasing to God. Verse number 18, he says, but I Have all and abound, I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. Boy, when we give, it's pleasing to God. Nobody might know about it, but that's not important. God knows. And the result of what we give is that it pleases God. You know, I don't know about you, but I like the idea of pleasing God. You know, there's many times where I know I disappoint my Lord. There's many times where as Paul said, you know, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. The things that I would, I I I I do not, and the things that I wouldn't, I do. And oh, this wretched flesh, right? I mean it's just sometimes I I I don't please God. And that's one of the exciting things about giving to me is is it really is this very easy way to please God It's pleasing to God. We can give and and it's going to please God. Not only that, it's profit for us. It comes back to us. I mean there's there's benefit in that, but it ought to just put joy in our heart to know that we're pleasing God. It's pleasing the Lord when we give towards meeting people's needs. It's an odor of sweet smell. It's a sacrifice acceptable unto God. He's pleased with that. It's part of worship. You know, all worship includes sacrificial giving You know the story of David. He says, hey, I'm not going to give of that which cost me nothing. I mean it would be like me saying, well, Miss Lisa, I want to put two hundred dollars in the offering tonight, so can you cover that? That's not I I didn't put two hundred dollars in the offering, Miss Lisa did. Right? I mean it didn't cost me anything. I mean that's easy for me to give Glena, I need uh need you to give a hundred dollars for me tonight. You know, now if I were now If I uh if I went to her after church and I mean if I didn't have money and we're doing a special offering and I might say, Hey, could you put this in and I'll give you some money later, well then that's one th it did ultimately pay m cost me. But that's what Worship is giving. And it's pleasing to God. I know you're going to like this last one. It's the providing of our goods. He says there in verse number 19, But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory. The supplying of your need, the providing of your goods. You know there's a lot I could an entire message on just this verse, but the source of the supply is God. My God. Is he your God? The same God that Paul was serving As the same God we serve. He said, My God shall supply all your needs. And you can say, No, my God will. Same God, amen. It's the same God that will supply as it did for Paul, it did for us. Many beloved claim this verse, but they fail to look at the context of it. You see, we we we just saw as we walk through the context here. about how these Christians had given, how they had sacrificially given. They pulled out their wallet. And they said, Man, Paul has a need. Boy, things are not not much here. I I don't know for sure what I can well, uh this is the last thing you guys know I have this emergency fund here, right? This is my emergency fund. It's the last thing, but you know what? I need it, but I'm gonna give it anyway. It is in that context that God says he'll supply all your need. It's not the blank check that a lot of people are making that verse out to be today. Oh, God's going to supply all your needs. You know, he's going to You're never going to want for anything, boy. You're going to be, this is what God's going to do for you. No, it is in light of the fact that you took what you needed And said, there's somebody else that has a need. I see that need, and I believe God will want me to meet it. And you give to that need, and then God says, Hey, I'm going to take care of you. Don't worry. You're not going to be left without having your needs met. We know The shortage is your need. We all have a shortage sometimes, right? One guy said, well, a successful life is when you end your life at the same time as well your life runs out at the same time your money runs out. And he said, So I calculated if I die by lunch tomorrow I'll be I'll be I'll make it, you know. Uh we've we've all been there. We've all looked at our our our budget, like the end of the month is way too far away, right? For for the budget. It's not quite there's a shortage there. There's a need there. But when we've done what God wants us to do, Then he comes through. And he's not going to leave you begging bread. He wanted to assure the believers that God would take care of them. as they had taken care of God's servant. Sometimes we might hesitate because our own supply is a little short. But God will meet the need. That's faith. You remember the the woman at Zarephath? She had just a little meal and a little cruise of oil. And the man of God said, Well, God told me to tell you to to make me a meal first. She's like, but this is all we have. If we make this, we're gonna die. We're gonna eat this and die. I don't know if she figured, well, what's the difference? I mean, one meal or I don't know, but she decided to obey God. She made she took what she had and gave it to the man of God. And then The meal failed not, and the cruise of oil failed not. Their needs were met. And it's in that context that this verse is a promise to the believer Not just the blank check idea that God's going to just meet every need and provide everything, but in the idea of as we give, as we sacrifice God sees that. And you're not ever going to give something away and then you be sitting here thinking, man, if I would have just kept that, I could have met this need. Because God's going to meet the need. As you give, God will give to you. And we see that the supply is from his riches in glory. It's an immeasurable supply. It's from all the riches of glory that He has that He'll meet our needs. You know, I thought about this And thought about this idea that God has already sent His Son from glory to meet our need of salvation. He sent that which is most precious to Him. to meet our need of salvation. I don't think that he's gonna withhold A little bit of finance. He was willing to give you his son because you needed it. I think he would look at our lives and the y you need this, you need you need that, you know. You might you might think about this uh I put a lot of this in the context of Financial need, but you know a lot of times our greatest needs are spiritual. And we we deal a lot in the monetary, monetarial aspect, and that's such a large part of our lives. But many times our greatest needs are spiritual. And uh as you give, you know, sometimes I look at it and I think that that a lot of the blessings that I have today in in the family and so on is is not really because I've done anything, but the fact that when I was two weeks old and my very first day in the nursery, my dad painted me across and he also sent a baggie across with my offering So this is Caleb's offering for today. And from that time till this, we've given to God. It's an easy we to way to please God. And God blesses that. It's not always with a huge paycheck. There's many other blessings that are far more valuable than than a big check. And uh God's gonna supply your need