For the few minutes we have, I have an unusual text this morning for Resurrection Sunday, but if you would turn your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. If you have the Word of God or you're welcome to use, there's a Bible in the pew in front of you. Most of the pew's in the where the songbooks are, there's a Bible there. You're welcome to use that. But 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Verses fifty through fifty-eight is what we're going to read So I'm going to bring you a message that I've entitled The Resurrection is the Reason. 1 Corinthians 15, verses 50. Follow along as I read down to verse number 58. He says, now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I show you a mystery We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the trump shall sound. And the dead shall be raised incorruptible. And we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortality shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. This is Easter. Resurrection Sunday. I would be so bold as to say it is the most important day of remembrance for the church. This is a day I want to remind you is about the resurrection of Christ. The resurrection is the reason for Easter. Capitalist-driven America can commercialize it all they want to. But for any born-again believer of Jesus Christ, the resurrection is the reason for Easter. It's not about the Easter bunny, candy, or new clothes. It's about the resurrection. There was a time when the new clothes that were purchased for Easter were purchased because they were a testament of the new life that we have in Jesus Christ. I wonder how many people that went out in this last week and bought a set of new clothes in preparation for Easter Realize where the tradition came from and what it is supposed to picture. The new life that we have in Christ because of the resurrection. Beloved Easter is not about family. It's not about getting together. It's not about fine meals. It's not about fun photos. The resurrection is the reason for Easter. You may not have a chance today to get together with family, but I want you to know he still rose from the dead. You may not get your picture taken today, but he still rose from the dead. Nobody might color an Easter egg for you, and you might not get any candy today, but I want you to know he still rose That is what Easter is about. The resurrection of Jesus Christ. I want you to look down here in front of me. We have these Easter lilies These Easter lilies here were read in loving memory. Names were read in loving memory of those that have passed on before us. It's because of Easter and what Easter stands for that we do that today of all days. Why would we take today of all days of the year to read the names in loving memory of those that have gone on before? These white trumpeted-shaped blossoms, standing for the pure Son of God, herald forth the sacrifice which Christ made for me. But they also proclaim loud and clear that he did not stay dead, that he rose from the grave. It is in him and by him that we all have assurance that the loved ones that have gone on before us will too one day raise again. Because Christ being the first fruits, having risen from the dead, and thereby assuring that all who believe in him will also rise from the dead. That's why we observe this on this special day. Jesus, our Savior, has risen. Mariah Platz says it very well in her poem. In grief's passion, deep and holy, Mary's eyes with tears were wet, caring not for the morning's splendor Since her star of hope had set, while before her stood the master, slowly through a mist Of tears, showing her the risen Savior heals all hearts and calms all fears. Still he stands within the garden where we lay our loved ones now. Saying softly to each mourner, Dear one, why weepest thou? For since he hath made his pillow in the shadow of the tomb It should be the holy portal where our sweetest flowers bloom. This is why we bring our lilies, pure and white, on Easter Day, for our lily of the valley Takes from death its gloom away. And as burst the budding blossom from earth's prison, cold and dim, So we break our heaven, our earthly feathers, and arise complete in him. That is the picture. of the lilies. So I tell you today that the resurrection is the reason for Easter. The resurrection is also the reason, beloved, that my life is profitable. The resurrection is the reason that my life is profitable. It's the reason that I have something worth living for. It's the reason that my life has meaning in our text, verse number fifty-eight. He says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for much as you know that your labor is not in vain. In the Lord. Man, what a joy to know that my life has meaning. What a joy to know that my life has purpose So much of this life's projects and events and things that we do really are futile. They really hold very little to no meaning. They're empty in the end. And beloved, the world over is full of people who, in the absence of real meaning in their life, are discouraged. They're depressed. They're distraught. They don't have any hope. I will never forget hearing the testimony of the successful comedian Jeff Allen He talked about his life and how he was so miserable, how he didn't have any hope His wife would look at him and say, Why can't you just be happy? And he would say, I don't know. And she would say, Why are you so miserable? And he would say, I don't know. I don't understand. He said, I looked at it and I said, what's it all for? And she says, I don't know. And he says, it's got to be for something I don't have time to give you the entirety of the story, but it was a 13-year journey downward Where he was searching for meaning, he described it and he said it would be easier if somebody would be standing in my room in the morning with a board And when I woke up, they would just beat me with that board. Because then at least I would know where all the pain was coming from. People would ask you, why are you so miserable? And I could say, well, because he keeps beating me with a stick. He says, but I got no answer for where is all the pain? Where is all the emptiness? Where is all the meaningless? He says, I just didn't understand why I was so angry all the time, why I couldn't enjoy my job, why nothing gave me purpose or meaning in life, not my wife or my kids or my job or any other relationship. He says I just was depressed all the time and I didn't understand why His life deteriorated. They lost everything. They lost their furniture out of their home and their vehicles and ultimately. And I can't give you the whole story, but his wife finally one day got up and and looked at him and said, We're going to we're going to grandma and grandpa's and he says, How are we going to get there? And he she said, You aren't invited She said, I'm taking the the the kids, we're loading up in the car and we're leaving. We're going for the summer. And while we're gone, you gotta figure out what's wrong with you. And she starts to walk out of the house, and on the way out, she sees on a closet shelf a shoebox full of cassette tapes. She why would she do this? Because there's a God in heaven. She saw those and something stopped her and she went in and she grabbed those cassette tapes and she threw them on the floor in the living room and she said, Well, we're gone. Either listen to those things or throw them away. And she turned and walked out. You see, a year and a half earlier, a friend that loved Jeff Allen enough said, Hey, could I send you some messages from the pulpit of our church? And he began once a month sending a little message on a cassette tape to his home. Why didn't Jeff Allen throw those away? He said, I had no desire to listen to those. I told the guy, whatever you want to do, it's fine. It's your money. He sent it to me and he says, but something kept me from throwing them away. Why every month was I taking those cassettes? and sticking them in the shelf. I was never going to listen to 'em. But something told me don't throw it away. And then God pointed to his wife and pulled them out and threw them on the floor when she walked out of the house and there was Jeff Allen staring down at this pile of tapes on the floor in his living room. And he looked. So he looked around for a little portable cassette player. And he sat down on the floor. Then he grabbed a cassette. The very first cassette that he grabbed and opened up, the preacher was preaching from Ecclesiastes. He says, I couldn't even pronounce it. It was Akashices or something. I don't know what that was. Ecclesiastes. He said, but I put it in. And the preacher began the very first thing he's reading, he says, Yea, all is vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. He said the the the wisest man that ever lived described that life without God was meaningless. There is no meaning found in anything else until something from outside comes inside and changes you from the inside out. And he says, man, that's what I was looking for. I had no meaning in my life. And I started listening. I went and got my Bible and I sat down and the preacher is preaching and he says, because I'm a compassive compulsive, obsessive person, I went tape after tape after tape and and I'm listening to them all He says, Finally I got up off the ground and I wanted to go out in my front yard and run around with the Bible. I wanted to say, Hey, have you read this thing? This is amazing. That day he found Christ. That day he found meaning for his life And beloved, it's because the resurrection is the reason that my life is profitable. The resurrection this morning, I want to ask you, is your life profitable because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ? Have you found meaning because of what Christ has given you a purpose and a plan to live? This is what God wants for you. You and I are to be fulfilling God's will in our life Oh beloved, if you aren't fulfilling God's will in your life right now, then the resurrection is not profitable for you. The Apostle Paul describes it as vain. First Corinthians 15, 10, he says, But by the grace of God I am what I am. How many can say that this morning? The grace of God I am what I am. Man, without Jesus there would be nothing. He says, and the grace which was bestowed on me was not in vain. Beloved, what a sad commentary to think that the grace of God and the sacrifice of our Lord and Savior was bestowed on you in vain. And if you and I are not fulfilling the purpose for which God has us alive and has us living today, then that grace was bestowed on us in vain. We're not accomplishing or fulfilling the plan which God has for us. Paul said, I'm going to live every day so that I can rejoice that I have not run in vain. I've not labored in vain. The work we have, the purpose we have, I'm thankful this morning, beloved, that because of that, the resurrection is the reason my life's profitable. The only thing worth living for is the fulfillment of God's will. Everything else is vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. You say, oh come on, Pastor K. Listen, the wisest man that ever lived wrote in Ecclesiastes, I have seen all the works that are done under the sun. All of them. He says, I've seen all the works that are done under the sun. And behold, all is vanity and vexation. of spirit. Therefore, I hated life. The wisest man that ever lived. At that time the richest man in the world. He said, I hated life. Because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous unto me, for all is vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. Everything else is just existing. There's got to be something more. There is more in Jesus Christ. We've got to accomplish his will. Beloved, I'm thankful this morning. I'm thankful that the resurrection is the reason. That my prayers are powerful. That my prayers are powerful. Romans 8. 34 says, Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God also making intercession for us. Beloved, I'm glad today that when I bow my head and I pray, I'm not just saying some religious words, I'm not just talking to a stone statue somewhere. I'm not praying to somebody that got buried and stuck in a grave and you could go there and still view the place where he's laid No, when I bow my head and pray, I pray to a risen Savior. He's in the world today, and I know that He is living no matter what anybody says. Amen We serve a risen Savior. That verse says that he walks with me and talks with me. God, does God walk with you? Does God talk to you? Do you, beloved, as a child of God, we have the privilege of prayer, the privilege of talking to a risen Savior. Come on now, that's worth getting excited about. That's worth saying, praise God. Amen. Hallelujah. All together. That's almost worth getting Baptecostal. Amen. Let's just get unglued and have a time in God's house. You guys are going to enjoy Brother Larry Brown next week. I'll tell you what, he is a little bit uh he's excitable. Amen. Uh he he's he says, man, it's good to be under the spout when the glory comes out. Hallelujah You guys are going to love it. It's going to be a time. Right now, let's get back to the message. I'm glad this morning, beloved, that I serve a risen Savior and that when I bow my head and pray, I'm talking to God. The King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, somebody whose hand is not shortened that he cannot help, somebody who has ears that hear, somebody that has eyes that see, somebody that loves me and is making intercession for me. Amen. Amen. I'll tell you. That Savior said to me, Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. I'm so thankful this morning that God answers prayer. I can tell you I can tell you Ben's excited God answers prayer. Hallelujah. This young lady sitting next to him. Come on now. Some months ago he says, Hey, will you pray for somebody? I said, Absolutely not. No. I said sure. He says, uh this young lady Really good girl. She says she needs she needs Jesus. Jesus. She needs to see the Lord as her Savior. Would you pray she gets saved and not just me, but many people were praying? And Shannon's trusted Christ as her Lord and Savior. We serve a risen Savior. He hears and answers prayers. When we call on him, he's there. I'll tell you what, it's because it is the resurrection, is the reason that my prayers are powerful. Man. I've shared this before, but it so beautifully pictures the relationship that we have with Jesus in the prayer life that we can experience I would encourage you this morning, if you're not actively involved and consistently praying to the God who is your Savior, begin now. A minister passing through his church in the middle of the day decided to pause by the altar and see who had come to pray. Just then the back door opened and a man came down the aisle, the minister frowned, as he saw this man hadn't shaved in a while. His shirt was kind of shabby, and his coat was worn and frayed. The man knelt, he bowed his head, then rose and walked away. In the days that followed each noontime came, this chap, each time he knelt just for a moment a lunch pail in his lap. While the minister's suspicion grew, with robbery a main fear. He decided to stop that man and ask him, what are you doing here? The old man said, his work was just down the road. Lunch was a half an hour. Lunchtime was his time to pray, to find strength and power. I stay only a moment, see, because the factory is so far away. As I kneel here and talk to the Lord, this is kind of what I say. I just came here again to tell you, Lord, how happy I've been since we found each other's friendship and you took away my sin. Don't know much about how to pray, but I think about you every day. So Jesus, this is Jim, just checking in today. The minister, feeling kind of foolish, told Jim this was fine. He told the man he was welcome. Come pray any time. Time to go, Jim smiled. He hurried to the door. The minister knelt at the altar. As he hadn't really done before. His cold heart melted, and he met with Jesus there as the tears flowed. He repeated Jim's prayer. I just came to tell you, Lord, how happy I've been since we found each other's friendship, and you took away my sin. I don't know much about how to pray, but I think about you every day. So Jesus, this is me, just checking in today. Past noon one day, the minister noticed that old Jim hadn't come. More days passed without Jim, and he began to worry some. As the fact at the factory, he asked about him. Learning he was ill, the hospital staff was worried he had give them quite a thrill. The week that Jim was there with them brought changes on the ward. His smile, his smile and his joy was contagious. Changed people was his reward. The head nurse couldn't understand why Jim was so glad when no flowers, calls, or cards came, no visitor he had. The minister stood by his dad, he voiced the nurse's concern. No friends came to show that they cared. He had nowhere to turn. Looking surprised, old Jim spoke up with a winsome smile. The nurse is so wrong she could not even know that in here, all the while, every day at noon He's here, a dear friend of mine, you see. He sits right down and takes me by my hand. He leans over and he says to me, I just came again to tell you, Jim, how happy I've been. Since we found this friendship, and I took away your sin. I always love to hear you pray, and I think about you every day. So, Jim? This is Jesus just checking in with you today. The relationship that we have in prayer, friend, with a risen Savior. He's a friend that's closer than a brother Um it's because it's the resurrection is the reason, beloved. That my prayers are powerful. The resurrection is the reason, beloved, that my failures are not permanent. That my failures are not permanent. Are you awake this morning? Lamentations chapter three, verses twenty-one through twenty-three says, This I recall to my mind, therefore Have I hope? It is of our Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. Their new every morning great is thy faithfulness. Oh beloved, God's love for you is true. I'm thankful this morning that God's love for me and God's love for you is not conditioned upon our performance. You know what? You can't do anything this morning that would make God love you anymore. And you can't do anything this morning that'd make God love you any less. God loves you. It's not about your performance. Now we can do some things that'll make the Lord disappointed in us. But He loves you. Man, the only one who has the power to condemn you is also the one who desires and wants to forgive you. The Bible is clear if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So you've messed up! So you've failed. So you've made a royal mess of things in your life. God's a God of second chances. The resurrection is the reason, beloved, that my failures are not permanent. We can confess our sin, we can forsake it, we can turn back to Him, and today you can have a second chance. Today you can start fresh because God wants to and is willing to forgive you for everything that happened yesterday and in bygone days. Man, has Satan won a victory in your life? Has Satan dragged you down some wearisome road? Has he brought you to a place of destruction and left your life a mess? Have you looked at it and thought to yourself, how did I get here? How in the world did I end up like this? This was not my plan. This is not what I foresaw. This is not where I want to be. Well, God wants to forgive you, and God wants you to have a second chance. He wants you to be able to start fresh and move forward from today. Today, Easter Sunday, 2022, can be a day where because of the resurrection, your failure doesn't have to be permanent. You can go on for God. Oh beloved, he said, This I recall to my mind, therefore have I hope. You can hope in God and what He's done for you. You have hope today. You may be discouraged, you may be down hi downhearted, you may be distraught and think I've got no I've got nothing to live for, but because of the resurrection you do. You can have hope this morning. Peter failed and went on to preach Pentecost. King David failed and went on to be a mighty king. Moses failed and he led God's people right to the brink of Canaan. Jonah failed and went on to preach one of the greatest revivals recorded in the scriptures. Your failure doesn't have to be permanent. Because Jesus can forgive. It's because, beloved He is risen. The resurrection is the reason that my life is profitable. The resurrection is the reason that my prayers are powerful. The resurrection is the reason that my failures aren't permanent. You got time for one more? We got plenty of time. It's only eleven twelve. This last point could take forty-five minutes. Hallelujah. Listen to this, folks. It's because of the resurrection That my death is a prize and not a punishment. It's because of the resurrection that my death is a prize, not a punishment. In John 10, 27 through 30, he says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give Unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father, which gave them me, is greater than all, and no man shall be able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I and my Father are one. God gives the gift of eternal life to any who believe on his Son. The thief on the cross looked over and believed on Jesus Christ. He said, Lord, remember me when thou enterst into thy kingdom. He believed. And his death is not a punishment but a prize. Listen, beloved, we're all gonna die one day. That's sad, but do you know what a greater heartbreak is? Do you know what a greater sadness is? Yeah. Is that some are going to die and pass off into everlasting punishment. But they don't have to. Because the gift of eternal life is there for them. Romans 6. 23 says, For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. Matthew twenty-five forty-six says, and these shall go away into everlasting punishment. Who are these? These that do not believe on the name of Jesus Christ. These shall go away into everlasting punishment. He says, but the righteous unto life eternal. Man. The resurrection is the reason that my death is not a punishment, it is a prize. It is a gift of God, the gift of eternal life, where I can live eternally and forevermore in the presence of Jesus. And God the Father and the Holy Spirit and all those that have gone on before that believed on his name. Christ was raised from the dead for you and I Galatians 2. 21 says, I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. See that verse I read to you, Matthew 25, 46, says, And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous unto life eternal. So the righteous will get have life eternal. Well how do you become righteous? I just do really good things. I just Just be kind to my neighbor, give to the poor, you know, help the needy, do unto others, observe the golden rule. Is that how I become righteous No. Galatians 2. 21 says, I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness came by the law, then Christ died in vain. If if you could be righteous by living according to the law, observing the law and doing whatever action you want to put into that blank, if you could get there by that, then Christ died in vain. There's one t-shirt manufacturer that sold t-shirts for a number of years. There's a picture of Jesus Christ's bloody body hanging on the cross. And the caption below the t-shirt said. If I'm alright and you're all right, why'd this happen? See, Christ died to pay our sin debt. And he rose from the dead to provide justification. Justification means just as if I had never sinned. To wipe away all the sin, to provide forgiveness. For you, to provide for you the prize of heaven, an eternity with God in heaven. Listen, I don't have to be punished, instead, I can have the prize Romans chapter 4, verse 25, 20 to 25 says, he staggered not at the promises of God. This is Abraham. He's talking about Abraham, when Abraham had faith and believed in God. He said he staggered not at the promises of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God. And being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able to perform. You see, the Old Testament saints, they look forward to the cross. They put their faith in in in in what Christ was going to do, believing that he was going to come because he was promised. And Abraham was fully persuaded that what God said he was going to do, he was going to do. But you and I, we look back to the cross at what Christ did, and we just have to have faith to believe that it happened. He says in verse 22, and therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. You see, righteousness was given to him. Not because he did righteous things, but because the righteousness was laid on him because of what Jesus Christ did. It was imputed unto him for righteousness. Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed to him, but for us also, to whom it shall be imputed. Okay, to who must if you have a Bible, look at this, would you? At Romans chapter 4. I know I read these scriptures quick, but you need to see this last verse. Verse number 24 and verse number 25. Romans chapter number 4. I want you to see it in the scriptures. He says in verse number 24 there, he says, but for us also to whom it shall be imputed. How is righteousness imputed unto us? If we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead. Believe on him, and righteousness is imputed unto you. Because of the resurrection, beloved, my death is a prize, not a punishment Verse 25 says, Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification? Man, God the Father raised him, God the Son, from the dead, so you and I could be free. So we wouldn't have to suffer punishment, but could receive the prize of eternal life. To know the forgiveness of sin is payment enough. But to have the prize of heaven. His icing on the cake. Man. The Bible describes for us the fact that man cannot even imagine. In your wildest dreams, in everything that you could think of, the Bible says you can't, it has not even entered into the heart of man what God has prepared for those of us. Love him. You can't even imagine what heaven's gonna be like. The best thing you can possibly imagine in the Bible says you can't you're not there yet. And I can imagine some pretty awesome stuff. I bet you can too. My dad always thought we're gonna be able to travel at the speed of thought. Like, you know, I'm gonna go visit Jeff. Bam! I'm at Jeff's house. We can imagine that. What's gonna happen? I mean what are we gonna how how is it gonna be better than that? No traffic jams. Hallelujah. I mean you we can't even imagine what it's going to be like, but it's it it's uh it's a prize of heaven because why? The resurrection is the reason that my death is a prize and not punishment. Man, Easter is not about family or getting together or fine meals or funny photos. It's not about the Easter bunner or all the commercialization. The resurrection is the reason. For Easter. And the reason that we bought and placed these lilies here, the names were read in honor of them, because we believe in the resurrection. And Christ is the first fruits. It is a testament of the fact that one day these, the dead in Christ, shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds. I think it'd be awesome if he came back while I was still living. Not sure how that's gonna happen, but I always wanted to skydive. That's gonna be in reverse, you know? You're gonna sky fly the other way. I I don't I don't know. I don't know how it's gonna happen, but uh it's gonna be fun. Of course it's gonna happen in the twinkling of an eye. That's that's pretty quick. I don't know, uh probably be up there and I'll be like, wait, I didn't even get to look around. I didn't even get to experience like the the gut moving and all that, you know. I I don't know how it's gonna happen, but man, it's gonna be awesome. Listen, as I bring this message to a close, I'm gonna ask the pianist to come and begin to prepare for the invitation. But as I bring this message to a close, I want to ask you this morning a few questions. We're going to have an invitation. And that's that's that's what it is. It's an invite. An invite for you to come to this area up front here. We call it an altar. It's just a place where we can kneel and talk to God. Where we can thank Him for what He's done for us. Where you can pray and seek His face. Listen. The pianist is going to play. But can I ask you this morning, are you grateful for your risen Savior Have you found meaning in life? Have you found that with Jesus your life is profitable? If not, you can today. You can today. Life has meaning. It never had before. There's a song that goes like this Life has purpose it never had before. There's meaning to each day and evermore. For a joy and peace I cannot Explain his mind, since I found new life in Christ, my Lord Divine. You know, you can have I hope you're can testify this morning that the resurrection is the reason that your life's profitable. Can I ask you, are you accomplishing God's will? Are you accomplishing what God has for you to do? Is the resurrection uh the life that he's given you, is it in vain? Well well, failures don't have to be permanent. He will forgive you today. So you made a mess of things. So you made a mess. It's okay You can start fresh. You can start over today. Easter Sunday 2022. Have a second chance. Know and experience the forgiveness of God. Would you s