Ecclesiastes in ver chapter number three is where you want to get to in verse number one. Chapter three and verse number one. Follow along with me as I read our text for this morning. We're going to read the first eight verses. Familiar passage of scripture to most all here I'm sure. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes chapter three and verse number one, To everything there is a season. And a time to every purpose under heaven. A time to be born and a time to die. A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which has been planted. A time to kill and a time to heal, a time to break down and a time to build up, a time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together. A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing. That's what I tell my wife. There's a time to refrain from embracing. Oh number six, verse number six, a time to get and a time to lose, a time to keep and a time to cast away A time to rend and a time to sow, a time to keep silence and a time to speak, a time to love and a time to hate, a time of war and a time of peace. Well we are right now in what we would call Christmas time. The Christmas season this morning, I want to bring a message to you that I've entitled the Christmas season, this time of year where the air is filled with joy. Oh, the smells of Christmas are filling the houses in your homes. The baked cookies and the oven just continues to roll with the pecan pie and many delicious uh some of you make great chocolate desserts. It's it's it's just Christmas season, the air is filled with the smell, and maybe maybe the fireplace is running and it's providing warmth not just to your legs as you stand in front of it and roast yourself. Uh but that just kind of adds warmth to the family and to the home as you sit around reminiscing of bygone Christmases and days of old and past things that have happened and you just sit together with family and friends and enjoy this that Christmas season. Oh, the time of year has meant so much to all of us, and we look forward to it and we enjoy it, but between now and Christmas, there's so much to do and so little time to do it. We've got so much to accomplish, and if we aren't careful before you know it, this Christmas season will give way and we'll break into a new year with all the possibilities that a new year brings. This Christmas season, and this morning, I would like you to ponder not just the Christmas season, but the seasons of life. As the ever increasing speed in which they come upon us The Bible says in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse number 1, to everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. I want to talk to you this morning, yes, about the Christmas season, but also about the seasons of our life. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to your heart? Lord, we come to you this morning and I have a simple message this morning for your people. I pray God, our hearts would be stirred, and we would be challenged with this practical lesson. Lord, we would be moved. to value our days and to make the most of them, to enjoy the time that you've given us, and to prepare for the season to come. We ask you to speak to every heart present in Jesus' name. Amen. We are right now, I guess not officially in winter yet. Does the winter start in a week or two? The official winter. We're not quite there, but It's cold enough to be winter. Amen. We would call it winter. It was chilly this morning. I went out and started the car and let it run for about fifteen minutes and went outside and it was still covered with frost and I couldn't see out the window. I had to Use the wipers and all the water to get all that off of there. Uh we finally could see to drive to church. It was a chilly morning. Uh this morning. This is winter time. Well, someone has divided the seasons of life into the four seasons of the year. I've uh taken their division and kind of added some thoughts to them and Would like to share that with you. They said that winter would be childhood The childhood years of life, winter is that time of year when the farmer is planning and dreaming and preparing for what's coming down the road. Thinking about the possibilities and what they would like to do, anticipating eagerly the coming season It is the foundational years. It is the time of receiving for children. Very few children really do very much giving. Most children do the receiving. Amen, kids. They do the receiving. So many gifts are given to them, and help is given to them, and assistance is given. It's the year of making mistakes. It's the time when you can, you know, you go from not even being able to stand up on your own. to walking and running and learning what you can drop and it won't break. Learning what mom wants you to mess with and what you shouldn't mess with and What is a tool and what's a toy? And it's a time of learning many lessons. Winter gives way to spring, and spring would be considered the time of youth. Oh, that time of getting out and walking over the fields, experiencing it, a time of cultivating the soil and preparing the equipment that needs to plant the seeds. Well, those who are in the summer of life are trying to challenge and encourage those in the springtime to be careful what seeds they plant. For certainly there are some things that you really don't want when it comes harvest time. So, young people, please listen to those that have been down the road a little bit. They're encouraging you and trying to tell you be careful what you plant, for there is a harvest coming. Oh, it's uh youthful years, the springtime. It's a time of detachment as you start to make new relationships and you seek your own independence. It's a time of figuring out what you're going to do. When summer comes around. Oh, it's a time of practice. Maybe some preseason training, getting ready for the coming season. But inevitably, spring gives way to summer and This would be the adult years when you have to work the plan. You go out and labor in the field that you've chosen. You water and nurture the ideas that you've had. You're growing towards success in your chosen fields. This for most people is the longest season of life, the adult years. It's filled with many hot days and lots and lots of hard work. Mistakes during these years are a lot more costly than the ones given in winter in childhood. Your work habits are tested, your attitude is checked, your strengths and your weaknesses are put on display Here in the adult summer of life. Summer gives way to fall. This would be the retirement years This is the harvest time, a time that has its own challenges, but is full of joy. You get to harvest the fruits of your life. You get to enjoy the fruit of the labor that you invested for so many years. Long days and early mornings are now something that you get to enjoy. They've paid off. You know, you don't have to do it unless you want to. at this stage of life. Your time is your own. Well, this is Christmas season. And we're going to talk about that, but what season of life are you in? What season of life are you currently in? And I, this morning, for a few minutes want to give you a couple of thoughts about the seasons of life and about the Christmas season. I enjoy these kind of messages because this is going to be pretty practical. This is things I like. And when I get practical, I get long-winded, so pray for me. First of all, the first lesson I want you to learn or the first thing I want you to consider about the seasons of life. Is God would have you enjoy the season that you're in Enjoy the season that you're in. Wherever you are in life, from the youngest individual in the auditorium today to the oldest individual here, God wants you to enjoy the season that you're in. Friend, could you tell me why is it we are so uh desirous of some other season? This certainly is an affliction of the young, for they desire what's next. Always looking ahead, they want to go to school like their older siblings, and they get in school and then they want to get to high school and Finally they get to high school and and then they they desire to be able to drive a car. And if boy I could just be happy if I could drive and And oh then I need to get a good job and and oh if I could just find the love of my life and and and then they find a love and boy if we could get married and and just looking, boy if we could have kids and and boy I've got a job now but I really need that promotion and looking for the promotion and and we go on the promotion and we go through life and boy I'll tell you what if the kids were just out of the house you know if it was just Mary and I and the the kids were gone, boy, we could sure enjoy our time together. And and what I'm saying, friend, is we get all the way through life and then we get to the you know, as old as Bob, and we say, Man. We say, Man, I wish I could be young again. Yeah. We we what I'm saying, friends, is we we we uh We're missing what we should be enjoying in this season of life that we're in because we've got our eyes on the next season or on seasons that are already gone. Could I encourage you this morning to enjoy the season you're in? The Apostle Paul said, whatsoever state I am, I've learned to be content wherever you are in life, whatever season your life is at, whatever stage of life you're in, enjoy it, friend. Enjoy where you are. Tomorrow is going to come on its own. And what tomorrow brings, hey, the Bible says sufficient is the evil thereof. Tomorrow will take care of itself and whatever comes in the next season of life, it'll be here soon enough. Just enjoy where you're at. Have fun where you're at. Enjoy what God's given you in the stage. And every season has its own thrills and its own challenges and its own opportunities. Enjoy them all. Hey, listen, whatever comes next, whatever in your mind's eye you're looking at and say, boy, if I could just have that, I could be thrilled or I could be happy. It's not gonna make you happy. If you're if you're an angry, sullen, withdrawn individual right now It doesn't matter what the next stage brings, you're still going to be angry, sullen, and withdrawn. The changes of life don't make you what they do is they display what you are. You can choose to enjoy what you ha what you have and where you are right now. Hey, this is the Christmas season. Could I encourage you? Enjoy it. Hey, Christmas is supposed to be fun. It's supposed to be exciting. It's a great time with family and friends. Why do we let the stress destroy it for us? At the end of Christmas season every year we think, why did I go through that? You know, this was such a pain and it was so much work and why do I do this to myself? Or what, hey, it's okay if the pie is not perfect. It's alright. No no stress. When I went to uh Trinidad, Tobago. That's something they say all the time. No stress, man, no stress. You know, it's like, oh man, I'm sorry I'm running a couple. No stress, man. No, no, no worries. Don't don't let the the the hustle and the bustle and the the you know your desire to make everything perfect rob you of joy of enjoying it of having a good time So what if it doesn't come out exactly like you wanted? It was fun doing it. It could have been fun doing it if you didn't get so angry. You know, mom or dad and I I don't know who I'm trying to help this morning, but don't take the stress out on the kids. They just want to have fun. It's Christmas time. You know, don't take it out on each other. Enjoy the Christmas season. Amen? Amen. You know, parents, let your kids have a good time. Let your kids have fun. Some Christians live such a rigid life. And I'm preaching it myself this morning. They live such a rigid life, you know, it's like hey, bless God, I think you ought to have standards and I think you ought to have uh a way of doing things and things should be done decently in order, but kids are going to be kids. And they want to have fun. And mom and dad, you should work hard to let them have fun. It should be something you listen, some Christian young people are gonna they're gonna grow up when they get older. They'll say, boy, Dad, he sure was a good Christian, but he was no fun. He was a good Christian, but he was boring. I mean, come on, let loose a little bit. Enjoy the time together. Have some fun. Do some fun things together. What are you going to do this Christmas that'll build a memory for you or your family? A couple weeks ago now uh Caleb I was in the kitchen with Mary and he says, Mom, you think dad would play uh Nerf War with me? She says, Well, why don't you ask him? He's like No I ain't asking her. She's like, you're not gonna know unless you go ask him. So Caleb comes down and he's kinda hanging around, you know, where I'm working and he's And I said, What's on your mind, son? He's like, Well, I was wondering if you would ever consider playing Nerf War with me. And I said, sure I would. I said let me finish this and and we'll we'll get on it. You go get the guns and the bullets. Now that rascal gave me the junkie gun. My my bullet did not work. We ran all over the house going up and down the street. stairs and running around and having a nerf shooting bullet nerf bullets everywhere in the house. They were all over the place. Caleb was working up a sweat. Now my strategy was more stealthy I it had nothing to do with the fact that I lost oxygen when I ran up the steps. I was more stealthy I was hiding in the corners and waiting for him to come around and And uh that allows I I was about ready to throw the darts because a gun wouldn't shoot, but but uh we had a great time. A lot of fun. Just built a memory. What are you going to do this Christmas season that's out of the ordinary? What are you going to do that will build a memory for you and your family? Listen, enjoy the season. Enjoy it. You want to maximize the season that you're in. Maximize it. Live it to its fullest potential. Don't try and skip to the next season. You understand that if you don't properly manage the season that you're in. . . If you miss life's opportunities and lessons that you're supposed to glean in the season that you're in, it's a lot harder to get them in the next season. How many uh you a little bit more mature, a little bit older people would testify this morning? That it's a lot harder to learn some lessons later in life that you should have learned a long time ago. The lessons are a lot harder to learn when you don't get it in the time or the season that you're supposed to. Sometimes it's impossible to go back and relearn it, but sometimes you you can, but it's much more difficult for one You're a lot older now, and the mind doesn't work like it used to. Secondly, the demands on your time in the present season are greater and different than the demands were in the previous season. Let me give you an example. Brother John Smith, who was with us at the men's prayer breakfast. Uh he's told me numerous times, you know, one of the reasons that he can't be with us at church is because of his health Physically it's very hard for him to drive all the way here. He's concerned about having a wreck or not being able to focus that long. So he goes to a church that's just right around the corner from his house, which is much safer for him. But it's because of his physical uh uh challenges. Now he's told me several times, and I don't think he would mind me sharing with you, uh he's like, Pastor Caleb, when I was younger, I abused my body. He said, I did so many things in my body that I shouldn't have done. And now I'm paying the price. This th th this old body's falling apart. Man, I wish I could have gone back and and never done this. I wish I could have left that out of my life and not now now I'm I'm reaping and and I'm I now I'm harvesting. Now I'm I'm these things are coming. Listen you're responsible to use the season you're in to its fullest And how you manage this present season is up to you. Let me give you another example. Uh some of you here probably have had to do this later in life. You went back to school Isn't it a whole lot harder to go back to school to get some things that, you know, you you you you should have got back when or that you could have got A lot easier much earlier in life, but trying to do it later in life, well, there's so many more demands on your time and you've got to work a full-time job and you've got all these other responsibilities, you could have done it pretty easy When you were younger, but now doing it's a lot harder. Can I get a witness? Yeah. Because you missed the lessons and the opportunities that were in the season that you were in. Two things that I've always regretted in my life that I didn't get when I was younger. One is I I believe I could have and I should have learned to play the piano. It'd be a lot a lot more difficult for me to learn to play the piano now when I could have done it relatively easy when I was younger. Kids don't get upset at your parents for trying to help you maximize the season that you're in. They're trying to help you to get all that you can get in the season you're in because listen, this can be a lot harder later in life to go back and try and get something you should have got when you were your age. The other is I wish I would have learned Spanish. I could have learned Spanish so easily when I was a kid. All my friends spoke Spanish and many of their parents didn't even speak English. I was around it all the time. But I didn't do it because of the nature of man, and that is to be lazy. And so I just did what I had to do to get by. Instead of investing a little bit of effort, I could have learned Spanish. But now it'd be very difficult. You see, if I ought to learn that, I know God could use that in a great way, even in ministry today. But I missed it. What I'm saying is maximize the season you're in. Wherever you are right now, live it to its fullest. Glean and get all of life lessons that you're supposed to at the time that you are, that you're in right now. Yes, dream! But make the dream a reality by getting off your seat and doing it in the season that you're in. Now let me just say one word of encouragement here If you're here this morning, you say, Pastor, I missed that in this season, or I didn't do that in this season. I've had many of the older members of the congregation here tell me, Pastor, where were you when I was going through that? I didn't have the heart to tell them I was in grade school, but um what they're saying is If I could have learned life, those lessons that you've given, if I would have known them 25 years ago, it could have saved me so much. It could have helped me so much. Listen God says in Joel 2. 25, he says, and I will restore to you the years that the locust have eaten. Because of God's grace, he can restore some of that lost time, some of those lost opportunities. You can get some of that back. Because of God's goodness to us. But you understand that the success or the stress in the next season is largely determined upon proper living. in this season. Just like I was talking about John and his physical limitations today because of how he lived in his previous season. Because of what he did in his previous season. The success or the stress of the next season is largely dependent upon your proper use of the current season. Let me explain. This is Christmas season. And if you go out and spend a whole bunch of money that you don't have To impress people that you don't care about. The success or the stress in the next season It's dependent upon what you do in this season. Maybe you do care about them. Maybe it's your kids and you're going out and spending all of this money to try and give them this amazing Christmas. In the next season, come January and February and March, you're going to be under a lot of stress that you put on yourself You're going to be looking to try and find overtime and a way to earn extra money and maybe have to pick up an extra job that's going to take you away from the family that Y you said you were providing a Christmas for. You know a lot of our stress in life we put on ourselves. Christian, don't go out and spend a whole bunch of money and put listen, if you've got the money and you want to spend it, go ahead. God's blessed you and you want to be a blessing to somebody, go ahead. But don't spend money you don't have to try and provide a Christmas for your kids. Don't let The marketers of today and the television tell you that you've got to have so many presents under the tree, that you've got to have this newest gift or this newest toy, or you're a bad parent. You're not a bad parent if your kid doesn't have the latest toy. You're probably a better parent if your kid doesn't have the latest toy. They don't need those things. The the the crazy thing how people go out and spend exorbitant amounts of money. Many of you know Mary sells uh American girl stuff just kind of for fun she finds it on Clarence and then she sells it around Christmas time and you know there's a particular American girl like let's say a dress for a doll That Mary bought for like six dollars. Which is ridiculous. That it cost six dollars. But do you know that American Girl will stop making that? And some young lady has to have that dress for her doll. And somebody will give Mary 60, 70 bucks for a little dress for a doll. That's crazy. Why? I mean Kids do not need all of the junk that we give them today. We give them too much stuff. Now the kids are like, Pastor, please stop, please stop. You're killing us. Parents, don't spend your money. Save it. Amen, kids. I didn't hear anything Hey, if you got it and you want to be a blessing, great, but don't let the pressure of society in this season motivate you to go waste money that you need to pay bills or that you need to put gas in the tank or that you need to put food on the table. And we put it into a present that you're putting under the tree. You're listen, let me ask you this. How many of you could tell me I'll say five gifts that you got under the age of ten. Could you name me five gifts that you got when you were under ten? Let me ask you this, the present that they wanted so much last year, where where is it today? They probably don't even know where it is. You know what? We don't remember the gifts. I mean you might remember that one or two. Maybe your parents got you a puppy. My parent my my kids really want a dog and they've almost worn me down. Almost worn me down. They're they're working on me. Get a dog Uh that's that's the a dog is a gift that keeps on costing, amen. Some gifts keep on giving, the dog keeps on costing. So I don't know. We'll see, but you maybe there's a couple of gifts that you got that meant a lot that you remember, but But you know what you remember is the experience that you have with your family. The time, the things that you did together. What are you doing right now? Planning, thinking about, making this Christmas special. It's not more gifts under the tree that'll make it special. It's doing something fun. You know what? You got younger kids? One night you oughta have hot chocolate and you oughta get a whole bunch of marshmallows. And just let them have as many marshmallows as they want. And then see the kids are downstairs, so they won't know you got the idea for me. You can do this and they won't even know. Then in the middle of it Turn into a marshmallow war. Have a marshmallow fight. Throw marshmallows everywhere. Hey listen, any that don't get cleaned up, the mice They'll eat it, okay? They'll you're giving a Christmas to them. I guarantee you your kids will remember this Christmas. Because you did something like that. You know, at the same time that you're telling them you can have as many marshmallows, yeah, as many as you want, load it up, put all them put them in there. You want more? Okay, have more. At the same time you can teach them That this is Christmas and it's a special time and we're we're having fun. But you know that you don't do this when you're at somebody else's house, right? You can teach them that you don't do this normally because why? Because we want to be considerate of others, because we don't want to be a hog. You can kind of teach them some lessons too at the same time, but you can have fun. Just have a fun time together. Maximize the season you're in. How do you maximize the season in? You have a plan. Plan. What are you planning for this Christmas? What are you going to do? Hey, you could plan to come to the banquet tonight. That doesn't even cost you anything, and you can do it together with your family. A Christmas event. You can go look at some Christmas lights. You could come here for Christmas Eve to the Christmas Eve. Candlelight service. You could uh go to a concert. There's certain events and things that you could do around town. Find an ice rink and and go ice skating. Or maybe you watch them ice skate. You know, I I don't know. Wherever you are in the stage of life, the season you're in, you might not want to get out of the skate. But you can do that for them. Spend time with your family. Could I encourage you to be sure and lift up Christ during the season? You go look at Christmas lights and of course you can tell the kids, hey, we we They're gonna have Santa and reindeer on the roof and all that, but of course we know Christmas is about Jesus. Put Jesus first at the Christmas season. You need to invest some time, some energy, some effort, and having a plan. Otherwise, the days, the season of Christmas will come and go, and you'll miss what could have been. A truly rememberable Christmas. You know, plans give you direction. They give you a goal. They give you something to shoot at. They give you a purpose. They give you feedback as well. They let you know, did I do this? Did we accomplish it? Did we have a successful time together as a family? Make some plans, put some thought into it. What are you gonna do together as a family to build some living memories with them? You know, living without goals is like shooting a gun without a target. I mean, it makes a lot of racket, but it ain't very satisfying. Just shoot it at the air. It's like what w y you don't know where it went, you don't know what happened, you don't but when you have a target to shoot at and you get to see it hit, so that's awesome. And when you get uh in life, you set a goal, you have a target, you have a plan, plan something. for your family. Listen, I have another point, but I'm gonna I'm gonna shut it down. You want to minister in the season that you're in, but we'll leave that for another another message another time. Let me close with this. To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven, a time to be born. and a time to die. Friends, you are right now living in the season which a time to live. We enjoy thinking about the positive side of these lists. We like thinking, well, it's a time to be born, it's a time to live, a time to embrace, it's a time to All of the fun side, but you know, that's not reality, is it? There's also a time of heartache. There's also a time of war. There's also a time to die. And what I want you to understand this morning is that if you don't prepare right now, in the season you're in, for the season that's called eternity When it comes, there's no going back. There's no doing over. You can't try and get it once that time's come. You've got to prepare now before it's eternally too late. For eternity. Are you ready this morning for that season, for the season of eternity? We would love to take the word of God and show you how you can get ready, how you can be prepared. For that season of life. Let's stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. I'm gonna ask the pianists to come and Listen, are you ready for eternity? If not, will you let us show you in the Word of God how you can get and be ready? Don't miss the opportunity today to prepare for that season that's coming. Friend, are you enjoying the season of life that you're in? Or are you discontented and just looking for what's next or looking back at what has been? Do you need to ask God to help you just to enjoy the time that you're in? Do you need to ask God for help this morning? To keep the stress in check? To have joy in your heart, the joy of the Lord through this time, and to share the love of Jesus Christ, even with your family, and instead of sharing the anger and the frustration and the stress that many people deal with. Are you maximizing the season you're in? Do you have a plan to make it happen