So if you don't mind, take your Bibles ever so uh quickly to Matthew chapter number twenty-eight. We're going to review real quick what was mentioned in Sunday school, then I'll go right into the morning message. But we won't be long. I I I won't be long. I promise to get you out. I want to get you out uh on time. And I'm conscientious about your time uh because uh if all I do is ramble and not take you to the word, then We're just doing something again. And I don't want to waste a Sunday. We don't have enough Sundays to waste. And by the way, if you're here, you're here on purpose. God brought you here On purpose. Either to tell you about the Lord Jesus Christ so you can receive Him as your Savior and be saved. Or If you do know the Lord as your Savior, God wants to sanctify and cleanse and use you in His work. And there is a mighty work to do for him. Everybody has a part. Everybody can be as close to God as they want to be. And uh everybody can do a work for him if they would just yield themselves over to him. But Matthew chapter 28 Verse 16 to verse number 20, then we'll go over to Luke chapter 24, but let's read Matthew chapter 28, verse 16 to 20, just a review here. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. I talked about the place of missions. That's the local church. That's the place where Jesus appointed us today. Verse 17, the person of missions. And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. Let's not get our eyes off of the mega missionary. I know I'm here representing y uh a missionary, but can I tell you the one missionary is Jesus. He's our missionary. If there's anyone who can do anything, it's Jesus, not me. I'm just a mouthpiece. uh uh uh uh uh a representation. Uh I stand in the place of Jesus. And so do you when you tell people about the Lord And you crack open the Word of God and with a burden, you want them to see the words of life, and they receive Jesus as Savior. You can know that Jesus is working with you. He is the person of misery. If there's anyone who could make blind eyes to see, the deaf to hear, to bind the brokenhearted, I mean the balm It's Jesus only. It's only Jesus. The person in missions. Verse 18 it says, And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. That's the power of missions. The authority resides in Christ. And then he looks at the church and he He gives the church the authority to function in this earth, to do missionary work, basically evangelism and discipleship. We've been authorized, we don't need to wait for anybody We got the signal from the captain, go, and let's get to it. We're authorized. There's the the program in verse 19. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. That's what it is. All nations. I love the flags. You see the flags here. We're to go into all nations. Doesn't matter the ethnicity. I mean, if they speak Spanish, we gotta learn it. We gotta learn it. For God so loved the world, He gave His only begotten Son. You could could you learn a little Spanish so you can say that? Swahili, could you learn a little Swahili so you could just say that? So they they they speak uh they speak another language. Well Indian. Could you could you learn some Hindi? Could you learn some Russian so you could at least quote those verses? The Spanish, for God so love the world, Pork. How do you say that? For God so love the world. Right? Yeah. I tried. I tried. But man, it's it's part of that that program to go to all nations. That's a challenge. That's a tall order. And I will go into that this morning, ever so briefly. Verse number 20: you got the promise of missions. I am with you always. I love that promise. I love that promise. Never forsake us, never leave us. I mean friends can change. Family, oh you know family's gonna leave you someday. You know that. I mean that's just I mean if you don't know that you ain't got no family. Just messing with you. But family, there are times when even family can't be with you. There's not a person on earth who could say these words. I am with you alway. But Jesus can. And he made that promise. Oh, I love that promise. You know what promises are useful. We say promises are made to be. Broken. Boy, that's worldly. No, I if you know Jesus, promises are made to be kept. And he will never leave us nor forsake us. Oh my, the promise of missions and the perpetuity of missions, even unto the end of the world. Amen. And so we have these points over here, but I want you to stop for a moment, go over to Luke chapter number 24. Luke chapter number 24. It's a reiteration of the Great Commission in the book of Luke. Luke chapter number 24. Jesus resurrected and he presented himself to the disciples and in verse number 45, Luke chapter number 24, verse number 45. The Bible says this, then he opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. And he said unto them, Thus it is written, thus it be Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations. Beginning at Jerusalem, and ye are witnesses of these things. It is the will of God for us to reach all nations. And the way it sounds, it just sounds so impossible, doesn't it? I want to speak to you ever so briefly On the convictions of missions. There are some things that if we don't have in place, the mission will be impossible. But if we have these things in place, the mission will be made possible. Let's pray real quick. Father in heaven, in these few brief moments, God, I pray that we would take the truths of Scripture. And that we would receive it by faith into our hearts, God. Lord, when we look at the statistics, when we look at the task. When we consider all nations, we were overwhelmed. There's no earthly way we could accomplish these things. So, Father, I pray we would have the faith to try Trust you, Lord, that you know more than we do. And we must yield ourselves to you. Father, I pray for those who don't know Jesus as Lord and Savior. What a wonderful Sunday morning to come to church. I pray the Holy Spirit of God would open their eyes, open their understanding to understand the scriptures. I pray, Father, for us as born-again Christians who are those who are saved. Father, that we may understand the scriptures and yield ourselves over to these truths, God, because we know you want to accomplish these things. in our lives. Help us to be yielded vessels today, I pray. And we'll bring you honor, glory, and praise for the wonderful things that you will do because of your word. And we rejoice in you, Lord. We thank you, God. We trust in you that you would bless. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There are some non-negotiables. I mean when you think about the the task that that he told us to do, uh uh we should be uh a preaching among all nations where it were to teach all nations. Uh let me ask you a question When Jesus spoke these words to 120 disciples at the time prior to his ascension into heaven, they were uh the that was the church. It was 120 people baptized, born again. Saved, assembly of baptized disciples, 120 of them, meeting in the upper room And Jesus, with all authority of heaven and earth, walks into the assembly and tells them, Teach all nations. I'm sure those disciples were amazed that he's the risen Savior. I'm sure they they they they're just starting to figure this out. Now that's impossible, Lord, but wait a minute. Dead men don't rise. And you are the God of the impossible. So if if God told us to do something, that means we have the capacity and the ability to do it. If God called you, if God burdens your heart for something in the ministry, I guarantee you God will provide for you. And God will empower you to accomplish whatsoever He lays on your heart to do. I went to Bible college with Geno Sharp. I don't know if you know who Geno Sharp is. Gene Sharp and he uh He was a college guy and he uh he had uh a cassette recording device over here. He called it the beast. Back in the day. It was a cassette, you know, with uh you can do recordings and all that kind of stuff. And I said, Gino, what's that about? He said, This is the beast. I said, whoa, well you know what are you doing with that? He said, someday I want to plant radio stations. Why, Gino? Because there's millions of people who need to hear the good news of Jesus Christ. Geno, that's that's a pretty tall order. How could a college kid accomplish these things? I'll tell you what, he planted five radio stations in the Philippines under local churches. So local churches can put the gospel on the radio And gospel music on the radio. I mean, come on. There's enough junk on the radio. We need some good stuff on the radio. He also planted the first Christian radio station in Iraq. Can I tell you something? Whatever God lays on your heart to do for Him, He will enable you to do it And without him it is impossible. Commission will never be accomplished. It will be an impossible task. And the first thing, the first thing is prayer. The first thing is prayer. Look over in verse number 49. And behold I send the promise of my Father upon you, but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high. They had to wait ten days. They had to be in one accord in that upper room for ten days. Shut out. Shut out of everything. You know what they engaged in those ten days? Prayer. Prayer Ministry, can I say missions? Ministry without prayer is just an activity. Much prayer, much power. Little prayer, little power. No prayer. No power. See, I thought it be I thought missions began with with this and with that. No, it begins on your knees. I know y many w of you will never get to the Philippines, but you can sure get there on your knees. Prayer makes a difference. Somebody said when we get to heaven, it's not the tragedy of unanswered prayer, it is the tragedy of the unoffered prayer. Moms and dads, are you praying about missions? Would you pray to God and offer your children to the mission field? You better not pray for others' children if you're not willing to pray for your children to go. You know why Jesus said pray for laborers? Because prayer changes you. How could you say, Lord, send laborers, but don't send me? Every mission failure, miss ministry failure, as John Rice would say, is a prayer failure. And he's so true. so right about that. Prayer. Now, who can't pray I love the word of God. I love how God, when God calls you, it's something you can do, you can accomplish. He didn't call us to play piano. A lot Darcy, where are you at, Darcy? Hey God bless you, Darcy. Love them. Awesome. Awesome. God didn't require us to learn the piano, but He requires us to pray. We may not all play the piano, but I know all of us can pray. And it's a non-negotiable. This is a conviction of missions. If we're not praying, we'll never get to the mission field. We'll never see the results God wants us to see because we don't believe in him. Can I tell you something about prayer? When you pray, you're opening yourself up to God. You're bringing God down to your helplessness. You're saying, God, I'm insufficient. But you are sufficient. And so I come to you in prayer. And I'm asking you to intervene. I'm asking you to change this situation. I'm asking you to put this marriage together, this family together. I'm asking you for that young person to get on fire for the Lord. Prayer. It's a non-negotiable. The power, the promise of the Spirit. Do you still pray for power? Oh, I know. A lot of ministry is program. And I'm not knocking program by the way. Without organization it's gonna it's gonna be a royal mess. And God don't don't bless mess. But you cannot substitute prayer for program. You're not going to do missionary work. Without first being a missionary. Prayer. And who can't pray? You know what prayer takes? Faith. Faith. The thing that got you saved and born again, when you had faith in Christ and believed in Him? Well, if you believe in Him for heaven, can't you believe on Him for earth? Are you praying? I wonder what would happen if we spent some time in prayer before we go do the things we're supposed to do. Prayer primes the heart. You want to get the most out of your pre missions conference or your Sunday morning, Sunday services? You want to get the most out of it? Spend a lot of time in prayer at home. Pray on Monday. Pray on Tuesday. So that when Sunday comes around. It's the atmosphere of prayer. Oh, I know God can do great things if we pray. I mean, is there anybody more busier than God? I don't think so. But get this: when we pray, God stops everything and pays attention to us. Let me tell you something. The devil will want you to be busy doing many things in the church. But the one thing he doesn't want you to do, prayer. He'll let you go to church. He'll let you show up. He'll let you fellowship. He'll let you be busy, constantly busy, man. Just get busy, busy, busy. But when you start to really get on your knees and pray. That's when you're a threat to the devil. Pray. Oh, the old missionary said, attempt great things for God, expect great things from God. Don't you pray? Pray the Philippines opens up. There's nobody else who can open up the country, but God can. And pray that when when the country opens up that that we would win the spiritual warfare. So we can have programs, we can have we We can we can we can create different things, but the promise of the Father, the power of the Spirit, that only comes from Him. Nobody yields that, but God. But we can prepare ourselves in prayer so that God could use us effectively in the ministry. So Non-negotiable is prayer. Number two, the second non-negotiable is the preaching of the Word of God. The preaching of the Word of God. Look over in verse number 46. And he said unto them, Thus it is written. Look at verse number 45. Then he opened he their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. I mean, this is the resurrected Christ dealing with his disciples about missions work. And what's he doing? He's expounding, opening, he's explaining the scriptures to them. Why? Because people don't need to hear good ideas. They need to hear Scripture. Because if you're convinced by Scripture, your decision is not based out of emotion. It's based out of the Word of God. And that will endure when the emotions are gone. Scriptures. Filipinos don't need to hear how to feel good and how to look good and how to lose weight. They need to hear Jesus loves you. Jesus died on the cross for you. They need to hear you don't have to fear him. He's not out to judge you. He's out to save you. They need to hear. He's not to condemn the world, but the world through him might be saved. They need to hear the scriptures on the mercy of God and the grace of God. You don't have to tell a Philippine Catholic that they're sinners. They know it. That's why they beat themselves up. They know they're not worthy. They got that down. You have to say that. But what they need is for somebody to come along and to show them Jesus died for you so you don't have to beat yourself. Hey, he took the nail so you don't have to be nailed to the cross. They need to come to the understanding of the grace of God. And how do you get there? You know, mystiology stems from theology, and theology stems from bibliology. We have the privilege, I tell you, it's a non-negotiable. You must proclaim the Word of God. When you knock on doors and you invite people to church, that's a wonderful thing. And often we invite them to church because we hope they'll hear the good news of Jesus Christ, the church, because it's the atmosphere, it's perfect timing, no distractions, we do our best to do that. It's wonderful. But I'll tell you what, if in your soul winning you never get to the gospel, I don't know what you're doing. I don't know what it's about. We have to preach the Word of God. We have to proclaim the Word of God. A movie's not good enough. Skits are not good enough. PowerPoint's not good enough. We have to publicly proclaim the Word of God. The scriptures need to be taught, expounded. Let them read the Scriptures. Take it with you. And have them open up the verse and say, can you read this? Oh, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And then you need to take time to explain those words. You're doing missionary work. It's un it's a conviction. You cannot get away from that. Prayer. Preaching. And last but not the least, proceeding by faith Proceeding by faith. Now the church at Jerusalem had 120 people. Numerically, the task of reaching all nations was impossible. 120, how could they possibly teach all nations? Legally, societal, society, legally speaking, Rome was in power. It was illegal to be a Christian. Politically speaking, it was impossible because Rome would say, oh, the Caesar is Lord, and the Christian says, no, Jesus is Lord. Oh, and it cost them their life. It cost them something. I tell you, when you describe the when you study history and you see the lives of Christians of the past, the one word that I think summarizes them is the word sacrifice. When I look at Christians quote unquote today, I think the word selfie Selfish. Nothing more foreign than sacrifice. It was numerically impossible, it was legally impossible. How about resources? How about finances? You don't talk about finances. I mean of course it's missions conference. You always gotta talk about money And I you know, if if God doesn't have your heart strings, he sure doesn't have your purse strings, that's for sure, right? I can understand that But financially speaking, how could a group of a hundred twenty d b uh disciples who borrowed an upper room That was John Mark's mom's upper room. They didn't have a building. They didn't even have property. How could they financially do missions Boy, were they limited. But with what little they had, and what limitations they had. They turned it over to Jesus, and they proceeded by faith. They were able to accomplish great things For Jesus Christ. I mean, we got the gospel proclaimed in Europe for the first time under the second missionary journey of Paul. Europe hears the gospel. Macedonia opens up. Church of Philippi was planted, followed by Thessalonica, then followed by uh Berea and uh uh Athens and Corinth and then Ephesus and Ephesus reaches into Turkey and then And uh goes over to Rome and oh, the world was starting to be reached. It's impossible. Yeah? Without prayer? Without the public proclamation of the Word of God, and without proceeding by faith, it sure is impossible. But with prayer and preaching, And proceeding by faith, the work can get accomplished. This is our challenge today. This is what God's calling. This is the convictions. Do we have that conviction? Are we going to operate by prayer? Are we going to operate by preaching? Is it gonna be the main thing? Are we done with preaching? We're just gonna get rid of the pulpit and pastor's gonna wear a turtleneck next Sunday and have a stool over here and he'll just sit down and chat with you. Come on, that's what churches are doing now. Young people don't want to hear the state. Young people will walk up to a pastor and say, I have no confidence in in the preaching of the Word of God. And you need to explain to me why the convictions are such and such, because it doesn't say it over here. And it's like, oh yeah, well you know If I had you if I showed you a verse, would you change your mind? No. Churches are shifting. And I believe it's because of the lack of power, the prayer. See if you can't if you can't operate in faith in prayer, you better have strobe lights You better bring in the smoke machine. You better have some dancing bears. Because you're gonna need it. Prayer, preaching, proceeding by faith. These are the convictions of the Great Commission