But I began talking about Frank Sinatra and his song My Way And how empty and shallow of a life that is, that you could get to the end of your life and that your anthem and that your thing to hold up as a banner for you is that well I get it my way. Yeah, is right. Uh that's about the the value of that. And I thought what a what a sad anthem, what a sad thing to And so I began to ponder and think about that, and I said, I wonder what the Bible has to say about it. And uh Uh when I worked at Walmart many, many years ago as a teenager, uh they used to say, well, there's a right way, there's a wrong way, and there's a Walmart way. And they loved to say that. They would say it quite often. Well, I want you to know that there's a wrong way and there's God's way. And so I want to speak to you for a few minutes tonight on the way of the Lord. You know, uh as I got into this study it's quite uh uh we're gonna do a l I I thought about turning this into an actual Bible study tonight, but I don't think we have time for that. I'm going to give you a lot of scripture tonight. Uh and uh we don't have time to turn to them all, but I really kind of got into the Word of God and said, What does it say about And uh you know Proverbs fourteen twelve tells us that there is a way which seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. That's the end of doing it my way. The end thereof is the ways of death. There is a way which seemeth right unto man, but the end of The Bible presents us very clearly with two ways. There are only two ways. There's God's way and there's Satan's way. Those ways are described for us in Matthew chapter 7, verse 13 and 14. You'll recognize the verses. Enter ye at the straight gate, for wide is the gate and And Broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go in thereat, because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth to life, and fear there be be, few there be that find it. Beloved, there's two ways. There's Satan's way, which is broad, and there's God's way, which is narrow. We're going to talk about God's way, but I just want to mention to you, because The way of Satan is called many other things in the scriptures. It's called the broad way in the verses that we just looked at right here. It's called the way of the fool in Proverbs 12:15. It's called the hard way in Proverbs 13, 15. You know that verse, that the way of the transgressor is hard. Yeah. It's called the hard way. It's called the way of death in Proverbs 1415. It's called the Way of Abomination in Proverbs 15:9. It's called the way of darkness in Proverbs 4. 19. It's called the I can give you these if you're trying to write them all down. I'll just give them to you and look at it later. The way of darkness. It's called the way to hell in Proverbs 7:27. It's called the Way of the Thief in John 10:1. It's called the way of lies in Psalms 1 nineteen twenty-nine the way of the false in Psalms one nineteen twenty-eight. It's called the way of the wicked in Psalms one forty six nine. It's called the way in into the wilderness in Exodus thirteen. It's called the way of sinners in Psalms 1. 1. It is called the way of the forward in Proverbs 22. 5. It's called the way of Cain. in Jude 11. And I certainly don't think I exhausted the scriptures in m talking about, but you understand there's one way that is God's way, and then there's all of the other ways. And can I tell you tonight that Satan is not too worried about you going Satan's way? He's perfectly happy if you just go your own way. Because you're not going God's way. Let me illustrate it this way. Can you three guys help me, Caleb Stevens? Even in Timothy. You three guys come up here, it will only be just a minute. But you know the fact of the matter is there's God's way, the narrow way, there's the broad way. Some people would say, well, it's it's Satan's way. And so we're gonna take these three guys, one stand there, one in the middle, one on the other side. I don't care which is which, but you'll find out where you want to be in a second. So we're going to start over here and we're going to say that uh he chooses and wants to go his own way. He wants to go his own way. He wants to go God's way. We'll let him have God's way. He wants to go Satan's way Now, listen, some of us would look at Satan's way and we'll say, man, he's he wants to be a devil worshiper, he wants to be a idol worshiper, he wants to to sacrifice to to Satan. He wants to do all that that wicked evil. I mean just terrible, terrible things. He wants to go the way of Satan. And Satan, of course, is happy about that. And over here, this guy is a self-proclaimed Christian. He, in his eyes, is a good person. He's just gonna go his way. He's not gonna be a Satan worshiper. He's not gonna go down that road and follow all of that wickedness and pursue all the filth of this society. He's a good, honest, moral man, but he's going to do it his way. Let me ask you, in the day of judgment, where are these two men? They're in the same place. They're in a place called hell, which is prepared for the devil and his angels. You see, Satan really doesn't matter if you want to call it your way or you want to call it something else. If we're not going God's way, we're not going the right way. So I want to talk to you for a few minutes about the way of the Lord. You can be seated. Early Christians were called followers of the way? In the book of Acts we see that several times. I'll read this to you, Acts chapter 9, verse number 2. He says, and desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues that if he found any of this way Whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. You know, this is Paul who is Saul who was a attacker of the church, a persecutor of the church, and he was seeking out any men or women who were followers of the way. Beloved, we should still be followers of the way. We should still be followers of the way. They were called the followers of the way, also in Acts 22, 4 and Acts 19. 23. You know, we're not going to take time to read all those, but can I tell you that we need to be followers of the way, the way of the Lord? God said of Abraham that he knew he would continue in the way of the Lord. In jun Genesis 18, 19, he says, For I know him that he will command his children and his household after him, and that he shall keep The way of the Lord to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him. So can I tell you, beloved, that there's a way, the way of the Lord, God has an expectation of how we're supposed to live. Not just how we're supposed to get to heaven, which is only through the shed blood of Jesus Christ that I am the Way, the truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father, but by the way to heaven, and there is no other way. We know that, only one name given among men whereby man must be saved. Jesus Christ, amen. That's the only way. But there's also a way that God expects us to live, and if you're in 1 Samuel chapter number twelve, would you look with me at verses 22 through 24? This is what we're going to use for our text verses and to try and teach us in a very simple way about the way of the Lord. He says in verse number 22, he says, For the Lord will not forsake his people. For his great namesake, but it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. But I will teach you, but I will teach you the good and right way Those of you that are English majors, what is the uh punctuation there? The end of that verse So he has a colon there, and he is about to give unto them the a three-point outline in the Word of God. Of the good and right way. He says, I'm going to teach you the good and the right way. Here it is. Point number one: fear the Lord of a king. They wanted their own king. That wasn't God's way. But they wanted their own king. They cried out for a king. They wanted to be like the other nations. So, Kevin, what is the first word? Now, so circle that, underline it, somehow mark it. I want you to notice it. Verses 7 through 12 speak to them of their past. He's describing even them this place. Now look at verse number 13. What's the first word of verse number 13? You see, they disregarded and wanted to forget the God who had the right way I want you to see first of all here that if we're going to go in the way of the Lord, we need to fear the Lord. A proper fear of God is necessary to keep He fled and ran away, and he did not do so. Because Potiphar was a powerful man. He said in reply, Why can I, or how can I do this great wickedness against God? He had a fear of God, a fear of disappointing God, a fear of sinning against God, and it was that fear of God that kept him on a right path. Beloved, if we're going to be successful as Christians in today's wicked world, we've got to have a proper and right fear of Almighty God. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. To fear the Lord is to hate sin and to do right. The way of the Lord really is simple. It's not too difficult. We make it sometimes a lot harder than it has to be. Matthew 11, 28 and through thirty says, Come unto me all thee that labor and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls, for my yoke is easy. And my burden is light. We might just need to get back to a right and proper fear of God. You know, when children are small, the reason that they're obedient is because they fear mom and dad. They're not reasoning out in their mind. They're not analyzing your systematic theologically correct presentation of the arguments. For them it is a mama is gonna whoop me. Or mama's not. That's what it boils down to is they're gonna be obedient because they have a proper and right fear of mom and dad, or they're gonna be disobedient because they don't fear mom and dad. Can I tell you it has nothing to do with the personality of your child? I know we can make all the excuses in the world about our particular children and How many alphabets they have after their name. But listen, it's just like people that uh they want to talk about how a diet doesn't work for them Can I tell you something? 100% guaranteed diet that works for you. Don't eat. If you don't eat, you will not gain weight. Hundred percent guaranteed. I know the struggle. I know how hard it is. Listen, when you're when you're raising kids If you discipline them consistently, you know, you can take a three-year-old. How old is your youngest? Five. Well, we'll just say five. What's her name? Ada. Ada's taking a nap, so she's not anymore. I just called her name. You know if Ada was playing underneath this table? And she stood up like kids sometimes do and she's there crying, she hit her head, right? You know, the next time she gets about this far from the table, she goes like this. Now she might stand up under the table again, but you do it twice. She learns that she doesn't stand up anymore. Do you know why? Because this table doesn't move. This is an unchanging boundary that she learned this is the boundary and it doesn't mat it's amazing. She could even have ADHD and she learned this table doesn't move and she's gonna stop standing up underneath it But I'm saying is mom and dad you want to train your kids. Stop moving the line. And if we're going to be obedient to our Heavenly Father, his graciousness and his goodness uh sometimes is because Judgment is not exp expedited expediently. And this is from Proverbs. Forgive me, I don't have the exact reference off the top of my head, but listen, sometimes because God says because of his mercy and grace and he doesn't you know, strike you with lightning immediately, that you're like, oh, I'm okay. I can I can do this again. And uh we need to have a proper and right fear of God if we're going to honor honor Him. and uh live successfully, be in the way. Not only that, we need to serve the Lord. I want you to see he talks about this matter of serving God. Every believer should be involved in serving God, no matter who we are or where we are in our life. We should s look and strive to serve him. But he gives us two defining characteristics about this service unto him. First of all, he said we should serve him in what? What does it say in there? In truth, yes, serve him in truth, and then serve him with all your heart. Now that word truth there literally means with right motives, with right attitude. We don't serve God because of what we're going to get out of it. We don't serve God because of the of the ultimate, you know, hey, Pastor Gus is going to see me do this and and I want to impress him and so I'm gonna I'm gonna do this because I want Pastor Gus to be impressed with my spirituality. You know? No, that's not a right spirit. That's not a right attitude. If we're going to be in the way and do as God wants us to do, we serve Him. For him, with the right motive, with a right attitude. We don't serve God for the praise of men. Praise God, we don't serve God for salvation. It is the love of Christ that constraineth us. We serve him because of what he's done for us. We don't serve for a pat on the back or for public recognition. Sometimes it's nice. This is an area that I need to work on, and many times I don't think of it. And you know, long ago somebody was telling me about it and they kinda um you know, the problem. I think people should do their jobs whether they you know, just it's their job, they ought to just do it. Uh but sometimes it's nice that somebody appreciates it, amen. Even if it is your job, it's nice if somebody would acknowledge it and say, Hey, you did a good job. Hey, thank you for your effort. Boy, this is wonderful and and uh that's something that I need to work on to help to to see that, ask God to help me see it and to take time to to express that gratitude. But beloved, if you're serving so that Pastor Caleb acknowledges and pats you on the back, you're serving for the wrong reason. I mean praise the Lord when it happens and and I I need to strive to be better at that, no question. I I certainly don't uh have a problem acknowledging that and I'm willing to to try and do better in that. But if your satisfaction and your service for the king is built off of whether somebody says good job or not, you aren't going to last very long. for. And if we're going to be successful long term, staying in the way, we fear God, we serve Him in truth, that is, with A right attitude, and we serve Him with all of our heart. Because it's commanded. It should be a desire that we have just to serve God. You know, the Bible says that the way of the Lord, well, it doesn't say this, I use this word because I wanted to alliterate it, but the way of the Lord is stunning. It is stunning to think about what God will do with somebody who has just yielded to Him and surrendered and wants to serve Him with their life. You can't imagine what God will do with you if you're just submitted to Him. You know, Isaiah 55, 8 and 9 says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways. Isn't it amazing how much the Bible has to say about the way? The way of the Lord. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so my ways are higher than your ways And my thoughts than your thoughts. Beloved, what what God wants to do in and through us would would blow our own mind. If we just really served him with a right heart and full passion with all of our heart, uh what God would do, we would sit back in amazement. We we we would be in awe. We would wonder about it and we'd say, uh, is that me? I I don't even see how I could be the one used to do that. I don't even understand. And I tell you that I saw this firsthand in my life growing up in a pastor's home. I saw this lived out. My parents were not perfect. They were far from it. Matter of fact, as a young man with a bitter attitude and wanting to go my own way, I looked for opportunities to pick out where ways that my mom and dad weren't perfect. My man that mom and dad weren't all that they uh were cracked up to be or said they were. I mean I tell you that that in all honesty I just say they weren't perfect, but they they strove to serve God with the right heart They strove to serve God and to do what was right and acknowledged their failures. And today I look at the blessings of God on my dad's life, the things that truly matter. He doesn't have a big house. Currently, right now, Brother Joe, his house is smaller than yours. I I'm not sure how they're even gonna all three of them are gonna live there, but that's that's what they're planning to do. But just watching their life and seeing God's hand a blessing on them Not too long ago dad and I were sitting there and you know he said, you know son, he says I just he can't hardly talk about it without crying. But just thinking about God's goodness. And he said, if I could have known when I was a young man the fullness and the blessing in all of what God has given us at this point, there would never have been any hesitation. There would have never been any faltering. I mean I just I struggled so many times, but I'm now in the twilight years of my life and I'm looking back and he said he told me he said, you know, son, my brothers and sisters, we all grew up in the same home But as I look over the last 45, 50 years of life, I've watched the heartache. The disease, the death, the loss, the grief, so many things over and over and over again that his own brothers and sisters that have had to endure. And he sits back and he just says, Caleb, I don't know why God has been so good to us. All of our kids are healthy. All of our kids are serving God. All of our kids love us, call us, except for me, but the rest of them All of our kids, you know, care about us and and just just sitting there just looking and considering and and and I'm not quite there yet, but I'm telling you from first hand experience from watching it in in their life. I'm just encouraging you to stay on God's way because the dividends are out of this world. The blessings are out of this world. It is the right way, and it's a good way, and as as people will strive and desire to be on that way. He says three things to him. He says, fear the Lord, serve the Lord. And then he says, consider the Lord. Consider how great things he hath done for you. We talked about this this morning, really, as we talked about the blessings of God and the goodness of God. You know, beloved, the reason that we get ungrateful is because we fail to see. We fail to consider. When God first blesses you, it's, wow, look at what God did. But given a little time, we forget. How many times did the Israelites forget? Over and over and over again, they forgot what God was doing. And we are of the same nature, and we must be careful to guard against that. We forget how special it was when God gave you the job that you have. But now you've been at that job for a while, and some of the trials have come up, and some of the long days you've endured, and and you've forgotten how much of a blessing it was, and oh, this dumb job God gave you the kids that you have. God gave you the car that you drive. God gave you the house that you live in. God gave you the. Friends that you get to enjoy. God gave you the meat the the mate that you have. God gave you God gave you over and over again And and when the first blessing came, we were in awe. We were shocked. We were, man, look at how good God is. This is phenomenal. Look at how he blessed me in this area. But what happens over a little bit of time you begin to forget Oh, it's human nature. I mean you remember when you first got married? Where Stephen and Alicia, they're still young married couples, they're just beginning. When you first get married and and everything's exciting and and she can do no wrong Amen, Stephen. I mean she is just perfect. Every aspect of her is perfect. No mistakes, no wrong problems, and then he is so amazing. He is so strong. I had no idea he was so strong. Oh, he's so got so much wisdom. I knew I was married to a wise guy, but this wise is phenomenal. I mean yeah, you you I mean when you first married it's just amazing But what happens around that tenth anniversary? You know, a few years ago Mary and I, uh was it the Caribbean we were flying to uh and it was it was our twentieth? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, we're flying to St. Thomas I I can't remember the details, but we're flying to St. Thomas. That's right. We were flying to St. Thomas, and it was for our twenty-fifth wedding anniversary. And we're flying and we didn't have s assigned seats or we didn't uh we didn't get to sit together on the plane. We were sitting in separate places. And so I get on the plane And there's an older couple sitting there, and one is sitting by the window, and one's sitting by the aisle. And so I sat between them. Through a little bit of time I found out that they were married. And I asked, do you guys want me to move so that you could sit together? And they're like, oh no, we like it this way They proceeded to argue with one another for most of the trip over me. He couldn't say anything right. You know, everything he did was wrong. He shouldn't be talking about these things. Well they found out I was a pastor and I said, listen, I will be glad to do some counseling right now. We we can just take care of this right now. Let's do it And so for the remainder of our trip, I literally talked to this elderly couple, okay, God must have known that they did not have enough. Or I didn't have enough because a week later, when we got on a plane to come home, I got on a plane and who was sitting there One by the window and one by the aisle, but these this same older couple and I sat right between them again. I said, Okay, we're gonna pick up where he left off I said, how was the week? Did you guys things improve throughout the week? You know, we began talking again. Why is it that that happens? In the beginning, everything's so amazing, but over time we begin to see things differently. You see, beloved, God has been so good to us, but over time we begin to see things differently. And we begin to see, we begin to be ungrateful and to not to acknowledge his goodness and not to be able to That should be a motivation for us, but because we're not seeing it in the right way, it's not a motivation, it's a discouragement You know, we look at it as far as with young people with kids and we think about a child living in a home. How many of you have heard or or parents have said, listen, I put a roof over your head I put clothes on your back, I put food on the table, the least you can do is what I ask you to do. You see, young people, we look at it with amazement and we think, how can they not even see All that their mom and dad is doing for them. That they could be so belligerent and so disrespectful and so mean and technistic to their parents that have done all this for them. And I wonder, beloved, how can we be so dogmatic and say, I'm going to go my own way when God, who has been so good to us, Who has just blessed us with bounty beyond measure, with mercy that is renewed every day. And yet we say, oh, I'm gonna just I'm gonna do my own way. I'm gonna go my own way. I'm gonna do it my way. No, beloved, we want we ought to desire and long to do it God's way. Say, Lord, put me in the way. I think it's 348 verses that uh the way is spoken of. They're not all specifically talking about God's way, and I didn't read all three hundred and forty, I read lots of them, but many times the Bible talks about the way. There's a way that God wants us to live and our heart's desire ought to be, listen, I want to be in the way. As much as I can be in the way, I want to be in the way. And Samuel says, I'm going to teach you You guys have forgotten that you had a king. You had a king, and you chose your own, and God said, okay, I'll give you a king. But listen, if you're if you're going to stay, I'm going to teach you the good and right way, you need to fear God. You need to serve God and you need to consider God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? And we'll be done. The way of the Lord