At the Ten Commandments and I have uh really did not think that it would take us this long to get through uh these Ten Commandments Uh I just as I study and prepare, uh I for my own study want to be as thorough as possible and clean as much as I can and then want to give you as well rounded of a truth uh as I possibly can And uh want to try and help you understand what the Bible says uh and give you good sound doctrine as we as we look at these and And so I don't want to rush through it. There's no reason to try and uh get through it really, really fast, but give you sound doctrine. So in Exodus chapter twenty, uh it's been some weeks since we read these together, so let's just uh read these Uh all together, Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 through verse number 17. And God spake all these words, saying I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work. Thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them is, and rested the seventh day Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it. Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long on the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's Amen. That's uh pretty well covers it on that last one. Uh you know, he's gives us very clear uh you know, don't covet this, don't covet this, you know what, just don't covet anything that belongs to your neighbor Uh rounds it it rounds it out. But uh amazing truths here that uh obviously are well known to uh m really a lot of the world, but especially those that would call themselves Christians and and would want to know the Word of God, uh they study and they look at these commandments. And, you know, as I thought about today as we get into the sixth of the Ten Commandments, As I thought about this one, I thought, well, surely there's nobody in the church here that is uh guilty of breaking this commandment. So you know what the sixth commandment is, right? Thou shalt not kill. So I thought, well this is one we could probably just read and uh go on and go to the next one that might deal a little more with us, but As I began studying, and as I think you'll see as we go through the lesson today, is that this commandment uh does hit home to all of us. And I think we'll be surprised at how applicable to our life this commandment is. And I also want to be clear in the in the teaching of what this commandment says And don't want to, it's not my desire this morning to push against anything that, uh any belief that maybe you have hold. Uh there are uh Many false doctrines being taught uh off of this verse. False beliefs. What is a doctrine? What is doctrine? What is doctrine? Just teaching. Correct. It's teaching. So false doctrine would be false teaching. There's many there's much false teaching that is based on this verse, and a lot of times uh what motivates that type of teaching is somebody's predisposed disposition or their desire to hold one particular belief or another. And uh they try and take a portion of scripture and emphasize or teach what they believe lines up with what they think. A couple of weeks ago Andrew's been teaching on the on the bus. He's been preaching a message once a month on the bus and that's great for him. And And uh it was Saturday night, and I said, Son, what are you preaching tomorrow? And he told me what he was preaching, and I said, Well, what's your text? And he said, I don't know. And I said, well you did that backwards. I said you don't decide what you want to preach and then find scripture to back it up. You need to find the scripture and see what it says and teach that. So you're approaching that and I I said what you want to teach is biblical but you need to find scripture and he says well I don't know how to do that I said well come here let's sit down let's look and so in a matter of few minutes we found some scripture that he could use to teach uh he was teaching biblical principle but that's how false doctrines get people get these ideas and they start teaching it and uh we instead of teaching what we think we need to teach the book. And uh hopefully that's what we'll do. If I say something that pushes against a a belief that you've held, uh hear me out and then I'll be more than happy to discuss it with you uh and uh look at it and try and uh decipher what it is the scripture teaches. But I know that in today's world it's possible that I might say something this morning that goes against something that somebody here believes to be true. First of all, I want us to understand the concern, understanding the concern with this. You say, Pastor, surely everybody understands the concern. Surely everybody realizes thou shalt not kill, and the reason for s for such a command as that, I mean, that makes perfect sense. You would think. You would think that that is the case. But the truth is, is that killing and murder is at an all-time high in our world today. It is something that we are faced with and deal with on a daily basis. The truth is, is there is almost no sanctity of life anymore. And that is really what this command is dealing with. The sanctity of life, the preciousness of the God-given life to whomever it might have been given to. We're faced with this lack of respect for life on every front. Almost almost any TV program or movie that's put out today. has part of its plot somebody getting killed or somebody getting revenge or some uh thing taking place in in that regard. I was shocked to be reminded yesterday about a program that's available online, that the entire crux of the story is there is a lady who is a cannibal and needs to eat to live And her husband, who loves her, gets together with her and her children, and they plot to kill people that need to be killed, cut them up. And provide it to her for food that she might continue to live. It's mind-boggling and extremely sad that in our in our country today there's somebody that believes that to even write such a program could be called entertainment. The consuming of flesh of another human with chewing on an arm and blood running down her face. But what's even more mind-boggling is that there's an audience of people large enough in our country that will watch it and call it entertainment. There is no sanctity of life today. There's nothing that is held precious anymore. This command that is given to us just after the fifth command, which we know I talked to you about, the fact that the fifth command is a is a hinge command between those commands. and our responsibility to God and the commands that are our our responsibility to man, the the hinge command of honor thy mother and father, dealing with the first relationship that we have on earth But then the first command after that, dealing with the rest of mankind, is that thou shalt not kill. I mean, this is the greatest of those. Surely to steal from thy brother or to covet thy neighbor's things or to bear false witness against him, you know, these are bad things, but to kill. is the first command that we are faced with in how we are to deal with our fellow man. Life is precious You have the uh uprising of serial killers And people who kill for something cracks in their brain and and they take out a gun and go into a school and just start shooting people and then they shoot themselves. More and more you're hearing about this type of stuff. There's no sanctity of life. Life News says that there has been 58 million abortions Since nineteen seventy-three. Fifty-eight million babies whose lives have been taken. The question is not, where does life begin? And the fact is, it has not been a question for a very long time. The question is, when do we value that life? When is that life valuable enough to save? And unless we get back to the old-fashioned book which sets the standard for us, it becomes a matter of opinion. And pretty soon we can decide that if a child's under the age of five and he's not healthy, they're going to be a drain on society and they should be killed. You say they'll never do that. You bet. Back in 1973, they never would have thought they would partially deliver a child and suck his brains out either But partial birth abortion is a ba is legal. They know when life begins. Listen to the words of uh Jeremy LeJerne, who discovered the genetic basis for Down syndrome. He said this. Life has a very, very long history, but each individual has a very neat beginning at the moment of conception. To accept the fact that after fertilization has taken place, a new human has come into being, is no longer a matter of taste or opinion The human nature of the human being is not a metaphysical contention. It is a plain experimental evidence. He's saying it it is evidence. It is all you have to do is just look and you can see it. What's mind-boggling to me is six years before Roe v. Wade The Institution of National Scientists got together on the issue of abortion in D. C. Hundreds of people gathered together in 1967 in Washington, D. C. Six maj sixty major authorities from medical fields, from ethics, from law, and from the social sciences met together. This is in 1967. They met together on the issue of abortion. Out of 60 people, they had one dissenting vote, and this was their finding The majority of our group could find no point in the time between the union of the sperm and the egg and the birth of the infant, at which point we could say that the fetus was not a human life. They could find no point. This is six years before Roe v. Wade, the scientific community had already determined this They could find no point at which this was not a human life. It goes on. The changes occurring between implantation, a six weeks of embryo. Six months as a fetus are simply stages of development and maturation. End of quote. Is not been a question in our world since at least 1967 about when life began. So why is it still such a debate today? Why are they still saying, oh well we're not sure when it's a life? Right now it's just a fetus It is life. And as a nation, as a people, we need to realize that life is precious There is a problem with this command, thou shalt not kill. Do you know in most cities in America you are more likely to be murdered than to die in a car wreck? The statistics show that you are more likely to be shot and killed than to die in a car wreck. Now we get in a car and we ask God, Lord, protect me, because this is dangerous, man. I'm driving down the road and I could I could get in an accident like that. You know you're more likely to just out and out be shot than to die in a car wreck in most cities because there's no sanctity of life. The murder capita per 100,000 people, Baltimore is the fifth in our country. Only beat out by St. Louis, Gary, Indiana, Chester PA, and East St. Louis. But faith but fifth. More more murders per capita. You know drunk driving kills twenty-five thousand people every year. People that get behind a wheel drunk. are responsible for killing twenty-five thousand people every year. Where is the outcry in our country against alcohol? Where is the outcry? Where are the the citizens for alcohol control? More people are killed, you know that 50% of all murders. Are alcohol related? Fifty percent. Over fifty percent. Some say as high as seventy percent. I went with the most conservative number that I could find. Are al alcohol is involved. Many people want to justify it. But where are the people taking a stand? 25,000. You know there was only 3,000 people killed in the 9-11 attacks? Yet as a nation we rose up. We said we're gonna go fight a war to stop this. Twenty-five thousand people a year are killed $541 billion a year it costs the American taxpayer. Alcohol does. $540 billion. Where are the people that are crying against us? There is no sanctity of life There is a concern when we talk about this, that thou shalt not kill. As I mentioned I may say something that goes against what you might hold and that there there is with this command a conflict. And I want to take a moment and look at that, understanding the conflict. So not only do we understand the concern, there is a concern for this, especially in the world in which we live today, we are faced with this death on every hand But there's a conflict with regards to this verse. And the conflict comes in understanding what the verse says You see, if this verse says, if it's taken at face value, without the rest of the scripture, you know you have to interpret scripture with scripture. You have to look at the rest of the book. And uh let me say this. There is no contradictions in this book. There are people out there that would tell you there are that the Bible has contradictions in it. And this is one of the areas that they point to and say, say here is a contradiction. And we'll talk about it in a minute. They say, here's a contradiction. But I want you as a Christian, you should have it settled in your heart, settled in your mind that this is the Word of God, and there is no contradiction in that book. You ought to have it settled. And somebody might come to you and they might show you and say, okay, look, look, see, see this contradiction? See what it says right here? Now see it says something different right there You need to have it chalked up, and you might not be able to explain what that passage of Scripture says, or you might not be able to answer or reconcile those two things that seem to be a contradiction, but it's not a matter of a contradiction in the Bible, it's a matter of understanding what the Bible's teaching. And all we need to do is get an understanding. And that might be beyond your ability or beyond my ability, but I've got it settled in my heart and mind. Nobody's going to convince me that there's one contradiction in the book. Because if there's one contradiction in the book, then I can't trust it. And we might as well chalk it up and just close the doors and go home because we're just playing. We could be a member of any social organization if it's all about just social things. But this is about a God in heaven. Who's real and powerful and changes lives? And he's given us his word, and there's no contradiction here. But if this verse is taken on face value without anything else, what does it say? It says, thou shalt not kill. If that is true, then some of you have broken this commandment today. Because on the way into church, you probably stepped on an ant. And you killed that ant. You have broken the sixth commandment So you understand that thou shalt not kill probably needs a little bit further look. If it's to read that and to mean that specifically, that would mean you and I couldn't have chicken for lunch today. Because some poor little bird had to give up his life for me to have chicken for lunch today. You couldn't eat meat. You couldn't eat fish. It would be wrong for a nation to go to war. It would be wrong for a government to practice capital punishment. If this verse was taken as face value without interpretation of the rest of the scriptures. But we understand that this is impossible for it to mean exactly that. We have to understand what it means. It could not mean that because Moses, who gave the law to God's people, also gave them Sixteen other laws that were punishable by death He told them of things that if this law was broken, they were to kill that one that person as a nation, as a people. So you say, well that can't it can't mean that because if God wouldn't give us a law that says thou shalt not kill and then tell his people if your son is is rebellious, take him outside the city and kill him. So there's a contradiction, but it's not a contradiction. It's an understanding of what the Bible is saying. Some of the laws that were given to them were child sacrifice, kidnapping, adultery, witchcraft. These things were punishable by death. So we know that as we look at it, there's got to be something that I'm not understanding, and I need to dig a little bit deeper to get understanding. What this verse is saying is: thou shalt not murder. Thou shalt not murder. You see, it's the moral, immoral act of taking a life that it's talking about. That is what it's discussing. Some people that are a lot smarter than I. I don't know Greek and I don't know Hebrew. But people that are a lot smarter than I that looked into this Understand that there's two Hebrew words in the Old Testament that are translated kill or murder. And one has the direct, straight connotation of to kill, to take any life The other has with it the moral implication of the immoral act of taking somebody's life. And that is what we're looking at here This same Hebrew word is translated murder many other times in the Old Testament. And it's translated 16 times in the term slayer. the slayer of someone. So what this is teaching is thou shalt not murder. You see, all murder is killing But not all killing is murder. You don't say, would you please murder that fly before I lose my mind? You say, Would you kill that fly? And nobody believes that that is murder. When the m when the mosquito is biting you and you swat it and you you kill that mosquito. You murdered that mosquito. You murdered him. No. You killed the mosquito. And there is not an immoral act that's been done by the taking of that mosquito's life. Capital punishment was given as a means of enforcing the law. And it was given to God's people in this in the scriptures, and we as a nation and in in many of our states still practice capital punishment. Understand that this was given to God's people even before the law was given In Genesis 9, verse number 6, the Bible says, Who so sheddeth man's blood, by man's blood, shall his blood be shed? For in the image of God made he man. Now, regardless of where you stand personally on capital punishment And there are a lot of differences of opinion on that very hot topic. There's no question where the Bible stands There's not a contradiction between the sixth commandment that says, thou shalt not kill, and the command that says, if you kill somebody. By men, your life should be taken. Now it has to be a authority, a governmental authority that is in charge of that, that takes the life. That's what makes it acceptable under the guides of law. It's not tyranny It's not personal justice. It's the law of the land that you let take its course And if in the law of the land taking its course a man is found to be guilty of committing murder, and he is sent to die, whether that be by lethal injection or hanging or electrocution, that is just And it's okay for a country, for a nation, for a group of people to do that. It was given to keep law and order. You see, Romans 13, verse number 4 says, For he is the minister of God. To thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid. For he beareth not the sword in vain, for he is a minister of God, a revenger. To execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. What this is talking about, you know, this chapter is dealing with government, with governmental authority And he says, hey, governmental authority was given to you as a minister of God for good. That's what it's for. It's for good. It's for to provide your protection. It's to provide the services you need as a country to function and to be organized. And he said, but if thou do that which is evil, be afraid. Because the authority, the government, does not hold the sword in vain. That God has given them to be a minister unto you to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. The law and the officer of the law are the minister of wrath on those that do evil. That is what they're supposed to be for, according to the book. The sword here, it says he holds not the sword in vain. The sword is the power to take life. He's not implying here that he's going to slap somebody with the sword. He is saying that they don't wield the sword in vain They have the authority, they have the power to take a life. So if you're going to transgress, they don't hold that sword in vain. You should be afraid. And that's what keeps law in order in a nation. So capital punishment was given as a means of enforcing the law. We're trying to look at and understand the conflict that arises. Some people look at these as as Contradictions, and they say, Well, how can this be? The Bible says, Thou shalt not kill, and how can we have capital punishment? I hope that I answered that for you. Also, war is approved as a means of protection. War is approved as a means of protection. There are some who would be conscientious objectors. There's someone who would take this verse as thou shalt not kill and would say, it's wrong to go to war. It's wrong to kill. We can't do that. We should not take a life. We should not do that. And there should be a sanctity of life, but I want you to understand that as far as God is concerned, it is okay for a nation To defend itself. It is okay for a nation to stand up and fight in a justifiable War. Now not all wars are just, but they should be justifiable. There's several things that make a war justifiable. Perhaps you remember back when President Bush stood and declared war on terrorism. He very clearly in his declaration of war on terrorists said we as a nation are going to fight a just war. A just war against terrorism. Since the days of Thomas Aquinas, Christians have held to the fact that war must be just in order to be acceptable. And there are a few things that were set down as guidelines to make a war just. I'm going to give you these and we're going to have to stop today. First of all, there must be a just cause. There must be a just cause. Uh has to be something, you know, for the uh freedom of man, for the uh, you know, uh to stop the oppression uh or abuse of children. There has to be a just cause for why the war is taking place. There has to be a just intent. The reason or the purpose behind it, the ultimate goal. It has to be a last resort. Have all other means of diplomacy and consideration been been given to try and resolve this without us going to war, without us taking that step and action where we have to go and take a life. It should be a last resort as a nation. But it is a resort that is acceptable to take. It has to be declared by a just authority That means a government. You can't decide yourself, you know what, God says it's okay for me to go to war. So I am thus Here on this day, April 2nd, 19th, 19th, 2017, I am declaring war on my neighbor. It's okay for me to go to war, so I'm gonna declare war on my neighbor because he has ran over my azaleas for the last time We can't do that. You are not a just authority to declare war on your neighbor, although you might want to at times. You can't do that. It has to be uh an acting recognized government that is that d has to declare, clearly, declare war on a people And give them an opportunity to back down. Give them an opportunity to say, listen, here's what must happen. You must free our citizens. If you don't, we are going to declare war on you. And give them an opportunity to do so. Let me just say this that as a soldier It's not for you to determine what is just or unjust. If a nation declares war and you are a soldier in the military, It's not for you to decide, well, this is not a just war, so I'm not going to do it. You see, you have put yourself under the authority of that government and you have submitted to that branch of the military. You say, well, it's not just. It might not be. And you know what? The leaders that be, the powers that be, are going to answer to God. For what they do or don't do. But you as an individual are not the one to determine. You are to follow the authorities in your life. But that's why God says, be not many masters. For a master has a greater condemnation. The leader has a greater condemnation. He's going to answer heavy for what he causes the people to do So he better be sure that it's a just cause before he sends the military out to do an action. Because he's gonna answer for it. There's a lot here. The last uh actually have two more points, understanding the command and understanding the commitment, which we will get into uh next. week but we need to we need to wrap it up. We this morning looked at the fact there there is a concern for this as a nation, as a people. This is something that we face and deal with this the taking of life on a regular basis. And there is a conflict around this understanding this conflict and what certain people believe about certain things because of this command, one way or the other, and we want to understand it from the scriptures, and that's why I'm giving you this background and this this This teaching. I hope that it's a help to you. Let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for today and the time in your in your word. We ask you, Lord, that you would give us a clear understanding of your scriptures. the the commands that you've given us and what it is you're teaching us in light of all the scriptures, Lord, not just one verse. And Lord, I pray that uh you would give clarity of thought and the and clarity and presentation that if there's anything that Lord, I didn't clarify or say clearly, Lord, that you would give me understanding of that and be able to clear it up next week. Lord, I pray that you would go with us now as we go into the morning service. I pray you would be honored and glorified, that you would bless everything is done. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, you're dismissed. We have service in about fifteen minutes. Well these likes to be watering I don't know what I think I would leave the whole here I think something I'll go to No, you could go back to the second In the last community of the way to say everything was remote How do we have our phone with the women?