All right, Luke chapter 2, we're going to read verses 8 through verse 20, and then we're also going to read a passage in Matthew this evening. Luke chapter 2 and verse 8, the Bible says, and there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you, ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. It came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherd said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass. which the Lord hath made known unto us. They came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. When they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. Now if you turn to Matthew chapter two And we'll read verses one through twelve. And then verse 16. So Matthew chapter 2 and verse 1. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, Behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? We have seen his star in the eat in the east, and are come to worship him When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. When he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. They said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written it by the prophet, and thou Bethlehem in the land of Judah, art not thou the least among the princes of Judah, for out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people Israel. And Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child. And when you have found him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also. When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo the star which they saw in the east went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was When they saw the star saw star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. When they were coming to the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down and worshipped him When they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh. And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way. And then lastly, verse 16, then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth and sent forth, and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coast thereof, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had diligently inquired of the wise man. So we see three different reactions to the birth of Christ here. We see three different groups, the shepherds, the wise men, and Herod. And so that's what we're going to look at this evening. We're going to look at three reactions to the birth of Christ. So let's pray and then the message. Lord, we love you. We do thank you so much for your love. Thank you for this time of year, Lord. Thank you for the focus on the birth of Christ. Thank you for each of these that have made the effort to be here this evening. Lord, I pray that you would just bless them, especially, Lord, for their faithfulness. We do pray for Pastor as he's away, and just pray that you would just give him a good time of rest, Lord, with his family. Give them some uh rest and relaxation, Lord, help them to recharge. I pray that you would just uh provide them safety. We pray that you would just this evening, Lord, speak to us individually. Lord, help us not just to come here out of tradition, but Lord, to actually get something from the Word of God, and I pray that you would just use what's said and done tonight to bring honor and glory to yourself. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. So the birth of Christ is one of the most significant events, if not the most significant event in all of human history. It literally divides time. We have BC, which is before Christ, and I know they're trying to change that to BCE or something, but BC before Christ and A. D. Anno Domini or in the year of our Lord. And so it literally is something that divides time. That's a significant event. And uh the virgin birth of Christ is is is one of the most important parts of Christianity. It's one of the five fundamentals of the faith. There are five fundamentals to the Christian faith. If you take any one of those away, then you don't have Christianity anymore. One of those is the inerrancy of the Bible You have to believe that this is the Word of God. This is our source of truth. The deity of the Lord Jesus Christ, the fact that Christ was God in the flesh, is God in the flesh. The virgin birth of Christ. The reason he has no sin is because he was not born of man the way that the rest of us were. Um that's how the sin nature is passed on. The the blood atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ and the physical resurrection and return of the Lord. Those are the five fundamentals of the faith. And so this is one of those five. Very important uh truth that we need to understand. If you remove any of those, uh true Christianity will just collapse. I I say all that because this is not an insignificant event. And sometimes with the trappings of the holiday and uh you know, the Snoopy blow up things when the Zamboni and uh the all the little blow-up things and the Grinches and all this other stuff, we lose sight of the fact that This is one of the one of, if not the most important event in all of human history. And uh and uh It's a great time to present this truth. So what we read this morning is a lot of the Christmas story. Of course, an angel visits Mary, tells her that she's going to have a child. She says, how am I going to do that? I've never known a man before. There's no way that I could be pregnant. The angel tells her that the Holy Ghost is going to make her pregnant, that her son would be called the Son of God. Joseph finds out that his wife is pregnant. He says, hmm. And he's going to divorce her. He's going to put her away And uh because it wasn't his baby and so an angel comes and visits him and tells him, Hey, Joseph, it's okay What's being done in Mary is of God. You need to stay with her, and she's going to have a son. You're going to name him Jesus, and he's going to save the people from their sins. And Joseph still marries her, and Mary's still a virgin, but she's heavy with child, because with God, nothing is impossible. You know most of the story, Joseph and Mary had to go to Bethlehem because there's a decree that everyone has to go back to their hometown for taxing. That decree was made, of course. The person making the decree didn't know it, but God had them make that decree because Mary and Joseph had to be in Bethlehem for the birth of Christ, not in Nazareth. And so this this horrible thing, this taxing, this having to move for taxing, uh, turned out to be uh of God to get Barry and Joseph to Bethlehem because that's where Jesus had to be born. Now, whenever a baby isn't born, there has to be an announcement, right? I am glad. I am so thankful that that We are pre uh what do they call it, gender reveal times. Because I'd probably be on YouTube making a fool out of myself or something. Back in these days there was no the gender reveal was on the day of birth and and is it a boy or a girl? Um so that had to be announced. We don't have that as much today, but you know, is it a boy or a girl? How how big was it? How much did he weigh? How much how much did she weigh? Um how long was it Uh what what are you going to name it? Is this baby healthy? All these things. You know, there's a lot of excitement that goes around uh that follows the birth of the child. Uh so uh uh the most significant birth in all of human history, it has to be announced. And of course, you know, you see that announcement um of Jesus, the Son of God, the Lamb of God to the world And and one of those groups is the a group of lowly shepherds. Lowly, dirty shepherds, they were out at night guarding their flocks. And boy, did they get a big surprise that night. Because first an angel appeared to them. Yeah, I mean it was dark out. I mean this wasn't like in the middle of the day or something. It's dark out and all of a sudden an angel appears. Now I've never seen an angel that I know of, but I imagine I would be rather affrighted. And I don't scare easy. An angel comes and visits and and they were scared. And and I I mean, but they decided that that um that they were going to listen to him, that ain't the angel told him not to be afraid, and then even worse A whole troop of angels showed up worshiping and praising God, and I don't know what that sounds like, but I don't imagine it's quiet. I imagine it's very loud And so so they've got all these things going on and and and they went and they decided, well, hey, we need to go see this. It's just over there and in in where the shepherds were at and to where Bethlehem was was really just across a little um valley, a little ravine and and over right over there was Bethlehem And so they went there and they saw the baby. And then when after they saw it, they realized what they had seen and what they had experienced and what they had witnessed. You know what they started to do? They started just to tell everybody. They just went around and told everybody. Then we see also the wise men from the east. They had the birth of Christ announced to them. They were looking for a sign in the sky to announce the birth of the Savior. They were looking in the sky and they saw something new, something different. And I I imagine they had some kind of watch or something going on. I don't know if they were just nightly looking at the stars, but one night, some one of them I don't know their names. Tom. Tom looked up and said, hey, that looks different. I I don't remember seeing that there before. And he calls to one of the other ones and says, hey, come here. Bill, come here You see that? Is that it? Like, I don't know. Let's call the other, let's call someone. And they got around and they got together and they were like, yeah, I've never seen that before. That's different. What is that star? Is that the star we is that what we've been waiting for? And and and yeah, I I think it is. Let's go follow that star. And they take that, they follow that star, and it it leads them to the big city of Jerusalem. And they get to Jerusalem and they see our third person in this group, Herod the King. And he finds out that they're there, and he got really nervous because they were looking for a king. And Herod was the king. He he he's a politician, he got the scribes, he got the Pharisees together, he got the the wise men, and they wanted to figure out where where is he supposed to be born? Where is where are they supposed to be going to The wise men had their figured out that the Son of God should be born in the city of David of Bethlehem, and so they had their answer and they went on their way. But first Herod asked them When did you first see the star? And he he got his answer and he sent the wise men on their way and he said, Well, after you've seen him and after you're done worshiping him, Come back to me and report to me and let me know if that was really him. He had plans for this new king, and they weren't good plans. This king could be a threat to his power. So we have these three different groups of people learning about the birth of Christ in three very different ways. And the shepherds announced by an angel, the wise men notified by a star in the sky, Herod the king told by the wise men sometime probably after the actual event happened. And so tonight I want to look at the reaction of these people, these three groups of people to the birth of Christ and see how they relate to us today. So first we have the shepherds. The shepherds just had a humble acceptance They they had an angel show up in front of them. They they didn't try, you know, to have some kind of commission about UFOs or anything else. They just said, hey, we just got a great announcement. We know that there were supposed to be a savior, and they're they're shepherds, they're not super educated. They're they're not necessarily the you know the the upper crust of society. Uh they're just out there just doing their thing, just minding their sheep, keeping everything safe, and and It it had to have scared them and to to see these angels and um they stood there at night minding their own business and and here they get this news of a savior. I imagine they woke up that that morning and thought, well, just another day. Just another day in, you know, in being a shepherd and no idea that morning when they got ready or that night as they prepared to go to sleep or to d to divvy up the watches be amongst them. No thought about, you know, what's gonna happen that night. Uh they were just just just Go on through their normal day. You know, people are a lot like that. They they wake up in the morning. They'll wake up the morning and wonder what's on their Christmas tree. They'll wonder about what they have to Pastor Gus is talking about. It's time for the men to start shopping today Tomorrow morning what stores are open, so we go shopping. Um they'll think about things like that, but they don't they wake up in the morning, they don't think a uh a a second about where they're gonna spend eternity. They don't think a second about their souls. A lot of people are like that. And someone comes along and tells that person about the good news. Hey, there's a savior. There's someone who can save you from your sin. And in simple faith, many people will just accept that. People will just accept that children are so easy that they will believe so much easy it's so much easier to get a child saved than an adult. And it seems like the older they are, the harder it is, because you just get hardened and you think you think the wrong way. But a lot of people in simple faith will know, will, will, will believe. They don't know the prophecies. They don't know the scriptures. They don't know anything about religion or anything else, but they hear the simple story that, hey, there is a Savior, and He can save you from your sin if you'll simply turn to Him And they just believe. And then after they did that, they went and they told everybody. Once they had the they once they realized they had the truth, they went out and shared that news with everybody. They didn't keep it to themselves. They wanted others to know also that, hey, there's a savior. And guess what happened to us tonight? In Luke chapter 2, verse 17, it says, They made known the saying abroad. They went immediately, and they went far and wide, and they started telling people about the Savior. Think of the people that God uses to spread his message. Shepherds, fishermen. We also have publicans. We have lawyers. You have the Apostle Paul. It doesn't matter what end of the spectrum you're from, it doesn't matter how intelligent you are. All Christ wants you to do is simply tell what He's done for you. The simple, simple story. God uses humble people to spread his message. God had chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty Then we have so that's the shepherds. The shepherds just humbly accept. Then you have the wise men. The wise men show us a pure, devout, devoted worship of the Savior. Look in uh you're still in Matthew chapter 2, look at uh verse 2. We have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him They weren't on a fact-finding mission. They knew the promises of the scripture. They knew the signs that would be there. And they didn't come to verify that they were true. They came to worship him. We don't know exactly what they saw. We don't know exactly what the star was. It's not terribly important for my understanding, for your understanding. Just the fact that they notice something and they noticed that it was of God for the purpose of identifying the Messiah, that's enough. And they came to worship, not investigate, not fact-finding. They weren't on a quest for the truth. They already believed the promises. They already believed. They already knew the promises. They didn't need other facts. They came to worship. You know, the Bible teaches us that the just shall live by faith, not by facts. And there are far more things in the Bible that I do not understand than I do understand. I can't understand how God could love me so much that He would send His Son to die on a cross for me. I don't have to understand it. I just have to believe it. And you know, these were intellectuals. These were the more I guess upper crusts. These weren't men of lowly estate. And rarely do you find people like that humble. Usually the the the the the the higher a man's position, the less humble they are, the more proud they become. And look at the attitude of these wise men. They came and they fell down and they worshiped And not only that, but they brought gifts and they offered them to the Lord. They showed complete sincerity, so much that they brought not just gifts, but expensive gifts to give to this newborn babe. Gold showing his royalty, uh frankincense showing his divinity, myrrh showing his sufferings. They knew much of this boy. They studied, they knew exactly who he was before they ever arrived Uh what about your gifts? Are you willing to offer what you have to the Lord? Or are you more interested in keeping it for yourself? Do you have some talent or ability that God's given you and you refuse to share it? You refuse to use it Is there something that you have that you're holding back for the Lord? Or are you willing to give what you have, whatever you've been given? And when I think about the wise men, their worship, their sacrifice for the Lord, I think of also like the Apostle Paul. He was a very educated man, very intellectual, and and At first, he's just a total non-believer. He's a persecutor of the church. But when he's converted, he took everything that he had and he gave it back to the Lord, including his very life. All of his intellect, all of his learning, everything, his physical body, everything he gave to the Lord to use as well. So we have the shepherds, just a kind of a humble acceptance. We have the wise men who are looking or they're seeking. It's amazing sometimes you go knock on people's door. If you go on visitation on Saturday, you go knock on people's door. door. Honestly, first time I knocked on somebody's door, I thought for sure I would have a shotgun in my face. I live in Carroll County and that's just it's very possible. I I just assumed that. We knocked on the first door. I was with Mr. Jack Wright. Knocked on the first door. Hi, we're here from from church and we're here to to share the the dues of salvation. The person said, you know, I've been thinking about that. That's somebody who's seeking, right? They're looking for something. And and you know, if you seek, God will find will help you to find. You just need we just need to be careful and go out and tell, like the shepherds did. We have the shepherds, the wise men, and finally we have Herod. Herod finds out that there's a newborn babe. Who's going to be a king? And all he can think about is how he's going to murder him. How how am I going to get rid of this problem? Selfish, driven by envy, probably even jealousy. I think Herod very much represents just stone-cold religion. I mean his reaction shows us the sinfulness of the heart. These wise men come to talk to him They say, hey, there's a Savior that's born in Bethlehem of Judea. It's been prophesied about. Herod says, well, let's get the scribes and the Pharisees. They'll know where he's supposed to be born. They bring him they bring uh the scribes and Pharisees in. He had to have been there while they were discussing it, heard about the prophecies. Yes, this is supposed to this is supposed to be our Savior who's going to save us from the sins of the from our sins. Um and all he's thinking of the whole time is how is this going to affect being in my position? What what is this going to do to me the the whole time That attitude still prevails today. There's a lot of people that have heard the news. There's a Savior. Jesus Christ came to earth. He was born. He lived a sinless, perfect life. He went to the cross to die for the sin of the world. He went to the cross to die for my sin, for your sin, for all sin, past, present, and future. And if we simply take that gift that God has given us, you probably know the verse, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. And tomorrow, tonight, whenever you do it, you're going to exchange gifts, and somebody's going to give you a gift. And they can stand there and offer that gift to you for the rest of their life, and if you never take it, it does you no good. They're still willing to give it to you. They're still offering it to you. They still paid for it. They still did everything to get that gift, to give it to you, but unless you take it. It never becomes your own. And John 3. 16 says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. The way you get everlasting life, the way you get forgiveness of sins is by receiving God's gift of salvation through the Lord Jesus Christ. He died so that we didn't have to. We read the Bible, they laid him in a manger and wrapped him in swaddling clothes. We don't use swaddling clothes. That's an odd word to us today. But those were literally grave clothes. The picture being that he was born so that he could die. Not for his sin, but for ours. Herod Get rid of it. Silence him. Get rid of this. Get rid of this problem. I always laugh when people persecute Christians because like we don't do anything. Like like like why are we such a threat? We don't do anything. Um were a threat bec not because of us, but because of Christ. Herod says, well, if you find them, let me know. Many people don't want to give up their lifestyle. They don't want to give up their sinful habits. They don't want to acknowledge their sinfulness. Men have all kinds of reasons for rejecting the Savior, and I think Herod represents most of those. I think you can see most of those inherited. Three different reactions to the same news. Which one are you? Are you like the shepherds? You just say, hey, I've never heard that before. I never knew that Jesus came. I thought if I walked in this church this afternoon tonight, that God would strike me dead. No, God loves you. And He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Are you the shepherd? Are you a wise man? Have you been searching? Have you been looking? And somebody invited you tonight? And you said, uh, alright, I'll come. It's Christmas Eve. We're supposed to go to church on Christmas Eve. Christmas Eve service. Or are you harried? I mean, have you have you have you Heard the news and rejected it? Have you don't want to be bothered by such things? And if you're Harrod, if you think you're Harrod, then make sure that you get your heart right tonight before it's eternally too late. Three different reactions to the same event. Let's pray. Lord, we love you. We thank you so much for your love for us. Again, we do thank you for sending the Lord Jesus Christ to die for our sins, Lord, to be born to live a perfect, sinless life, Lord, not only as an example to us and how we can live, but Lord also is that that that at the end he could he could die and be buried. But then Lord, thank you that that he rose again, and that today he lives in heaven, victorious over sin. over death, over hell, over the grave. And Lord, I pray that you would help us tonight to examine our hearts, Lord, in the light of what we've heard, and in the light of scripture, Lord, help us to examine our hearts and and And not think about our neighbor or anybody else, Lord, but but in my heart, Lord, w what's my what's my view of Christ? What's my reaction to this news? And Lord, I pray that if If it's anything other than having having accepted you as cr as Savior and living for you, then Lord I pray that you would help us to just make that decision tonight, even in this service, Lord, before we leave, to to to make things right with you. Lord, I pray that there's any that are here that don't know Christ as Savior, I pray that you would convict them of their sin, Lord, and help them, Lord, to come to a saving knowledge of Christ. We ask all these things in Christ's name.