Here's by John Paul Jackson. The name of it is 365 Names of God. The 365 Names of God As I've done some study and been began looking into the names of God, I have found that it's estimated there are over 700 descriptions of God given to us on the pages of Scripture. Don't worry, we aren't going to look at all 700 nor all 365. We're going to just look at those names in which God gave himself that are descriptive in nature that describe for us and explain who God is. I hope that you understand this morning that We're not taking time to learn the names of God so that you might know the facts. Beloved, the goal is that you would know the Father. That you would know him. Like Paul, who said that I may know him and the power of his resurrection We want to learn the names of God so that we might have a better glimpse and a better understanding of who it is that we serve and who it is that we worship. We know that understanding his name gives us an understanding of who he is. When you know somebody, when you have that knowledge of them, it Builds trust. You begin to trust somebody completely. You might have a friend or you might know somebody here in the church, and people would say, Well, that is a guy, that is a man of character, right there Or they may say, that is a woman of integrity, and that knowledge of them, having been given them that name of a person of integrity. person of character, a person who is honest, this descriptive name of that individual motivates you to trust them. You begin to trust them, and that trust grows. Well, in Psalms chapter 9 and verse number 10, the Bible says, And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee. They that know thy name will put their trust in thee. Beloved, when we know the names of God and we begin to learn and understand who it is God says that is going to motivate you to put your trust in him. That begins with a saving faith. Amen. A trust and uh and putting your faith and trust in him for your salvation. It's a life-changing faith. Complete and trust in God. Can I tell you, beloved, that when we begin to learn of His power, when we begin to understand His purity, when we begin to experience His performance in our life, when we begin to be the benefactors of his many promises, when we begin to enjoy the patience that he's known for, his patience with our shortcomings. When we begin to see and experience the passion that God has for every single one of his creation, when we begin to see his willingness to pardon. Beloved, we put our trust in him. We begin to get a picture of who God is and learn about God and we know God and what we what we've come to understand very fully and completely is that we know that we are not Him. We are not God. This is made abundantly clear as we see this morning the name of God which we would like to look at, and that is El Olam. the everlasting God. Of course, Reel, the root being meaning God. That's the foundational word, God, but then Olam means everlasting. We see in our text, if you're in Genesis chapter 21, verse number 33. And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba and called there on the name of the Lord the everlasting God. That everlasting is Olam, meaning eternal From my study of this word in the Hebrew, I learned that they were not as consumed with time as we are today They didn't watch their watch. They didn't pay attention to their watch. They didn't have their phones or their iPads which continually updated on them on the time of day and they weren't as consumed with the hours and minutes as we are and therefore they did not have a means to adequately express A limitless measure of time. Now is that an oxymoron? Limitless measure? How can you measure something that's limitless And that is the problem that has faced mankind since the beginning of time is how how do you explain eternity? How do you try and quantify something that's unquantifiable? How do you try and put a number on something that is infinite? How do you describe that? How do you explain that? And so, beloved, the Hebrews didn't have a good word for this. And so what this word Olam literally means is beyond the vanishing point. Beyond the vanishing point. The idea is this: when you look at a horizon, there is what is called the vanishing point. I looked up some scientific descriptions and uh looked up some math and and saw diagrams of the human eye and the plane of our field of vision and describing the the and I'm like I'm not getting into all that we're not going down that road uh but you understand that on the horizon there's a vanishing point But here's the thing. That point looks fixed. However, if we begin to travel that direction. The point keeps moving. It never we never reach it. The vanishing point is something that you'll never reach. And so this word describing eternal is the idea that it's beyond that. Beyond that which you're never going to get to. Beyond that which we even have the capacity to see or to behold. It's something that we can't understand. Beyond the vanishing point, and this is a description of the everlasting God. Last week we looked at Elroy, the God that sees His perception as he beholds all of mankind. And this morning we see El Olam, the everlasting This could be his permanence, the fact that he always was and always will be. When we speak of and consider God, we must remember, beloved, that because He sees everything from beginning to end. There's a secondary aspect that's tied up in this word. And I don't pretend to know Greek and Hebrew and the etymology and the structure of words. But Elmer Townes in his book, My Father's Names, describes this word. It has a secondary meaning. It has an auxiliary thought, and that is, he calls it, God's secret name. El Olam, God's secret name. And here's the idea: that because God sees everything from the beginning to the end, that God knows what's going to happen down here. He knows what's going to happen beyond the vanishing point. And there are some things that God in his infinite wisdom has chosen not to reveal to you and I. I'm thankful this morning there's some things that I don't know. God does not tell me the day of my death God has not chosen to reveal these things to the vast majority of us. There's things down in the future that we don't know about. But when we begin to know El Olam, the everlasting God, we begin to get a picture that sees it all, of a God that sees it all, the God that sees the beginning from the end. And we begin to be able to trust him because we know that he knows what's beyond the vanishing point. He knows what lies in the distance that we cannot behold. It is God's secret name He is from everlasting to everlasting. God knows what lies in our future. We don't have to know it all. We don't have to understand it all. We don't even necessarily in our heart and mind have to try and plan for it all because we know As a songwriter said, I don't know about tomorrow, but I know who holds my hand. We begin to trust that God. The God who holds tomorrow. The God who holds your hand. And so we don't have to be able to see beyond the vanishing point because we serve a God who sees beyond the vanishing point. You know, let me just throw this out here by way of application. Kids, you understand that because your parents have lived a little bit longer than you, that they know some things that you don't know They understand some things that you don't understand. They've walked some roads, and I know that in your heart and mind you think, well, they're just old. They're not near as old as you think they are. When I was young, my my dad's mom died at 66. Brother Aaron's brother just passed away at 66 years old. That's young, isn't it, brother? That's young. But you know, when I was five years old and my grandmother who was 66 died, I thought She was probably ready because 66 is pretty ancient. I mean that's what I thought. I thought she was ancient. I mean I'm surprised she lived that long already, you know I I was young, I didn't know, I didn't have any concept of time like that. And and 66 is not that old, but beloved young man, young lady, your mom and dad have walked some roads, and I can tell you, your mom and dad aren't perfect They're gonna make some mistakes, but they know some things, they've walked some roads, they've lived life that you haven't lived yet, and you would be wise to trust them. Right. When they try and give you some guidance and say don't go that way, because this is where it's gonna lead. Because they have seen that already. Now let's apply it to God. God has seen it already. God knows what lies beyond the vanishing point. And therefore it would behoove you and I to trust God and to turn at his reproof so that we could be blessed in our life and not just get headstrong and stubborn and say, well this is what I want to do. I'm going to disregard El Olam, the everlasting God who sees from the beginning to the end and I'm going to do what I want to do. If you do that, you're running for ruin. Now, how did it get to be 1120 already? What in the world? I didn't even got to the message yet. Alright, we got three points. I'll try and go quick. Amen. Amen. Have your way, Lord. Let's let the Lord. Let's let the Lord open this scripture to us and feed our souls this morning. I want you to see, first of all, that his word is everlasting. Look, I I want you to get the context of what it is that we're talking about. So you're in Genesis chapter 1. Let's back up to verse number 22. We're going to read verse 22 through 33 just so you can get the picture of what is taking place there. So we see that in verse number, well beginning in verse number 22, he says, and it came to pass at that time. that Abimelech. Now I'm not going to uh read all of the preceding verses and chapters. Can I tell you that uh he says at that time, what that means is at the time after Isaac was born Isaac had been delivered finally. Isaac was born. The Bible describes him being weaned, so it was after he was weaned. It is after Ishmael. If you know the story and you've re you've read through this, some of you probably just read it not too long ago as you began your annual reading through the Bible in January and uh probably read through this, but Ishmael was kicked out. You know, not being the son of promise, the bitterness that was there in the home from that, they they wanted to kick Ishmael out. Ishmael gets kicked out. So he says here, and it came to pass at that time when Abimelech And Phikal, the chief captain of his host, spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest. Now therefore swear unto me here by God that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son, but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee thou shalt do unto me and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned. And Abraham said, I will swear And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of the well of water which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away. Now, Abraham had dug a well. He had come into this land to sojourn, and he had dug a well, him and his servants And Abimelech came in and his servants violently took it away. So we see in verse number 26, Abimelech plays dumb. I'm not sure how legitimate it is, but he certainly plays dumb here. He says, and Abimelech said, I wot not, who hath done this thing? Neither dost thou tell me, neither yet had I, uh, neither yet heard I of it, but today, he's saying, What? Nobody told me this happened. What did this happen? Oh my goodness. And Abraham sent seven ew lambs of flocks by themselves. And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ew lambs which thou hast sent by themselves? And he said, For these seven you lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto me. that I have digged this well. Therefore he called the place Beersheba, meaning the place of the oath That's what beersheba means. It means the place of the oath, because there they swore both of them. Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba. Then Abimelech rose up and Fikal, the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines. And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the Lord, the everlasting God. And Abraham sojourned in the Philistine land many days. I want you to see here in the context of this story that Abraham was tired. He had traveled on a journey for a long ways. He and his men dug this well and prepared to have. I mean, we saw even on the satellite this morning in Sunday school the image of that region. It was a barren land. It was desert. A well was a pretty valuable thing, the only means by which you could water your. . . Crops. I couldn't get that word out of my mind. Water your crops or or add give water to your flocks. That's the word that was in my head, and I'm trying to not flocks, that's coming second. The well was very valuable. They dug this well and it got taken away. Can I tell you that he may have thought, is anything gonna last? I've done all this work, we did all this time, and I've lost this well. Beloved, it is in then that we are introduced to a God that Abraham had come to know. El Olam, the everlasting God. Abraham acknowledges the fact. He says, okay, I've come here, I've dug this well, and these men have taken it. But do you know what? God knows. God who sees the beginning from the end, God who understands where I'm going to be. You understand, beloved, that God had given a promise to Abraham that he was going to have a seed who was going to multiply as the grains of sand and that he was going to get this land that he had been promised. God had promised him that and Abraham comes into the land and Abraham digs a well and the well gets taken. Then he makes this covenant. With the one who took it and is restored by grace of God this well that he had dug and he introduces us. To El Olam, the everlasting God. God came through him, came through for him. Abraham, who had gone on this great journey, you remember he originally left Uru the Chaldees, and he went into a land that he knew not of. That he traveled by faith, just stepping out and doing what God wanted him to do. He finally gets to this place and digs this well, and the well is taken. And so he calls on the everlasting God. He knew there was one person he could trust. He knew there was one person he could count on. He knew there was one who understood and knew exactly what needed to happen. Can I tell you that God's promises are sure? You see, Abraham knew that God had promised this. And so he goes back to him in the midst of this time when things look questionable, in the midst of this time when he wasn't sure what the outcomes were going to be, he goes back to El Olam, the everlasting God, the God who had promised him this land. You see, beloved, God's word is eternal. It is everlasting. God's word is as culturally relevant today as the day it was written. I know people like to talk about being culturally relevant today. They like to insinuate that we have got to kind of let go of old things so that we can embrace the new. But can I tell you that this word is just as powerful And just as applicable today as it was the day it was written. It's not outdated and it's not old-fashioned. It is an everlasting word, a word that was given to us by God. Psalms 100, verse number 5 says For the Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. The truth that God shared and gives us in his book, the Word of God, it endureth for all generations. You guys know the verse in Psalms 119, 89. Forever, O Lord, that word forever is Olam. Everlasting, forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. It's everlasting because it is the word of an everlasting God. If we had word that came from somebody that wasn't eternal or wasn't everlasting, we couldn't count on it. But because he is the everlasting God, his word is everlasting. Beloved, even after this old world burns up The Bible says that His word is settled in heaven. His Word is everlasting. His Word is going to be there even if the entirety of this earth burns up and every single copy that we have printed and spread and put about on the face of the earth is is consumed in a fire. Can I tell you that his word is settled in heaven It is an eternal word. It is everlasting. Can I tell you that his work is everlasting? In verse number 33, Genesis 21, 33, and Abraham planted a grove. In Beersheba. Abraham liked planting trees. He set up memorials that way, and Abraham begins to work here. He goes to work. He plants this grove. But you know what? He was working, but God was working. Even his enemies could see that God was working Look back in verse number 22, Genesis 21, verse number 22. He says, and it came to pass at that time that Abimelech And Fikal, the chief captain of his hosts, spake unto him and to Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest. I wonder, beloved, would your enemy accuse you of having God on your side? Abimelech who had just stolen this well, Abimelech who was the uh enemy of Abraham. Said, what I recognize is that the God of heaven is on your side. I recognize that God is working on your behalf I recognize as much as I've tried to stop you or hinder you or keep you from moving forward that somehow you've continued to come out on top. And can I tell you the Christian that's in submission to God and moving forward? It's going to be evident that God is working in his life God's work is everlasting. It is a work that He has promised to do and He's going to continue to do in your heart. God had promised Abraham a son, and Isaac had been born. God had promised Abraham this land, and now he was giving him favor with even his enemy. God has promised you and I he would be working in our lives. Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 6 says, being confident of this very thing, that he which began a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. You see, God's work is everlasting. The work that He's doing is a work that's going to continue. It's going to be everlasting. It's going to continue until the day of Jesus Christ. Not just today, not just tomorrow, but. It's an eternal work. Can I remind you that just because God's working on your half behalf doesn't mean you won't have opposition? We see here in Genesis 21, verse number 25, and Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away. Just because God is working on your behalf, because God is is is helping you and He's fulfilling His promise to never leave you or forsake you, can I tell you that it's you still gonna have some opposition? Because we have a sinner. We have a well Satan who is a sinner. We have a sin nature, and we have an enemy who is Satan. Who stands against us is going to try and stop that work that God wants to do. But I praise the Lord that because we serve an everlasting Father, that his promises are everlasting. You know, a promise from somebody that wasn't everlasting wouldn't mean that much. You could not promise somebody For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth on him should not perish, but have everlasting life That promise of everlasting life from somebody who was not everlasting wouldn't mean much, would it? But because God is El Olam, the everlasting God, we can take that promise and you can take it to the bank and you can be assured that God will fulfill it. It is an everlasting promise. Abraham on this long journey. He didn't know exactly where he was going to end up. He didn't know exactly what was going to happen. There was something beyond the vanishing point that he couldn't see But he was serving El Olam, the everlasting God, who could see beyond the vanishing point, who knew what was coming down the road, and he decided he would just rest in him. Back in 2006, Mary and I were on staff at uh Heritage Baptist Church in Lawrence, Kansas, and we had been serving there for seven years, and it was a great time. I I enjoyed the time there uh an amazing pastor. Pastor Hanks, he's ten times the pastor that I am. His Bible knowledge is second to none. Phenomenal, phenomenal uh Bible teacher Uh he's a writer, lots of things. But the time had come in our life that we said, you know what, I think that God is leading us into a new area of ministry. And I talked to Pastor Hanks about this and we had talked several times and Ultimately, Pastor Hank says to me, Well listen, if you think you're going to be leaving, I don't want you leaving in the middle of a school year. If you guys think you're going to be leaving, then I need you to move out because I need the apartment that you're living in for a new staff member to be able to be able to school administrator. And so I need you out in two weeks. And I said, okay. So I bought a U-Haul. Because I didn't know where I didn't know where we were going. I didn't know what we were going to do I I didn't rent a U-Haul, I just went and bought a U-Haul. And backed it up to the house and we filled it was 14-foot box truck, U-Haul truck. Still half of it was orange. And uh we loaded all of our stuff into a U-Haul. Now I already owned a small six-foot Box trailer. I use that for work and stuff. I had a little six-foot box trailer. And so we loaded all of our worldly possessions in a U-Haul and a six-foot box trailer. And we hit the road. I had no idea where we're going. I literally did I had no plan like okay We're gonna go to this church or we're gonna go here. We hit the road. For six months, my poor wife lived out of a U-Haul With a two-week old baby. Obviously the baby got older with six months, but when we left the baby was two weeks old. That was Melissa. Now you know what's wrong with her. So We literally like Abraham loaded up and hit the road not knowing where we were gonna go. I didn't have a plan. You said it. God had a plan. God, over that six months, I don't have time to tell you the stories and how God miraculously took care of us, how God met our needs and and, you know, so so many things that God did during that time. But I thought that I was gonna go into missions You guys know that I work with my hands. I I enjoy that kind of work. I'm gifted in that area. And I thought, well, surely God's given me this skill because He wants me to go and be in helps. ministry. I'm gonna I'm gonna engage in some type of mission work and help these missionaries get things built and whatever. I even talked to Brother Gene Sharp. We're good friends and I said hey uh maybe you and I are supposed to tag team maybe we'll work together. I mean that would be fun Uh but we decided as much as we love each other, we'd probably kill each other if we were working together. So we decided that wasn't the plan. And and we're praying and searching for God's will, wanting to know what God wants us to do. And ultimately, God led us here to Maryland. And I still to this day owe a great uh measure of gratitude to Brother Greg Serafin who hired me and gave me a job sight unseen. Literally didn't know me. Gave me a job and promised me a certain level of salary that would meet my needs. And uh I hope That it was good for him. It was a blessing for me. I hope that I was a blessing to him. But he did that sight unseen, and God brought us here in what I thought was going to be one year. I even bought my house on a two-year- a two-year fixed and then adjustable mortgage because in my mind I'm not even going to be here two years from now So I'm gonna buy this house, I'm gonna flip it. So I was working all day for Brother Greg. At night I was doing construction on this house. Brother Greg just told me recently, he says one day Uh we came over to your house, Martha and I, and you told me you were doing some work on your house. I thought you were like painting it or, you know, fixing the floor or something. He says, we walked into your house and the entire upstairs was two by four studs. Like the whole thing was gutted down to he's like, this kid is crazy. This kid has lost his mind like he thought I thought oh my uh he's uh I walked out with Martha and thought that is a mess. He didn't at that time know what skills I had or didn't have, but he said it was bad. But we we flipped that house. I was planning to do that in one year. What I'm saying is the everlasting God who could see the beginning to the end knew the plan. He knew why he brought us here. He knew the need. He knew where I was going to end up. In my mind, I had an agenda. In my mind, I had a plan. And I thought, well, I'll just come here. for one year I'll be a blessing to this new church plant and then God's going to put me in the ministry some somewhere. I'm going to go out on the mission field and go do this or go do that. And through the years we have seen how God by design put me here for a purpose. And can I tell you, beloved, that God has a work he has for you to do. It's an everlasting work, a work that will last for eternity. If you will trust the everlasting God and the one who sees beyond the vanishing point. You don't have to know what's going to happen three or four years from now, ten years from now. You just have to know that you're in the hand of the God who sees beyond the vanishing point. Boy. Not only that, his worship is everlasting. We see in our text verse, verse number 33, is when Abraham plants this grove. It was literally a place of remembrance to mark this covenant. Beersheba means the place of the oath. It has the idea that if you break it apart the two words together include uh the something with the seven. It's a place of the seven oaths or something like that. The free phraseology might be wrong, but because he gave the seven you lambs as a covenant of that oath, a signing of that oath, but it is the place of the oath. Well in that place of the oath there He calls on the name of the Lord, the everlasting God. What I'm saying is he begins to worship God in verse number 33. And we're going to get to it in just a minute, but I just want to point it out to you while you're here in this passage. I want you to see not only does he worship God, but Abraham begins to wait on God. In verse number 34, we see Abraham sojourned. there in that foreign land for a period of time. Now we're going to get to that in a few minutes, but I want you to turn in your Bibles now to Isaiah chapter number 40. Isaiah chapter number 40. You see, Abraham began to worship the everlasting God. Can I tell you, beloved, we need to get real comfortable worshiping God. We're going to be worship worshiping him for all eternity. We're going to be standing in heaven and singing his praises and worshiping him. As the angels cry out, holy, holy, holy art thou God Almighty. And we're going to be worshiping him for an eternity. And we ought to get ready to and be willing to worship him today. We see in Isaiah chapter 40, look at verse number 28. Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard? That the everlasting God, that is Olam, Il Olam, the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not Neither is weary. There is no searching of his understanding. Beloved, have you ever been in awe of somebody? I mean, have you ever got around somebody that a lot of times it may be somebody famous? You maybe you have been in awe of somebody's skill, somebody's ability to do a particular task, maybe one of these. uh sports players or maybe you've been in awe of somebody's size. Have you ever stood next to somebody, you know, one of these guys that's seven foot tall You just like, man, I don't know how you function being that that tall. I mean, you're just like they have a size 19 shoe. Have you ever held a size 19 shoe? That is ridiculously big I mean, I'm just saying, have you ever been in awe of something, somebody like that? Can I ask you this morning, are you in awe of God? The creator of the universe? The everlasting God? Are you in awe of him he says hast thou not heard? Hast thou not known? Have you seen the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth? Not just the beginning, not just the end, but both. From one end to the other, God is there because he's everlasting. Have you seen him? Do you realize that he fainteth not? Do you realize that he doesn't get weary? Do you realize, beloved, there is no searching the depth or the breadth of his understanding. Beloved, there is not, you hear recently about these AI computers. And these massive data centers that are being built by Google and Amazon and Tesla and these huge massive data centers that have, you know, What's after terabyte? I can't some of you guys are text. What's after terabyte? What's the next one? Peta. A petabyte. You're talking about levels of storage in in the hundreds of petabytes Can I tell you, beloved, I believe with the songwriter, if every stalk on earth a quill. In the heavens of parchment made, the earth could not contain the magnitude of God. I feel so inadequate as I begin to study these these names of God and I look at it. And I say, Lord, how can I adequately describe and give your people a picture of who you are? I hope that maybe I just spur a little bit of hunger in you. I hope that maybe it just it just starts a spark that you would begin to ponder and think upon who God is and that he may give you a greater understanding of him because beloved the songwriter said the the love of God is greater far. Then tongue or pin can ever tell it goes beyond the highest star and reaches to the lowest hell The guilty pair bowed down with care and gave his son to win, an erring child he reconciled and pardoned. Sin could we with ink the oceans fill, and were the skies of parchment made, were every stock on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade. To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry. Nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched From sky to sky. Beloved, there's no way we could possibly mark down the magnitude of who this is. He says here, there is no searching of his understanding. You better get excited about worshiping because we're going to be worshiping him for all eternity. 1 Timothy 1. 17 says, Now unto God, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Psalm 2145-21, my mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord, and let all flesh bless his name forever and ever. We see this power that's described here, how he does not faint. He's everlasting, neither is he weary. But if you're in Isaiah chapter 40, I want you to see that He gives power to the faint. Look at verse number 29. He giveth power to the faint. And to them that have no might, he increaseth strength. Even the youth. shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fail. Beloved, he's saying Even those that are young and full of youthful vitality, and we that are a little bit older, we say, Oh, to have that energy again. But God's saying even the youth, their strength is going to fail. But God will give you strength. The everlasting God will give you strength. And who does he give strength to? Look at verse number 31. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Now you remember back over there in our story in verse number 34. Where I said, remember, Abraham is worshiping right now, but in a couple of minutes we're going to see that he is waiting. You see, he called on the everlasting God, the God who sees beyond the vanishing point, who knows what's coming. And then he says, okay, God, I'm gonna wait here and trust that you know. And I'm just waiting. on you. And God says those that wait, he will renew their strength. This is El Olam, the everlasting God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed