So if your Bibles with you, uh please open in the book of Joshua, chapter one. First of all, I want to thank uh Pastor Kill for this opportunity to stand by for you tonight. I know that he doesn't open up his pulpit to anyone and By asking me to do this you would think that he fell on his head. But here we are I also want to thank um Brother Hunt for um teaching Sunday teaching the um Sunday school this morning for the teens. It gave me more time to prepare for tonight. And thank you, Pastor Gus, for your kind words. Appreciate that. So tomorrow we'll this evening will be in the book of Joshua, chapter one. We'll be starting off in verse 1. Now after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses' minister, saying, Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore, arise and go over this Jordan, thou and this people, unto the Lord, which into the unto the land which I do give them, even to the children of Israel Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that I have given unto you, as I have said unto Moses. From the wilderness in this Lebanon, even until the great river, the river Euphrates All of the land of the Hittite and of the Great unto the Great Sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your coast. There shall not be any man Be able to stand before thee in all the days of the life all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. Be strong and of good courage, for unto this people shall thou divide foreign inheritance of the land, which I swear unto their fathers to give them. So we start off this passage, Moses is dead. Managon. The managed gone off the scene. Now thankfully our pastor hasn't made that final farewell, and he's still with us today. No, only by the grace of God. But back to Moses. Moses had one job to do. He was to take, lead the people out of Egypt, go through the wilderness, and take them into the promised land. Now why he did have some successes, but he also had some failures, as the Bible says You know, he led the people out of Egypt. He led them through the wilderness. Guys see what I'm doing here? It took a lot longer than it was supposed to. But he didn't lead them through to the promised land. Now why was that? Well he did Alright, so why was that? Because he didn't do what God asked him to do. He led the people out of Egypt, led them through the wilderness. But he wasn't able to make it to the promised land. Now it wasn't God's fault that he wasn't making there. I was able to lead them through. It wasn't society's fault. It was his fault. He was the only person to blame If only he had heeded God's word, then he would have been successful in that endeavor. You know, just like us, you know, we don't always listen to the word of God. You know, we do what we want to sometimes. And then when we experience failures in our life, who do we tend to blame? Not ourselves. Now if something happens at home, I'm first I'm quick to blame my wife, so I'm like I'm not gonna blame myself. Obviously. But if we want to be successful, we need to heed the word of God. Now who doesn't want to be successful in here? Show of hands? No one? Now if I had to give you a nickel for everyone who wants to be successful, then You'd be pretty rich, wouldn't you? I'd have to be even richer than that to give you that much money. But you would say that I'm successful. Now Merriam Webster designs defines success as the attainment of wealth, favor, or MMs or eminence as it says, not MMs. No. Maybe our ideas and Seth is eating a bunch of MMs and I think Pastor Caleb has a huge stash of them somewhere. No. I can't imagine seeing people just like go through Squath is a ri uh go through the rest of your life, you know, through chocolatey handfuls, goodness. But according to the Fest Project survey released by Sperry Universe in 2014 Ninety percent of people believe that success is more about happiness than power, possessions, or prestige. Only one out of five Americans told that monetary wealth is what defines success. So that's what's most defined as 60% loving what you do, 67% saying attaining a personal goal, and then 66% saying that having good relationships. No, Einstein or uh I heard it said that a successful man is someone who can make more money than his wife can spend. And a successful woman, on the other hand, is the woman who can find that man Einstein guys know Einstein, right? Well he someone asked him, what is your um Formula for success. So this is complicated, so bear with me. So if A is success, then A equals X, Y, Z. X is you work. Y, you enjoy yourself. And Z, you keep your mouth shut. Now pretty wise words from a pretty smart man. So here we have the Israelites who were wandering through the wilderness while waiting for the whiners to waste away. Now it's time for those who were left to enter into God's promised land. Everyone except Moses, due to his disobedience to God's word. Moses and the brother Aaron were promised by God that he wouldn't that he wasn't going to allow them to lead the Israelites through the promised land because they did not sanctify him before Israel. Now sanctification means setting something apart, making it holy. You know, God spoke creation into existence. Jesus spoke to the winds and waves, and they obeyed him And this power that God had speaking things into existence, He's going to allow Moses and Aaron to use that power to speak to the rock and allow water to go gush from it. But that's not what happened. So this is one of those times that meek mild manner Moses let the anger let his anger get the best of him. Just like that time in Egypt when he killed the one um Egyptian. So God was angry with his disobedience and it cost him. Now he broke, he struck the rock that was supposed to represent Christ. Now the first time God told him to strike the rock, strike strike the rock. It was supposed to represent the sacrifice Christ would make when his body was broken for us. But the second time, when he struck a rock, it showed that Christ had to sack had to suffer again. And Christ only had to suffer once for us to save us from our sins. So God had an example that he was trying to portray. By speaking to the rock, it showed that we could just speak to Christ, you know, pray to him. And that living water that he talks about giving to people, we could receive that. But because of Moses' anger, he broke that as illustration So Moses kicked the bucket, Joshua picked up the slab. The Israelites, they crossed the Jordan, and they went on the attack. Joshua was charged by God to be strong and of good courage, for he would be leading the children of Israel to the promised land. He would help them lay waste to their enemies there, and then he was going to lay out their inheritance. Now if we're going to be successful in this and if he was going to be successful in this endeavor, there were some things that he was going to need going to have to do. Our text for us tonight here, verse 8, which I'm sure many of you are familiar with, shows us that God wanted Joshua to be successful. That's why you gave them a set of instructions. I mean you want someone to be successful in something, you give them a set of instructions. Like maybe you ever put uh Ikea furniture together. You know, you buy a real root and it comes with instruc some instructions. Now you might not be able to read them, but they're there. And we've just recently got a new uh dining uh Yeah, dining room set. And one of the chairs, the first chair I opened didn't have instructions. And it came with a lot more screws than a chair should have. But thankfully we have five more chairs and they all came with instructions. So I wasn't at a complete loss. Now God also gives us instructions to live our life. We find them right here in the Bible. Basic instructions before leaving earth. So let's see what instructions God gave Joshua and how he could be successful, and how we can follow those instructions to see success in our life. Not just success, but good success. So in verse eight it says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, for thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. So this night's message is titled The Keys of Success. The Keys of Success. Let us pray. Father God, Lord, we ask that you would Be with us tonight, Lord, that you would help me to get out of the way, Lord, and just let your spirit flow through me, Lord, and speak the words that you'd have me speak. Lord, right now our mind is on Pastor Caleb, Lord, and uh pain that he's going through, Lord, but we thankful Lord. We're thankful, Lord, and grateful that it wasn't much more than that, Lord, and that he is on the road to recovery right now. Lord, we used to ask that you would minimize distractions, Lord, and be with us tonight, Lord, and just allow us to learn something from your word, Lord, that we can change in our lives so that we can be the successful Christians that you would want us to be. In Jesus' holy name we pray. Amen. So help with this illustration I borrowed something from my son. Set of keys. So the first key we have tonight is the call to speak. This book of the law should not depart out of thy mouth. So we experience the Lord through we experience the world through our five senses. We have the sense of sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch. But the most things that affects our heart are senses from our eyes and our ears. You know, it's the shows that what that we watch and the movies we watch, the music that we listen to that affect us. You know, back before the pandemic, there was a lady in my office and she told me that one of her her daughter was in um Daycare. And that the language that they were using the daycare, well her little daughter would bring that back home and it didn't please her. That's because she was being influenced by those around her at the daycare. So what about the things we read? Books, magazines, articles on the internet? These things also have an influence on us. If you're ever looking for something good to read, something right here. So also the people that we hang out with. You know, we spend time with people and they influence us. You know, you have to ask yourself, you know, are they having a positive influence influence on you or negative influence? But also, what kind of influence are you having on them? Now, influence of the two-way street. Now, are you going to be a good influence of those around you? If you are, then you need to make sure that you are influencing them with the word of God. My fifth grade English teacher always says sharing is caring except for germs. Germs you can keep to yourself So Matthew 12, 34 says, For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. And 1 Timothy 4 to verse 12 tells us that we're to be an example to the believers in word and conversation, in charity and in spirit, in faith and in purity. Now, if we're going to be a good example to those around us, then our words and actions must be of God. Our testimony must be one that points to the one we believe in. And live lives in service to God. Now, how else are we supposed to let our light be a shining example and draw other men to Christ? You know someone who watches a lot of sports is going to talk a lot about sports. And someone who does a lot of fishing, they're going to talk a lot about fishing. I watch a lot of politics, so I can talk a lot about politics. And depending on what you're talking to, you want to curb that language these days What is somebody who's reading, studying their Bible? No, what are they going to be at to talk about? The Prophet Jeremiah had that problem. He was preaching to God, promising, prophesying to the Israelites, but they wouldn't give them the time of day. And he acted like a petal and shroud and he said, Well I ain't gonna talk about uh I ain't gonna speak his name anymore. You know, we're the same way, but we don't get our way. Patulant children. But it didn't matter what Jeremiah said, because it mattered where his heart was at. And he said that he hid, because he hid God's word in his heart, his heart was on fire for God. And he got burned bad. He had to let it out. Now what's preventing God's word from burning your heart and burning to share it with other people? The second we have the call to think. No, don't just read the Bible. Let it sink in. Meditate on it. Over and over again. Turn it around. Say, oh, I never noticed that before. Now I'm not a fisherman, but when you cast the line, you don't quickly reel it out, do you? You're not gonna catch anything like that. You cast it, you let the lore sink to the appropriate death if you're gonna catch anything worthwhile. How about when you eat an apple? If you just let it graze your teeth, you're not gonna get nothing. No nutrients, no juice. But if you take a big old bite of the apple, let your teeth sink into it, you're gonna be able to enjoy much more out of the apple. Now Tiffany sent me an article last week saying that apples can give you more energy than coffee, which makes no sense because apples don't have caffeine. Now there are people out there that believe the apples do have caffeine because there's enough articles written that says apples do not have c caffeine. But it's because the amount of sugar that's in an apple is more than you would typically find in a cup of coffee. So to equal that amount you'd have to put in about five or six cups five or six packets of sugar, which is a lot of sugar. And when I was in um youth group we would have um hot chocolate during our Sunday schools and we would me and my friends would take like twenty-four packs of sugar and put it in the hot chocolate and drink it. Think of that today, I'm like, how do we live how do we survive? So that's your um health set from the pulpit tonight. So I think what people will be sticking coffee until someone comes up with a caffeinated apple. So in the same way, you know, just don't read your Bible and say, Well, I'm going for the day. That's like having a conversation with someone, staring at them, and saying, bye. You can't build a relationship like that Now you have to get in deep. You have to look up the meaning of words, see what they mean. You know, contemplate the who, what, where, why, and how of the situation. Ask the Holy Spirit to show you a spiritual nugget that you can share with others You know, we all know that boats float. All the good boats do. So what happens when a boat fills the water? It begins to sink. And when we allow our lives to be filled with the Holy Spirit, the deeper we can get in God's Word. Now we can read the same pass of scripture over and over again. Now each of us read the same pass of scripture and we can all get different things out of it based on where we are in our lives. Now are you letting God show you something? Or are you just letting or are you just trying to check off the done button when you're doing other devotions? Not only do we need to meditate on God's Word, but we need to be in there consistently. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Day and night. We need to continually ponder what we read so we don't forget what we read. Now how many forget the message of tonight, the title of tonight's message already? Because you weren't pondering it. Now, as part of my devotions, I've been reading through the gospels, and right now I'm reading through them for the fourth time this year. And I've been pondering most recently the purpose of the Sabbath. That's mentioned in uh Matthew chapter twelve. The Pharisees considered Jesus and his disciples breaking the Sabbath because they're working while grabbing pieces of corn to eat, because they were hungry. You know, they were doing what anyone do if they were hungry. But I can think of what is the purpose of the Sabbath? Well you don't have to look hard because it tells us exactly what the purpose of the Sabbath is and the Ten Commandments in the book of Exodus chapter twenty. It was a day of rest. It was a day of remembrance. It was a day to focus on God. Now I'm a simple man and I prefer simple concepts. Now this is an idea of a part of my idea of a much larger devotional I've been thinking of the past few weeks about how God gives us all. And we only give them some back. So God gave us an entire week to work. He gave Israel like six days to work. But the seventh day he wanted them to rest. So what was the purpose of that? Well when you work, it benefits you physically. But one day we God wanted Israel not to physically benefit themselves, but to physically benefit him. That's why Jesus told the Pharisees that they didn't give priests fleck because their physical work was always to benefit God. You know, one of the many mic drops Jesus said was, I the son of the Lord, the Son of God. The Son of God is Lord of the Sabbath. So he said, the work I do, it's going to benefit me no matter what. But this made me think about how much of my time is benefiting myself rather than rather benef being a benefit to God. And Luke Jesus said that the very hairs of your head are numbered. And you know what? You lose about fifty to a hundred hairs every day. That's a lot of hairs. And God knows, God's keeping track of every single one of them. So if he's thinking of you that much, you're on his mind that much, you would do well to think about him and his word throughout the day. Then further, we have the key to see. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. Now the word observe here doesn't mean to see, but it means to keep. God is telling Joshua not only to read the law, but to keep the law He needs to meditate in the law so that he will keep doing what the law says. I like how Master Henry puts it in this um commentary on this passage He must observe to do according to all this law. To this end he must meditate therein, not for contemplation's sake only, or to fill his head with notions, or that he might find something to puzzle the priest with, so that he is But that he might, both as a man and as a magistrate, observe to do according to what is written therein. And several things were written there which had particular reference to the business he had now As the laws concerning their wars, destroying the Canaanites, and dividing of Canaan, etcetera, these he must religiously observe. Joshua was a man of great power and authority, and yet he must put his command under another and do as he was bidden. No man's dignity or dominion, how great soever, set him above the law of God. Joshua might not Joshua must not only govern by law, and take care that the people observe the law. But he must observe it himself, and so that by his own example he may maintain the honor and power of it. This might not be obvious, but if we're going to speak the word of God, then we're gonna have to see what it says. If we're gonna sink into the Word of God, we're gonna have to see what it says. If we're gonna do the Word of God, we're gonna have to see what it says. And if we're g See what the Word of God says that we're actually gonna have to read it. Imagine that Now first 2 Timothy 3. 16 it says all scripture is given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for righteousness unto God. It tells us what is right, what is not right, how to get right, and then how to stay right. So are you reading the Word of God and how right are you? Now the fourth key is to call it a step. This is the need to act Having instructions isn't enough. You stare at them, they're not going to put the chair together for you. You actually have to put the chair together yourself. The verse here doesn't say, For thy way shall be prosperous. No. It says, For thou shalt make thy way prosperous. Work like it all depends on you, the saying says, but pray like it depends on God. Now Joshua Joshua needed to take steps in order to be prosperous. We look down in verse ten through eleven. It says, Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, Pass through the host and command the people, saying, Prepare your victims. For within three days you shall pass over this Jordan to go to possess the land which the Lord your God giveth you to possess it. Now Joshua just didn't sit there. Then again, maybe he did. But as soon as the word of God came to him, he moved. He took action. We don't know how much time it it took, but he didn't he didn't hesitate. He told those Israelites they were gonna have three days to prepare and then they were going. But first he needed a plan. Now if I were gonna leave the pulpit tonight, I would have to have a plan. If I just started walking forward, I'm not gonna go anywhere, am I Last week in a Sunday school lesson we learned that our brains actually plan out what we do before we do it. That's why we can decide whether to actually go through with an action or not. Our ma minds are amazing like that. But if I were to plan to leave a pulpit, I would say, alright, I have to turn. Walk over here and slowly take a step. I don't want to be in the hospital tonight. So Joshua needed a plan. He planned to be in the promised land in three days. No more, no less. And he told them, prepare. Then there was a call to success. God just didn't want to have Joshua to have success. The Bible says he wanted to have good success. So that begs the question, well, what's the difference between success and good success? Now George McDonald was an old, old Scottish author, poet, and minister. His father was even older than him. And it just so happens that he had a farm. Now, make of that what you will. He said, and whatever a man does without God, he must fail miserably or succeed more miserably. Let me say that again because it's kind of confusing the way it's worded. And whatever a man does without God, he must fail miserably or succeed more miserably. On the 10th of May 1996, John Krakower finally reached the summit of Mount Everest, the tallest mountain in the world. Several of the solo climbers died on that day. Later he wrote, I understood on some dim, detached level that it was a spectacular sight. And I mean He's just made it the top of the world. How could it not be a spectacular sight? But now that I was finally there, standing on the summit of Mount Everest, I just couldn't summon the energy to care. That's what success looks like without God. If God is good, then good success is success with God. If God is good, we are not. Jesus said that there is none good but one, and that is God. We all want success and there's nothing inherently wrong with desiring success. But what matters is how we go about that success and if it's according to God's will. For success without God will leave us feeling empty like it did John Crack Hour. Not only do God want Joshua to have success, but he wants us to have good success. Success has to do with us, but good success has to do with God. Now good success. Through Moses, God was able to deliver his people from Egypt and Pharaoh. That is good success. Through Jesus, God was able to provide a way for man to be reconciled back to him. That is an example of good success. Now there are many examples you can look at the pages of scripture for examples of good success. Take Hebrews 11, the follow- the hall of faith, the whole chapter about successful people who did what God wanted them to do. So here we have five phrases and five keys. And yet there is one more key we have to discuss. That is a call to select. Joshua didn't have a choice. No, he actually had a choice. We always have a choice. But when God uses the words like shall in our verse, I suppose I should, you ask yourself, did Joshua really have a choice? Thou shalt, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. Thou shalt meditate. Thou shalt make thy way prosperous. Then thou shalt have good success. This wasn't a suggestion from God, but it was the expectation. Should implies that an event would take place in some condition or circumstance. Now you could go to sleep, or you should go to sleep so you wake up in the morning at the right time. You should clean your room so it won't be messy Now there's always a room for choice. Shao implies a promise, a command, or a determination. God promised to Joshua that he would be successful, period. God commanded Joshua to be successful. Period. God determined that Joshua would have good success. Period. He didn't leave any room for choice. The Israelites had a chance to enter the Promised Land, but they whined about it, the difficulties that would be found there. They chose wrongly, and thus they did not successfully enter the Promised Land until much, much later Moses had a chance to enter the promised land, but he sinned against God in front of Israel and did not sanctify him. And because of that choice, he did not successfully enter the promised land. What choices have you made in your life that led you to not having the success that God wanted you to? There was another man who had experienced success in his life during this time. Now there's many examples of men in the Bible, but I want to focus on this man in particular as we close. This man was a contemporary of Joshua. His name was Caleb. Not our pastor, but different Caleb. Now this is a man who stood next to Joshua, and other men would faint. Now turn to the book of uh Joshua chapter 14 verse 6 So Caleb was the head of the tribe of Judah. Sent into the promised land with Joshua and ten other spineless spies. He went out there to get a glimpse of the land that God was going to promise for them. Not only that, but he got a taste of it. And that taste never left his mouth. And Joshua chapter 14, verse 6 says Then the children of Judah came into Joshua and Giga, and Caleb the son of Jephanah, the kin The Kennethite said unto them, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Moses, the man of God, concerning me and thee, and Kandish Bardom Forty years ago, when I was with Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from Kadesh Barna to spy out the land, and brought him word again as it was mine and in my heart. Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me Made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly followed the Lord, my God. And Moses swore on that day, saying, Sure the land wherein thy feet have trodden shall be in thine inheritance. Shall be thine inheritance and thy children forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. So he specifically was promised by or he specifically was promised by God via Moses that he would possess the land that he tread upon. Why? Because he wholly followed the Lord, his God. When the hearts of the Israelite melted due to the report of the land report that the land God promised to them wasn't fighting for, his heart stood firm because he was made He's heart stood firm because he made the word of God his foundation. The name Kayla comes from a compound word. It means whole heart. Now Caleb was wholehearted and single-minded, and even a little bit fanatical. Just a healthy amount though. The idea of a that of being a dog, not negative connotation, but the faithfulness, the broad boldness, and the bravery of a dog. Caleb wholeheartedly followed God. He said that he did. Moses vouched for him. But more importantly, God confirmed him. That's the testimony of three witnesses right there. Therefore, he must have put these keys into action to experience the success that he had. Now we come to my favorite part, next verses, chapter, verses 10 and 11. And I behold the Lord hath kept me alive, as he said. He's forty and five years, even since the Lord spake this word unto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered into the wilderness, and now lo, I am this day, fourscore and five years old. He was eighty five years old. Imagine that And as yet I am strong this as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me, as my strength was then, even so is my strength now, for war, for both to go out and to come in Doesn't that just give you chills when I read it? Every time I read it gives me chills. You know, talk about a dream deferred. Forty-five years ago, Caleb was raring to go in the Promised Land. He still the people for Moses. He's like, hey, hey, hey, everyone listen up, listen up. Let us go up at once and possess it, for we are well able to overcome it. But there had to be punishment before the promised land could be procured. And Caleb wasn't going to pout about it. He spent Instead, he was gonna get himself ready. Four years is a long time, and in forty years, a lot of it's gonna happen. We're gonna be a lot different than we are today. But Caleb said his strength is the same as it was back then. That means that he had to prepare himself for success. You know, 85 years old, he said he was as strong as the day that he was. He's as strong today as he was that day, forty five forty-five years ago. And that's kind of hard to believe, 85-year-old claiming that. Now there's a gentleman by the name of George Campbell. He's originally from Jamaica, but he eventually made his way over to the state and became And while he wasn't as strange as the gem, he became serious about working out at the age of 37. And he started to compete. And he won some awards. And his strength dropped about 10%, but he was still working out four days of the week. Now, there's an example of someone, you know, being 85 and still having the strength of a younger man Take another example, 85-year-old Arthur Peacock. You may know him from the legendary Gold's Gem in Venice Beach, California. He trained with the terminate terminate himself, Mr. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Now while his training bodies have retired, he continued his passion for bodybuilding. You know, hearing stories like this makes this story a bit more believable. And then verses twelve and thirteen. Now therefore, give to me this mountain, wherefore the Lord spake in that day. The Anakims were there, and that the cities were great, and fence, if so be the Lord will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. And Joshua blessed them, and gave unto Caleb The son of Jephaneah, Hebron, foreign inheritance. Now not only did Joshua have the strength, To fight, to go to war. But he determined to win. He determined to enjoy the land that was promised to him. No God wants us to be successful. Cal said, the Lord will be with me. I'm going to go forward. I'm going to fight. I'm going to enjoy the fruits of my labor. God wants us to be successful. And not just how we define success, but how he defines it. You can have all the type of successes in the world, and the way the world defines success. But what's the purpose of it? Or you can study God's Word, meditate on it, share biblical truth, live by it, and prepare yourself for the success that God has planned for your life. Now God isn't giving the keys, giving us the keys to success right here. The question is, are you gonna pick them up?