We have a mission statement. We have uh uh an idea that I have been presenting to the church these last few weeks, and I told you at some point I was gonna preach a message. The fact that uh we as a church are on a mission. We're on a mission to minister to those nearest, to our neighbors, and to all nations. We do this by giving our money, materials, and manpower to see it happen. And I've been saying this and talking about it and uh thought it would be uh fitting to kind of give you my heart behind these few words. words. Let you see beyond just the short script, which you may become very familiar with in coming days. But hopefully you'll feel and know the heart behind it. Turn your Bibles to Mark chapter ten. Mark chapter ten. In Mark chapter ten, all the way down in verse number forty-five, if you would look there. Mark chapter 10, verse number 45. Each day my voice gets a little better, and I'm glad, because now I can sing and and I can talk without too much coughing. Um and that that flu that went through, that thing just held on for for a while. And I'm glad to be doing much better. Mark chapter 10, verse number 45. The Bible says, for even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. What an amazing truth. Jesus is talking here. If you have a Red Letter Edition Bible, you'll see that Jesus is talking. He says, For the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. What an amazing statement. What a powerful statement. When you think about the fact that God in heaven. Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, came to the earth. He didn't come to the earth to be recognized, to be lifted up, to be esteemed He didn't come to the earth to be coddled or to be taken care of. He didn't come to the earth to be to be praised. He didn't come to the earth to be crowned. God in the flesh came to the earth. What? To minister. You see, I chose the word in that statement that we have very specifically. We're on a mission. We're on a mission to minister to those nearest, to our neighbors, and to all nations. The word minister was selected after a long list of words that I looked at to describe the heart behind what we do as a church. And this verse sums that up: the idea that our heartbeat ought to be to minister to people. Jesus Himself gave us the example when he came. to minister to the earth, to all people, as we embark on this month of March. Where we turn our eyes on the fields that are white unto harvest, where we look and see the need that is great, and our responsibility as a church and as individuals to fulfill that need. Our goal and ambition is to tell all people about this. We are on a mission. We don't just gather for church because it's fun to do, although I think it's fun to do. Amen? We don't gather for church just because on Sundays we don't have anything else we would rather do. There's a lot of Sundays that I'm sure you have something else that you would rather do. But I hope there's something inside of you, an overriding force, something that says, hey, the most important thing that I have to do today is to go be in God's house. Because we're on a mission. Our church is on a mission. We're talking here this morning about this goal, the mission that we're on. Use the word minister because Christ came to minister unto us, and we are to minister to others. To minister to those nearest. You understand that your first mission field is your family? Your first mission field and your first goal, the first people that you should be concerned about reaching with the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. changing their eternal destiny from an eternity in a place called hell that wasn't prepared for us. It was prepared for the devils and his angels. Changing their eternal destiny from that to a home in heaven, the first people we ought to be concerned about is those nearest our own families. Our own families. I don't know why it is, beloved, but for some reason it seems that talking to our own family about the things of God. is almost harder than talking to a stranger. You know, you know, I guess if you look at it this way, we have a lot vested in them. We're very concerned about what they think. It hurts our heart when there's something there But I'm saying, friend, if there's anybody that we should be concerned about, if there's anybody that we should be investing our time in, if there's anybody that we should be praying comes to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. It is our family. It is those nearest. Our children. Our mate. Excuse me, I apologize. It is our mate. Our brothers and sisters. Our mom and dad. They should be the ones that we are most concerned with. We could even say those nearest would include those that we would call friend. Somebody that is a personal friend of ours. Can you imagine getting to the end of your life or standing there in heaven at the judgment seat and somebody that you called friend looking at you and saying, why didn't you tell me? Why didn't you tell me? We spent an hour and hour and hour and hour together. We went on vacation together. And you never told me about Jesus. We ought to be concerned with reaching those that are nearest. When we look into the scriptures, you see the maniac of Gadera. The Bible says, after that he, in Mark chapter 5, after that he was in his right mind, that he said, Go and tell thy friends. Go to those nearest you and tell them what God has done for you. I mean, in Acts chapter 16, we see the Philippian jailer. And the Philippian jailer, after he trusted Jesus Christ, the first thing he did is he went to his house. And his family, and gave them the message. What a sad, sad thing if we invest in the world. And spend time and effort and energy in reaching the world. And we don't reach our own family. I feel like you guys are asleep this morning. Like something's not quite connecting. I don't have any jokes for you, but I want you to pay attention. I'm I'm hoping that that uh this message will get through. You understand the tragedy? That if I reached the world, that I sent the message across the world, but I did not reach my own son. How sad that would be? And so many people, because it is hard, it's hard to talk to family. It's hard to share the gospel with our close friends. It's hard to tell them about Jesus. But if there's anybody that we should be praying for and should be concerned about and should be trying to give the message to, it's them And you know what? Praise God for what we would call a deathbed confession, for the time that, you know, maybe in your life you reached the point of your life when you trusted Christ who was later in life and and and The opportunity to present the gospel to your family didn't come until late in life. Praise God for that. It doesn't it's never too late. All the way until they breathe their last breath, they can still call on the name of Jesus Christ and be saved. And praise the Lord for that confession of salvation, and it shall see them again. But do you know how much sweeter it is to be able to and you stand up walk together in agreement? Turn around Do you know how much sweeter it is to be going the same direction? Let's go this way. Can two walk together except they be agreed? You see a lot of the tension in families today. is because this one is going towards God and this one decided he wanted to go somewhere else. Because he hasn't been reached with the love. in the message of this book. You see, we're we're on a mission to reach those nearest. One of the greatest joys, you can sit down, one of the greatest joys that I I have in my life is that my dad and mom, my wife's dad and mom, and all of our brothers and sisters And all twenty-seven of his cousins, on our side, that's not counting Mary's side, are all going the same direction. Those that are of the age are saved and on their way to heaven. They all are heading the same. We get together and Have such wonderful fellowship. It's one of the greatest joys of my life, and it has nothing to do with me. It has to do because of the compassion of a loving God and because of the consistency. Of a father who reached us with the message. And we get to experience that. We as a church need to be concerned. And On a mission to reach those that are nearest us, those that are closest in our area of influence. You understand that I have the greatest influence impact of all the people in this room. Here's somebody that I have the greatest influence on. I have the greatest impact on this. young man. Oh, I have influence on Marley, but not to the measure that I have on him. Our family and our close friends is our first area of great Greatest influence, where we can make the biggest difference, yet it's the place where a lot of Christians don't do that. Because Because it's uncomfortable. Because it's hard. Because we're not sure how they're going to respond. Because we know Dad doesn't like the Bible. Maybe we could just say, Dad, I Dad, I know that you don't really care for the Word of God, but could I just tell you what Jesus did for me? Can I tell you what God did in my heart? That kind of a difference, reaching those nearest. We've got that message and we've got to do it. How do you how do you minister to your family? Let me give you a couple things. Your immediate family, okay? I talked about the consistency of my father. You need to be consistent. You need to be in God's house. You need to be in the Word of God. You need to be praying. And for goodness sakes, be a Christian. One of the worst things that you can do is to let your talk talk not match your walk walk. On one hand you're saying God loves you and He wants to save you and and you talk about God and then you live like the devil. If you want to make if you want to reach them, they've got a match. Live like a Christian. Now it's easy to say, and it's hard to do, because the flesh is willing, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. I said that backwards. Sometimes you want to do it, but the flesh is weak. But you can, because greater is he is in you than he is in the world. So we want to reach Those nearest, because that is the first place of impact. My greatest impact, my greatest influence is with those that are nearest. Then the second area of greatest impact that we have is on our neighbors, on those that we come in contact with day by day. You know, we want to minister to our neighbors. Who is our neighbor? It's not just the person that happens to be the next door or the next three doors down from your house, and beyond that they're no longer my neighbors. According to the story of the Good Samaritan, your neighbor is anybody that you have opportunity to do good unto. So anybody that you come in contact with that you would have an opportunity to do good unto. And I'll tell you what, what better thing can you do? Yesterday we went and bought something off of Craigslist for Andrew. And uh we bought this thing and we were turning and we were walking away, and the Holy Spirit said, You You didn't give him any gospel. And I said, I know. And I kept walking. Holy Spirit said, You little hypocrite. And I said, Oh man. So I turned around, I said, before he closed the door, I said, Hey sir, can I give you this? I'd love to invite you to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. He was my neighbor. I just met him once, just for a couple of minutes. But I gave him the gospel on a piece of paper. Paper and invite him to a place where he could hear the gospel. Our neighbors. Your neighbors, anybody that you come into contact with, that you have an area of influence with with. Those that know you, that see you, they see you leave your house on Sunday and go to church. They wonder why you do that. Why do they go to church all the time? You know. Uh what what's different about them? Those people that that you come in contact with, it's you it's your next area of greatest influence. I mean we impact a lot of strangers, but we've got Some people that might know you, they're familiar with you. You know, they they might not know your name, but they know you come in every Tuesday and get a black coffee. They they might not know your name, but they know you drive a blue truck and you fill up with gas every Monday morning I don't know what it is or where you go. I don't maybe you go to the FedEx office or the UPS office or the or the or the mail uh US Postal Service, but you go in and drop off boxes and you you begin to get a little bit of a rapport My wife, I wish I was more like her. Bless her heart. She's just good at talking to people. You know we go places and people are like, hi Mary You know, I'm like, I'm here too. Okay She's just friendly, she's just good with people like that, but she makes friends all over the place. She's increasing her area of influence, people that she can impact. with the message. The neighbors. The people that you come across. She takes the kids to the grocery store and they always see her coming through because she's got five kids and six right now. And uh they see her coming through with the kids and they joke with her and talk with her. How many tracks did you give away last time you went to the grocery store? Six. Six tracks you gave away last time we went to the grocery store. How old are you? 14. Now he's on a mission. He wants to give away five hundred gospel tracts this year. So he's thinking about it. Are you on a mission? To reach your neighbors. You tell me, we're going to get some audience participation. You tell me somebody that would be your neighbor, somebody that you would come in contact with. I mentioned a couple of places. Like maybe you go to the post office. But what about you? What's a place that you might go that somebody might know your name? Work. You go to work. People at work know you, hopefully. Another place, anybody? School. At school. People know you. Anybody else? Did you say church? Specific wow wow. Specific place. Uh Ms. You can build a rapport. You know what? Anymore? The bank. Go to the bank. Some of you go to your bank, make a deposit, you check out, they know who you are. They come in and they say, you know Hi Brian or hi Mello or you know whatever. Who are you? Fred they say hi Fred getting seven eleven man stuff will kill you You come in and say, hey Fred, they know you. You know, you might not want to do it the very first time you see them, but after a little while you can say, Hey, can I give you one of these? Can I invite you You know what? The the story of the Good Samaritan is about uh doing good. And I think if we Christians went a little bit beyond Just handing one of these out, it would increase our effectiveness. What I'm saying is we've become such a closed-off society. Neighbors used to help one another. Neighbors used to to, you know, hey man I I ran out of sugar. Can I have two cups of sugar? I remember as a kid going over to my neighbor and asking for sugar or flour or a cup of milk I mean what would your neighbor do if you showed up and asked them for that? They would say, Who are you? You know, I know it's a little awkward, especially since we've lived there for ten years and we've never said anything to them to go to them now and say, hey, I want you to know I love you. And if there's anything I can do for you, let me know. I know that's a little bit awkward because, you know, you've you've been there for so long and and We've never shown any interest before. I think the thing to do is just be honest and say, hey, you know what? I'm a Christian. And God tells me to love my neighbor as myself. So I just want to be help to you. There's something we can do. I want you to know we're available. Make them some cookies or something. Send your kids over there to mow the grass. I don't know. I don't know what you can do. But I'm saying go beyond. Do good unto them. We gotta reach our neighbors. Those that we come into contact with. We need to take time to talk to people, to the people at the grocery store, the hardware store, the bank. We need to minister to all nations. This is our furthest area of influence. We don't have much influence. I mean, to my knowledge, nobody here is going to Belize next week. You know, nobody's gonna go to uh Thailand tomorrow. There is somebody here going to uh Tanzania soon. But what I'm saying is we're not going over there, so we need to send somebody In our place, to reach all nations. And that's done through the local church, done through the ministries of the church. If you if you look in the New Testament, all through the New Testament, you see churches involved in the outreach in the ministry of getting the gospel to all people. Why don't we let other organizations do it? There's a lot of other good organizations, what we would call parachurch organizations. and I'm not uh discrediting their mission and I'm not saying that they don't have hearts of gold and that they are not on a on a good good good thing and and some of them are doing amazing things for God. So why don't we just let them do it Because the Great Commission was given to us. To the church. We have been tasked with that. And although there are other churches and other groups and other people doing wonderful things to reach the world, we can't Shirt our responsibility to do what we can, to do our part, to reach all nations. That's who we want to do. Minister to all nations. Throughout this month, starting on Thursday night, when we have our first missionary coming this month, that's going to give us a vision for the world and reaching these other nations. We're on a mission. How do we accomplish that mission? How do we accomplish it? Well, uh, in the statement that I gave you, we give our money, materials, and manpower to make it happen. It's people vested in the mission. People willing to and have a heart for it. We try to build an environment here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church where Missions is in the forefront. Reaching the world is something on our hearts and minds often. Maybe we I wish we were a little better at it. But the goal is that we would see the world in the need. And that our eye would affect our heart, and that we would have a heart to reach all nations. And that it would motivate us to invest our money, our materials, and yes, manpower in reaching all nations We do this together. Everyone plays a part. Everyone is involved. We need to understand the principle. We talked about this just a little bit in Sunday school, the sending principle. In the scriptures in Romans chapter 10, verses 13 through 15. The Bible says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? How shall they believe in him in whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach except they be sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. Now I told you in Sunday school that the message of the gospel, although it's the world's most powerful message, That the message of the gospel was limited by something. And I told you we addressed that in this morning's service. You see, the message of the gospel is limited according to this text There's several questions posed here. First of all, we know that very powerful verse, that culminating verse of the Romans Road. If we took people down the Romans Road and We talked about the idea that for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Everybody sinned. We know we're all sinners. We talked that there's a penalty for sin for the wages of sin. Sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. There's a penalty for sin, but Jesus gave us that gift and gave us eternal life. He paid the penalty for us. And the fourth step. Is that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Whosoever, doesn't matter who you are, where you are, when you are, you call and you'll be saved. Call on the name of the Lord and now shall be saved. That powerful message of the gospel is culminated in that verse. Call on the name of the Lord. But then he says here, he says, How will they call if they have not believed? And how are they going to believe unless they've heard? And how are they going to hear unless somebody preaches? And how is somebody going to preach unless they've been sent? So the pivoting point of the message of the gospel is that somebody has to be sent. To go and tell them that message. So the question for us is not what will we spend? It is who will we send? You see, the message of the gospel, we have been tasked with reaching the world. And we've been given this message. And when we realize the importance of it, it becomes not what am I going to spend to make that happen, because I've got to make it happen. But who am I going to send to to make it happen? You see In the church house, we talk about unity. And we want unity in the church. There's power in unity We preach about unity and how we need to have unity. We preach about this idea of being joined together. But what I want you to understand is the principle of unity and how it works. What happens? I brought this log in here today. And I would have brought a much bigger one. Except that I only had a couple boys to help me get here. But I want to illustrate a principle for just a minute. Will you three boys be willing to help me? They said yes. Um Um whoop Anthony, would you be willing to help? Brother Pagani, would you be willing to help? All right, we got two anyone One more guy. Somebody else willing to help. So we have even numbers. Andrew said, Abe. Abe, are you willing to help? Oh brother, would you be willing? Abe, you can stay seated today. He's he He's going to come up and help. Okay, gentlemen, you all said that you were willing to participate. What I want you to do is I want you to pick this log up. Turn, walk out to the foyer and brother Lee's out there and he has a cart for you to set it on. So you guys go ahead and pick that up and make it happen. Grab around there, split up along that log. Everybody grab it. If you hold it off yourself, you don't have to get dirty. There you go. I'll c I'll save your oh that's I thought it was your pin. It's a piece of wood. Okay. What I want you to see By these men carrying this out, is that when you have a common goal, unity is the result. They were unified in carrying that out of here. Their goal was not unity. Their goal was not that they would all be together on it. Their goal was to get this log picked up and to carry it over there. And they had a common goal. And that common goal unified them as a result. And Jesus Christ knew that the church would be facing this problem. So he gave the church a goal. He said, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. What we should as a church, gentlemen, thank you very much for helping with that. What we should as a church is be unified in a common goal. If we had a common goal, if this was an overriding theme of our heart, if this was the mission of our life, if this was an ambition of our day, that we would have a common goal to reach the world We would be consumed with that and we would be unified as a result. The result would be unity in the church Now I only got one good, and that's a whole lot of good preaching for how quiet it is in here That's a powerful thought when you think about the fact that unity is a result of a unified goal when you go in the same direction. And that's what God wants us to do when we are together and accomplishing this task of reaching the world, this mission that God has put us on. Turn your Bibles to John chapter 17. I want you to see this. I told you in Sunday school I had a verse I was going to show you that would knock your socks off. So this this is it This is powerful. John chapter 17. There's several verses there in verses 21, well, 20, 21, 22, 23. Jesus is talking about unity. He's talking about being together, being one, being one with him and one with the Father. You can read all those verses on your own, and I want you to see verse number 23 He says in verse number 23, I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one. This is the reason right here, the part that we're getting to. This unity that everybody is gathered one with the Father. Why? What is the result? What is the reason? He says, and that the world may know that thou hast sent me. Look at that last phrase right there. This is powerful. Think about the fact who's talking here. This is Jesus. He said that thou hast loved them as thou hast loved me. I saw that when I was studying this out, and I thought, wow, that's good. He said that the world would know that you, God the Father, love them Like you love me. Jesus, God's son, said that. I mean, I saw it, it's the first time I ever seen it. I know you guys have probably seen it before, and it's old hat and it's boring to you. But God loves me as much as he loves his own son. I'm sorry. Stay out from under the speakers. He loves me as much as he loves his own son. That is powerful. And what is it that shows the world that message? It is the unity in the church as we go forward in reaching them. With a message of that love. You see, is this your passion? Is this your goal? To reach the world? To reach your family? Those nearest? Your neighbor? Neighbors in all nations. Let me put it this way. What do you have to do this week that's more important? Than reaching them. What do you have to do tomorrow that's more important? Than reaching them with the message. You see, most Christians don't wake up and think that God has something for me to do today They wake up and think, I have some stuff I want to do today. And if they're really spiritual Christians, they'll say, God, will you bless what I want to do today? They'll ask God, they'll pray. But most get up and think, I've got I want to do this, I want to do this, and I want to do this. Instead of of realizing that God has something he wants us to do. That's amazing. The God of the universe has something he wants Bob Gamble to do tomorrow. You see, he's left us here on earth. People say, well, I should have been dead a long time ago. God left me here for a reason. God left us all here for a reason. He has something he wants us to do. You know, sometimes my kids, uh I'll give them a task. Now they're getting a little bit older, so there's a little less of this. Now they're more like, if anybody will do it, that's fine with me. But you know, when they were a little younger, when I would give them a task, like let's say I tell Caleb, I say, Hey Caleb, could you go do this? And one of the other kids hear it, and they go to do it first. And then Caleb goes, Dad gave me that job. He wants to do the job that dad gave him. It's important to him. And they're like, but I got here first. And he says, But Dad told me to do it. And I have to say, kids. And but it was valuable to them. It was important to them that me, their father, gave them a job. Do you know God, your Father has something for you to do tomorrow? He has a reason why you're here. Something you should accomplish. Instead of waking up tomorrow and saying, God, I want to do this and this and this, would you bless it? Would you get up tomorrow and say, God, would I accomplish your will tonight? Today. Would you help me do what you want me to do? What a privilege to do something for Almighty God. When a yielded man meets a year Burning God, powerful things happen. Beneath the snow-covered grove of trees behind the Andover Seminary in Massachusetts, the winter of 1810 Adna Iram Judson yielded his heart to a yearning God. And he said this: the command of Christ to go into all the world came to my mind with Such force and clarity that I knew I must obey at all cost. God has something He wants you to do As I studied this for myself, I was convicted about a thought, an idea. In my own heart. I was convicted. The idea that God has something He wants me to do, that I'm here for a purpose and for a reason. You see, Jesus Himself came to earth for a reason. Jesus came and he said, I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work thou gavest me to do. Jesus finished the work he was supposed to do. And I don't know about you. I'm guilty of it. I mean, just in the in recent weeks, I preached about the idea of getting out of this whole world. And and you know, we get to the place where we say, man, I just I'm ready to go to heaven. I'm ready just to get out of here. I'm just ready to be done with it. And why do we say that? We say that because we're tired of the fight We say that because we're tired of fighting the flesh. We say that because the battle is hard, because we're we're we're wore out. And we say, I'm just ready to go. And I've said it myself and I said, Lord, I'm ready, I'm done, I've done all I want to do But what convicted my heart as I studied this out is that God might not be done with me yet. God has something He wants me to do, and how dare I say I'm done. Oh, I've run 20 miles of this marathon. I don't want to finish, Lord. Just get me out of here. God says, you've got a race to run Like the Apostle Paul said, I've run my race, I've finished my chorus. God has something for you to do, a chorus that he wants you to run, just like Jesus. Will you one day, when you stand before him, be able to say, God It was weary. It was hard. I couldn't endure. Some days I felt like quitting. But God, I finished my course. I did what you wanted me to do. I made it all the way to the end of the race, and it was the it was the longest and hardest race. I mean, Lord, there were some days I was couldn't didn't know if I could go on But what a thrill to be able to look into the eyes of our Savior and say, I finished, Lord. I didn't give up. I didn't quit. I didn't throw in the towel early. And by God's grace, this is This message impressed upon my heart so powerfully. How dare I want to get out of this race before God's done with me? I need to endure hardness as a good soldier. And keep going for God until my race is finished. Because he's got something. The creator of the world, the Savior of men, has something he wants me to do Monday morning. And when our overriding passion is reaching the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Unity in the church and the transformation of lives will be the result. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and eyes closed if you would. Are you fulfilling your mission? Are you doing what God wants you to do? You might say, Pastor, I haven't really been consumed with that. Pastor, that hasn't really been my passion. That hasn't really been my goal for a long time. You know what? That's okay. Because God's not as concerned with where you're at as He is with where you're going. And you can change directions to And say by God's grace and with His power, I'm going to make that a passion of my life to reach those nearest, my neighbors and all nations. By all means possible.