Took a missions trip uh to the Philippines and uh that was a a fun trip but there was actually some persecution taking place during time in the region of the country we were in and the missionary that we were with we were traveling And uh we had gotten word while we were on the road traveling from one part of the of the island there to another part of the island that there were some bandits on the road that had taken out a couple of bridges They were routing all of the traffic to this particular bridge and then when you go across that bridge they would stop your car and and rob you, take take out all of your possessions. And here we are uh a group from America traveling and he said we're not we're not gonna go that way and he turned around and and went it's about an extra couple hours of driving to get around the mountain another way to find our way to where we needed to go, but to avoid uh that terrible uh situation there and God's leading and direction protected us. The missionary knew what to watch for. Now, I didn't want to get robbed because I had just bought a brand new Rolex. On on the street there in the Philippines, there was some guy there that did not know what he had, and he sold me a brand new Rolox for twenty-five bucks. I'm telling you, I took this guy to the cleaners, man. Not only that, I bought a matching one for my wife. So I got two of them for two brand new and boy I didn't want to get robbed. I'm glad he went another way because I didn't want to lose those nice Rolexes Now hopefully you don't think your pastor's quite that gullible. I did I did buy the Rolexes, but I didn't know what I was And uh, you know, that's a a fun thing to have and certainly the as close as I'll ever get to owning one. And uh so but it was uh counterfeit Right? It was a fake. And I don't think it kept working even until we made it home. I don't know I don't know if it worked even when we got home, man. That thing was a piece of junk. But but you know, uh I'm sure you guys know that the counterfeit market in the world today is a growing enterprise especially with the advent of e-commerce, where you can have something ordered and sent to you from anywhere and you don't even know where it comes from and you see this picture on a website and then they send it to you. And uh, you know, they they estimate in the hundreds of billions of dollars, but actually in 2022, as much as two trillion dollars of counterfeit products and damage done to the economy. I don't know how they factor all this thing, just in some of my research with regard to this, uh, is what I came across It's, you know, the counterfeits that are out there uh are in every area, in every category, from electronic chargers for your phone that people have been electrocuted uh with. So by a cheap, you know, counterfeit charger and and people have been electrocuted to cosmetics that have been found to have rodent waste in them Um medicine that is not even close to what people think they're buying. A a counterfeit medicine. It looks in the same pill, it looks like a same bottle, it has the same name, but it's actually not even the same product at all. It's not it's not just a generic brand of the same thing It's not the same thing at all. And you're like, boy, I got this really cheap. Yeah, y you just bought uh, you know, some baby powder smashed into tablets or something. You know, I don't know what they stick in there, you know, cornstarch maybe. Uh who knows what it is, but you're not getting what you think you're getting. You know, even uh very high-end down feather jackets that were reproduced with chicken feathers. And the problem they found this out is because people were getting sick because the feathers they used were swept off up off the floor from a chicken slaughterhouse. And there was live, still live bacteria growing inside of this down jacket that people were wearing all over the place, and then they're getting sick from this live bacteria that they're wearing. You see, these things are bad, but can I tell you something that's far worse? There's a master counterfeiter. And he has been at his craft for thousands of years. He has honed it to a perfection. Satan has provided for society and the world at large a counterfeit gospel. A counterfeit faith, a counterfeit relationship with God that's sending people to hell. It looks like the real thing It has all the hallmarks of faith, but people are grabbing a hold of it. And finding that it's empty and there is no God behind it, you and I must be ready and wise to see and deal with Satan counterfeits. I want you to know that Satan Has the ability to produce many counterfeits. I want you to see some of the examples that are in our text here of how powerful Satan is At producing some counterfeits. Look in Exodus chapter 7, beginning in verse number 10 The Bible says there in Exodus 7, beginning in verse number 10, he says, And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and they did so as the Lord had commanded, and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh, and before his servant. And it became a serpent. Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers, now magicians of Egypt. They also did in like manner with their enchantments. For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents. You see, Satan can produce a counterfeit. But notice there how that verse ends But Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods. Satan can copy, Satan can counterfeit, but he cannot conquer. And we serve a great and powerful God, but we need to be wise and re realize that Satan has power. And Satan can produce counterfeits that are very similar, that look very much like what we would look at and say, oh, that looks Christian. Oh, that looks like faith. Oh, that looks like something we should be involved in. And it's just a counterfeit designed by Satan to draw men away from the true faith and from God. Look down in verse number 20, if you would. Exodus chapter 7, verse number 20. He says, and Moses and Aaron did so as the Lord commanded, and he lifted up the rod. and smote the waters that were in the river, and in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of all his servants, all the waters that were in the river turned To blood. And the fish that were in the river died, and the river sank. And the Egyptians could not drink the water of the river, and there was blood throughout all the land. Now that would wake me up. If if I was Pharaoh and and the other magicians there and I saw that all of our drinkable water was now blood and unusable, If I happened to find a pot of water that wasn't turned to blood, I would want to preserve it But not Pharaoh. Look at what Pharaoh did. He called his sorcerers here. He says In verse number 22, and then the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments, and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, neither did he hearken unto them. As the Lord. He did not hunker in a pharaoh. He said, Oh, there's a little bit of water left right here. Hey, guys, can you turn that into blood? And they did the same thing. And I'm saying it is Satan has power. And he can produce some counterfeits. So I want you to see another one that's in our text here. Turn to chapter number eight. And um Well, yeah, 8 verse number 6, chapter 8, and verse number 6. Verses 6 and 7. He says, And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt. As if there wasn't enough frogs there. Pharaoh said, Hey guys, can you do that? And those magicians came. And said, yeah, the frogs aren't thick enough. Let's let's double them. And they came down, it says here, and the magicians did so with their enchantments and brought up frogs upon the land of Egypt. Look down at verse number 16. Chapter 8 and verse number 16 and 1817, 18, 19. He says, And the Lord said unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch out thy rod and smite the dust of the land. that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt. And they did so, for Aaron stretched out his hand with the rod, and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man and in beast. All the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of Egypt. Again, and the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they could not. So there were lights upon man and upon beasts. Then the magician said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them. You see, uh Satan's ability only goes so far. He does have the ability to produce and and give us uh counterfeits, look-alikes, things that men would look at and say that is faith and that is Christianity and that's what I want to be and by and large people are buying into these things by the droves today But Satan's ability only goes so far. And there are people all over the country today that are waking up To how empty and shallow that false faith is. There's people who are acknowledging the limitation of the God that they serve, who has been crafted by the hands of men. And signified by a statue or some other edifice that they would choose to worship instead of God Himself. I want to point your heart towards this a little bit and just think about this idea of Satan's ability to produce a counterfeit and caution us as believers to be careful that we don't get swindled. Just like that man who thought he took me for 25 bucks and he probably did, but I knew what I was getting. I was buying a souvenir on purpose and I thought it was fun to bring that and present it to my wife I mean it was worth twenty-five bucks for that, you know. Give give her that gift, you know. And uh i it's d anyways. You know, he but I'm saying is that you know those guys are out to swindle you. Well Satan's out to swindle you. Swayton's out Satan's out to try and get you to buy into something that's not real, that's fake, and get you going down a path that you shouldn't go and One of the reasons I see in our text here that causes that why Satan does this is because he can use his counterfeit to cause doubt of the truth. Because he has able to produce a counterfeit. I mean can you imagine those magicians? Can you imagine everybody else gathered around there with Pharaoh and Moses and Aaron? And Moses and Aaron come in and they They cast down their rod and it turns into a snake, and everybody goes, oh my goodness, this is amazing. I mean, how in the world is that possible? And then Satans, magicians, do the same thing, and they say, oh, well, I guess their God doesn't have power. It causes them to doubt the truth, to doubt the true God because of the counterfeit that Satan is able to produce, and we see that counterfeit prevalent in Christianity today. You know, your counterfeit is designed to be as close to the real thing as possible. You know, Satan's not stupid. He's not going to try and sell you on something that's so far down the road that you look at it and say, boy, that's outrageous. I mean nobody in here would go to a store and try and pass off monopoly money as money. I mean there's some kids that have tried that, you know, and they they want some candy and they grab some monopoly money and try and get it at the store, you know, just in ignorance. But anybody that is knowledgeable at all, you wouldn't take monopoly money and say, oh, here you go. Well, obviously that's so far from the real thing. I mean, counterfeit money is made to the most minute detail to be almost exactly like the real thing, but it's not the real thing. You understand Satan's plan is to produce things that are as close to the real thing as possible. So people will believe in that. They'll believe in the lie, and they'll doubt the truth of God. It may seem like such a small difference. It may seem like it's not really that big a deal. It's just a little bitty thing. Why are you why are you splitting hairs? I mean can you can you stand in there at the checkout counter And you have a hundred dollar bill and they put their little marker on there and they're like, oh, oh, that's counterfeit. You say, it it's so close. Come on. Like everything i if you wouldn't have used that marker you wouldn't know. I mean would you just let me use it? They aren't gonna let you use it. You say, why are you splitting hairs over such a tiny thing? It's it's almost perfect. And that's the this the the lie that Satan has caused Christians to buy into with regards to a lot of the false worship that's taking place around the country is they say, oh, it's so close It's almost I mean why are you splitting hairs? Why are you being so divisive? Why are you being so uh uh cantankerous and and just hard to get along with? Why are you worried about such a small deal? Because it's not the real thing Because it's fake. Because it was produced by Satan instead of produced by the Savior. That's why it's worth splitting hairs over. Beloved, I can provide you some pills that look exactly like the ones you get from your doctor. I could provide them for a fraction of the cost. They'll be the exact same size and the exact same color. They'll come in the exact same kind of bottle with your prescription on the on the outside, just like the ones you get from your doctor. The same quantity Everything would be the same except for the small detail what's in the pill. Yeah, that's just going to be baking soda. I mean at best those pills are not going to help you. But do you know many times those pills that contain the wrong things cause people to get severely ill? Even if the what they're taking specifically is not something that would hurt them, a lot of times they have allergic reactions or they have complications because of other medicines they're already taking. Because they got something or bought and began to use something to save a few dollars, but it's counterfeit It causes you to doubt the veracity of the real thing when you see the power of Satan Hopefully it doesn't cause you to doubt, but it certainly causes people to doubt. God's power. We see in this text here that it causes men to harden their heart. It caused Pharaoh over and over to harden his heart, over and over again, because he looked at it and he thought, oh my goodness, wow, uh God your your God did that, the the God of Israel, the God of uh of Jacob did that Well, but then his own counselors did it and he hardened his heart and says, Why should I why should I follow that? My own counselors can do that. Satan has a counterfeit for everything. And it's not like the watch that I bought that's harmless when I knew what I was getting. It was harmless. It's Kate Satan's counterfeits are destroying lives. Satan has a counterfeit song today. The psalmist says, O sing unto the Lord a new song, sing unto the Lord all the earth. We're encouraged to lift our voices in song and praise to the Lord. Psalms 149. 1 says, Praise ye the Lord. Sing unto the Lord a new song in his praise in the congregation of saints. You know, there's been a slow drift over the years. And I say slow because I've grown up in good Baptist churches. And there's been a slow drift over the years away from the old hymns of the faith. from good, solid Christian music. You know, just because the song has the name of Jesus in it doesn't make it Christian. The church has embraced modern pop culture in its music. Just because you're singing about love doesn't mean you're singing about the love of God. I grew up with pastors that preached against Steve Green and Amy Grant, Stevie Curtis Chapman, and Michael W. Smith, and Petra, and Cameron, and Sandy Patty, and a bunch of others. Some of these young people are like, who are they? You know, we could we could go down the list, but you know what? Back then ch pastors were preaching against that stuff. because there was church members listening to it on their own. The problem today is the churches are bringing it into the house of God. The problem today is churches have taken music from hill song, from elevation worship, from uh Bethel, Bethel music, these groups, and they brought it right into the church. And churches and Christians are embracing it. Lock, stock, and barrel. It's a false worship. I know it makes you feel good. You listen to those songs, they're designed that way. You listen to you can listen to as many of them as you want. You'll see they're designed, and I love dynamic music. Darcy and my wife give me a hard time because, you know, I like exciting songs, you know. I like songs that that that move your heart and and you know, I know we need songs that have a good message as well. But let's have a good message and some strong music too, right? So there there's such a balance there. But If you aren't careful, you're listening to these songs, you know, they call them 7-Eleven songs because you you say the same thing eleven times in a row, you repeat seven verses of eleven the same thing, whatever. Uh but you listen to them And I I just listened to one yesterday by Michael W. Smith just to uh see what he's singing now. And I I I'm not I don't remember the name of the song, but I am not kidding if he didn't say the same phrase fifty times in that song I mean the same phrase. There was about four things that he said and to my in my mind I'm like, man, I could write music like that. Like just like he just said four things and said it the same way and then The it was like four four verses, five verses of the same thing over and over. The song was like eleven minutes long. And and uh it just built. It just built. The song just built. The music got stronger. The music got stronger. It just built. Pretty soon. He's standing at the piano and he's playing standing up and of course the guitars and the drums are all going and the the praise band is is praising and praising God. They're just going, they're just, oh we worship you and and they're just going and going and and the music's getting stronger and stronger. And of course the lights are moving and the music and the the The fog machines are on and all that. That's what churches are bringing in. It's a counterfeit song. Oh, it moves them emotionally, but there's nothing that feeds their soul. And we've got to guard against it, beloved. There's a counterfeit speech that's prevalent in the world today. Christians, we need to guard our tongue. We need to be careful what we say. I mean, I think everybody here, you know, Christian Sunday night crowd, you know that we're not supposed to be cussing. I mean we shouldn't be taking the Lord's name in vain. We shouldn't be using the world's language and and you know in our communication. Let no corrupt, no corrupt communication come out of the mouth, right? I mean that's basic Christianity. But you know what Christians like to do? They like to use the counterfeit. They like to use the substitute words. You know, we wouldn't say it, but we don't mind spelling it. We you know, we wouldn't say it, but we don't mind mind using the the s what what's some of the r substitutes, Ryanna? You know, that's a substitute word, you know. And and I don't even I just like like fudge, they say fudge, right? That's one of 'em You know you use it in the same in the same place you would use the other word. I mean you use is that not one of them? You guys are telling me I I I and and uh you know I don't know. You guys know what I'm talking about. I didn't write down a bunch of them. I could have just put some thought into it and wrote 'em down. But you know, uh I'm just saying we need to control our mouth. We need to use God honoring mu uh language in our communication. I mean, for a Christian, flat-out cussing is so far down the road that should never even come across your mind. That shouldn't even be anything that you ever even think about. But what I'm saying is a step further than that, saying let's not even use the the slang of those curse words. Uh I I listened to a message this week, a pastor preaching. And I don't remember this the crux of what he was saying, but uh he was preaching and he was talking about Boaz And he used that to move into, uh, he says, you know, Boaz had a brother, and his brother was Poaz. And he went down the list and about halfway through the list that last part of that name turned into a curse word. And he got all the way to the end, then he says, You you better uh you better watch it out or he's gonna bust you in church. Christians shouldn't be communicating like that. Ever, let alone in the house of the Lord. And you know that audience that was listening to him stood and gave him a standing ovation and applauded, praised him. For his creative way of using the scriptures. Christians, we need to be careful about our speech. We know that Satan has provided a counterfeit salvation. He allows people to buy into the idea that they can earn their way to heaven, that they can pay their way to heaven, that they can do anything to to get to heaven besides putting their faith and trust in Christ. You know, Satan doesn't mind if you have belief. As long as you're believing in the wrong thing, that doesn't bother him at all You know, do you remember in the Old Testament when the children of Israel went, uh they they they were a combined nation, right? Do you remember when they split? And yeah, two went with uh Judah and ten uh went with Israel, and they split it into two different groups of people. And then you remember the king at that time? Um Was it Jeroboam? Rayboom and Jeroboam, which one was in the north? Okay. I think I think it was Jeroboam that was in the North. Come on, you Bible scholars. Um it's in Kings, I know that. You can look it up real quick. Uh but Jeroboam in the North, remember He did not want his people to travel back to Jerusalem because he was afraid that if they went back to Jerusalem to worship God that they would lose that he would lose the people. And so what did he do? He he he set up uh uh calves In Dan and in Bethel. He thought, you know what? I'm going to make worshiping God convenient. I'm going to make it easy. We're going to set up a counterfeit. Here. And he set the caption. And you remember what he said? He told the children of Israel, he literally said, Behold the gods which brought you out of Egypt. I mean how foolish that anybody would look at that and say, oh yeah, that's what brought us out of Egypt. You know, last time they had a golden calf, they had to drink it. But no, they looked at it and worshipped it, and Satan will provide a false religion, a false salvation that's going to send people to hell. But you know that counterfeit money is lacking the authority of the government. You can have a piece of paper, it can look exactly like the real thing. You can even produce it and somehow get that little strip inside there, whatever they do to it's mind-boggling that people can can make that and make it match. I mean that's you got to have special paper and all of this and they they can get it so close but ultimately you might be able to fool somebody. You might be able to fool one of those little markers But you know at some point they're going to look at that and they're going to say, hey, this is not a real legal tender. This does not have the backing of the government. So therefore it's literally worth less than a post-it note. Maybe a $100 bill, but it's not worth anything And that's the thing with Satan's counterfeit, beloved. Satan's counterfeit religion, Satan's counterfeit worship, Satan's counterfeit sal Ten The time is going to come and hopefully it comes before you stand at the great white throne judgment. Hopefully you get it while you're still here on earth that you realize that it does not have the backing. Of God, the one that counts. You may be doing a lot of religion, you may be doing a lot of church, you may be doing a lot of things, but if you've not put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and in Him alone, You have a counterfeit religion. You have counterfeit faith. And you need to put your faith in him. Because nothing else has the backing of the one that counts, God the Father There's counterfeit scriptures that the Satan's provided today. Again, you don't think Satan's going to attack he's not going to come to the church and say, here is the satanic Bible. I want you to adopt this and begin using it in your worship services. He's not going to bring the satanic Bible out. And try and trick God's people with that. There is a satanic Bible, but that's not what he's trying to do. No, he just has some counterfeits He says they're so close to the real thing. What are you worried about? What's the difference? What does it matter? Why are you splitting hairs? Why does it make any difference? There is a lot of literal actual Bible in, especially some of the less perverted translations. You know, there's progressively more and more perversion the farther down the line you get. There's some that are really, really close. When churches will say, well, we use this one. A lot of what you would look at as say pretty good churches for many years used, I think, the ESV. And uh, you know, relatively close. But if I had a if I had a cup up here of of clear sparkling water and I told you listen it's it's 98% sparkling water. Only has 2% arsenic in it You know? It's just two percent. I mean, what are you worried about? It's pretty close. That's the thing. And I mean doesn't it make sense that Satan would try and trick God's people? With a counterfeit that's pretty close, but not the real thing. And we've got to be cautious and guard against it. There's other areas that we could look at. I just want to tell you, you know how you recognize a counterfeit? There's a Chinese boy who wanted to learn the art of crafting jade. He went and found a very talented teacher. This gentle old man sat him down in front of him. He put a piece of jade in his hand and he instructed him, I want you to hold that piece of jade for one minute. In one minute, I want you to switch hands, put it in the other hand, and hold it for one minute. I want you to continue to do that. And then the man began to teach him about life. He began to talk to him about the philosophy of living and Talked to him about his life and all that he went through and the boy sat there for the entire time and at the end of the day the man said, Here, let me have that jade and he said, Well we'll see you tomorrow. He sent this young man home. The young man came back the second day, and this old gentleman began to do the same thing again. And this boy's getting a little frustrated. He's thinking, I went to learn how to craft jade. I want to learn how to shape it and how to make beautiful, uh, you know, wonderful, magnificent sculptures with this jade, and all I've been doing is sitting here and listening to him talk. He went into the third day about ready to to tell this man, give him a peace of his mind, and the third day he sat down in his chair and the man came up and he says, I want you to hold this jade, and then uh he And the boy put it in his hand and and he says, Hey, this is not Jade. And the man says, You've learned something. You see, by handling the real thing over and over and over again, you get to the place that as soon as something that's not real is put in your hand, you say, oh. Something's not right here. Something's not right here. You know, when you get real familiar with the real thing, things that aren't real don't ring true. This last week somebody in this room was talking to me about how they were being listening to some messages and the messages were based on a book. Not the Bible. The messages were coming from a book. And after several weeks of messages coming from a book, he he went and said, You know, this is concerning to me. There's something wrong if what we're hearing and learning about is this book instead of God's Word. There's something he he had been around long enough to realize that there's some things that that just it stood out right away that this is not right. There's many people that sat and listened to it and thought, boy, this is very edifying. This is good. We enjoy this. But it was absent the scriptures. Said there's a problem here. And so, beloved, I just want to put your guard up and say tonight, realize Satan has power to make some very accurate counterfeits. We see it in the illustration of the stories we read there. If you allow them to be used and be present, it will cause men in the world and maybe you to doubt the truth. It'll cause people to harden their hearts. And if you and I are going to be able to guard against and know when we're dealing with counterfeits, then we've got to be very familiar with the real thing. How familiar are we with it? With the real thing? You know, when I'm listening to a radio preacher or something And they read a passage of scripture in my mind right away. I I'm like, that's not the Bible. That's not and and I and and I'm like, ah, change the channel. You know, what I just he's he's not even preaching from the Word of God In in my mind it's just it just I can recognize it right away. They're quoting something that's not the word of God. And so I would ask you to get familiar with the real thing so that you can be protected from Satan's counterfeits.