And we saw that it was given to the Israelites at Mount Sinai. The third thing we looked at was the facets of the law. These are those three categories of material found within the law. That would be the moral law, the civil law, and the ceremonial law. Remember the moral law was kind of encompassed primarily in the Ten Commandments, although there are other aspects of it found throughout the other parts of the giving of the law, but that's the law that is written on the hearts of men. that you know right and wrong that God gave you that understanding in your conscience, even if you weren't part of the Jewish nation who were given the law written in stone, uh you had the law written in Then we saw God's civil law, and that was the part of how God's moral law was applied to the Israelite nation. Those were their bylaws. and what they would function as in as a nation, how certain situations should be handled based on the moral law applied to their nation. Then we saw the ceremonial law. ceremonial law was the law given surrounding the Israelites' worship of God through the sacrificial system and how that was specifically preparing the nation of Israel for the coming of the Messiah. And we saw those divisions, those categories of the law that are there in the Old Testament for us. We saw that the law, um we we we concluded last week with the idea of the function of the law. What does the law do? We saw that the law could define man's sin. Uh sin Is the transgression of the law, so we are given the law to say, okay, here's what God's rule is. When you break God's rule, uh you have committed sin. So it defines sin. The law also declared that men were guilty. Uh it's the law that says that man is guilty. Man has broken God's law, that man is deserving of punishment. So we're going to pick up where we left off last week and see the other three functions of the law, and then we're going to move into our lesson today on the law and grace. So let's open with a word of prayer. Then we'll go back to last week's notes and we'll conclude these last three thoughts on what is the purpose or the function of the law, and we'll get into our lesson for today. Lord, we love you. And we thank you for today the opportunity that we have to be in your house, to study your word, the truths that are found there. I pray that we would learn how to apply them properly to our lives today, that we would understand what you would have us to understand from these truths. Lord, that we could learn to properly divide your word. Lord, we ask that you'd bless the Sunday school hour this morning and ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So the function of the law, what does the law do? Why did God give the nation of Israel his law specifically? And more generally, why did God put his moral law in the hearts of men? We saw that it was to define sin. People know what's right and they know what's wrong. That that that's in in their nature that a young person can understand when they when they do something wrong and and from very early ages, very, very young children can understand right and wrong and can be taught right and wrong because God's put that in His moral law into the hearts of men. So that's the one thing. It defines what sin is, and it's also the law that brings guilt. That we understand, yes, I've done wrong, but that wrong that I've done makes me guilty. before God. And this is the conviction that the Holy Spirit uses to bring someone to the point of salvation that the law says that they are guilty. So this this brings us, it's kind of progressive. You understand sin, you understand your guilt, and then the law points you to Jesus Christ. Galatians deals with this quite in detail. We won't go through that passage. But there's a lot in Galatians about the idea of the law being a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. So that that's the third point of what the law does, or the function of the law, is that it drives men to Christ. Galatians 3. 24, this is the verse I just referenced. Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith What the law did for man or what the law was supposed to do for man is is kind of like the dead ends of a maze. You ever try to do a a real hard maze and you try to go this way and you end up I can't go that way. I try to go this way and no that doesn't work. And I try to go this way and no that doesn't work. I don't know if you've ever been in a corn maze, perhaps. Um I remember going into a corn maze with with the group here from the church, this was years ago, and uh I was back at the van taking care of something, so when I I had to kind of run and catch up to the group and and I got there, I was the last person in line, everybody was stopped. And I said, Well what's going on? They said, we don't know which way to go. I say go left. It's just, well, it doesn't matter. We're in a maze. You don't know where to go. So let's just go left and see what happens. And what happened? We ended up in a dead end. Well that didn't work. Let's go back and go right Um and so you you you end up at these dead ends. That's what the law does. Well let me try this to see if it brings me to God. No it doesn't. Let me try this that brings me to God. No it doesn't. There is one thing that will bring you to God, and as you as you go through the law then you find this doesn't work, this doesn't work. Well what does work? Jesus Christ. And that's what the law does, is it drives men to Christ. If you try to get to God anyway except Christ, you end up at a dead end. The law is there to show men that anything that they try outside of Christ will always come short. The law was intended to prepare the Israelites for the That's what God wanted to do with the law. The law was to show the Israelites that you're guilty. And that reminder was there every day. We're making a sacrifice because you're guilty. We're making a sacrifice because you're a sinner. We're making atonement because you're s of your sin. You're in even there were aspects of the law where someone would have to bring a sacrifice. They would put their own hand on the head of that lamb. They would themselves Slip the throat of that lamb, kill lamb. This lamb is dying because of my sin. That was the purpose of the law, is to show you you're a sinner. Someone has to die to pay for your sin. But the Israelites got that messed up. They started to look at the law as their justification. The Pharisees are the classic example. Look at my righteousness from the law. Paul even references this. When he says, when you look at look at my flesh and you want to see who can boast in their flesh, hey, touching the law? I was blameless. You look at the law and you look at the law, if I was going by our standard of the law, well hey, I was doing really good. The Israelites messed up what God intended for them to do with the law. The law was to show them their sin and to point them to Christ. They instead took the law and said, well look at how good I am. Look at how much of the law that I can do. So they they they got that messed up. And when they took pride in their own righteousness, this caused them to miss their Messiah. We see in the um when the story with Jesus Jesus was delivered and Herod is there. He says, it says that Herod knew that they had delivered him for envy. That they delivered him for envy. They had turned over Christ to be killed because of their envious nature, because because he actually was righteous. And his righteousness made their righteousness that they got through the law, it made them look bad. So what do they do? We'll get rid of him, and then we can look good again. As opposed to going to him and trying to get the righteousness that's available by grace, they wanted to keep the righteousness they had in the law, so let's get rid of God's righteousness by getting rid of Christ. That's the idea of what they had when they delivered him for envy His righteousness made their false righteousness look bad. So they wanted to get rid of Christ. As opposed to the law should have driven them to Christ. Hey, we can't get righteousness in the law. Look, here's one who is righteous. He can give us righteousness through God. Instead of the law driving them to them to Christ, their pride drove them away from Christ. So the law's purpose it was to appoint men to Christ. It was not a means of salvation. Never was the law to be a means of salvation. means of salvation. It is the thing that points men to the salvation that is offered by Christ. So that's the third function of the law. It shows you your sin. It shows you you're guilty. It shows you that Christ is righteous and Christ is a sacrifice and that righteousness is available in Christ, so it points you to Christ. So that's the that's the way that law points me. There's two other kind of secondary purposes or functions that the law does Number four, the law gives directions to society. We looked at this verse last week, 1 Timothy chapter 1, verses 8 through 10. We looked at verse number 8, but we know that the law is good if a man use it lawfully. Where we started this idea of understanding the proper use of the law. What did Paul tell Timothy one of the purposes of the law was when you use it lawfully? Knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man. But for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers and f of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers, For whoremongers and for them that defile themselves of mankind, for men-sealers, for liars, for perjured persons, if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine. The law is given to give give structure to society. We can have God's law to make rules and say this is right, this is wrong. That you can um you can go into a s in this in Anybody in this room, hopefully, you go into a store, it doesn't cross your mind to steal. And it's not because there's a law somewhere that says shoplifting is illegal. That's not why I don't steal. That law is there for the people that want to steal. The law is there to give guidelines to society. The moral law has a function to guide society and to protect those who will follow the law from those that will not. Where self-government to the law of God in your heart fails, external government is supposed to step in and fill in the gap. That's the purpose of law, is that that this uh God's moral laws to give directions to society so they can put this is right, this is wrong, and here's what happens when you do what's wrong. Um that's where government, external government, is supposed to step in. Two weeks ago I was in a store. and I watched four men, uh, with masks on, uh, load up two carts and run out the front door of the store. Meanwhile I was sitting there waiting for ten minutes for a manager to to fix something on my like, you know, I could have walked out the door and nobody would have cared with this thing. But I'm not going to because I've got the law of God and I'm going to follow that. They don't care about the law. What the law is supposed to do is supposed to stop them. That's what law is supposed to do. It's supposed to function in society. So the law gives direction to society. And fifthly, the law depicts Jesus Christ. Romans 10, or Hebrews 10, verse number 1 says, For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not yet the very image of the things, can never with those sacrifices which they offered year unto year continually make the comers thereunto perfect. The law was a shadow of good things to come. What was the The law was a picture of Jesus in every aspect, especially the ceremonial law, was pictures of Christ over and over again. Here's who Christ is, here's what Christ is going to do. It's the shadow of who Christ was going to be. We don't have time to look at all the instances. But Christ is depicted throughout the law. In every sacrifice, in every piece of furniture, in every feast, Christ is represented to the So the law was to to point people to Christ, and one way that it did that was it depicted Christ in the law itself So that concludes an idea about the function of the law or the purpose of the law. We'll get into our notes for today, which is really just a continuation. We're going to pick up with the failure of the law. Before we do, we're going to look at this idea of law and grace. In Romans chapter 5, I want to read that, verses 20 and 21. There the Bible says, moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign to the righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. The law entered that the offense might abound. The law, the purpose of the law right there, to make men guilty. The law makes your sin look bigger. You know, you can get away with doing things and you Well here God says this is is a big deal. Well that makes the defense look bigger. But as big as our sin gets when the law points it out, God's grace is bigger. And God's grace is able to So we'll be getting to that idea of law and grace here at the end of the lesson, but we're going to pick up here with the idea of the failure of the law. Now, if you notice in your notes there, I have the word failure in quotes. That is because the failure is not a failure in God's purpose for the law. It's a failure in what man tried to make the law do. What man tried to do through the law, that law was not able to do for them. What God wanted the law to do, well that that's what the law does. But what man tried to do with the law, that's where it has failed. It has failed in what man expected of it. It comes in man, the failure is in man's response to the law and not in the law of itself. Man's improper response to the law came in the form of men using God's law as a measure of their righteousness instead of a measure of their sin. We saw that God's intended function was of for the law was to identify sin, declare men guilty, and point them to Christ. When man, however, ignores his sin and looks to the law as a measure of his own righteousness he will find that the law will fail him in this endeavor. The law cannot make us righteous. So what are some things the law cannot do? Some things that the law people thought the law should do? Or even even we as Christians, we try to look at the Old Testament and try to parse out what's what was salvation. Well we we can get confused on on what it what the law did or what the law's purpose was and try to see man's righteousness through the law and that's where we gave him this idea of rightly dividing. So so what are some la things that the law cannot do? for man today, what the law cannot do for man historically. Number one, the law cannot bring someone to God. The law cannot bring someone to God. Hebrews chapter 7, let's go to Hebrews. We'll be looking at several passages there. You can see it there in your Bible. Hebrews chapter 7. Really, verses 11 through 19 deal with this idea in entirety, but we'll look at just at verse number 19. Now the book of Hebrews, if you remember, the book of Hebrews was written to the Jewish people to show them why Christ was better than the Jewish religious system. Why Christ fulfilled the Jewish religious system. and the religious system was not sufficient that Christ had to come. And that's the law, the book of Hebrews is addressed to Jews that were caught up in Judaism. So in that context, There's some lot of specific references to how Christ is different than the law. And verse number 19 is one place where that happens in chapter 7. For the law made nothing perfect. Very clear. The law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did. Did what? Did make things perfect. By the which we draw an eye unto God. By what? By the law do we draw an eye to God? No, by that better hope. What was the better hope? The better hope was Jesus. The law was not given to give men hope. The law was given to show men that they were guilty. Who came to bring hope? Jesus came to bring hope. And so through the better hope of Jesus we draw nigh to God, not through the law. So the law could not bring men unto God. The verse says, the law made nothing perfect. Now this idea of perfect in the Bible, we think of perfect as as without fault, without error. The biblical word perfect carries the idea of complete or making something whole The law could not complete anything. The law could not make anything whole. Everything that was broken by sin could not be made whole by the law. The uh again, the purpose of the law is to identify sin and declare men guilty. Have you ever met anybody that can always find a problem with something? Can always show, here, here's what's wrong. Um I uh I'll confess I can kind of be that way. Um when when somebody comes to me with an idea and it kind of drives my wife crazy, she'll come to me with an idea and say, hey what do you think about this? Well this is this won't work and this won't work. I'll go fix those things. Well how do I look now? Well what about this? What about this? What about this? What about this The law doesn't draw you to God. The law points out what is wrong. It will never identify him as complete, because that's not what the law is supposed to do. The law is to identify you as broken, and it's Christ that makes you complete. So the bringing in of a better hope is what did make men perfect. If you read the context of the passage, it's talking about Christ being a better priest than Aaron, the Aaron priesthood versus the priesthood of Melchizedek that Christ came through. It's referring to the Jewish religious system versus what was offered through Christ. Christ is that better hope that's able to make men perfect. And it's by that hope that men are brought nigh unto God. Man cannot approach God with the righteousness that they find in the law. However, they can draw nigh unto God through the righteousness that is offered in Christ. So what what the law failed to do? The law failed to bring men to God. The law failed to to even if you think about the tabernacle, and this is where we get into those pictures. that where was the presence of God in the holiest of holies? And what divided man from the holiest of holies? Well the veil was there and then the holy place was there And then the courtyard was there. And then the altar the the the brazen altar was there. And then the the fence that surrounded the whole courtyard tabernacle was there, and the people were outside. The law couldn't bring men to God. The only one that could make it to the presence of God was the high priest, and he could only come in once a year after he made a sacrifice for himself so that he could make a sacrifice for the people, and that was it The law couldn't bring men to God, but God came to man through Jesus Christ. And so we see that the law failed there to bring men to God. Secondly, we see that the law cannot make someone perfect. We saw this in Hebrews 7, verse 19, but also in Hebrews chapter 10, verses 1 through 4. For the law, we saw this verse already, having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of those things, can never, with those sacrifices which they offered Europe by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect. Hey, you make continual sacrifices year after year after year after year. That's never going to make you perfect. That's never going to make you complete. The sacrifice can never make man's, make man perfect, can never make man whole. Again, the law failed to completely deal with man's sin. They had to be offered continually. Why? Because man was continually a sinner. That man continued to sin and sin, and the law could only offer a covering for that sin. However, with Jesus, he offers cleansing from the sin. When Jesus said, when the blood of the Lamb was applied, the sin was still there. It was just covered up But when when Christ came, He He gave us His righteousness and He became sin for us. He He took our sin on Himself and He put His righteousness on us. He completely cleansed us From every sin. He dealt with sin in a way that the law never could. There was not provision in the law of Moses to take away man's sin. That was provision was made through Jesus So the law cannot make one perfect, the law could not bring men to God, the law cannot justify from sin. Acts chapter 13, 38 and 39, but end of verse 39 says, For which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses. Romans chapter three verse twenty through twenty-eight, but there in in verse um twenty and then in verse twenty eight eight by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified. Verse twenty-eight, a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. What does it mean to be justified? We use the definition. Justified means just as if I'd never sinned. That idea what I was just talking about about your sin being taken away, that you could be perfectly clean. The law could not do that The law could not justify men from their sin. The law's job is to point out your sin. Jesus gets rid of your sin. The law says guilty, guilty, guilty, Jesus says forgiven, forgiven, forgiven. You think of uh it's just so many beautiful pictures in the Old Testament. And there's a verse in Hebrews that says, the blood of Christ declareth better things than the blood of Abel. When you go back to Cain and Abel in the book of Genesis, God tells Cain, Where's your brother? The voice of his blood crieth to me from the ground. The voice of the blood of Abel was crying out to God, saying, Cain is guilty. Cain is guilty. Well you had the voice of Cain. What about the voice of the sacrifices? The voice of the sacrifices for all those years is the blood just ran there in the tabernacle of the temple, cried out, man is guilty, man is guilty. But the vo blood of Christ speaks better things. But the blood of Christ cries out, forgive it. So you get to, as we're getting this contrast of law and grace, the law can't make you justified, however, the grace of Christ can. Can take away our sin, can deal with our sin. The law cannot justify from sin. The law cannot impart righteousness. Galatians chapter 2 verse 21, I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness came by the law, is come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. If you get righteousness through the law, there was no reason for Jesus to die. But the law cannot make you righteous. Again, we talked about how Paul said through the through the righteousness that's found in the law is blameless. And the the Pharisees, Jesus even said, Except your righteousness exceed that of the Pharisees. They were going to the law to try to find righteousness, and again, the law can't do that. The law is just going to point out that you're wrong, that you're that you have failed, that you If again could be made righteous by the law, there would be no need for Jesus to die. But of course, Jesus did need to die because we cannot be made righteous through our own effort. To be righteous means to be right with God. Man's sin makes him at odds with God. And it makes you not right with God. And the law just Shouts out, You're a sinner. You're a sinner. And he tries to say, Hey God, look at how good I am. Looks at the law and says, Law says he's a sinner. That's what the law does. Declares man's sin. So the law cannot make you righteous. It's Christ that makes us righteous. Next we see that the law cannot give life. If there was law that could have given life, then you could have gotten righteousness through the law. But we just saw you can't get righteousness through the law, so the law cannot give eternal life. It is not found in the keeping of the law. There are countless people that are counting on their efforts for righteousness in keeping what they determine to be the law to give them eternal life They're counting on, well, well I think I'm a good person because here's what I think makes a good person. They're going on their own definition of the law to make their own definition of righteousness. to try to go before God one day and say, God, you should be happy with what I did. And the law is going to stand there and declare them guilty. Because there is no eternal life. There is no righteousness. There you cannot draw nigh to God through the law. That's not what the law was designed for. It's not what the law can do. And then Hebrews chapter 9, you're probably there. Hebrews chapter 9, verse number 9. The law cannot give peace, which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did the service perfect as pertaining to the conscience. Him that did the service The one that came and offered the sacrifice, and he was doing it according to the law, it could not make him perfect according to his conscience. Even though you could bring that lamb, and that lamb could die in your place, and that blood could be sprinkled before the altar for your sin, you didn't walk away at peace with God in your heart. Your conscience was not made whole. Your conscience was not made perfect. There was no peace there because that was only a covering for your sin. It's by cleansing of our sin through Jesus Christ that we can have peace with God. Man would leave the sacrifice with the same guilt and unrest that they brought the sacrifice with. Peace with God is only found through Jesus Christ. So we look at this idea of the failure of the law. Here's what the law just wasn't able to do, and it wasn't able to do that because that's not the purpose. The law is not given to give us righteousness. The law is not given to give us peace. The law is not given to bring us nigh to God. And that carries over to us as Christians. We're going to get here in few minutes to what it means to be a Christian and how we look at the law. Sometimes Christians think, well I get to be I get my relationship with God right by doing the law. Yeah I've been forgiven but but it's by what I do that that I'm that I'm made right with God. And and again we're going to the law to try to find our righteousness. And that's that's not the does that mean we don't have to follow God's law? Well we're gonna get there in just a minute. All right? So we have the failure of the law, then we see the fulfillment. The fulfillment of the law. Christ fulfilled all the demands of the moral, civil, and ceremonial law. Matthew chapter 5, verse number 17, think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. I didn't come to loosen the law. What I came to do was to fulfill the law. And the word fulfill means to fill full. Everything that the law demanded, Christ filled all the way up. This draw draws my mind to Romans chapter 3, verse 23. For all have sinned and Come short. Come short. When you get the law, what the law says, you don't measure up. Many, many tackle you farson. That was said to um uh the king of Babylon. You've weighed in the balances. You're found wanting. That's what the law of God does. You've come short. What did Christ do? He filled full. Everything that the law demanded, Christ filled full. He fulfilled the law. He fulfills the demands of the law of God completely. He did not come up short in any area. Jesus is the only one whom the law can declare not guilty based on his own righteousness All the types, all the sacrifices, all the laws were fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ. And it is Christ's fulfillment of the law that frees Christians from the bondage of the law. Romans chapter seven, verses four through six. Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of Christ, that ye should be married to another, even to him that is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God For when we were in the flesh, the motion of sins, which were by the law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death. But now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we were held, that we should serve in newness of spirit, not in oldness. of the letter. We're freed from the law through Jesus Christ. What does that mean? Well, there's a lot that that means. But one thing is you go to the purpose of the law. The purpose of the law is to say that you are guilty We've been freed from that. When when the law looks at my life, yes, I still have sin, yes, I think have things that that are wrong in my flesh, but when when I stand before God one day The law's not going to be there to say that I'm guilty. I I've been freed from the condemnation of the law because I've been given the righteousness of Christ. So does that mean I just do away with the law? He says that the inner verse, no, you serve it. You serve it with newness of spirit, not in the oldness of the letter. So it Christ's sacrifice frees Christians from the bondage that's in the law. Romans chapter eight, verses two through four deals with this as well. So what should be a Christian's relationship? relationship with the law. Kind of what we've been building towards here. What what what should we do? What does the law mean to us? Well first of all, we need to follow God's moral law. Not to be a Christian, but because you are a Christian That God's got his law, this is what God wants me to do, this is what God, how God wants me to act as a person. I've got a spirit that wants to serve Christ out of love for him Well, I'm going to still do the things that God says are right to do, but not to try to gain something, but because I am something. For example, I preach not in hopes that I'll be a preacher. I preach because I am a preacher. It comes out of my nature. It's not something I do to try to achieve something. As a Christian, we do right not to be a Christian. But because we are Christians. There was an illustration given of a man who hired a servant. And when she came into his home, he gave her a list of here's what you do, here's what you don't do, here's the rooms you're allowed in, here's the rooms you're not allowed in. Here's the things you need to do. You need to clean these things. You need to wash these things. You need to make these meals. And he gave instructions to her very clearly that she had to follow because she was his servant. Well, as time went on, uh a relationship grew between this man and this and his servant, and they ended up getting married. And after she was married to him, She had a lot of the same things that she did. But she didn't do them because there was a contract and there was a form of payment, but she but she now served out of love. She served out of out of her new position, her new nature. That's what we have in Christ is we're not serving God because we have to. We're serving God out of our relationship. We're doing this right, not because we're forced to, oh I guess I won't steal today. We do what's right because of our relationship with God, because we are Christians. So follow God's law. We follow God's moral law. Secondly, we should study the law of God. The law of God reveals the glory and the holiness of God. Psalm 30, verse number 4 says, Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of it of his, give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. You know, we give God thanks for a lot of things. Have you ever thanked God for that He's a holy God? And the law is built on the holiness of God. And if we study the law, it points out who God is, what God's nature is like. So we study the law to learn more about the Lord. The law is founded on the nature of God. You can learn about him through the study of the law. Also study the law because it typifies Jesus Christ. Again, we can't even begin to go in the different ways that the law, especially the ceremonial law, typifies Christ, but here's just a quick example. The veil in the tabernacle separated the ark of God and the presence of God from those who were worshiping him, except for once a year by one high priest. That veil. Now, what happened to that veil when Jesus died? It was torn. Why? To give men access to God. Do you know what the veil was a picture of? Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 20 tells us. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiness by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. The veil was a picture of the flesh of Christ that would be torn to give men access to God. The veil being torn in the temple was a picture of Jesus being sacrificed on the cross. so that we could have access to God. The veil that prevented access to God, it was torn. It was Christ whose flesh was torn to give us access. And then there's pictures like that throughout the law. So it's a very beneficial study. I'm ready to the words, open thou mine eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. There's beautiful things in the law if we can open our eyes to see them. So we can, as Christians, we follow God's moral law. We study the law of God. Thirdly, we can use the law to point men to their need of salvation. What does the law do? What's its function? Identifies sin, declares that men are guilty, and points them to Christ. So as we're witnessing, the law is a great tool to identify their sin. declare that men are guilty and to point men to Jesus Christ. So we can use the law to point men to their need of salvation. And lastly this morning we have the follow-up to the law. The follow-up to the law. The law did not, the law could not, and it was not designed to bring men unto righteousness. So where do we find our righteousness? We find our righteousness in grace. Let's go back to Romans chapter 5. Romans chapter 5, verses 20 and 21, where we started this morning. Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. What did the law do? The law came in and it brought guilt and shame and death But the grace of Christ came in. And where the sin abounded, the grace abounded even more. And uh and what did the grace bring in? It brought in righteousness. It brought in eternal life, and it did all this by Jesus Christ our Lord. Grace came in and it has given us God's unmerited favor. We look at the word grace, we really have three definitions. We typically give to word grace. First of all, is an unmerited favor, meaning God's favor when we didn't deserve it. We got from God what we did not deserve. When we deserve, what'd the law say we deserve? The law said we deserve death. The law said we deserve punishment. But God's grace came in and we were given life. God's grace came in, and instead of our guilt, we were replaced with Christ's righteousness, God's unmerited favor Second definition we give to grace is getting what we don't deserve. That's the same idea there as the unmerited favor. We didn't deserve this from God, and God gave it to us anyway. And the third definition we give to the word grace is an issue And across the God's riches at Christ's expense. All that God has to offer, He gives it to us, and He put it, the cost of it, on Christ. Christ paid for us to have all of God's riches. Christ took our sin and our guilt that the law would look at us and declare us guilty. Christ took all that on himself so that he could give us his righteousness. So I have a menu chart there and we'll just we'll just uh quickly read through this. We won't take time to look at all these verses. This will be a fun study for somebody later. Um to this isn't original with me, by the way. I did I did take most of this from a couple different places But just some contrast between the the law and grace. We saw this already that the the law under the law the the veil divided men from God. However, under grace the veil was rent so that we could have access to God. We see that under the law that the sinner is blotted out. God told Moses, I'll blot out them from my book. However, under grace are sin. Is what is blotted out. The law brings a curse on the one who offends it. However, grace covers the offense of the offender. The law ministers judgment. Grace ministers justification. The law demands love, and under grace, God's love was displayed to us. The law demands sanctification. The grace brings or delivers that sanctification. Through the law, nearness to God was impossible However, under grace, near this to God was made possible. When the law was brought in, there were three thousand who were slain at Mount Sinai. However, when grace came down, there were three thousand that were saved at Pentecost. Under the law, the sheep would come and die for the shepherd. Shepherd would bring that sheep, make a sacrifice. That sheep was dying for the shepherd. However, under grace, the shepherd gave his life for his sheep. According to Deuteronomy chapter 21, a rebellious son was to be stoned to death under the law. However, under grace, the prodigal came home and was embraced by the Father. Under the law, the conscience was accused in Hebrews chapter 10. However, under grace our conscience is acquitted. We have peace with God. The law demands that shoes be removed from our feet. However, under grace the shoes were put on the feet of the prodigal. The law was an unbearable heavy burden. The disciples said, Hey, why would you bring them under this burden that our fathers were not able to bear? Yet under grace, Jesus says, All ye that burden heavy laden come unto me, I will give you rest, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. The law brings death. Grace brings life and peace. The law pronounces a curse. Grace provided redemption. The law was graven upon stones, and that grace was graven upon the heart. Under the law, they were to keep the commandments, but under the grace were kept by God. The law said, do and live, and grace says believe and live. Under the law, every mouth will be stopped. Under grace, every mouth can confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. God's given us so much, so much that we get to enjoy, and the law it was that foundation that was to point men to Christ However, it was missed by the Jewish people when they used the law to promote their own righteousness. We can make the same mistake. We can be under grace, but we can go back to the law to look for our righteousness. Righteousness is not found in the law even today. Righteousness is found in the person of Jesus Christ. So do we throw out the law? No. We still do it, but not because we have to, because we want to, because it's our new nature. We should be doing my nature. things that are in the law. Follow following God, being obedient to the Lord. And how much how much of a beautiful picture. If you just read the the law side, man's outlook would be pretty bleak. But you flip over and you read the other side, you see how much Grace, God's riches at Christ's expense. All that the law wanted to do to us, Jesus says, I'll take that on me. And all that God wanted to give to Christ, Jesus said, give it to them. Amazing, amazing truth from the Word of God on the law versus grace. Let's close