We uh are in the book of Habakkuk here in in nineteen sixty two John Glenn, that recognizable name, the astronaut that circled the Earth He completed his successful and harrowing mission. We look back now and we've gone so far beyond that, but that at that time captured the hearts of America. Following his successful mission, Mr. Glenn received two million letters from fans and friends all over the country congratulating him for a job well done. Of those two million letters, they took 400 of them and picked out the 400 best ones and put them into a book that the book is entitled I listened to your heartbeat. That phrase was taken from the first letter in the book, which reads like this. Dear Mr. Glynn, how proud I am and was of your faith, your love, and great courage Because it takes all of those to do what you have done. You are my hero, a great admirer, Gwendolyn Denise Young, age twelve, grade six. P. S. I listened to your heartbeat. All over The country, people sat next to the radios and rapt attention in a live broadcast of his journey around the earth. And they could hear his heartbeat. Tonight, I would ask you to listen to the heart of Habakkuk. The heart of Habakkuk. We see first of all in chapter number one, our text is going to be chapter three, verses seventeen and nineteen, but we're going to kind of take a journey through these. three three chapters quickly here and get to that, but we see first of all his concern in chapter number one, verses one through four. It begins right off and tells us the burden, the heavy weight that he had, the concern that he had. He says, the burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see. O Lord, how long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear? Even cry out, cry unto thee of violence? And thou wilt not save. Why dost thou show me iniquity and cause me to behold grievance For spoiling and violence are before me and there are raised up strife and contention. Therefore, the law is slacked, and judgment doth never go forth. For the wicked doth compass about the righteous. Therefore, wrong judgment proceedeth. We get to, as it were, almost like a court reporter recording the words here of Habakkuk as he cries out to God I'm not even really sure that Habakkuk wanted the whole world knowing what he was struggling with. I know there's been times that my prayers to God are not some that I necessarily want the whole world knowing. We see here his heart and his cry to God as he calls out and asks of him the question, how long? Lord, how long are we going to have to endure this? How long is this wickedness going to continue? We are given a recording of his questions here to God, which is why Habakkuk has been called the doubting Thomas of the Old Testament. Because although he saw the hand of God, he was doubting what God was going to do in the midst of this great hardship First of all, that God was going to judge sin, but then that God was going to free them or judge those that had hurt his people. We see his cry and his burden here. First, just as we see as we notice his heart, we see he went to God with his burden. He didn't just abandon all. He didn't just run and quit. He didn't just give up. No, he went to God with his burden. He cried out to God, and I would encourage you in the midst of your burden to Call upon him, cast your burdens upon him, because he careth for you. He asks God, how long am I going to have to witness this? He sees the sin of Judah. He sees the strength of the Chaldeans or of Babylon that are coming in to attack God has showed him this great iniquity. He says, Why dost thou show me iniquity? In verse number three there. Why dost thou show me iniquity? You know, sometimes, beloved, we need to get spiritual eyes in order to see. the iniquity. In order to see what's wrong, in order to be able to even behold the problem, you know, sometimes a young Christian or Somebody new to the faith will come to a church and they will start to hear some preaching of the Word of God and initially they'll hear truths preached and you guys have all maybe personally experienced it or Maybe you have seen it or or discipled somebody through it, but initially the response is, what's wrong with that? I've never heard of that before in my life Why is that a problem? Oh, that's sin? Oh my goodness. But they don't have spiritual eyes yet. They don't have spiritual eyes to be able to see those things that are sin. And as they grow in the Lord, they begin to get spiritualized, and they begin to see what is sin, the iniquity that is before them. He beheld it here, we see, describes the violence, the strife, the contention. You know, to understand what he was beholding, we have to kind of know a little bit of the history, which is fitting that we've been going through this in the Old Testament class. And will you turn to 2 Chronicles chapter 33? I would have you see the time in which he was ministering to God's people. Listen to the situation that he was coming on the scene what he was dealing with in 2 Chronicles chapter 33 Manasseh was coming to the throne at twelve years old, and when he began to reign He reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem, but did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, like unto the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down. So he departed, beloved, from the faith that his father had. He built up those high places, and he uh reared up again the altars of Balaam, and he made groves and worship all the hosts of of heaven and served them. And he built altars in the house of the Lord. He also defiled God's house. Whereof the Lord had said in Jerusalem, shall my name be forever. He built false altars in those places. We see, and he built altars of all the hosts of heaven in the two courts and of the house of the Lord, and he caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley of the Son of Hanan. And he observed times and used enchantments and used witchcraft and dealt with familiar spirits and with wizards. He wrought much evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. We see here he defied the wrath of God. He set carved images, the idols which he had made in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon, his son in this house and in Jerusalem which I have chosen before all the tribe of Israel will I put my name forever We see down in verse number 9, so Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err, and to do worse than the heathen whom the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel. He deceived the people. In verse number 10, he disregarded the word of God, and the Lord spake unto Manasseh and said to his people, but they would not hearken. The Lord spoke to them, tried to hear, and they said, nope, we're going to disregard that. We see this. This is the time frame in which Habakkuk was called to serve. This wicked king was throwing off all the great revival that God had wrought through King Hezekiah. And he's heartbroken because of it. Not only that, if you turn back to the book of Habakkuk, we'll see that He notices the strength of the Chaldeans. In verses 5 through 11, God shows him how he was raising up this group that was going to judge them. He sees that they're going to come into the land and they're going to take it in verse number six. He says, For lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nations, which shall march through The breadth of the land to possess the dwelling places that are not theirs. He said, boy, they're going to come in, they're going to take the land. In verse number 8, he says, they're going to come in fast and they're going to come in hard. Their horses are also swifter than the leopards. And are more fierce than the evening wolves, than even wolves, and then horsemen shall spread themselves, and their horsemen shall come from afar. They shall fly as the eagle that hastened to eat. He says, hey, they're going to come in quick. You're going to see them. They're going to come in. They're going to possess this lamb, the strength of the Chaldeans. They're going to take many people captive in verse number nine. They shall come all for violence. Their face shall suff as the east wind, and they shall gather the captivity as the sand. He's saying this the people that they're going to take captive is going to be like the sand. This is the judgment that God is sending on the children of Israel with this heathen nation coming in. And yet Habakkuk begins, as I said this morning to wonder and ask God, well, oh, wait a minute, how is it that this wicked nation who is more sinful is going to be used to judge Your people. Yes, they're living in sin, but they're not near as sinful as them. And he he asked them that question. Why is it okay for this more wicked nation to judge your people? See that in verse number 13. He says, Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst not look on iniquity. Whereof lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously, and holdest thy tongue? When the wicked devour the man that is more righteous than he. He says, God, you're why are you you can't even look at sin, God, you can't even look at that, and yet why is it you're holding your tongue when the wicked are devouring him that is more righteous? You see, he didn't quite understand what God was doing. He didn't understand how God was working and why God was using this, and ultimately what God was going to do in the end. You see, we don't have to know all of what God's plan is. We don't have to understand, we just have to trust We see he was struggling with this. As if he's saying, Lord, I see sinners are prospering and the righteous are suffering. Lord, how long is this going to be? But then God begins to give him some understanding. We see his comprehension in Habakkuk chapter number two. Look at verse number four. He says in verse number four there, he says, Behold, his soul, which is lifted up, is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. You see, he learned a couple things. He began to get some understanding. First of all, he understood there that It is the prideful man that falls. It is, he says here, his soul which is lifted up is not upright. A proud man lives his life to his own end and for his own means. We see that in verse number five. Go back to chapter two, verse number five. He says, Yea also Because he transgresseth by wine. He is a proud man, neither keepeth a home. Who enlargeth his desire as hell and as death, and cannot be satisfied, but gathereth unto him all nations, and heapeth unto him all people. This idea of transgressing and prideful and just going and doing what he's going to do. He begins to understand. Five times in chapter two here, he says, Woe unto him In verse 6, 9, 12, 15, and 19, he says, Woe! Woe unto him! Woe unto him! Woe unto him! Warning the people. You see, beloved, many times we're like Habakkuk and we want answers. We want to know, God, why is this happening? What's going on? It doesn't make sense to me. Why are these people getting away with this sin? And why are we using this wicked nation to judge a righteous nation? Lord, it just doesn't make sense in my mind. But what does he say? He comes to the understanding that the just shall live by faith. You see, his comprehension came to the place where he said, Boy, I just need to trust God that God knows what he's doing. That God has a plan. God gave him a unique look into the future. And allowed him to see that God was going to use Babylon to judge his people, but ultimately that God was going to judge Babylon for his sin as well. So God gave him that picture and let him see and understand that God was going to punish them in their due time. He was saying, listen, God is still on the throne. Look at verse number 20 in chapter 2 and verse number 20. He says, But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him. He said, God's still on the throne. He's in his holy temple. Let all the earth be silent before him. He was learning some things here, not to be puffed up in pride or to desire or want his own way, but to live by faith. The just is going to live by his faith. So we see his comprehension, his understanding that God gives, and then we see the conclusion that he comes to, which gives us a true picture of his heart. Look in chapter 3 in verses 17, 18, and 19. He says here, although the fig tree shall not blossom, Neither shall fruit be in the vines. The labor of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no meat The flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls. What does he say in verse number 18? Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. He describes here in verse number 17 that there was problems on every side. There were things that he looked at that were unjust, things that he didn't understand, the ways in which the people were being judged that he looked at and said, oh, this doesn't make sense to me. There's there's things on every stand. He describes the fig tree uh stopping producing that's Food is not uh readily available. He describes the olive tree as stopped providing. You know, olive trees there were a means of providing financial they they would take that and sell that oil and maybe provide for their family provision wasn't as readily available as it had been herds no more. Herds would have been a picture or a symbol of stability. That that that that okay we've got the the bank account is is established and the emergency fund is set and we have our you know the we we're in good place. That's what the herds would represent that we're established and and secure and things are all right. He says, nope, none of that's the case. There's problems on every hand. But we see his heart, the heart of Habakkuk in verse number 18, when he says, but I will rejoice in the Lord. I will rejoice in the Lord. In the midst of any sorrow, I still have a song. Because of God. I have cause to have joy because of the God of my salvation. The God of my salvation in John 5:24, the Bible says, Verily, verily I say unto you, He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but be passed from death unto life. Heaven is my home. I have cause for joy, even in the midst of whatever burden or heartache my heart is going to rejoice in the Lord. He said, Listen, the misery that I'm dealing with right now is nothing compared to the majesty of the God that I serve. He has cause for joy because God is his strength. Look in verse number 19. In the midst of this time where things were bad and everything wasn't nothing was going right. He says in verse 19, he says, the Lord God is my strength. He will make my feet like hind's feet, and he will make me to walk upon my high places. And then we see he commits or gives this passage of scripture to the chief singer of stringed instruments. That's because they believe Habakkuk was involved in the choir. in worship in some way, and so that's why he would do that. But we see here a couple things regarding his strength. Heinzfeet means swift and graceful. He would make my feet like Heinzfeet, to be swift and graceful. You see, beloved, God's going to give you the strength to do what you need to do, but not just do it, but to do it well. To do it swiftly, to do it gracefully. To do it quickly, he says, and he will make me to walk upon my high places. You know, beloved, God has something He wants to do with your life. He's got some high place for you. Something miraculous that he would have you accomplish. Something in your mind's eye you would look at it and say, well, that's impossible. or that's too far, or that's beyond my reach, or that's beyond my capability. But can I tell you, beloved, for those that rely on his strength? God says he will make your feet like Heinz feet, but not only that, he's going to take you to your high places, to the place where God has planned for you to succeed and be victorious for God and his glory. He is going to take you higher than you ever thought possible. Beloved God will take ordinary men and women and do extraordinary things with them. If we would just yield to him. Sometimes we have to go through the refining fire as the children of Israel did in their time of judgment in their time of refining, but God's refining fire is never for destruction, it's for development. I read some months ago on a Facebook post that if you take a five-dollar bar of steel, that it's worth five dollars. But if you take that $5 bar of steel and you cut it into an ordinary horseshoe, it's now worth $10. But if you take that same $5 bar of steel and you cut it into needles, it's worth $350 But if you take that $5 bar steel and you cut it into micro springs that are used in watches, it's worth $250,000. We're just a bar of steel. But if we would submit to God, what God can take that bar of steel and turn it into is miraculous. This is the heart of Habakkuk. He says, God, there's things I don't understand. And you know what? It's okay. We can come to God and say, Lord, this doesn't make sense to me God might and he might not give you an answer, but carry it to God Then God gives him some understanding where he learned, boy, even though I don't understand this, I just need to trust because the just walk by faith. And he says, you know what, in the midst of this great heartache, in the midst of this great trial, in the midst of this great tragedy, the one thing that I know I need to do, the one thing I can do, what I will do, is I'm going to rejoice. I'm gonna praise God. I have cause for joy. Even in the midst of this. Abakak speaks of a heart that has been weaned from earthly enjoyments and finds its highest pleasures in the presence of God. That is the heart of Habakkuk. And that's why Harold Wilmington says in his book, The Guide to the Bible. That here, this book that begins in gloom ends in glory. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?