So last week we began a series on the idea of biblical civics, just kind of seeing what is our role as Christians and society? What is our role when it comes to uh our government and our our citizenship and our in relationship with one another um in our community and in our church and how do these different roles all mesh and blend together. So we kind of began a launching point there at this idea of what is biblical civics, what are we going to study. And I mentioned last week we'd be beginning beginning the study this week with the idea of the three institutions. So we're looking at today at the three institutions, things that God has set up for people to interact with each other in, uh where there is levels of authority within those and what are they, what they got established, and that's going to to give us um some direction uh as we begin this study on biblical civics. But if you found your place there in Romans 13, we'll begin by reading just the first verse. There the Bible says, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. So we see what he's dealing with here in Romans 13. If you know or you're familiar with Romans 13, he's going to go into a study on a citizen, a Christian's relationship with government. So that is the the application that he is drawing from this biblical principle listed here in the first verse. But you see this principle is much broader than government. Because he's talking about powers that be, how they're ordained of God, and there's no power except what has been ordained of God. So that reaches all levels of authority and applies to the different places where God has set up authority So he's taking a biblical principle here in this verse, and then he's making an application into the rest of the chapter to government. That's the same thing that we do anytime we preach the Word of God. We take a biblical principle and then we make application to something. So as we look at this verse here, understand this verse is not limited to government in verse number one. He's got a biblical principle about how God has established different authorities. And then he takes that idea of how God has established authorities and goes in to teach about our role of government. So we're going to be launching there from Romans 13, verse 1, to look at the different areas in which God has set up institutions uh that have within them authority structures, where there are those who are subject to higher powers throughout that. So in the Bible, there are three primary institutions that were established and founded by God and we'll be looking at those today. But before we do, let's open with a word of prayer. Ask God to clear our minds and help us learn something from His Word this morning. Lord God, we love you and again we thank you for the time we have to gather around your word this morning. Pray you help us to be educated. what your word says about these things that you've established. Lord, we learn some truths that we can apply to our daily lives. Lord, we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So the idea of an institution is defined by the dictionary as an establishment, that which is appointed, prescribed, or founded by an authority, and intended to be permanent. We apply the word institution to laws, rights, ceremonies which are enjoyed by authority as permanent rules of conduct or government So the idea to summarize that, the idea of an institution is that which has been established or founded by an authority and is intended to be permanent. We saw in Romans thirteen that God has established, or the word there is ordained, certain levels of authority, these powers that have been ordained by God. And as I said already, there are traditionally there are three things that have been categorized by institutional institutions of as as institutions of God. Does anybody know what the three institutions are? Mr. Jacob? First was the family, second was human. Alright. Human government and then the church. So those are the three institutions that we summarize in the Bible as things God has set up as powers that be that are ordained of God. So we'll be looking at those today. We actually, there is a little bit broader that we can categorize the institutions. There are two more, but I'm going to show you why we're not going to include those in our study today or why they're not normally included. We get a picture of these in the I in So you think of a house, not not the physical building. The most common reference in the New Testament to the house is the physical building. He went into Simon's house or when they came to the house or when they left the house. But you understand the idea of a house carries the idea of of a structure, a structure of authority, a structure of a group of people that are united uh for the same reason, such as a family. We're all part of a family, and there's an authority structure there. So God gives this idea of a house to five different categories in the New Testament. The first of these that we will consider this morning is the idea of the Father's house. John 14, verse number two, in my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. So this idea of a house is referring to the third heaven, the dwelling place of God, and this is the place where God has set up authority, which is Himself. He is the ultimate authority. He rules over heaven. There is no sin allowed. It is only holiness. God has exercises complete control and authority in heaven. This house was created and instituted by God, but the reason we're not going to include it in our uh study of the three institutions is because it falls out of man's authority. Man has no authority in God's house. So that falls out of the study that we're not going to be looking at today. But that is one area of authority that God refers to in the Bible. The second house we can consider is the house of the individual. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse number 1, the Bible says, For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. So this house refers to the individual. Now in the individual it's just yourself, but as an individual, God has given you a measure of authority over yourself. You get to choose the actions that you're going to do. You get to choose whether or not to be moral or immoral. You choose whether you're going to sin or obey God. You get to choose whether you're going to accept salvation or reject it. So you have a measure of authority that God has given to you as an individual. We will not be considering these as one of our institutions today because it has no lawful biblical authority outside of himself unless he's participating in one of the other institutions we will be discussing. Now the individual, we're not going to take a lot of time to go into this, but I kind of want to introduce this thought to you, get your mind thinking about it. The individual is a very interesting thing to consider biblically. Now we have individual authority over ourselves and over our actions. We also have individual responsibility When you go before God and he a he asks you about what you've done, you don't get to point fingers at other people and say, Well, it's their fault, or it's it's my mom or my dad, or it was my upbringer, or it was my church, or my pastor failed me, or this happened You answer before God for yourself. You have that individual responsibility for God. And you're also individually responsible for your actions. You're accountable for those But things in the Bible, God did not build them on individuals. He used individuals to build them, but things aren't built on individuals. Um Let me explain it this way. We'll look at this a little bit more when we talk about the family. But when he looked at Adam, an individual, what did he say? It's not good for man to be alone Individuals. It's dangerous when society breaks down to the individual. God has set things up to be done as a family. In in the family. God set up the family as the building block of society. What makes up the church? Church is made up of families. Yes, we're all individuals and individuals and um if I'm saying And you're in you don't have a family that's with you in church, that's not saying that you're excluded from God's plan in any way. But God the way God set things up is that the family is the building block of society not the individuals. There's a war going on in our country today and in the world, and it's a war that's been waged from the beginning of time on the family. God wants or the devil wants to destroy families. He started it there in the garden uh trying to destroy families, trying to build this core unit that God set up as the foundation of a society. Society is always undermined when the family is attacked and the individual is elevated. There's lots of examples we can look at in in in our world today, but just a couple that um come to mind the declining marriage rates, uh the people who just aren't getting married anymore. What about the declining children's rates? Uh we have we are we're having a um I I don't remember how they what they call it, but we have less children being born uh than we have old people that are passing away in our country. Uh meaning we're l having a declining population If it wasn't for all the immigration, our country's numbers would be shrinking because people just aren't having children anymore. People even have with this uh radical climate change agenda that they have where they're well I don't think I should have kids because the world's going to be destroyed and people are giving up on the idea of family and the idea of children. And God has has set up family to be the building blocks of society. There's a a political movement that has arisen recently who said one of their purposes is to disrupt the nuclear family. It's one of their stated stated goals. And there's an attack in our world today on the family. Why? Because the family is the strength of society. You can't you can't if you just have a society of all individuals, one generation, they're gone. You have to have families to continue. And so the family is a very strong thing. And so there's a there's a ideology, uh a lot of um the ideology that goes behind socialism And Marxism and communism, those things, elevates the individual to the dismissal of family. Family doesn't matter. We want individuals. And what was your experiences and your feelings and separating children from parents and husbands from wives? Why breaking breaking down society. We need to be encouraging and strengthening our families as individuals. It's the it's something that we want to be pursuing as uh it's The family is the bedrock, the building block of society. When God saw an individual in his environment, he said, It's not good for man to be alone. And so the family there is the building block of society. So that brings us to our third house in the New Testament, and that is the house of the family. So we see the house of the Father, we saw the house of the individual, now we have the house of the family. This is the first of the three institutions we'll be looking at that God set up. We see in the New Testament the idea of Hebrews 11 that Noah built an ark to the saving of his house. That wasn't his furniture and his roof and his uh his walls. No, that was his family he brought onto the ark with him. the saving of his house. Uh second Timothy chapter three talks about the qualification of the pastor, that he rules his house. That's not the making sure all the doors are locked and the and the lights are off when he leaves. That's keeping his family in order. Again, we understand that. We think of in Luke chapter two when Joseph went to Bethlehem. Why? Because he was of the house of David. So this idea of a house or an authority structure that's been built by a group of people together that God established is that of a family. We'll be looking at that one more as we talk about that specifically in our lesson today. The fourth house that the New Testament refers to is the house of a nation Both the house of Israel and the house of Judah are mentioned in the New Testament. Matthew fifteen twenty-four is an example of this, but he answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. This describes a nation as as a house, a group of people who are joined together because of a similar background or interest or to the fact that they're citizens of that country and there's an authority structure within that house. So the house of a nation that would to be the category of human government. And the final house in the New Testament is the house of God, or the church. 1 Timothy 3. 15, that I if I tarry long that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself. in the house of God, which is the Church of the Living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. Again, a group of people that have been organized together under an authority structure. That's the church. So these are our three institutions that we have where we're not going to be looking at the Father's house, because that's where God exercises complete authority. We're not looking at the the individual. We're looking at these where groups of people have been brought together on an authority structure, the powers that be that are ordained of God. That'll be our study today on these three institutions. Before we get into the actual institutions, I want to look a little bit more on this idea of authority and the powers that be such as have been ordained by God. If you look at Romans chapter 13, the first thing it says there, that every soul be subject to higher powers, for there is no power but of God. No power but of God. Now the idea of power here is the idea I've been mentioning already, but Just to clarify, it is the idea of authority. It is the idea of the right to rule or to oversee that idea of power, not the idea of strength, not the idea of might. It is the idea in that verse of authority. And he says here, there is no power but of God, meaning there's no power unless it comes from God. So what does this mean? It means that God is the ultimate source of all power and authority. All authority traces its roots back to God. For example, there would be no authority in the home if he had not created it and made it so. There would be no authority in the government had He not created it and made it so. The earth was around for 1700, 2,000 years or so before God instituted human government. It was all that time government wasn't there. There wasn't a governmental power s um structure. It was a time, if you read Genesis chapter six, a time of lawlessness. and evil and men rising up who had power and not in the s sense of authority but in the sense of strength and they exerted their will on others but it wasn't a God given authority. Human government was established much later, so it was there's no authority in government had God not created it. There's also no authority within the church had not God established it and made it so. So God is the source. He's where the power came from. Where do we get the authority as a government to rule and to make laws and To punish evil. Well, that authority comes from God, whether you want to recognize it or not. So that God is the ultimate source of all power and authority. We also understand that God's power is behind his institutions. If God set something up and gave it authority, that authority ultimately comes from God. Just as when I'm dealing with my children and I tell Titus, Titus, go tell Andrew, Dad said. Now Titus has a measure of authority there to go tell Andrew what to do, but the authority is only there because what? I gave it to him. And the God's institutions are the same way, God gave his institutions power for them to exert, gave them authority for them to exert. Now we understand that when an institution is not going against the command of God, they're exercising his power. Now there are times institutions flip down their head. There's Things that governments do, individuals do, families do, churches do that are not uh exercising properly the authority that God has given them. We we understand about that. When they are though They're exercising God's authority. Think about this in a home. This is probably the easiest place to understand this in a home. When a child is being obedient to his parents He's being obedient to God. Children obey your parents in the Lord, but this is right. We tell children when I'm teaching them, look, if you obey your parents, you're being obedient to God, because who told you to obey? God did. So your parents in your home are exercising God's authority. Because when they tell you something to do and you're obedient to them, you're being obedient to God as well. God commanded the children to obey. Now parent a as a parent we exercise God's authority within the home. And I hope that doesn't give you uh make you feel good. Like, oh yeah, I've got God's power behind me, I can That's not the that's not the attitude. This is a huge responsibility that that what you're telling them to do has God's authority behind it and you you mess that up, you're going to mess up your kids' perception of God. So it's a great responsibility we have as parents to do that. Now this goes into the other institutions as well. In the government, when the government is exercising its power the way God has told them to do so, lawfully, bivally. God's power is behind that power. God's authority is behind that authority. Romans 13 describes government agents as the ministers of God. Those who are in government, God says they are his ministers. They're his workers. They're his preachers was another word for ministers. Servants. They're servants of God. And so that's the power given there to government. In chap chapter 13, verse number two, you're there, so let's look at it. It says, Whosoever therefore resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. So resisting God's authority, and he's going to apply it here in the next couple of verses to government, you're resisting God. So that God's authority is behind his institutions. So it's true in home, it's true in the government. It's also true in the church. Now, no pastor, no proper pastor is comfortable talking about the authority that God has given them. But as we're studying this, I want to portray the truth across the board. In the church, the pastor, when he's following God's law, following God's word, he's exercising God's authority because God set up the authority and put his authority behind him. This is a uh this is scary for us as pastors. Again, not something we're like, oh yeah, I gotta tell people what to do. No, we have to answer to God uh for the authority that we exercise within the church. Authority is not something that should be sought for. It carries a heavy responsibility. In James chapter three, verse one, the Bible says, My brethren, be not many masters, knowing we shall receive the greater condemnation. He's telling them there, hey, don't don't seek out being in charge, because that carries a greater condemnation. There's a higher level of responsibility that you carry when you have a place of authority. Because you're what are you doing? You're exercising God's authority. And that's a great responsibility. Hebrews thirteen verse seventeen says, obey them that have the rule over you, this is the context of a church, and submit yourselves Why? For they wash for your souls as they that must give account. Now we talked about the individual. When you stand before God, you can't say, hey, I messed up because of my pastor. But as pastors, when we stand before God, God's going to say, Hey, you were watching over them. Why'd they mess up? Now you don't get appointed us, but God's going to appoint at us and ask about you. So there's a responsibility that we have. That's a great responsibility as we exercise God's authority. So the the power, when it says there's no power but of God, God's the source of that authority And it's also God's authority being exercised by the institution. Secondly, we see in the verse there, it says, There's no power but of God, and it says, the powers that be are ordained of God. So not only is there not power without God, all power that is was set up by God. Now does this mean that all power is used in a way that pleases God? Of course not. Think about these five groups we talked about. In the individual. Do you always, as an individual, use the authority God's given you over your own moral decisions properly? No, we don't. In families. In your family, does it always happen the way God says it should happen? No. In governments, in churches, does it always happen the way God says no, it doesn't happen. So just because a power misuses God's authority doesn't mean they didn't get the authority from God originally So this power is ordained of God. It means that all power was established by God. This points back to the fact that the institution was originally founded by Him. God gave them. God was the first one to give them that authority. It also means that the power of the institution is allowed by him. Now we'll never understand why God continues to allow some power to continue. Why does he let bad governments continue to do evil things? Why does he he let bad people rule in these churches? Why does the the Catholic Church get exercised this mass control over so many people and deceive them with with false doctrine and heresy? Why does God allow that to continue? We can't understand. But we do know that God can make any changes he wants the moment he decides to. The most vivid example of this we just read about if you're doing the church's devotional reading in the book of Daniel. In the book of Daniel, you have Nebuchadnezzar's son, Belshazzar, and he is having a feast, and in his feast he calls for them to bring the items that were taken from the temple, the cups and the saucers and those things, and he brings them to his party that he's having, and he he desecrates them with um alcohol, and then he drinks in them as and gets drunk as part of this party, using the um dishes from the temple. And that's when the hand comes in and writes on the wall and saying, You have been found wanting. God has waging the balances and found you wanting. So we have an empire. the Babylonian Empire being ruled by the Emperor Belshazzar. And when we look at earlier in Daniel, the Babylonian Empire is is the head of gold. Every empire that came later was weaker, was less than the Babylonian Empire. But when Melshazzar desecrated the temple and God said, You're done, that night, he died, and the Babylonian Empire was over. Worldwide empire, God ended in a night because the king didn't go with what God wanted to do. That's the power God exercises over institutions. His authority, he allows them But he can stop it whenever he chooses to do so. Again, we don't understand why he waits in some cases, but God's ultimate authority, that's amazing to me that you have a worldwide empire that was over in a night. Because God says so. That's the power God exerts over these authorities. We know in Proverbs chapter twenty-one, the king's heart's in the hand of the Lord, and as the rivers of water he turneth it whithersoever he will. So it also means that all the powers of institutions are used by God. In John 19, 11, Jesus answered and said, Thou couldst have no power at all against me except it were given thee from above. He's telling the man who's going to order his execution, you don't have any power unless God gave it to you. And why did God give him that power? For the plan of salvation. So God uses the power that he gives to the We don't have time to look at all the historical examples of kings, even pagan kings, that were used to complete the will of God throughout the Bible. God has power in these authorities because He is the source of their authority. So that's where the authority comes from. Now God took that authority and he organized it in three institutions in the Bible. The institutions we mentioned already of the family. human government and the church. Now as we go through these, I want to um to emphasize a couple things before we start that not every institution today operates the way that God designed it. The way God set up government is not the way governments are run. The way God set up families is not always how family is run. Um not And what I want to do, especially getting this family thing, I don't want you to think that just because your family doesn't exactly fit the picture of the way God set up a family, doesn't mean God can't use you or or or you're worthless to Him We're going to look at what is the the ideal, the way that God set it up. And what should we strive for in our families, especially for the young people. As you're setting up a family, what do you want it to look like? Understanding what God set up government to be Now just because it doesn't line up with that doesn't mean God can't use it or God's not in control or God uh doesn't have power in that institution anymore. But just want to lay that out first so I don't have to keep qualifying throughout the lesson. As I say this, that I understand different people's situations are differently. God saves you where you're at and uses you where you at where you're at, but this is what God has set up as what He wants it to be. And what we should be striving for, especially young people, as you You're just setting up this in your own life. Also, as we go through these, we're going to do very introductory. We're going to take about five minutes on each of these topics. Each of these could be their own series of study. The one on government we're going to continue to study in weeks to come, but we're going to move through this rather quickly just to give you a glimpse into the um institution God set up and what he set it up to be. So first of all we have the institution of the home. Turn with me to Genesis chapter two Should be really easy to find if they didn't put all that stuff in the front. Second chapter of the Bible. Genesis chapter 2, verses 18 through 25. The Bible says, And the Lord said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him an help meet for him. Out of the ground the Lord formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them And whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowls of the air, and to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not fine and help meet for him. And the Lord caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh thereof. And the rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, made he a woman and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh, and she shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall man leave his father and mother and shall call And they were both naked, and the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. So we have here the institution right here at the very beginning, first institution God created, where he joined people together under an authority structure was that of the home. What was the purpose or the why the reason why this institution was created? Well first of all we see there that it was created because it's not good for a man to be alone. Now I bet part of this was God looking ahead in the future and seeing all the terrible things that happen when men are left alone. There are uh part of finding a wife being a good thing is that she's there to say, hey, that's a bad idea Um when guys are alone it can be it can be pretty can be pretty bad. I could tell some stories that would make you sur be surprised that I survived until I got married uh stuff guys did. So that that could be part of what he's talking about here. It's not good for man to be alone, but really the idea of companionship. A help. A help that is meet for him or appropriate for him. So God saw the man alone and he said it's not good. So God created the institution of the family. It's interesting that this is the first thing in creation that God said was not good. We see him create the light in chapter one. He said it was good. The land and the seas, it was good. The plants, it was good. The sun, moon, stars, it was good. Birds and fish, it was good. Every kind of animal, it was good. Man alone, God said, not good. But if you go to Genesis chapter 1, verse number 27, where it says, Male and female created he them, so God sees man alone, he says it's not good. Then God creates woman, joins them together in a family, and God looked at everything he made and said, it's very good. Very good. Very good. The extra adverb there in the idea of it being good came about because God had created the institution of family. And it took his creation from the level of everything is good to now is very good. But man alone, God said, was not good. The need for family was brought about because man needed an aid that wasn't appropriate for him. Just to prove this to Adam, God showed all the animals to Adam after he created them. God created Adam. He said, Hey, it's not good for man to be alone, but he didn't just tell that to Adam. He brought every living creature in front of Adam. and said, hey look, there's two horses, there's two donkeys, there's two two uh dogs, there's two cats, there's and none of these that you just saw, they're fit none of those are appropriate companion companions for you. You need a companion that is meat or appropriate for you. I want to point out, we don't have time to get into this, but point out the fact and reiterate that humans are not animals. We need to be careful not to adopt evolutionary mindsets in this regard. We're so inundated with this in our world that it can just slip into our conversation. But just this just to show how this works is we need to understand we don't as people have animal urges We don't have animal tendencies. We don't have animal instincts. We don't have animal desires. We have sinful desires, but we don't have animal desires Why? Because we're not animals. We're different from the animals. People are not animals. On the flip side, animals aren't people. Not going to get into that too much there with the bumper stickers of about my my my granddog and my those types of things. Animals aren't people. People are people. Alright, so people and animals are different. And that was what God was showing to Adam as he brought all the animals across in front of Adam to say, look, none of these are an appropriate companion for you. And God created man. So that was the um the reason why the institution was made. Secondly, how did God make the institution, which would be the producing? How did God create this institution of family who did it through marriage? God set up marriage as the foundation of the home. If you look in the verse there where it says, Therefore shall man leave his father and mother, shall cleave unto his wife, they shall be one flesh. When we read it there in Genesis, it sounds like that was something that Adam said in the context, because Adam said, this is woman because she was taken out of man. But when we get to the New Testament and Jesus quotes this passage, he's saying that he told us that God said this. God set up it's good for man to leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. That was a command of God. Marriage was the foundation of the home. This is where the biblical home starts. God's plan for the institution is one man marries one woman, and then they have children after marriage. That's the institution that God created and that God wants to exist So, what is the power of the institution? What authority do they have? The broadest range of authority of the institutions is given in the home The broadest range of authority. The authority of parents over children is as close to absolute as you can find in human relationships in the Word of God. What power was given, the parents have authority over the children The husband has authority over the wife, and Christ has authority over the husband. Now none of that is popular, but it is biblical, the authority that is there in the home. What is the plan? Why did God give them this authority? Why did God give them create this institution? First of all, for companionship. The reason God created a home was for man not to be alone. He created the home so that the husband and wife could cle cleave to one another and become one flesh. Understand that a husband's first duty is to his wife and the wife's first duty is to her husband. The plan is also for the um home to produce children. After marriage, it was God's plan for them to be fruitful and multiply. Children are a blessing and a responsibility that is from God that has been given to the home Parents will answer to God for the responsibility they relinquish over their children. God didn't give your children to the government, to the grandparents, to the school, to the daycare, or to the church. God gave them to you. And that is the responsibility that you carry from God. So the plans and institutions for companionship, for them to have children, also for them to exercise dominion. Dominion over the earth was a responsibility given to the home. It wasn't given to government. It was given to the home. You as an individual have a responsibility from God to steward the resources that he's given you and put you in control over. So that is the plan for the institution. Who are the players of the institution? That would be the husband, the wife, and the children. What is the purview? What is the authority they have to do? Again, this isn't exhaustive, but they have the raising and training of children, they have the obedience to and the application of the Word of God, and they have the use of the resources that God has given them to be stewards of. And then the perimeter, how far does that authority extend? The authority of the home extends within the home. This is where children are to honor and to obey their parents. And that relationship, institutional home, was designed uh to be, as was said in most marriage vows, till death do his part. In fact, if you look at the original marriage here in the Bible, this is pre-sin How long were Adam and Eve going to live before they fell into sin? Forever. So God's plan for marriage was one man, one woman forever. Sin messed that up, and now it's for life. Um but God's original plan was one man, one woman, forever. Um that's what God set up within the home, and now we understand And that's clarified for us later in the Bible. But that's God's plan is that that perimeter of the institution that's supposed to last. Uh as long as they are t as long as they both shall live, uh that the this marriage is going to last. So that's the institution of the home. Secondly, we have the institution of the government. Genesis chapter 9, verses 1 through 6, we can flip there I know we're running short on time here, but Genesis chapter 9. We won't read the whole passage, but just look at verse number Five and six. It says, Surely your the blood your blood of your lives will I require it, at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man, and at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man. Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed, for in the image of God made he man. So what was the purpose of human government? The purpose of human government listed here, when God created it, the reason he created human government was to exercise capital punishment. That was the origin of the government here. Why did God make a government so that capital punishment could be exercised justly? In the time prior to the flood, we have the lawlessness that reigned and the great men that rose up and were exercising their their might makes right over those around them. God said, Hey, we want an organization set up by man to shed the blood of someone who sheds man's blood. It was a capital punishment designed for murder. That was the origin here, the purpose of this institution. Now we understand that God has broadened that role of human government and Human governments have greatly broadened their role. But here in the institution, the reason it was established was to give the right of capital punishment for murder. In the 1840s, we're going to be revisiting this guy's writing several times throughout the series. There's a man named Frederick Bassate who wrote a paper on the law. He did this to r combat the rise of socialism in France prior to the American Civil War. So he wrote this paper called the law. And in it, he defined the law as the collective organization of every individual's right to self-defense. The collective organization of every individual's right to self-defense. We'll look more at what that means in future lessons. But the government was founded by God to protect the rights of families and individuals. When a right is infringed, the collective force of government could bring justice against the offender. So what was how did God produce this institution? How did God create this authority? He did it post-flood, and he gave Noah and his sons the collective authority to exercise capital punishment against man or animal that killed man, shed man's blood. They had this authority given to them by God. What is the power? What authority do they have? They have the power to collectively enforce individual rights. They have the right for the punishment of evil. In Genesis, it's the capital punishment for murder. In Romans chapter 13, it broadens that to the punishment of any evil. That's the right that they have to use their authority. What is the plan for the authority or the institution of government? Why did God give them? He gave it to them here in Genesis chapter 9 to preserve the image of God and man. to preserve the individual liberty that's been given by man through giving him man his image. That was why this was created. Because when someone murders somebody else, they destroyed the image of God. And God said they need to be punished for that. And their lives would be taken as well. So that was the reason, to preserve the God-given rights of individuals and to be in Romans 13, to be a terror to those who would do evil. Who are the players of the institution? In every government you will find those who are in authority and those who are under authority. But understand every government is set up differently. There is the patriarchy, which would be the family or the tribe type of government You have the judges, the kings, democracies, republics, uh dictatorships. There's all kinds of governments that are out there. So in each of these, the players are going to change a little bit, but ultimately you have those who are in authority, those who are under authority. What is the purview? What authority do they have? They have the authority to punish those who break the law. They can make and enforce laws that follow the law of God. They're not designed to compel good behavior. They're designed to punish bad behavior. Purview of the government is also to provide for the national offense. And they're told in Romans 13 that they can raise taxes to pay for these, to do these things And their authority does extend to their laws, even if their laws go beyond God's intention for human government. God says to obey every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake So when they're, even though their laws go beyond what God said they're supposed to do, we still have an obligation to obey those as long as they don't go outside the bounds of the law of God. We talked about that last week. What is the perimeter? How far does their authority extend? It extends until it crosses the line of obedience to God. It extends to all those who are under its authority, meaning what We as Americans don't have authority over the people in France. They're under their own government. Um it also has to um reside within its own self-imposed limits. If you think of Darius with the Lion's Den, he was not allowed to change the law because the law wouldn't let him. as it was placed. So governments can set their own limits on how far their government can go, which is a blessing we have here in America. You also have the perimeters as it relates to the other institutions. So government power, there's uh uh every institution is going to have overlap with the others. You have an overlap of government and the home, have an overlap of government and the church, and the home and the church, and the h um home and government. There's gonna be overlaps as these institutions institutions go and there's a a crossing of that authority. So there's an overlap with these authorities where the institution meets. And as a father, I have the authority under Christ in my home. But as a father, I'm also a citizen of my country and under and subject to my government. As far as they don't cross the line of obedience to God, I'm going to obey the laws of the land and set that example for my children. But I have way more authority in my home than the government does. Because that's where God's given me that ultimate authority. For example, just because the law says my five-year-old boy can decide he's a girl doesn't mean he can in my house, because I'm the ultimate authority that's there. There are many examples I could pull from my life where I didn't do something that was legal or I did something that wasn't. Why? Because dad said, this is what you're going to do. And I listened to Dad before I listened to And the same is true when it comes to the church. As a church, we understand we're supposed to obey God rather than men. We obey men as we can, but we obey God first. And we'll be talking about that more in future weeks. But we as Americans it's a little bit different for us because we have a religious rights as citizens that men can't just overrule because they're in power. The institution of the government. We'll wrap up real quick here with the institution of the church. Again, these can each be their own series, and we've studied the church before, so we'll go through this quickly. What is the purpose for the institution in Matthew chapter 16? We see that the church was founded to continue the work of Christ after his death and resurrection. We'll go ahead and turn there like you see it in the Bible. Matthew chapter 16. This is where the passage is, where upon this rock I will build my church that Christ was going to establish. uh the church here on earth. Verse number twenty-one he says, From that time forth began Jesus to show his disciples how he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things to the elders, the chief priests and and scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day. So he told them, I'm going to build my church. Why? Because I'm going to be killed and raised again. So that was the reason he established a church was to continue his work. Jesus, while he was here, said, I am the light of the world. When he was getting ready to die, he told the disciples, Ye are the light of the world. The church was founded to continue the work of Christ after he physically left the earth. How did God create this? For the producing of the institution? Jesus created the church by joining together local groups of baptized believers under the leadership of gifted men that have been recognized by the church. Their foundation was upon Jesus Christ and the Word of God. In Ephesians 2. 20, it says the church is built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, that would be the Word of God, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. What is the power of the institution? What authority does the church have? We have the power and authority to protect and to promote doctrine. In 1 Timothy 3, the church is the pillar and the ground of the church, of the truth, I'm sorry. So we have the power or the authority to protect and promote doctrine. We have the authority to exercise church discipline in Matthew chapter 18. This is an amazing passage with Don't have time to look at it, but it in the passage about church discipline is where he says, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth will be loose in heaven. The authority that a church has to exercise within church discipline has eternal ramifications. Now, nobody loses their salvation, and I don't understand all of what that means, but God says church discipline affects something in heaven when we do that. That's the level of authority that God has given in that. The church also has the authority to recognize and ordain gifted men into ministry. That would be deacons, missionaries, and pastors. So what is the plan? Why did God give them this authority? We were given this authority to evangelize the lost. We have the Great Commission being given to the church. We have the authority to edify believers, to teach one another, and to edify and exhort each other. That is the plan why God gave the church authority. Who are the players of the institution? Who's under and involved in authority? We understand that we have pastors and those within the local body. Pastors have the responsibility by God to rule well and to be accountable for the people that are under them. Taking the oversight of of and feeding the flock of God. And then we have those within the church body whose responsibility is to submit to and support the pastor, Hebrews 13, 17 Obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls, as they that must give an account. Those within the church body also have the responsibility of edifying one another, evangelizing the lost, and recognizing and sending gifted men into the ministry We have the purview of the institution, what they have the authority to do, as we said already. They have the authority to instruct believers in doctrine. They have the authority to exercise church discipline in order to protect the purity of the church body. They have the authority to raise money, to support the pastor, missionaries, ministry, and needs of one another. And they have the authority to exercise or to establish their own ministry practices. They have the authority to administer the two ordinance of God being the baptism and the Lord's Supper. What is the perimeter of the institution? How far does this authority extend? Well, it extends within the church. The authority reaches into the home through instruction and doctrine, but the home has the authority for the implementation The pastor is responsible for what he tells you at church. The father is responsible for what's done in the home. For example, I have the biblical authority as a pastor to tell you that based on Bible principles, it's a terrible idea if you allow your child to have a TV or uh device connected to the internet in the room. I don't have the authority to go into Melanie's room and smash her computer. I don't know if she has one in her room, but I don't have that because that's the authority in the home. So my authority as a church extends into instruction for the home. But at in the home the past uh the father retains the authority to implement uh what's being taught. The same goes with our as a church, our authority when it reaches We have the right to stand up for doctrine and for truth and against morality and immorality as a church, but we don't have the authority to go enforce those things when it comes to government. For example, John the Baptist, he had the authority to go to the king and said, You're living in sin. He didn't have the authority to kick the king out and set himself up as a ruler So our authority as a church extends into instruction. We have authority within the church and what happens here, but when it comes to home government, we say what's right, we say what's wrong. And that's the authority that is there. We'll look at this later, but individual citizens do have a role to play in government authority, but our authority is as a church is tied to standing against immorality. So just again a very brief introduction to the These three institutions will be looking more at government and our role and how it relates to that in our homes and as a church as the weeks come, but kind of an introductory topic there on the three institutions of God.