There are uh a number of mysteries that are in the Bible that people uh wonder about, and the Bible very clearly states and says to us uh, you know, this is a mystery. And actually I was uh unaware of it that the kids downstairs asked Pastor Derrick about the mysteries of the Bible because I I talked to him last week and I said, I think I'm gonna uh tackle this subject and I I just threw it out to him and he says, Oh, the kids asked me to teach something on that in uh you in the teen class and uh kind of they had they had come across it in their devotions Well, last Sunday morning in our uh lesson that we did in Sunday school, where we taught about the parable of the fortune in the field, and we talked about how the fortune that was found in the field that was hid for a particular time until the fullness of time, that the Gentile time had come, the fortune that was in the field, that the precious treasure was the people of Israel, was God's chosen people. And they have been for a time set aside because of their rejection of Jesus Christ. And that uh but they're still God's chosen people. And we talked about that just a little bit in the interpretation of that parable. And that's what kind of spurred my mind uh a week and a half ago or or longer when I started studying for that parable, I saw that mystery there. It's actually in the book of Romans where it says that the children of Israel uh are, you know, that this is a mystery, how God's chosen people would be set aside. And I thought, I wonder how many other mysteries And so I began to study that out and look into that, and that's where tonight's study began. And I don't foresee us taking uh you know, one mystery per week. I think some of these will be relatively quick. Some of them may be uh you know joined together and addressed at the same time depending upon Upon their interpretation or application, but for the next few weeks at least we're going to be looking on Thursday nights at this idea of the mysteries of God, the mysteries of God. In 1 Corinthians chapter number 4, if you're there, you can look down in the Bible at verses 1 and 2. The Bible says, let a man sow a count of us. As of the ministers of Christ and stewards of the, what is that word? Mysteries. Mysteries of God. And then that verse, which we're very familiar with. Which I have never in my life heard put into context. As far as I recall, I've never heard it put into context. Moreover It is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. Now we, of course, are to be found faithful, and that is applicable in every area of our life. I'll tell you what, it would be do us good to have some husbands that are found faithful. Amen? It'd do us good to to have some church members that are found faithful. That would be good. It can be applied in every area of our life, but if we were to put this in context You tell me, what is it saying that we are to be found faithful stewards? A steward is a caretaker, a keeper, a holder of. What does it say we're to be a caretaker or holder of? The mysteries of God. In context, here he says, Let a man so account of us as the ministers of Christ and stewards. Of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required in a steward. So here we are stewards of the mysteries of God. And he says, it's required of a steward that he be faithful. So we have before us the mysteries of God that are given to us clearly in his scriptures, and we are to be stewards of those mysteries. So I want to ask you tonight, now the ushers kind of got ahead of me here, so you guys have already been giving your handout, and I saw several people reading them. Before you read the handout that I gave you tonight, I was wondering how many of you could tell me anything at all about the mysteries that we find in the Bible. Before tonight, could you tell me anything at all? Could you tell me how many there were? Could you tell me uh any of the mysteries, what they are, before this evening, before you walked in. Could you tell me what they mean? So let the record show by your honesty this evening That there is nobody that could tell me about these mysteries before tonight. So I think it's pertinent that we as Christians, if we're supposed to be stewards of the mysteries of God, this is very clearly given to us in our text, correct? We're to be stewards of this. If we're to be stewards of this, it's something that as Christians we should know about. Now listen, I'm you know preaching it myself here as well I had to go study these things. I mean, I knew of a couple of the mysteries of God, but I had no idea that there was 19 of them. 19 mysteries of God given to us in the Word of God, very clearly. I was shocked. And I thought, wow, I need to be teaching these. I need to be expounding on the truths that are found in the scriptures, and we as Christians are to be stewards of. Now, many people don't want to take time to look at the mysteries because, in fact, we have a lazy Christianity today We would much rather kind of have an energetic and exciting sermon. We would much rather kind of touch on the surface about how God is good and God is great. You know, thank you for the vitals. Thank you for the meat. Let's eat. Just keeping it simple. Let's just keep it real simple. Let's keep it on the surface. Because we can engage with that. Let's talk about how good God is, how bad things are, and how God makes things better. And these are true principles. And of course you know that I preach on these on occasion as God leads. But the truth is, we as Christians are supposed to begin to get a little deeper. We're supposed to get a little bit better understanding of the principles than of the Word of God. You know, many people feel, like he says in Ecclesiastes, that it much study is weariness of the flesh. Amen? Much study. I I would agree. I have spent, well, since about nine o'clock this morning, outside of about 35 minutes where I ran home for lunch, in study. Much study is weariness of the flesh. It does get weary. It does get hard at times, but we are supposed to, as Christians, desire to do it. Actually, when I think about all that there is in the Word of God that we as Christians need to know. And then I think about my responsibility as the pastor to try and teach it to you, I get a little overwhelmed. I kind of think, how in the world? I mean, there's so much in the Word of God. There's so much there and and So many times when we as Christians we we keep touching on the surface. We keep hearing messages about things that are just on the surface. And even as pastors, we need to get in the Word of God and dig down a little bit deeper so that we can share something a little bit deeper. So that the people can learn something. I feel that weight and that responsibility, and I'm a little bit overwhelmed by it. I think about how when as a high school student you graduate and you feel like you know everything there is to know And you go to college, and in your first semester, you realize how much you didn't know. You're like, oh my goodness, and you start learning, and all of a sudden, this whole new world has opened up to you, right? And then you go through college and you get done with college and you say, okay, now I know. And then you embark upon maybe some further study or even life itself. And all of a sudden, when you enter a room, an area of study or a topic, and you go into that door, you walk through that door that you think is the bottom. And all of a sudden it opens up a whole new list of doors that need to be opened. And you think, my, I've already gone and learned this and this and this and this. How can there be that much more? But as Christians, we're supposed to go beyond. We're supposed to learn more. And I hope and I desire. I don't want to bore you. I don't want to, you know, just Give you a whole bunch of study and get weary and you say, Man, I know we're supposed to learn that, but he's killing us with that stuff. I hope that you're excited about it and that you want to learn about the mysteries of God. I mean everybody likes a mystery Right? I mean we like mysteries. That's why there's so much success in in, you know, like these mystery rooms and there's success in in uh what's that? I don't even know if they do it anymore, but they had the mystery theater dinners Where you go and you were part of the mystery and you you gotta solve the murder by the end of the meal, you know, those I mean those were were a big thing because everybody likes the mystery And these are mysteries that are given to us in the Word of God. So let's see here, first of all, what is a mystery? What is a mystery? This time of year is kind of Given to that. The mystery. People have their Halloween decorations out all over already and and people are looking at you know these they they try and come up with different different ways to to show things and and it's about hiding and the secret place and all these uh the the mysteries that are out there Lots of uh magic tricks are done that are about the mystery of it and trying to solve and understand it. Many people uh have things in their life that are uh a mystery to others, they're not a mystery to them For instance, on the bottom of my cards, even a lot of my text that I send Mary or that Mary sends me We'll put CF. Like, well, what does CF mean? Well, when we were dating, I started signing her cards. I love you. completely and forever. Pretty soon that got just too long, so I shortened it to just CF So now all I gotta do is just press I just got to text CF and it means I love you completely and forever. But nobody else knows that. It was a mystery to somebody else that might look at it, but it was not a mystery to us. And this ties in very close to what we're looking at tonight when we talk about the mysteries that are in the Word of God. First of all, let's look here as a definition of it. In one sense, a mystery is that thing That no one understands. That we can't can't fathom it. I mean, you think about one of the illustrations that have to do with the mysteries of God is it talks about, and we've looked at the parables and Uh there it's a mystery how this little seed can be stuck in the ground and then all of a sudden it grows. And it comes out of the ground, and that one seed becomes a stalk, and on it is a whole bunch of ears, and on every ear is a whole bunch of grain. Now, science can look at that and they can start to explain it But it's a mystery as to how this really happens. What is it that makes this possible? This this mystery that's out there, for all we know about the universe, it's just like the Word of God. For all we know about the universe, it just keeps getting deeper and deeper. We just keep seeing more and more that we don't know. In one sense, we're talking about a mystery that no one can understand. Obviously, once you understand it, it's no longer a mystery. In another sense, a mystery can be something that is understood by some yet remains a mystery. Mystery to others. Which is what I gave as far as the illustration with my wife and I in our text was saying completely and forever. You know, sometimes there may be something in your past. I know when I was a teenager, my cousins, they went to a Christian school, and their Christian school, they developed this language. In which they could communicate with each other. The kids wrote, they basically re-wrote letters, I mean, or reorganized the letters in words. And they got to where they could do this in their mind and they could stand there and talk in this language that they developed and nobody could understand them. It was a mystery to everybody else, but not to them, because they are the ones that initiated it. They understood it. So here's the problem with many of the cults and even a lot of the societies that are out there today that require of their people to do certain things. You see, when you just get started in it, you may not understand what that ceremony really means. You get involved in this and you swear allegiance to this society or to this group and you participate in this ceremony and you don't know what it means because for you it's still a mystery. But after you get to a certain level, or some people call them degrees, after you get to certain degrees or statuses in these organizations, then you are sworn to keep the mystery. And you are told what these mean. And then you know what it is that you're actually practicing, what it is that ceremony is actually teaching. We've got to be very careful about getting involved in things that we don't understand. They seem like harmless activities, but in fact they're not. When we're talking about this world and uh sorry, when we're talking about the word of mystery that we're talking about that's found in our Bible, it's really not like our mind likes to interpret the word You have to remember this was written uh you know thousands of years ago in a time frame when things were different. Our mind thinks about a mystery and immediately we go to a particular path. But when we look at the Bible interpretation of this word, in fact, it it means something different and a little bit more straightforward than what we would we would perceive. Here's the definition of a mystery, if you want to write this down. Okay? It is a secret kept in the heart of God. Until he chose to reveal it to the heart of man. A secret kept in the heart of God until he chose to reveal it Into the heart of man. And as we give you the actual biblical definitions of the Greek words that we're looking at tonight, you'll see what I'm saying here But a secret kept in the heart of God until he chose to reveal it to the heart of man. So it was a mystery for many generations. It was mystery for a long time. But then God, who already knew what it was, chose to reveal it to the heart of man. And man was able to then understand, interpret the mystery. Like he says in Ephesians chapter 3 and verse number 9. And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery. Okay, now listen to this next phrase. He's talking here about the fellowship of the mystery, and he says, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God. This mystery from the beginning of the world was hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ. See, from the beginning of time, God knew what these mysteries were. And he knew what they would be perceived to be, but he waited until the fullness of time came, until his time was right to reveal unto man what the mystery was. There was no way we were going to solve it by ourselves. There was no way any man was going to be able to interpret or understand it or explain it by himself. It is the mystery that God gives us. Our goal in this study is going to be able, is going, hopefully, to bring us to the place where we understand what these mysteries are and we're able to adequately explain them. to others. Because we are supposed to be as Christians stewards of the mysteries of God. So the Bible description of this mystery, the Bible description, it's a Greek word. This Greek word is found only in the New Testament. There is no illusion or reference to any of these mysteries in the Old Testament. That is the time period in which they were held as a mystery. So they're all revealed to us in the New Testament. This Greek word appears 27 times in the New Testament. The Greek word is masterion. And if you want the spelling, you will have to see me afterwards. Uh this according to Thayer's Greek definitions, it means hiding a thing, generally mysterious, religious secrets, confide only in the initiated and not to ordinary mortals. So the the key principle there is convite it in only the initiated and not ordinary mortals. So those people which have been shown and taught what it says, the initiated, confided only in those people that have been shown and taught what the mystery is So that's what the definition of that word, the Greek word, really means. It means it's a mystery, not something that can't be known, but something that is known. And can be taught or shown to somebody else, but it's unknown to many. The rude idea, then, is that there's information known only to those inside, but hidden to those outside. Turn your Bibles to Mark chapter 4. Mark chapter 4 You dare say Amen. Got a few. I want you to see this. I want you to see the verse. I want you to, we're we're trying to learn a little bit about the Bible. In Mark chapter 4, verse number 11. Not many pages turn, so you should be there. He says, and he said unto them, unto you, it is given to know the what? Mystery of the kingdom of God. But unto them that are without all these things are done in parables. Now we've taken a good amount of time and we've taught many of the parables that are found in the New Testament, and this is one of the reasons in which Jesus taught in parables. Because unto you that are within It is given unto you to know the mystery. He wants you and I to know the mystery. God is not hiding the mystery from us, He's giving it, He's revealing it to us. He wants us to know and understand the mystery. But to them that are without, them that are not part of the family of God, them that have not believed on the Lord Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, the fact of the matter is that some things are just going to be a mystery to them. You know, the Bible tells us very clearly that the natural man doesn't understand this book. They look at the book and they may even sit in a service and and You know, you preach the word of God and you say, Whosoever believeth on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ shall be saved, calleth on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ shall be saved. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. Um Neither is there any name given among uh men whereby a man must be saved. Help me out. Anybody can can anybody quote that? Neither is there salvation in any other name given among men. uh programming must use an export export. So you preach that. Very clear I mean it's very clear, isn't it? Yeah And what do people say? They say, oh, we all love God. He just has different names. We're all serving God. You call him Jesus or you call him Lord and I call him whatever. But what does the Bible say? There is no other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. No other name. Why is it then with that very clear teaching that people would still say, oh, we all love God and we're serving God and you just call him this and I call him this? No. We don't get to call him where we want to. The Bible told us who he is. But the thing is, is it's hidden It's hidden. They they can't see it. They can't understand it. The mysteries that are in the Word of God are are just gone. They can't grasp them. Why? Because they're the natural man. They haven't trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. yielded to God and taking that first step, and we could give you more scripture on that. If you don't take that step, the things that are in this book are just going to be Greek to you. That's the way it is. So the mysteries here, the Greek word is translated in the New Testament 22 times as mystery. And five times as mysteries. Now it's the same word. If you go do a search and you look up mystery, you're only going to come up with 22. But if you look up mysteries, you'll come up with five. And those things together, if you look at the Greek definition of those particular words in strong accordance, you'll find that they're all the same word. Translated into English. into those two different uh terms, which of course both mean mysteries. Now, these uh 19 mysteries of the Word of God It refers to God's secrets, his counsels and purposes, which are not known to man apart from his special revelation. Look in uh Daniel chapter number two. Turn to Daniel, the book of Daniel, back in the Old Testament. Now I know it doesn't talk about mysteries in the Old Testament. I told you that already, but there's some uh insight given to us here. Here to Ezekiel Daniel, Daniel chapter number, what did I tell you? Daniel chapter number two, look at verse number eighteen. Now we know Daniel was uh used of God and many times to interpret dreams. to reveal unto those that uh were having a dream what God was trying to say. And And Daniel chapter number two and verse number eighteen. He says if we're down through eighteen through verse number thirteen eighteen through twenty-three. So he says here and I apologize, I was on the wrong page. that they would desire mercies of God of heaven concerning this secret. So there was a secret thing there, that Daniel and his fellows should not perish with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, for wisdom and might are his, and he changeth the times and the seasons He removeth kings and setteth up kings. He giveth wisdom unto the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding. He revealeth the deep and the secret things. He knoweth what is in the darkness and in the light dwelleth with him. I thank thee and praise thee, O God, God of my fathers, who has given me wisdom and might and has made known unto me now What we desire of thee, for thou hast known, made known unto the kings, the king's matter. Jesus Christ, God, revealed unto Daniel the mystery, the secret that he needed to know. So God is in the business of displaying, showing, teaching the mysteries that are in the Word of God. These mysteries are here. Now, what are the mysteries of God? Now these we're gonna have there's no way we could actually teach all these in one time. We're gonna take time and dive into them and try and get an understanding of them, but I wanted you to have them in I wanted you to have them in front of you along with all the references. I wanted you to have the scripture right there to be able to see it, so that you don't have to turn and look it up in the Word of God, although it wouldn't hurt you to look it up in a Word of God, but I wanted you to have it. So what are the mysteries of God? There is a list here I've given you of all the ones that I've found and broken them down into uh categories. and uh teachable uh instances here that we can study out. So first one here is the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God. Some people would divide those two up because they are different. the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, many times, starting in Matthew chapter number, does anybody know? The parables that are found in Matthew, there's seven of them. In what chapter? Matthew chapter number. It's after 10. 13. Matthew chapter number 13. That's the main passage on the parables and dealing with the kingdom of heaven. So that's where uh this is talked about a lot. So the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God. Then Israel's blindness, which I referenced as we opened the uh thing here. See Romans chapter eleven, verse number twenty five. He says, For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceit, that blindness in part ha is happened to Israel. until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. So we're going to study that out. What does that mean and why did it happen? And then you have the salvation in Christ. that we have in Christ. This is a mystery. All of these references have mysteries listed for us. The wisdom of God, the wisdom of God that's there ordained. before the world, uh the mystery of that, the doctrines of God, teaching us about God, mystery. I mean, who can explain the mysteries of God? He's God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, all three. Yet they're all three one. It's God, but there's three of them. And then He's omnipresent and omnipowerful and He is omniscient and all-knowing. And so, I mean, who can explain that? It's really beyond our comprehension when we think about God and who he is and what he can do. So we have the doctrines of God that's a mystery, the gospel of Jesus Christ, the mystery of that The gift of knowledge given to us by God, the mystery. Speaking in tongues. What is that? And uh we're going to enjoy studying that one out. The rapture of the church, the mystery. He says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. Amen. Amen. I'll tell you what, I would love it if Jesus would come back inside my lifetime. I just, you know, I don't know in the moment or in twinkling of eye, I I don't think we're gonna have time to actually like like soar like Superman, like fly up there. But If it's just going to happen or what. But I like being up high. And I just thought that would be awesome. In a few years I'm going to climb the Grand Tetons with my with my boys. And uh looking forward to that. But I like being up high. So one day in the rapture I'll be really uh up there. Right. I was gonna say I'd be really high, but that would be bad. So then we have the mystery of God's God's will. That man, understanding and knowing God's will, having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure. You know, it's a mystery. Sometimes people have the hardest time knowing what God's will is. The mystery of the church, this magnificent living body of believers. What is that? The mystery of Christ in men. How do you explain that? Jesus Christ comes to live inside of you? What does that mean? The doctrine of Christ, uh the spirit of lawlessness. You think about this world. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. I mean, think about the wickedness of the world we live in today. And you just y your mind spins sometimes thinking about how wretched man is And the things that people are capable of. It's just mind-boggling. It's a mystery. The faith of the gospel, godliness, the mystery of godliness, godliness with contentment. Is great gain and uh having a form of godliness, but benign the power thereof. Many things with regards to godliness is a mystery. Uh the seven stars and the candlesticks. I know a lot of you really enjoy these. We're getting into the book of Revelation now. And the seven stars and the candlesticks that are there. And then you have God's delay in casting out Satan. What a mystery that is. I mean, if I was God, I would have locked up Satan a long time ago. That dirty, rotten bum, I mean he creates so much havoc and so much problems in this world. Why? Doesn't make sense to me. Certainly is a mystery why God would delay and not lock up Satan. So we're gonna look into that and see what we can learn. The mystery of Babylon. And upon her forehead a name was written, Mystery, Babylon the Great, the mother of all heartless, the abomination of the earth. What is that mystery of Babylon talking about there in the book of Romans? revelation. There's lots there. These mysteries are revealed to us, taught unto us, and one of them is revealed by Christ himself. Fifteen of them were revealed by or through Paul. Three were revealed by John here in the book of Revelation. So we're going to be looking at these. Now what is our responsibility with regards to this mystery? We know as I began when I started out that we have been made stewards of these mysteries. It is our job, our responsibility to understand what these mysteries are and what they mean. We should try to work to make them understandable for us and that we can explain them to others. We are not, according to Romans chapter 11, verse number 25, for brethren, I would not that you should be ignorant. Of these mysteries. We're not supposed to be ignorant of it. That's not what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to know them. Much of the New Testament was given to us. If we would read it so that we could understand the mysteries of God. Oftentimes Christ took extra time to explain the mysteries. To the disciples. You know, he gave a parable that was given in a mystery, and then the disciples came and they said, Lord, teach us what meanest thou. And Jesus took extra time to teach Him them them the mystery of what he was saying. And we should grab a hold of that and get understanding. Knowledge of the Word of God is only attained as we become students of this book. Can you say with the psalmist, with a clear conscience, but your delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law you meditate Day and night. Can you say that with a clear conscience? The truths of this book will only be opened unto us by God Himself. We must learn, strive to learn about the wisdom of God, the will of God, the ways of God, the work of God, and even the wrath of God. might know him and him crucified. That's our responsibility. So in the coming weeks we're going to dive into these individual mysteries and see what God has for us. I'm looking forward to it. I hope you are as well. Let's just bow our heads. Let me just close this in prayer, and then we're going to have our prayer time this evening. Lord, we thank you for these truths from the Word of God. We thank you for the privilege that is ours to study them To understand them. Lord, what a magnificent thing to know that you've made these mysteries available for us to learn, to know. It's not hid from us. We're not to remain ignorant of them. I pray, Lord, that we would we would really desire to know and understand them, that you would give understanding to every heart present. And Lord, we'll thank you for it. We ask this in Jesus blessed name. Amen.