All right, we are in uh 1 John, just finished up uh 1st and 2 Peter, so we're coming down to the closing books here of the New Testament. of our New Testament survey. Today we will be covering 1, 2nd, and 3rd John. Hopefully that's kind of the plan. But that begins in your notes there on page 150 through 150. Hopefully you have those and are ready to go. There was uh we gave those away a previous week, so you should have been able to pick them up already. All right, the book of first John. The book of First John here is known as the Book of Assurance. Uh it's kind of uh a good title for it because of the key thoughts that are here, uh the key verse, 1 John 5. 13. These things have been written unto you to believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. And just that principle of knowing and having that confidence and that assurance. Excuse me. So beginning right here at the beginning of our notes, the date. Uh it was A. D. eighty-five to ninety. John was the pastor of the church at Ephesus and uh was there serving, pastoring, leading the church. And uh we're closing in on the end of his ministry. It is believed that uh John only lived to about AD 98. Uh and so we're we're coming eighty-five to ninety, eighty, eighty-five to ninety is when he wrote first, second, and third John, and uh, you know, one after the other, and then we're getting close to the end of his ministry there. The aim of the book, several things here, several purposes or reasons that can be seen clearly in the text. First of all, is so that all men may know that they have eternal life Uh without question and you uh just a few weeks ago now, I don't know, maybe month or uh time flies, but Uh I preached a message on uh just knowing uh how how to know the the kind of test or the signs of your salvation. What are some evidences of that? How can you know for sure you're saved? And they're uh I gave them all to you from the book of First John and the different times that First John says that you can know, that you can know, that you can know. And it kind of over and over again deals with that. And so I've listed some of those here. You got the commandment test, the confession test, the charity test, the conviction test, and the conquering test. And we Preached through these and talked about them uh in depth in that service. So we're not going to uh dig into that this morning, but that is one of the main aims for why he wrote this book, so that all men may know that they have eternal life. And then to confirm belief concerning Jesus Christ. There was an attack on the deity of Christ, on the fact that Christ was God And uh God was Jesus was all God and He was all man. And those two aspects are both necessary for His atonement and for his sacrifice to be sufficient to cover the sins of men. And so he deals with those. First of all, he is all God. deals with the fact that he is Messiah in 1 John chapter 2 and verse number 22. He says, Who is a liar, but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ He is an Antichrist that denieth the Father and the Son. So just very clearly dealing with this aspect that Jesus was the Christ, that he was indeed the Messiah, he was God in the flesh. And then also the fact that he was man, that he was born of a woman, in chapter uh four, verses one through three. He said, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God. Because many false prophets are gone into the world, hereby know ye the Spirit of God, every spirit that confesseth That Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God. So he his humanity there, that he came in the flesh. He was born of a virgin. He lived here a sinless life. And these two aspects are very clearly dealt with and dealt with from the standpoint that those that would say otherwise are false prophets. They are false teachers and they shouldn't be listened to. to warn against false teachers. We just saw that there in chapter number four, but also in chapter number 2 verses 18 through 29, that whole passage of scripture there dealing with false teachers and how to how to deal with them, how to address them. And uh then to encourage moral purity. Chapters 3, verses 1 uh through 12, encouraging moral purity uh amongst Believers. He says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore we know Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear we shall be like him. We shall see him as he is, and every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. says hey if you're a son of God, if you're a child of God, if you're uh no then put your faith and belief in Jesus Christ, then you should live a pure life. This is a defining characteristic of the believer, of a Christian, that he lives a pure and clean life. Uh to he deals here with this. To guide in distinguishing between truth and error. So chapter 4, verses 1 through 6, we kind of uh read a little bit about that. But don't believe every spirit. Try the spirits. you know, know whether they're of God or whether they're of uh false and uh learn how to distinguish, have some spiritual discernment. And especially in today's world, we need spiritual discernment because there is a plethora of information available out there. There is every kind of doctrine and teaching that is readily available at your hands. Uh I was telling somebody in the last s several months or whatever that, you know, when my dad was at this stage in his ministry, um it was very, very different. Because the people that gathered and came to, you know, Sheboygan County Baptist Church or Victory Baptist Church in El Paso, Texas, that was their source of doctrinal teaching. They didn't have any other source. There was no other place that they were gonna unless they got in their car and literally drove to a conference somewhere or you know, took time to go somewhere. Or this is back in the tape, the cassette days. Now some of you were eight track days, but that was that was before me, okay? The eight tracks. But the cassette days, you know, sometimes you would get a good cassette, a good preacher or something, and you would, you know, pass that off and it would get handed around and that may be some teaching that you would get But it was very rare to get any teaching outside of your own local church. But today, man, there's so much available and you can sit down and listen to and consume what I mean just You need to have discernment and know what it is you're hearing and if they are doctrinally sound and if they're going to be instructing and teaching you right and he says try the spirits. See if they be of God. So he teaches us how to do that. Some information about the author here, uh, which I just pulled from Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, but we know that he is John, the son of Zebedee, the brother of James. And uh he obviously is the writer of uh five New Testament books. You have the Gospel of John, first, second, and third John. and uh the book of Revelation. These are all given to us by the pen of John. And then there's several things that Wilmington Guides points out. First of all, in the Gospel of John, believers are pictured as sheep. in the fold. That's uh kind of a uh a theme through the Gospel of John, the the sheep, and of course God uh Jesus being the the good shepherd. And then you have in first, second, and third John, believers are members of his family and uh members in the family of God. We're we're part of the family of God. And then in Revelation, believers are priest. in his kingdom. They're a priest in his kingdom. So different aspects of our relationship with God shown to us in these different books that John has written. The audience, he is writing to the churches of Asia Minor. Some of those churches were listed for us in the book of Revelation, the seven churches of Asia Minor. Uh so he kind of gives us a list of those churches, but those were the churches that he was writing to as he's writing uh these books, first, second, and And then uh some key words uh that he gives to us here is uh love twenty-three times no uh is a key word to know that you know, that you know you're saved. And uh 22 times it's found. Uh the Father, and then commandment or commandments, uh eleven times in these in these verses. So some strong truths that we see that maybe we haven't even necessarily dealt with yet, but we've mentioned, first of all, the greatest truth that's shared is the theme of the book, and that is the clear evidences of salvation. those tests of salvation that are seen through this book. One other you know, this is a great book when you have somebody that's just starting out uh in their Christian faith or uh they pick up a Bible for the first time and you You know, they say, well, what should I read? Uh have 'em read the book, the Gospel of John, or first, second, and third John. These books point people to Christ. It it points out the need of salvation. And the uh information is there and it's very clear. So the clear evidence of the salvation, clear declaration of Christ humanity. um that uh Christ was man, that he was born of man, and that uh he lived a sinless life. His humanity is addressed. In John Phillips' commentary uh on this section, he points out uh uh some neat thoughts in that you through the pages of scripture you often see Christ's humanity dealt with or on display. And then within a few verses, you will also see his deity on display. Over and over again you see that, for instance, when he sat by Jacob's well, uh he was weary. And then he asked for water because he was thirsty. And so you have him there asking for water and showing his humanity, but then within a few verses He is declaring unto this woman whom he just met all the things that she hath ever done. And he there is showing his deity and uh declaring to her, you know, things that she thought nobody else knew. And uh yet he knew and so you see both his humanity and his deity. When he was on the boat, uh he was weary. He went down into the boat to sleep, and you see his humanity in the fact that he was weary and he was tired and he needed rest. But then within a few verses you see him standing on the bow of the ship and commanding the winds and the waves uh to to be still, and they obey his voice. So his deity is on display. We see him there outside Bethany and his heart is broken to the point where the Bible tells us that Jesus wept as he i he uh realizes the loss of his friend Lazarus and the pain that those people he loves is feeling and so you see his humanity in in him there weeping but then at the same time Within a few verses, you he see him stand before the tomb and say, Lazarus, come forth. And so you see his deity on display. And beloved, both of these are vitally important. that we know he was God, that he was God in the flesh, and he was all man, but he was all God. We can't necessarily explain exactly how that is all possible. And it opens questions. If you really dig down into it and try and grasp it, the more you try and grasp, the more questions you might have. But the Bible says it, and we believe it Amen. Yeah, that's what it is. So we have to just believe it. Some things we're not going to understand completely or be able to explain You know, I was listening to an atheist and uh and a Bible believer debate this last week, uh, you know, and the the atheist was kind of, you know, basically trying to have a gotcha moment with the with the with the believer, you know, and saying, Well can you explain? Can you explain this? And you know the fact of the matter is there are some things we can't explain and we take them by faith. But it's a whole lot easier to take by faith what God has given us in his Word as God's Word than it is to take by faith what a man has come up with. in their different explanations for how we came about, uh namely evolution. And uh they they take that by faith as well. And uh it's my it's mind-boggling to me some people can be so smart The you know the the level of their education and their mind to to process and think is so smart yet they buy hook, line, and stinker into evolution. Which is so uh weak of a theory. From the very beginning it was even put forth as a theory, yet it is taught taught as fact and as uh the reason or where man came from. It's crazy. We see the results of confession that are given to us in First John, the truth that's shared with us here, First John one nine. If we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What a glorious truth got that God has given us there, that He has shared that with us that we can know that uh yes, uh I've come to him for salvation and he saved my soul and once we're saved, you're you're always saved. You can't lose that. You were born again. You don't get born again, again, again, again, again. You don't keep getting born again. Once you've been born again, you're born into the family of God. You're a child of God. But you obviously do things that displease God, but we can come to Him, we confess our sins, and He's faithful to just to forgive us of our sins. He'll cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And that's a promise that obviously has brought comfort to many of us and has encouraged us, and we realize the truth of that, and we can come to Him at any time. A warning concerning worldliness is given to us in 1 John chapter 2, verses 15 through 17. A lot of these truths in First John are very familiar to us, but he says here, he says, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not it of it is not of the Father, but of this world. And this world the world passeth away. And the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. This whole world it has such a strong pull for us. It has such a strong appetite for us. All of these things that this world offers gonna pass away. It's gonna burn up. It's gonna be gone. And uh but When we follow God, when we do what God wants, it will last forever. It'll maintain, it'll continue on through eternity. When we do the will of God, this abides forever. So a strong and true promise there, but a warning concerning worldliness because uh it certainly is the appetite of man to partake of the things of this world. And uh it seems like the world i in the world system is getting ever more worldly and uh Christians are following suit uh and just continuing progressing on like that So we are going to I've given you an outline there. That outline is actually the outline that I came up with when I taught through the book of uh first, second, and third John. uh just the different as we look at the Christian life and there's different aspects of that. So that's the outline that I came up with and taught through uh when we did this. Then we get into 2 John here. This is known as the Epistle of Truth and of Love and Truth in 2 John. Again, 80, 85 to 90, don't know exactly when, but Immediately following 1 John, another letter written here. The aim of 2 John here, some of the truths that are here. The aim is to emphasize the importance of truth In light of the corrupting influences of false teachers. There's always been false teachers. Satan always has a counterfeit If if the Lord has a method in which he desires something to be done, Satan's going to come up with a counterfeit method. The Lord has a word of God Satan's going to come up with a counterfeit word. Satan has a path of salvation. Satan's going to come up with a counterfeit path of salvation. There are really only two methods or messages of salvation in the world. There is Jesus Christ. That did it all, and man puts his faith and trust in Christ, and there's nothing we can do. And the other message is that it's up to you. And however that takes shape, you know, in different beliefs, it it were it boils down to the works that you do, the the effort that you put forth, the sacraments that you keep or observe or the you know different things that you do for the church or uh the baptism that you partook in, you know, whatever, there's really only those two methods It's salvation by grace in Him alone or salvation by service and what what you do. And we understand we we serve not for salvation, but because of salvation and what God has done for us. But we emphasis he emphasizes the importance of truth in light of the corrupting influences. Uh to remind them that truth is forever. Truth is going to abide in chapter one in uh we are now in Second John and chapter one and verse number two, for the truth's sake dwelleth in us and shall be with us forever. You know, the word of God is forever settled in heaven. And this is truth. And Jesus Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. These are eternal things. And it's going to last forever. And when you have truth in you, that stays with you forever. You know, you may choose to depart from the truth. You may decide to get backslidden, you may decide to walk away from God, but you have truth in you, and if you've believed on Jesus Christ, you have him in you, he is truth, and that will last forever. It will be with you forever. He tells us this is going to remain and it will be part of us. First John focuses on love, and second John focuses on truth. So we see that here over and over again in verse number one. He tells us the elder unto the elect lady and her children whom I love in the truth. And not I only, but also all they that have known the truth. So the idea of knowing the truth, you can know the truth. And then he tells us in verses two through three to welcome the truth. We can you know welcome the truth, receive it with gladness, welcome the truth, then obey the truth, verses four through six. We're to obey the truth, verses seven through eleven, we're to guard the truth. Verses 12 through 13 were to rejoice in truth. So this is the focus here, the aim, to just get people to focus and and uh look at truth, value truth. Uh the author obviously is John. We've discussed him already, so we're not going to see anything else, but the audience the audience here is the elect lady and her children, verses one through four. I read verse number one to you already, uh where he says he tells us the elect lady. Now, the elect lady, there is some uh debate either whether this is uh actual lady in the church there that he is writing to. Uh in some uh perspe perspective in some way of looking at this. The idea of him addressing her specifically is seems to take place. You know, verses one through four here. You know, maybe let's just look at verse number twelve. See, he says here, no man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. and his love is perfected in us. So you also have the aspect there where he's kind of addressing a group. And so the debate is Is this elect lady a individual in the church that he's writing to, or is the elect lady the church, the bride of Christ? So is he writing this to the church as a whole and addressing everybody? Well what we know is for sure, without question, is that the letter is given to the believers and it is for us. It is the word of God and so we know that it's for us. Specifically was this written to an individual or to the church at large? We're not a hundred percent sure, but that lady and elect lady in the church or the elect lady as the church or the bride of Christ, uh it could very well be. Then some key words that are here. We have doctrine, truth, walk, and love. Some key words that are seen in this very short general epistle here. And some strong truths that are shared with us. We see a recurring theme that's given to us, and we've mentioned this already, but the recurring theme is that we walk in truth. Chapter 1, verses 4 through 6, that you walk in truth. That's the whole focus of this message, or the message given to us in 1 John, is that we walk in truth. And as believers, truth abides, and we're supposed to rejoice in it and be glad for it, welcome it, and we're we're supposed to walk in it, walk in truth, and the truth of the revealed word of God, not our truth. Not what we believe, not what we think, but what the Word of God teaches. And uh how much better off we would be if we would submit to the Word of God and live and do what He says. Instructions on how to treat false teachers. Verses 7 through 11, he gives several instructions on how to treat and address false teachers, what to do with them. It's He says, for many deceivers are entreated into the world who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This Excuse me, this is a deceiver and an Antichrist. Look to yourselves that we lose not the things which were we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. Whosoever transgresseth, abideth not in doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ hath both the Father and the Son If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him Godspeed. Those that are false teachers He says you're not supposed to show hospitality to them. Those that are proclaimers of false doctrine, they shouldn't be the the ones you you bring in and sit down and fellowship. I was talking with Anthony uh on Thursday night and he was talking to me about engaging uh with some Jehovah's Witness. Uh you know, he says, Is that good or bad? I said, Oh that's great. You can talk to him, point him to Jesus Christ, you know uh and he's like well should uh give them a gospel tract you know and I said yeah they'll take it give it to 'em you know. Uh they they often would have you take, you know, and I I have and a lot of times they will they will say, Oh no, we we can't take that you know, um but definitely offered to him and he did when those he was debating with over this week, you know, and he was talking about how f how fun it was to have the knowledge to be able to talk to them. and to have that foundation that he could engage with them about truth. And uh but it's not wise for you to bring them in, sit them down, have a dinner with them and and week after week have have a Bible study with them. Uh you that's what they want to do, they want to come, but you understand that they are teaching false doctrine. If they're going to come and you're going to teach them, okay. But if you're going to allow them to teach you, it's just not the Bible says don't don't don't do that. Don't allow, don't show hospitality to them. One who denies the doctrine of Christ is not to be encouraged, not to be blessed. If we do so, this is very important, he said, you're a partaker in his sin, and it will cost you reward. So we've got to be very careful. We've got to guard against that. Then a basic outline there I gave you then 3 John. We're going to wrap this up here. Third John. The aim is to instruct the proper treatment of fellow believers. The audience is Gaius, verse number one, he tells that, the elder unto the well-beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth. And uh so this was possibly one of John's converts. Uh don't know that 100%. It's obviously somebody that he loved and that he cared for. His name is only given to us five times, or this name specifically, only five times in the New Testament. Key words here are truth and receive or receive it. Some strong truths that are given to us here is teaching on how to receive brethren and strangers. Verses five through nine teaches how to receive the brethren and strangers, to uh practice hospitality with those that are brethren or those that you have opportunity uh to witness to or to you know, show hospitality to and be able to reach and obviously in contrast to the dealing with those that are trying to teach you false doctrine. Um so How to receive brethren and strangers. An emphasis on the importance of your testimony. Verse 6, 10, and 12 deal with this aspect of what you're known by, the testimony you have. Uh in verse number six he says, which have borne witness of the charity before the church, whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort thou shalt do well. Those that had borne witness, those that had seen this of them, their their testimony. Verse number ten He says, Wherefore if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth. Uh remember his deeds, remembering what what he did, the t the testimony that he had. It's going to be something that's remembered, that'll go before him. People will uh acknowledge it. And in verse number twelve, Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God, but he that doeth evil hath not seen God. maintaining a right testimony before men uh that we follow after that which is which is good. So the testimony that we have an emphasis on importance of that for us. And an outline that I've given you there, this outline is from Jensen's New Testament survey. So when I was teaching through 1, 2nd, and 3 John, uh, it was right during that time is when I fell off the roof. And I went to the hospital. And when I went to the hospital, uh my laptop got a drink poured down inside of it and was destroyed. and I lost all my notes on Third John because my laptop hadn't been backed up for a while. So during that time I have about a three month period that a lot of notes that I wrote, all this preaching that I did, all the studying that I did during those three months is gone. Uh because it from the last backup that I did Uh and so that's why I don't have my outline right there because I don't have those notes. But uh that's that was the hardest thing about losing the laptop is the the hours and hours of study and work that that was gone because you know, of the from the last backup. So very very disappointing. I went through a lot of things trying to find them, like did I save it anywhere else? Did it get logged anywhere else? And I didn't. It's gone. But Anyways, all right, that's that's where we're at. So we're done a couple minutes early. Um give you a short break here. Let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, thank you for time in Sunday school this morning. We pray that you would just bless us as we move into the morning service. Thank you for the joy of being able to observe and uh walk with believers and this morning getting to see two Follow you in believers baptism, Lord. I pray that you would just bless the service this morning. May you be honored and glorified in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed.