Amen. Good evening. Let's go ahead and turn to First Corinthians eleven. The primary passage outside of the Gospels on the teaching of the Lord's Supper were Paul is correcting some issues that were happening uh regarding the Lord's Supper. I do enjoy preaching services uh that are part of the Lord's Supper. There's such a Such a rich uh doctrine associated with the ordinance that we're going to observe tonight, and I do uh love to study these things throughout the Bible. I told the juniors this morning that tonight we would be preaching um on the blood. I gave them a heads up so that they could get get ready for that tonight. So I did tell them that. We're gonna look tonight at the idea of the voice of blood. the voice of blood. We'll be going to several places in the Bible this evening, but we're going to kick things off here in Fir 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse number 25. If you are able to, I would ask that you would stand with me as we read this first text. And get begin with our message this evening. Hebrews, 1 Corinthians 11, verse number 25. After the same manner also he took the cup, and when he had supped, saying This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do as often as ye drink it in remembrance of me. Let's open the word of prayer. Lord God, we love you, and we thank you for that precious blood. uh that was shed on our behalf. The blood that that does so much for us in cleansing us from every sin, Lord, that purchased uh our salvation, that precious blood. And we pray as we look at the idea tonight, Lord, that we would be be grateful for it, that we would live uh in in in uh understanding and remembrance of the sacrifice uh that you made for us on the cross so long ago. And as we observe the uh supper tonight, Lord, we ask that you'd help us to remember the significance uh of what was done uh to purchase our salvation, Lord. And to remember uh remember you, remember your death, and remember what you have done for us. Lord, pray you bless the study of your word tonight. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, maybe seated In the dispensation of the law, that would be the the time from Mount Sinai up until the Christ's resurrection, roughly, in that area. Some people would put it as when Christ came on earth, but that time period of the law people worshipped uh first in the tabernacle, and then as we saw this week in our devotional reading Uh once the temple was built, that was the place where they would go to worship God. And God's presence was hid uh from the people uh behind the veil. both in the temple in the tabernacle and in the tabernacle behind a door as well, which we just read about in our devotional there as well. God's presence was separated from the Israelites, from mankind, in the place called the Holy of Holies. This was the dwelling place of the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant, I'm sure you've seen images that try to relate that idea. But the Ark of the Covenant was a box, and in that box it contained three things. And then I know something that was in the um the Ark of the Covenant. I almost said it out loud, Mr. Jacob. A jar of manna was there, Lucas? The Ten Commandments, the first or second set? The second set, good job. Second set and uh Melissa? Aaron's rod that buddy. Those things three things were contained in uh the Ark of the Covenant, all having very important things. And the lid was not called the lid. It was called the mercy seat. The way the mercy seat was designed, there were two cherubim that were leaning over, looking down at the mercy seat, as if they were looking into the Ark of the Covenant. And uh these cherubim were their cherubim are God's warrior angels. God has different angels in the Bible that we see different purposes that they have Uh cherubim are the ones that God uses to execute judgment, to execute wrath, when the angels would uh would um go forth and and fight for God, that would be the cherubim. When Jesus said, Can I not call more than ten legions of angels? He would be talking about the cherubim. These were God's warrior angels that executed God's judgment and God's wrath. So the picture of the mercy seat, we see those angels who exercise or who um implemented the wrath of God would be looking down into the Ark of the Covenant, and what would they see there? They would see the the Ten Commandments. They would see God's law. And we know from Romans that the purpose of the law was not that we could attain to our own salvation by following the things of the law in the passage that we looked at in the Sunday morning service at the beginning Paul said that he as touching the law he was blameless as a Pharisee. He talks about all his prestige that he was able to gain as a Pharisee, and he says, I count that all but lost, that I might win Christ. And he says that that did me no good. The law is not a means of salvation. The law is not a means of grace or to reach. What what the law does, the law brings us to a point where we realize that we're in sinners in need of a savior. So with the law, as the angels of God look down on the law in wrath, what they see is the fact that man is guilty. Once a year, um one priest, the high priest, would be allowed to come into that place of the Holy of Holies. He would come in there twice on that day to offer a blood sacrifice. He offered the sacrifice outside and he'd bring in the blood He'd send the blood before him before he went behind the veil, he'd sprinkle the blood on the ground. Then he would come in and he'd put the blood on the mercy seat. And what the blood on the mercy seat signified there was that blood was a covering. So when the angels of God looked down, they didn't see the law that condemned man. They saw the blood that covered man. A beautiful illustration there of Christ, but an incomplete illustration of the Old Testament, as we're going to look at here in just a few minutes. This practice, year after year, as this atonement was made and the blood was sprinkled on the mercy seat, that would cover the sin of the nation and of the high priest for another year. And this was going to continue until the day when Jesus' blood was um was shed, not to cover our sins, but to cleanse our sins. So as tonight as we take part of communion I would like us to consider the idea of the blood of Jesus. And as we get into the idea of the blood of Jesus, we're going to start with blood in general. First of all, this evening I'd like to look at the idea that blood has value. Most of the time, when we think in economics, basic econ, we understand that things have value because of the idea of supply and demand For example, houses in DC are expensive. That's because one million people work in D. C. and there are about 109,000 homes that are owned by people that live in them. So there's a large demand. A lot of people would like to live in D. C. There's only a couple homes So that means there's expensive homes. There's value there because of the supply and demand. But there are other things that are not intrinsically valuable. Some people think of things that will that are sorry, that are intrinsically valued, not based on their demand. Some people would immediately jump in their mind to the idea of precious metals or jewelry. Well these actually are not intrinsically valuable. The only reason they're valuable is because people want them. If you were dying on a desert island and somebody gave you some gold and some uh some uh diamonds, you might use the diamonds as slingshoupless to try to kill a kill something to eat. It's not worth anything because you don't want it at the time. So those things are still driven by the law of supply and demand. But things like our families, these are intrinsically of value. You know, economically speaking, there are a lot of women in the world, so if I love supply and demand, any one in particular would not be worth that much, except you could not give me all the money in the world to take mine away from me Because she's intrinsically valuable to me. Uh same is true with children. There's lots of children around, lots of children in the world, but I wouldn't trade uh mining for yours any day because they're mine and they're intrinsically valuable to me. Brother Greg has mentioned several times facts. He tells me You know what? You're a millionaire when he sees me holding one of my kids. And he's almost right, because they're worth a lot more than that. They're intrinsically valuable Your life is intrinsically valuable, at least to you, maybe not to somebody else. Someone came up to you and you were not in a unstable mental place. uh and they offered you a million dollars to commit suicide, you'd turn them down in a heartbeat. Because your life is valuable to you. It's worth more than that to you. A parent's love is intrinsically valuable to a child. Last year I wrote a devotional on displeasing children, and I later preached that devotional as a message in a church in Pennsylvania. But during that I discussed the idea that children would rather have their parents' attention Affection and love more than any material thing that you could buy for them, because it is of so much greater value, intrinsically of value This was an interesting fact that I came across during my study. Babies who are not held, nuzzled, and hugged enough can stop growing, and if the situation remains long enough, they will even die even with sufficient food and care This is one this was determined during some scientific research into why infants in orphanages have such high mortality rates. Because they need affection. That's intrinsically valuable. Something that God has set up of s as being intrinsically value is um in in the law of nature is that of blood. Blood has intrinsic value. In Genesis chapter nine we find that God set up human government to protect the blood of man. The job of the government, um, when it was set up, when it was created by God, the institution of government that God created it, it was not created uh as a safety net, it was not created uh primarily as a means of defense. The primary reason that the government was created was to punish wrongdoers, specifically those that took the life of another. You can read that in Genesis chapter 9. Sorry, I just miscomplaced my notes for real. Um the government is there to punish those who shed the blood of others. In Genesis chapter nine, it's interesting that God also commanded the animals not to shed the blood of man. Have you ever heard on news or science channel about some animal attacking a human? What's always said, this is uh this animals attack humans, or the animal attacks on humans are very rare and usually avoidable. This is not because animals realize that we're on top of the food chain. When you get alone in the woods with an animal, you're actually pretty wimpy. No teeth to speak of, no nail, no claws that claws to um take care of yourself. Usually you're smaller than the predator But most of the time animals will leave humans alone, even predators, unless there's some extreme circumstances around that. This animals don't attack humans because in Genesis chapter 9, God told them not to. It's an interesting thing to note there. Genesis 9 also describes how man has been given the animals for food. But even in this, the eating of blood is forgiven. Why or is forbidden? Because blood is valuable. Of all the valuable blood in the world, that which flowed from the body of Christ Christ on the cross far surpassed the value of any other. First Peter 1 verses 18 and 19 says, For as much as ye know as you are not redeemed with corruptible things such as silver and gold, But um or from the your vain conversation received by the tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Although animal blood, our animal blood has value, and animal life is nothing compared to the value of a human life. Although human life is valuable and of blood is of great value, it is temporal and it is tainted. The blood that Jesus shed for us is of infinite value, for it is the blood of God who is eternal, who is omnipotent, and who is holy. So, in our verse that we began with this evening, when Jesus said, This is the New Testament in my blood, he was speaking of the value of the sacrifice that he was going to make. He was going to give up his life for us. Blood is one primary reason that Jesus had to come as a man. When Jesus came to secure our salvation, he came and he was we just talked about this at Christmas time. He was virgin-born, took on human flesh. The one one of the reasons why he did that was because He needed to have blood. We learned from Genesis 9 that life is in the blood, so without blood, Jesus couldn't die. We learned from Hebrews that without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins So in order to remit our sins, he had to shed his blood. We learn from the same verse that blood is the payment that was demanded by the law. So one reason God had to come in human flesh was so he that could supply the blood that was necessary to secure our salvation. Jesus became a man so we could have the blood to shed for our sin. Look at with me at Luke chapter 24, verse 39. This is a very interesting verse. We're going to come back to uh it in just a few minutes. But Hebrews chapter 24, or sorry, Luke. Okay, I'm doing a lot of references tonight. I apologize for mixing those up. Luke 24. Christ dies on the cross, he rises again, and then we know that he meets with the disciples. This is the instance where uh Thomas was not there and doubted. Doubtly Christ's resurrection. Luke 24, verse number 39. Jesus talking to the disciples, he said they are afraid of him because he showed up in their bits. And he says, Behold, my hands and my feet, that I it is I myself. Handle me and see, for spirit hath not flesh and bones. as the seemingly have. Now when the Bible is describing humanity and the humanity of something, five times it uses the word, the phrase flesh and blood. This is the only time that we see the phrase flesh and bones. Something happened to Jesus' blood. Where did it go? We'll find out in just a few minutes in Hebrews chapter 9. So first of all, blood has value. Secondly we learn that blood has a voice. Blood has a voice. Turn with me to Genesis chapter 4, the beginning of the Bible. Genesis chapter 4. Adam and Eve sin in the garden they're cast out. They have two sons. Cain and Abel. In a dispute regarding their sacrifices, Cain got mad at God because God didn't accept his sacrifice, and he took his anger out on his brother, Abel, and killed him. But when you read verse number ten, God is talking to Cain and he um asks a very interesting question and makes a very interesting claim. In verse ten it said he God asks Cain, what hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. The blood of Abel that had been spilt on the ground was crying to God It was crying out to God. It reached the throne of heaven. We can't hear the cry of blood. We can't hear the voice that it has, but God did. God heard the voice of the blood of Abel crying out to him. As I read this verse, I wondered and asked myself the question: what was the blood of Abel crying out to God? If it was talking to God, what was it saying? What was it crying out to the Lord? The blood of Abel here represents for us the law that has been broken by man's sin. The Ten Commandments have not yet formally been given, but Cain knew he had sinned in killing his brother Abel's blood was probably calling for the same things that the broken law called for. Calling for judgment, calling for vengeance, calling for a curse. The broken law cries to the ears of God that man is guilty, just as Abel's blood cried to God from the ground. Abel's blood was crying to the Lord after it was shed, saying, Avenge me, bring judgment on the one who shed me, the voice of the blood crying out. The next blood that I can think of in the Bible that we see that is speaking takes place in the book of Exodus as the children of Israel are trying to leave um the land of Egypt. The passage does not specifically say that the blood was speaking, but the blood communicated something to the death angel as it passed. If you remember, a perfect lamb had to be slain. And his blood had to be stricken on the posts of the uh on the sides of the door. This blood cried out that the people who dwelt in those homes were claimed by God. What did God tell Pharaoh? He said, Let my people go. God said to Pharaoh, the people of Israel belong to God. They have been claimed by God. So when God was going through to kill one of all the firstborn of the land of Egypt, When the um death angel came, they saw that door, they won the blood on the door, that that blood cried out to the angel is this family has been claimed. This family belongs to God, you're not welcome here in this home. And the death angel would pass over. them. That's why they celebrate the feast called the Passover, because the death angel passed over the homes that had the blood. The blood of the death angel the blood shouted out on the door to the death angel. You can't come here. These are God's people Then we look ahead, and we talked about this already, the blood of the animals that was slain on the Day of Atonement, whose blood was sprinkled on the mercy seat. This blood also had a voice. If you remember what we said about the mercy seat, the cherubim, where they're looking down, executing, ready to execute God's wrath, when they saw the law of God exclaiming That man was guilty. But when the day of atonement came and that blood would come and be sprinkled on the mercy, that blood cried out to God, their sins have been covered. Their sins have been covered. They have been covered for another year. Something came between the offended law and the judgment of God, and that is the sprinkling of blood that Christ covered. Man's fin was covered. Let's go to Hebrews chapter 10. Hebrews chapter 10 talks about this. We'll be mostly in Hebrews for the rest of the evening. The blood of Abel called for a curse. The blood for the blood of the doorposts called that the people was claimed. The blood on the mercy seat called that the sins were covered. Hebrews ten verses one through four For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the thing, can neither with those sacrifices which they offered year by year, continually Make the new c make the comers thereunto perfect. That blood sacrifice every year could not take away their sin. All it could do was cover it for another year. As it came closer to the day of the pro of atonement, the cries of the law that man was guilty began to wax louder and louder against the cries of the blood that their sin was covered. And again that sacrifice would have to be made so that man's sin could be covered for another year. Verse number two, for when for then would they not have ceased to be offered because of the worshippers once purged should have no more conscience of sins. He says, if if it did take away their sin, why did they offer it every year? Verse number three, but in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year. For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. Remember, blood is valuable Even the blood of animals is valuable. But the blood of animals is not valuable enough to take away God's sin, to satisfy the demands of God's law. Although this blood cried out that man's sin was covered, the bloods could not did not have the value necessary to take away sin. But thanks be to God that that was the not not the last blood that spoke on man's behalf. If you remember, the blood of Abel called out for a curse. The blood of the lamb of Egypt called out that people were cleaned. The blood of bulls and of goats of the tabernacle cried out that the people were covered. But the blood of Christ cries out that we have been cleansed. Flip back to Hebrews chapter nine, it probably is on the same page, verses eleven and twelve. But Christ being come and a high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in yearly? No, he entered in once. into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. So the Jesus Christ, our high priest, after he shed his blood on the cross, He took that blood and he applied it to the mercy seat in the tabernacle of heaven to forever stand between God's judgment and man's sin. for those who have claimed him for salvation. And he only had to do that once. The voice that cries out from Jesus' blood never grows dim, never grows faint. It's always crying out on our behalf that these who have trusted in me have been cleansed. No longer can the law stand up against us and say that we're guilty. No longer can Satan as the accuser of the brethren say that we're guilty because the blood of Christ has cleansed us. It was offered once So when Jesus came back to the earth and he saw the disciples, he says, Flesh and bone, spirits do not have flesh and bone like I have. He couldn't say he had blood because he left it in heaven crying out on our behalf to God the Father to appease the wrath of God. Christ went in himself. He offered his own blood. And it is still crying out on our behalf today. Look at Hebrews 12, 24. Remember we started with Abel's blood crying out for vengeance, crying out for our curse. Hebrews twelve verse twenty four And to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of the sprinkling, that speaketh better things than the blood of Abel. That speaketh better things than the blood of Abel. The blood of Abel called out for a curse. Jesus' blood calls out that we have been cleansed Abel's blood cries for vengeance. Christ's blood cries for forgiveness. Abel's blood cries for judgment. Christ's blood calls for justification. Abel's blood cried that a debt is owed. Christ's blood crawls out that a debt has been paid. Abel's blood cries for revenge, but Christ's blood calls that we have been redeemed Blood has a voice. Christ's blood can speak on your behalf, but only after it has been applied. The blood of the on the doors in the land of Egypt would do no good if it was not on the door. It could not, if you left it in the house, if it was still in the bowl, if it was still on the hyssops that had not been brushed on, it could not cry out to the angel to pass over. It had to be applied to the door. The blood that was sprinkled on the mercy seat year after year after year could not cry out that the sins of man were covered if the sacrifice was not made. If you have not claimed Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, not come to Him for salvation, His blood has not been applied to your heart. And when God looks at you, He does not see the blood of Christ in the midst Between him and you. He sees the law demanding that you're a sinner and demanding that your sin needs to be punished. But the blood of Christ wants that it applies speaks better things. Than the blood of Abel. It speaks out that you've been forgiven, it speaks out that you have been cleansed. When God looks down at you, think about that mercy seat. When God looks at you, instead of seeing a broken law and a and a person who has sinned against him and who is in deserving of judgment, what he all he can see is the blood of Christ. It's completely covered, not just covered, it has cleansed and taken away our sins. Blood has value, blood has a voice, and thirdly tonight, Christ's blood can vindicate. Christ's blood can vindicate. The blood of Christ has infinite value. The blood of Christ has a voice, and the blood of Christ can vindicate us as people and as Christians. The word vindicate, I try to find a word that would best describe what takes place when Christ's blood speaks. on our behalf. The word vindicate means to remove the guilt or to prove righteous. Now in our legal system in our country It's supposed to operate on the idea that you're innocent until proven guilty. There have been claims in courts recently that somebody should be able to prove their innocence. That's a negative proof, not something that you can do, but the idea of justification is to prove that someone is righteous. Now for that to be the case we have to start out with somebody that is righteous. And we we we are not righteous. We never were righteous. All our righteousness is filthy rags. But God Christ's blood can vindicate us, can make us where we are righteous, can make us where our sins have been cleansed. This term is the closest we can get, I think, to what was accomplished by the blood of Christ. Because once the blood of Christ has done his work, there's nothing that we can be blamed for because he cleanses us from our sin. It is gone. It is no longer there. I'm going to read for you a couple verses from sec 2 Corinthians chapter 5. You can turn there if you want or just listen as I read. 2 Corinthians 5, verses 17 through 21 says, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God who have reconciled us to Himself by Jesus Christ, and have given to us the ministry of reconciliation to wit, that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, but ha and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray for you in Christ said, be ye reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sinned for us. who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. What happens to us to the point of salvation when the blood of Christ cleanses us is something beyond what words can describe. Jesus didn't just take our sins away. He didn't just wash them away. They are gone, but gone in a way as if they were never there to start with. I have Pastor Gus make an illustration for me for the uh doing on whiteboard, but remember we have screens. It's a lot easier that way. If you look at and put your name on a list and list your sins there, that's who I was prior to Christ. Who I was prior to my salvation. Now sometimes we think, well, Christ washed away our sins. So if you took a uh imagine taking a eraser and erasing all those words and putting on righteousness and holiness. That's what we sometimes think was happening when Christ forgives us of our sins. But when you erase something, especially with a cheap pencil, you don't get rid of all of it. It kind of still has has a faint impression there. Even if you got rid of all of it, the impressions on the paper would still be there. Um but from from the writing that was there. So there's no way we can get rid of that list. But when the verse says there, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we may be made the righteousness of God in him, what the idea of vindication, what the idea of what Christ did for us was not only did he uh cleanse us forgive us of our sins, he cleansed them, but he took our sins upon himself that he might give us his righteousness. And what happens at the point of salvation is Christ took my sin on himself. And put my name where his righteousness stood. So no matter how deep you dig down here, you can never find that sin again. Because it wasn't there to start with. Because Christ became sin for me, his blood vindicated, his blood cleansed me from all that sin. No matter how deep you dig, no matter how deep that wants to pull, God's going to look, and all he says is, I see the blood of Christ. There's nothing else there. That's what Christ's blood has done for us. Vindication is so much more than just forgiveness. Tonight we're going to partake of the Lord's Supper. One command regarding the Lord's Supper is that we not partake unworthily. How profane would it be for a Christian to approach this ordinance where we are specifically remembering the body of Christ that was broken for us and the blood of Christ that was shed for us and come to that table with the guilt of sin? That very guilt that the blood was shed to remove. But we sin again. And that that sin is on our heart, the blood of Christ can be efficient for that as well. It can take that sin away as well, remove that guilt that is there. But we as uh individuals often we hold on to those sins. We hold on to those things that we know God doesn't want us to have. And one reason the church celebrates or or takes part in this ordinance of the Lord's Supper is to give you an opportunity to let that go. To say, come to God and ask for forgiveness for that sin. And that Christ's blood can again speak on your behalf that you have been cleansed, that you are right with God. Christ shed his blood so that you could be cleansed from your sin. The table we are going to partake of is to remind us of that shed blood. If you partake of the supper tonight with sin in your heart, you profane this table. The good news is that the blood of Christ never dries up It never stops speaking. It never loses its value. You can come forward tonight and deal with God. God, I have nothing but a sinful heart to bring. That sin has broken your law and it demands judgment, but all I ask is that you love the let the blood of Christ speak on my behalf. One of my favorite gospel songs, the first verse goes like this. From the highest throne in heaven there came a dreadful cry. God's holiness demanded that justice be satisfied. Then from a hill called Mount Calvary there came back this lad reply, Mercy has been extended. Yes, the blood has been supplied. The blood of Christ is of infinite value. The blood of Christ has a voice, and the blood of Christ can vindicate. Each and every one of us. What is the blood saying about you? Have you muffled the voice of that blood with sin in your life? Have you muffled the voice of that blood because you created a distance between yourself and God? and you're not where you should be as a Christian. Have you hindered the blood of Christ from speaking on your behalf? I encourage you to come to the altar tonight and get get cleansed. Get cleansed, get washed from that sin. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and does forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The blood of Christ still wants to speak on your behalf. If you're here today and you're not saved, that blood of Christ is is is of no no good to you at this time. You can come forward, you can receive it, and then it can speak for you, but right now it is not demanding God's It's not demanding God's grace. It's not demanding God's forgiveness. It's there, it's available. But if you've not yet come to Christ, God's looking down on you. And in John chapter 3, we under we we read that the wrath Abides on of God abides on you. God's looking down at you and He has wrath because what does He see? He sees his broken law He sees his law that demands that you're guilty. But you can come to the altar, you can come to Christ and say, God, apply that blood to my heart. Not just to cover my sins, not just to claim me as your own. But the blood that cleanses, that vindicates me from all of my sin. You can come forward tonight and you can have that blood speak on your behalf. Christian, if you're saved today, remember the sacrifice that was made Of the great value. How much do you value your own blood? You value your own life. You value the lives of your family. How much do you think God valued the life of his son? What's the blood of Christ worth? How much is it worth to you? How much was it worth to God? It's an amazing thought that God valued you and I more than his own blood Knowing that some would trample the blood of Christ, as it says later in the book of Hebrews. Knowing that some would reject the sacrifice that was made, knowing that we as Christians would receive that blood, we'd receive that forgiveness, and go right back into our sin again, and again, and again. Yet the blood of Christ doesn't have to be offered again because it's still there in heaven on the mercy seat right now crying out on our behalf. What are we going to do with the blood of Christ? Let's have every head bowed and every head closed. Let's take some time tonight to remember. To claim and to plead the blood of Christ. When I stand before God, I don't want to speak on my own behalf. I don't want to be my own defense lawyer. I'm going to let the blood of Christ do the talking. If you're here today and you're not saved, you come right up front, look at myself, look at Pastor Caleb, we're more than happy to just take a Bible and show you how that blood of Christ can speak on your behalf. The wrath of God can come off of your life, and the blood of Christ can be placed there. If you're here tonight and you are saved, we need to take time to consider where we are, to consider our hearts. Make sure there's nothing between ourselves and the Savior. Ask God, as the psalmist said, search me. and know me and see if there be any wicked way in me. We don't want to profane the blood of Christ. Profane this table where we remember the blood that was shed. by partaking with sin in our hearts. As the musicians come, I'll close in a word of prayer and then give you time to respond to God. Get your heart ready. Get your heart right with God. To partake of the communion tonight. Lord God, we love you. God we can't we don't understand the the the love and and the sacrifice we can't articulate Lord Lord how much uh it means to us or how much it should mean to us, Lord, the fact that you gave your blood, which is of such great value for those of us, Lord, who are so worthless, God. We fail you on a daily basis. We're not what we should be. Lord. Lord, but your blood still speaks on our behalf. Lord, thank you that it speaks better things. Lord, then the blood of Abel. Pray tonight every person in this room would get a hold of you in their heart, Lord, and that they would ask the blood of Christ to speak If there's one here that's not saved, Lord, I pray tonight would be the night that the blood is would be applied. Lord, bless this time of invitation. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.