All righty, all righty. Well, uh we are concluding uh today the lesson on the loss of man's soul uh dealing with the very final uh section of that um I guess page probably page 34 is where it might be on your notes there. We are not going to get into starting next week we'll be dealing with uh section two which you already have. It was available uh back there in the back. If you have any questions about the uh the book the notes if you're missing a week or you have some notes maybe you're missing you can see uh Debbie. Uh she's been coming in during the week and helping get these printed and collated and all of that and so if you're missing something then uh you can uh to touch base with her and and she'll if we don't have a current copy available she'll let me know we'll get it printed off for you and and get it available but stop and see her This seems a a little loud uh for me. Um I'm not even I'm just barely talking. That that might be a little better. I don't want to uh be squeaking and if I happen to raise my voice at all I don't want it to be uh given us feedback there so Thank you. Alright, so we're dealing with how is man uh saved that question, that final uh set of notes with regards to this thought uh as we're concluding this section on how does what does it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul. the idea that uh we dealt with the idea that Satan uh is doing all he can to keep men from being saved. He's trying and striving to uh blind men and he does that through their will, their emotions and their mind. And we we looked at all of those different things and kind of addressed different ways in which he attacks the the mind and the will and the emotions of men. And uh so um those things uh ultimately narrow down to the point, well, how is a man saved then? Well, the true teaching of the scriptures must be used to refruit refute the errors of the mind. uh the emotions and the will. Okay? It is the scriptures. It is the word of God. You need to use the word of God. The power that's in the word of God A man cannot believe on Christ when he is ignorant of who God is, when he's ignorant of who they are. When he's ignorant of what God has provided in salvation, it's not something that can just happen. A man needs to have understanding. He needs to have an exercise of his faith in order to come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Romans 10 verse number 3 says, For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, going about to establish their own righteousness. And that's what happens when men are ignorant of God's righteousness. They strive to go about and achieve or find a way to attain their own righteousness. because they're ignorant of what who God is. They're ignorant of the fa of who they are, created by God and designed to have fellowship with God. Uh our relationship was broken by sin, and we need the sacrifice of Jesus Christ to restore that fellowship. And if you're ignorant of those things, salvation is not something that just happens. Salvation takes a regeneration, that new birth, as we see there in John chapter 3. And I'm still in that little section there at the top. I I do have a lot of notes and and verses and things that I'm going to give you that are not in your notes. So sometimes I see like if I reference a verse and I see people like looking for it and uh it's not in your notes, you might want to add it or put it down there. Uh but I'll I will give you some things that aren't necessarily right there Uh but we see John 3. 3, a familiar verse, but he says, Jesus uh answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I send to you, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. That idea of being born again That is the regeneration. That is the new life, the new birth that we have through Jesus Christ. Now we use this term saved, but I want you to understand that the word saved is used in the Word of God, and it's a very misunderstand, misunderstood, and misused word in the world today. You see, for a person to say, I'm saved, only means that they're saved if they have a correct understanding and interpretation of what the Bible word saved means. A person may say, I'm saved, and what they're talking about is that they were saved from cancer, or that they were saved in a car wreck. But that's not what the Bible is talking about. When we're talking about the word saved, so a person's understanding of the biblical use of the word or the term saved is vital, vitally important. Uh every religion, and it seems in the world today, many, many, even false cults, will use the term saved. But their definition of the word saved is completely different than ours. And I believe that is, I mean Satan is smart Satan is subtle. He understands and he knows what he's doing. And uh it was years and years ago, I remember as a young boy talking to people about being saved, and for them that was something new. They're like, What what do you mean? Say, what is what is what are you talking about? And you could go to the Bible and show them. But today, it seems like every type of group out there uses that term But their definition of the term is completely different. It may mean that it's something that they attain through the progression of life as they as they try and achieve salvation that they can eventually if they live the right kind of life they can attain salvation but you see they use that word saved and it becomes part of people's vocabulary And so when you're talking to somebody and you say, Well, have you been saved? And and they'll say, Oh yeah, I'm saved. But their definition of saved is completely different. Well well when did you get saved? Oh I've always been saved. Well, no, there there has to be a day of salvation. There's a time. There's a uh uh a a place, there's there's there's a definite time when you became saved, to the them that believe on his name, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. You aren't always a child of God. You had to become a child of God. So we need to understand that the use of this Bible term is very misunderstood and misused today. Some people, they may use the term save, but they do not teach or believe that redemption is bought through the blood of Jesus Christ. their means of attaining salvation is some other way. It could be through giving of alms, it could be through doing good, it could be through uh you know, lighting enough candles, it could be through or saying enough confessions or saying enough rosaries or whatever it might be, their means of attaining salvation is very different from what the Bible says. Um most people today uh that use that have have not actually experienced the miracle of being Redeemed or brought back by the blood of Jesus Christ. I want you to know the beans of salvation. Salvation is a Bible term. And uh we need to understand and look at it from the Bible. Not from even a Baptist perspective. Being saved is not being confirmed. Being saved is not being baptized. Being saved is not taking communion. Being saved is not being delivered from hardship or tragedy. Being saved is not obtained by the ultimate progression. of of status or or uh place of spiritual misconceptions that people have regarding the term saved. Saved is a Bible term and it means to be delivered from the penalty of sin by the Washing of regeneration or by the shed blood of Jesus Christ, the word saved or its derivatives is used 57 times in the New Testament. So we see here first of all as far as things for you to write out that first of all there must be a conviction and that's your your first note there, the word conviction you write in, but I want you to put a little arrow. Right right above this because although it's not in the notes, I believe it's vitally important. We are saved from what? So I want you to write down in there that there must be a conviction of, and however you want to note it, however you want to slot it in there, but a conviction of sin by the Holy Spirit. I want you to add that word sin in there. There must be a conviction of sin by the Holy Spirit. Now John 6. 44 is, No man cometh uh to me except the Father which has sent him draw me. and uh draw him. Uh so the idea that the Holy Spirit draws men to the Father And no man comes to the Father except the Holy Spirit begins to do a work in their heart. The Holy Spirit begins to draw them. The Holy Spirit begins to give them an understanding. of the scriptures and of the truth. Man must be convicted by the Holy Spirit. Convicted what? Convicted of their sin. Romans five twelve, write that verse down next to there. It's not in your notes, but write just write it there somewhere. Wherefore is by one man sin entered to the world, and death by sins, so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned All men have sinned, and we we are sinners and we we need to be uh acknowledge that and come to the realization of it and be convicted of that sin. This is one thing that's vitally important and you've got to be very very careful. There is a movement and it's been very prevalent in churches now for many years, but the idea of one, two, three, pray after me Uh the the hey if we just pray a prayer you can be on your way to heaven today. How many of you want to go to heaven? Everybody wants to go to heaven. Oh, I want to go to heaven, and so people just well just pray this prayer and you can go to heaven. Uh well that idea does not bring people to salvation. They need to understand what they're being saved from. They need to understand the fact that they're a sinner and conviction of the Holy Spirit comes upon their heart and they realize that it is their sin that put Jesus Christ on the cross And they feel the weight of that and come to the acknowledgement of it. So it's very, very important. Now some believe that uh only certain sins are condemned. There are some that teach that, that there's uh mortal sins. There's some sins that are you could do these and you'll be okay, but if you do these you're in bad shape That means that condemnation would be progressive as well That means you would be partially condemned Because it wasn't that bad. But we understand that all sin makes us a sinner. Any sin makes us a sinner. And all sin needs to be covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. John 3. 18 says, He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already. So we see we see and understand that condemnation is not progressive. It's not, oh, you're partially condemned because you've done a little bit of sin. No, all sin. I was teaching at the uh funeral um on Friday morning was was speaking there and uh giving a a message with regards to the hope that we have, the hope of of seeing our loved ones again, that we don't sorrow as those that have no hope and What is that hope? The hope is the hope that we'll see them again, the hope that we'll be in heaven, and that hope is available to all. But but what we must understand is that we're all sinners and I went through that and and taught on that a little bit and then I don't know where it came from or why I said it, but I said, you know, you don't have to be as bad a sinner as Bob in in order to be a sinner. And uh everybody thought that was really funny, you know, that they did they didn't have to be as bad as Bob if you don't have to be that bad. You just have to be any sin. You know, just any sin. You might be a really good guy, but you're still a sinner, right? You've still done wrong. And that's what we need to understand. So um If there is no understanding or acceptance that an individual is a sinner, there is that personal salvation cannot take place. So let her be there. You must believe that you are lost and deserve hell. Luke 5. 32. He says, I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Right down next to that, Ezekiel 1820. Ezekiel 1820 says, The soul that sinneth, it shall die. We understand that as a sinner, uh death passed upon all men for all have sinned. And that death spoken of in the book of Revelation is where we were cast into hell and spent an eternity in a place called hell that was prepared for the devil and his angels, but those that uh refuse to repent and come to Christ spent an eternity there. So you must believe that you are lost and deserve hell. You must be convinced that Christ paid your complete penalty for sin on the cross. You must be convinced of these things. And then, secondly, you must understand and believe the gospel as found in the Bible. Romans 10, 17. You must believe the gospel. So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing. by the Word of God. As we said, you use the Word of God. How do we overcome the lies of Satan? With the Word of God. How do we um Yeah, Satan tries to blind the the eye the minds of men through their will, their emotions, uh and what's the other one? Their mind. Their mind, their will, and their emotions. As Satan tries to do that, how do you overcome that? With the word of God. Somebody says, well, how do you deal with an agnostic? With the word of God The Word of God is quick and powerful. The Word of God is a book that's alive. It is the Word of God. How do you deal with an atheist with the Word of God? How do you deal with a Muslim? With the Word of God. How do you you give them so then faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. It is the Word of God that pierces to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and and reaches down into the heart of men and begins to impress upon them the need of a Savior and their current position. So we've got to understand and believe the gospel as it's found in the Word of God. James 1, verse 21. Write that down next to that. James 1 21. It says, Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. It is the word of God That word of God that reaches into the heart and begins to give men the truth. So it's not the opinions of men and it's not your arguments, and you might have some really good arguments or ways of of uh refuting atheism But it's the word of God that's going to reach their heart. It's the word of God that's going to bring about that change. You want to use the word of God, the gospel. Now you tell me what what in a nutshell what is the gospel? Correct. The death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the gospel. In a nutshell, that's the gospel. the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is the gospel. You've got to believe that. The way that you come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, believing, uh, if you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. So you confess with your mouth, believe in your heart that God, God the Father, raised him, God the Son, from the dead. The idea that, hey, God sent his son. You believe that God sent his son and that he died and was raised again to pay for your sin debt. That's the gospel message. And you you have to believe that, that it happened for you. Believe the gospel as found in the Word of God. Write down Galatians 1 verses 6 through 8 next to that there. Galatians 1, 6 through 8. This is uh verses, uh he says, I marvel not that you are so removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ unto another gospel, which is not another, but there be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ How many of you understand there are other gospels out there? There are other ways in which people would say, oh, you can be saved. Like this. But following and believing in that method or that gospel presentation is not going to get you saved. It's a according to Galatians here, he says it is a perverted gospel. Verse number eight, he says, but uh though we he he says, Hey, even if I came to you and told you He says, or an angel from heaven came and told you. If an angel from heaven came down and told you and preached any other gospel unto you That other than that which was preached, let him be accursed. He says, it doesn't matter if it was me Or if it was an angel from heaven, if somebody comes and preaches to you or presents any other gospel than the gospel of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the complete atonement for sin By the shed blood of Jesus Christ, any other gospel, and he says, let them be accursed, it's false. So how does somebody get saved? They have to understand and believe the gospel. Now this third thing here is very, very important. There's nothing for you to write or underline here, but you must place complete trust in Christ's substitutionary death Okay, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. Somebody quote that for me, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. Starts for by grace. Correct. That idea. So what he's saying here, he says, is you must put your complete trust in Christ's substitutionary death. You can't earn or work or provide anything that would make salvation possible for you. You must put your complete trust in Christ and in Him alone. It's not put your trust in Christ and your baptism or put your trust in Christ and your faithfulness to church or your faithfulness to read the Bible and your faithfulness to do good works. It's not of works. Lest any man should boast. It's only through putting complete trust in Christ and what he did for us on the cross. You can't earn salvation. Grace is not dependent upon us in any way. Write down Romans 3, verse number 20, underneath this point here. Romans three verse number twenty. Romans three twenty says, Therefore by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified in his sight. Shall by the deeds of the law. He's saying, Listen You cannot earn justification even if you keep all of the law, you can't earn justification that way It's only through Jesus Christ. It's not going to happen. So putting your complete trust in Christ's substitutionary death on the cross. It's not an addition of grace to your own beliefs. There are some faiths out there that would uh gladly add grace or gladly add praying to to Jesus along with all of the other gods they believe in. But that y it doesn't work that way. It has to be in Christ in Christ alone. It is a rejection of your own belief and a complete faith in Christ So if someone has another faith or believed in another faith or was following another gospel, when they turn to Christ, they are turning away from the false belief. Um I mentioned last week or a couple weeks ago the idea that a cat that I believe a Catholic can be saved. But there's there's a qualifier there and uh I don't think Miss Kim will mind me telling you that she was she was a Catholic and still a practicing Catholic, but she had already come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. She was saved. She had put her faith and trust in Christ already, but hadn't grown and hadn't learned the scriptures to know what she was practicing was false. Until she began to see the truth of the scriptures. So here's the qualifier. Can a Catholic be saved? Yes. But not if they're still believing in Catholic doctrine. You see, the teachings of the Catholic Church are false. And you cannot be saved by following Catholic dogma. So can a Catholic be saved? Yes, somebody that would say they're Catholic, but y how many of you know that many, many people And not just Catholics. You can pick any group you want. How many of you know that many, many of them actually don't have any idea what they believe? They would say I'm a Catholic, but if you would say, well, can you show me something in the Bible? Uh no Can you teach me something about God? Well, no. What I'm saying is they really don't have any idea what they believe one way or the other. They would say they're Catholic. But that that type of person that is not practicing any faith, they're not following any dogma, they're not in line with any other practices, they can come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. and and follow the Bible way of salvation, and they might still say they're a Catholic, but they're not believing in Catholic doctrine. Now, if they were practicing And still they were they were, you know, spending time uh praying to Mary. They were following and and saying their their uh Hail Marys. Okay, that person's not saved because they're putting their faith in something else besides Jesus Christ Okay, those things they need Jesus Christ and Him alone. I hope that that makes sense to you. Putting your complete trust in Christ, his substitutionary death. Number four, you must receive Christ as your Savior. So you believe these things, but there has to be a time when you received Him. John 1 12. But as many as received Him to them gave He power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on our name. So when did you receive him? There has to be a time or a day or an hour when you received Christ. There has to be that time when you became a son of God. It's not something that always was. It's not something that that happened magically one night or just in in passing. There's a day of salvation. When did you become? When did you receive Christ? Number five, you must call on the Lord to save you by faith and repentance. By faith into repentance. Romans 10. That actually is supposed to be Romans 10. I think in your notes it says Romans 1. It's supposed to be Romans 10. So if you would change that, Romans 10, 9 through 13. And that is the verse that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, shall believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with a heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed, for there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek For the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him. Verse number thirteen, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. So you've got to call upon the name of the Lord. There has to be a time when you do that, when you received Him, when you called upon the name of the Lord, when you accepted His substitutionary death on the cross. These are how a person is saved The that section right there is how a person become gets saved. That is the answer to the question that we began. Now he goes into and he teaches some of the things that happen upon Becoming saved. As soon as somebody gets saved, there's something miraculous that happened. There's something that changes who we are as individuals, and we have a new life in Jesus Christ And so he describes these things for us here as we continue. First of all, regeneration is a spiritual quickening. Now that word's less familiar today, but that idea quickening, he put there in parentheses after that, is to make alive quickening. The Word of God is quick and powerful. Okay, that idea is not is not saying that it's fast. I think you guys understand and know he's saying that it's alive, that it's quick, that it's powerful, that it's uh that it's alive. And the regeneration is a spiritual quickening that is to be made alive. The idea there in Genesis 126 that when God breathed into man, when God gave life, You know, new life is the same way. It's a regeneration of spiritual quickening. It is an imparting of a new nature. Imparting of a new nature. 2 Peter 1, verse number 4. whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises that by these ye might be partakers of a divine Nature, a divine nature. So we have a new nature. At the moment that you accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you put your complete trust and faith in Him and His substitutionary death on the cross, you're given a new nature Here he says, we have put on the new man, which after God is created in holiness and righteousness. And a couple of references there, Ephesians 4. 22 to 24 and Colossians 3, 10. Now Ephesians 4, I would encourage you to do a little Bible study on Ephesians 4. Ephesians 4. Ephesians 4 is the uh what we call the put off and put on chapter. If you'll walk if you'll read down through Ephesians chapter number four you'll see he gives multiple examples of things that you're to put off And then as a new man in Christ, you're to put on this. So put this off, and one example is lying. He says, hey, you're to put off lying. You're not supposed to be doing that anymore as a believer, as a somebody that has a new nature. That's something that the old man would do, but the new man doesn't do that. And so you put on truth, you put on honesty. And you can go down through the book, and I'm not going to take time to to look at all those in Ephesians chapter number four, but it would be a great study for you to look at to see the things that we're to put off and that we're to put on in Ephesians chapter number four. And then Colossians 3 verse number 10 says, and have And have put on the new man, which is renewed in the knowledge after the image of him that it created he him. So put on the new man. That's what we have, this new nature. um in Jesus Christ. Christ now lives in the believer. We know that, that w when you get saved, Jesus Christ comes. The Holy Spirit comes to dwell inside your heart. Galatians 2. 20. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. How can you live for Christ? How can you do what's right? Why? Because it's not you, it's Christ that liveth in you. It is the new nature that you have given to you by God which enables you to live a new life in Christ. God's seed now abides in him. 1 John 3. 9. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. Okay, very clear verse there. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. Okay, the idea here, the example is the idea that now we have become the sons of God, that we ought to start being like him. Oftentimes uh my kids when we're out in other places, especially visiting a church that knows our family, or we might be at the college there where the kids went to school, uh, and people will come up and they'll say You must be a battrell. They say I you m I don't know which one you are, but you're a battrell. And then of course they'll have to say, well yeah, um, you know, I'm Andrew or I'm Alicia or or whatever, but but What they're saying is there's something about your mannerisms, there's something in the way in which you walk or talk, how you act. I can tell that you're a battrell. Uh that is evident. You know, I'm very much like my father. Uh out of all of the boys, uh all three of us, there's three boys here. Uh you know, I have two other siblings but that are boys Uh I'm the most like my dad. I'm built the most like him. Both of my brothers are taller than dad. Uh you know, Daniel's bigger than dad. Uh but uh no, we we are All have certain characteristics like him, but I'm I'm probably the most like him out of any of us. But what we're saying is, you know, because of the family we're born in You naturally have those characteristics, right? You are like your mother. You are like your father. You have those characteristics. those mannerisms, those habits, those those things that are part of your family heritage, and what he's saying about this idea that his seed is in you, that now you're a child of God, you have his characteristics. You have his mannerisms. You start to begin to act and look like him because he's living in you. So that henceforth the believer is uh possessed of two natures, Galatians 5, 17, two natures. Now we talked about this at length when we talked about the idea of the world, the flesh, and the devil. to discuss the idea of the flesh that we have this old flesh that's there and it continually tries to get us to follow the old man. But at the same time we have a new man that dwells in us that we should be yielding to and following after. So we have those two natures. Galatians 5. 17 says the Flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary the one to the other. And uh so we know that those two natures are there and they're going to continue to war. until one day when we are given a new body and uh the new heaven and the new earth and w that old flesh is going to be removed and that will be exciting. Uh but until then we've got these two natures. So with a new nature, we have a new and divine impulse that is given to the believer. New power comes in to the regenerated man, giving him life, which he is enabling him to become Holy in daily experiences, holy in his daily experiences. To live holy, to live as God wants you to live. First Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away and all things are become new. We are a new nature in Christ. We have the ability to be holy because now we have a new want-to. And I praise the Lord that I have a new want-to. And as we yield to God and surrender to God, God gives us a new want-to And and even in our own lives, like sometimes you might have an ambition or a desire to fulfill or accomplish something in particular, but as you yield to God, it's not just that God's going to look at you and He's going to say, No, you can't do that. The amazing thing is that God changes your desire. He doesn't just go say, no, you can't do that, and you're like, you're like a little kid that I'm not doing it on the outside, but I'm doing it on the inside. You know, it's not like that. It's God changes your desire on the inside, and you say, you know what? I don't want to do that I thank God for the new nature and the new desire. So it's not that I can't go sin. It's that God has given me a new nature and now I don't want to go sin. God has given us that new want to. Regeneration is a divine work. It's a divine work that God does. John 1 Twelve and thirteen, but as many as received him to them gave you power to become the sons of God. We've read that it's it's a divine work that he does. It is by grace through faith, not of works. We talked about that, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. It's not something that you can do in and of yourself. It's something that God does, and it isn't through the power of the word of God. So there below that you have that one starred section. Man is restored to God when he exercises his faith in the finished work of Christ on the cross. No sinner is too wicked and no soul is too lost, that Christ's sacrifice is not sufficient to save them. What I want you to understand, beloved, is that it takes that idea of an acknowledgement of sin And an exercising of faith to become saved, to become the sons of God. You know, I could take a young person here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We have younger people come in on the bus route. I could take a young person downstairs in junior church, uh five-year-old, and you know in a matter of probably three minutes, I could get them to pray a prayer. And they would pray a prayer, and I could say, Oh, congratulations, you're saved. But for them, there was no understanding of sin, there was no exercising of faith in belief in God. And so they're not saved. This one, two, three, pray after me. This it's not a magical prayer that you say. It's not just, oh, if you say these words, you're safe. No, there needs to be an understanding of where we are, who we are in Christ, and that we are uh lost and undone and and and sinners that need to be saved and our sin needs to be covered. By Jesus Christ and his sacrifice on the cross. And when we understand that, when the conviction of the Holy Spirit is present, then we see the truth that Jesus died for us. And then you say, oh, I want to put my faith and trust in Christ. So there's an exercising of faith, an acknowledgement of sin, and an exercising of faith. Now, there is a prayer of salvation that he's written down here, and it's very short and very brief. I want you to understand, beloved, that it's not a magical set of words. It's not a a, you know, you gotta say these words and you're saved. Now usually when I lead somebody in a prayer of salvation, I try, I look at the four things that are necessary for salvation. And when I lead somebody in a prayer for salvation, I try and cover those four things. So we know four things are necessary for salvation. You must realize you're a sinner. You must realize there's a penalty for sin. You must realize Jesus paid the penalty for you, and you must call and accept Him. So when I lead somebody in a prayer, I try and address those four things. I say, listen, somewhere in the prayer, there's a confession of sin, an acknowledgement of Lord, I realize I am a sinner. That I stand guilty before you today, and I'm asking you to forgive me. So there's an acknowledgement of sin. There's that that's the first thing. We got to know that there's sin. So somewhere in the prayer I make sure that we we address that. Then secondly we realize there's a penalty for sin. So we say I ru I I acknowledge, I realize that b because of my sin I deserve to go to hell, but that Jesus came and paid that penalty for me. I'm putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ and Him alone. So we're addressing all four areas there, realizing there's a penalty for sin, acknowledging that penalty. Understand Jesus paid the penalty, so a statement of faith or belief in Jesus Christ, and then a prayer of acceptance. Lord, I'm putting my faith and trust in you and in you alone. Thank you for saving my soul. So it's not a set thing of words, but I try and at least address these things to make sure that they understand and comprehend what it is that they're dealing with there. Now, last the last page there is a summary of part one and this is something for you to work through on your own. And you know, here he says, what specific changes have been made in your life since you uh being saved? So you kind of look through those and say, listen, here's what God's done, the new nature that God has given me the new heart, the new d the new want to. Here's how I see it in my life. And you can go through and talk about those things, list those things out. And this is just for you. It's not um For anybody else but for you to work through here, you must know that you're saved. You must be aware of the influences of the world, the flesh, and the devil on your life. You must identify where uh you have the greatest struggles Okay, if you're going to win victoriously, if you're going to put your life in order, you want to identify those greatest struggles, you must learn how to protect your life, and you must present your life to God as a living sacrifice. Now, the next section that we're going to get into is how to overcome the world and the flesh and the devil, part number two, and next Sunday morning we're going to get into that.