We are in Ephesians chapter number one. We've been looking at the magnitude of the blessings that we have in Christ. This the plan of the Father that was provided by the Son, and this evening we're going to see the Spirit's pledge, the the pledge of the Spirit, and how He is going to fulfill these things for us. There's a lot of confusion today, and I suppose there always has been over the Spirit of God From those who would like to completely deny his existence and his role in the Godhead, to those who would take the spirit and justify their erroneous and ludicrous behavior. Uh and we uh obviously need to be careful that we don't go to either extreme, and because some people have hijacked the Holy Spirit and turned it into this You know, this frenzy of behavior, it should not c cause us any fear or apprehension in embracing the ministry of the Spirit in our lives and in our church. We should not shy away from that. We need to understand the Holy Spirit's role and responsibilities and how we are supposed to respond to the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, you know, he's called the Holy Ghost, but he's not a ghost. He's a part of the Godhead. He is part of the Trinity, and we know that. And so as part of the Trinity, he fulfills his role and his purpose. The ministry of the Holy Spirit to us is very extensive. This is not an exhaustive list by any means, and uh I'm not going to spend a lot of time in this, but we're going to be talking about the Spirit, and I just want to remind you that the Holy Spirit, uh, He reproves the wicked He draws the sinner. He indwells the believer. He convicts the backslidden. He guides the searching He comforts the broken. He sanctifies the willing. He intercedes for the helpless. And he seals the saved. Now there are many other things that the Holy Spirit does, but these are just a few of the larger or well-known ministries of the Holy Spirit, and tonight we're going to be discussing and looking at the aspect of the fact that we are sealed By the Spirit. Look in our text verses this evening, Ephesians chapter 1, verses 13 through 15. Let's read those together, then we'll begin right in verse number 13, looking at how we are sealed. We see here In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also, after that ye believed, ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. Which is the earnest of our inheritance, until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory. Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love unto all the saints We're going to see tonight three aspects here, these three verses, just looking at these as we see the Spirit's pledge to us. First of all, in verse number 13, salvation is addressed right off the bat Notice there is literally a description of salvation, a very succinct and clear explanation of all three aspects. He says, in whom ye trusted, after ye heard, and that ye believed. All three things are presented there, but notice he says, in whom also ye trusted, after that ye heard the word. And I tell you, beloved, it reminds you that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. The word of God is what is quick and powerful. Our ministry in the church, our our uh our specials that you might come up here and sing, the choir number that is presented and sung by the choir, your testimony is it's not the same. is shared in different services. All of these things are only as effective as they are in furthering the Word of God. In helping people to hear and to apply the Word of God to their life The word of God is what is powerful. The word of God is what changes us. He says, after that ye heard the word of truth. Beloved, when people hear the word of truth, when they hear the gospel, they believe And put their faith and trust in Christ. So it begins with hearing. But then we see not only salvation addressed, but security addressed, as he says, ye are sealed. Now a seal is a stamp that shows ownership. I know that uh this is something that's understood in the crowd we here have here tonight. This is not things that would be new or uh that you're not familiar with, but A seal shows ownership so that all who would behold that or or see it would recognize it. We put the name on our church bands as they're in town. It's For us, free advertisement for the church, but it also lets people know, hey, that's the church van. That's the church bus. When we were broken down a week ago Sunday on Falls Road and We're we're there trying to take care of this and I told John, I said, This is a bad testimony. Everybody in the neighborhood happened to get around this bus. It's very inconvenient and and uh you know it's just Not a good testimony that our church is broken down, you know, and uh John was like, Well it's free advertisement. I said, Yeah, but not the kind we want. We don't want the bus to be uh in the way for everybody. And it look We praise the Lord we're able to get it off and actually him and Brother Steve got it running this week and uh so it's ready to go for this next week. Uh but that that is marked. I told you how I like uh old westerns And you know, in the old westerns they would uh always on the cattle drive they would go around and they would round up the stragglers. You know, we have roundup. They would get the stragglers, they would go around and round up all the cattle that were born since the last roundup. And many of them hadn't been branded. They hadn't been marked with the seal of that ranch yet. And so those are oh free range cattle. And anybody that went out and rounded them up, they would get them. They put their brand on them. It's their cattle. A lot of times different ranches, their their their cattle would just range out there and and they would get intermixed and And when they go to Roundup, they would just cut out the ones that were to the other ranch and send them over. And they would have to brand these. Now you guys know the old rustlers, they would take uh their branding irons and they would rework a branding Be able to, you know, they would take like the bar J and turn it into uh the J F by just adding one line, just turning the the Okay, the bar off the top of that and add it add a line to it and turn it into a JS, or they would take a the C and turn it into a G. And just little things they could do to try and steal them. You know, I was thinking about that and how that sometimes I think Satan uh tries to rebrand Christian. Christian starts looking like the world, the Christian starts dressing like the world, they start getting kind of like the image or the mark of the world, but can I tell you that the Bible says you've been sealed and God knows who are in his full. The sheep that are in his pasture, he knows who they are. You're a child of God, and you may uh start to look more like the world than you do like a Christian, but as a child of God, he knows you. He has your name. You have been marked. It is a seal that shows ownership. Not only that, it's a seal that showed power and authority Power and authority. You remember in the Old Testament, King Darius, he he uh went and he put his seal on Daniel when they lowered Daniel into the lion's den and they sealed it They couldn't get Daniel out without breaking the king's seal. That was the power and authority. You remember old Jezebel when she found her husband Pouton. because he couldn't get uh Naboth's vineyard. And she said, Oh, I'll help you. And and she of her own volition, you remember, she went and she She went and got the king's seal and she sent forth letters without the king even knowing about it, but she used that seal to put the king's authority on it and have Nabal killed. Uh you remember uh Jesus when he was put in the grave and uh the the Pharisees the Rulers, Sadducees, they came and they asked Pilate, you know, hey, would you take the praise as sure as you can? So they made it as sure as they can, and what they did is they they put the seal of the Roman government on the on the on that It shows power, it shows authority. Nobody could open that without breaking the seal of the Roman governments, showing their authority. They were restricted in that way. You know, a seal was also a means of Providing protection. Over in the book of Revelation, chapter 7, there's the 144,000 witnesses Those hundred and forty-four thousand witnesses, chapter seven, verse number four says, and I heard the number of them which were sealed And they were sealed, a hundred and forty-four thousand of the tribes of the children of Israel. The hundred and forty-four thousand witnesses are going out throughout the world, commissioned and empowered by God to spread the gospel, and many people are coming to Christ. Many people that have never heard the gospel before are coming to Christ. And you know what? The beast, uh he's very upset about this, and the beast would try or want to do something about it, but he can't. Why? Because they've been sealed They've been protected. They may want to do whatever, but they can't do anything about it. I read this week about uh a uh emissary uh uh not an emissary for Alexander the Great. My mind is like, what was that? For Alexander the Great. And uh this emissary was traveling to Egypt, and he traveled without an entourage. And without any weapons, all that he carried on this entire trip was the seal of Alexander the Great. He went and stood before the Egyptian ruler, and the Egyptian ruler had his entire army behind him And he looked at the Egyptian ruler in the face and he said, Sir, you must cease from disrupting the adventures or the the uh task Something like that, I don't remember the exact wording, but basically stop being a nuisance to Alexander the Great. And uh the you know, king, the ruler there in in Egypt, he wanted to kind of flexed his muscles a little bit and he said, Well I'll think about it. And so th this emissary for for Alexander the Great, he he walked up to him and he drew a line around him. They said, You go ahead and think about it, but don't leave that circle until you have an answer for me. He stood there with the ruler of Egypt and his entire army behind him and all that he had. was the seal of Alexander the Great. And that king and that entire army wasn't going to touch him. Why? Because to touch him was to touch Alexander the Great. What I'm going to tell you, beloved, is when you have been sealed by the Holy Spirit of God, nothing can touch you without God allowing it. Because you you've been sealed. You are in his possession. You are part of the family of God, and there's nothing that can come on you Without the Holy Spirit, without God allowing it, it shows His power, it shows His protection over us. Phillips said this The mark of the beast is Satan's imitation of God's seal on those that are his That mark of the beast that they're taking, beloved, we have been marked. We have been marked internally, sealed by the Holy Spirit, but Satan always has a copycat. Satan always has a counterfeit. And that's what he's saying. He said, oh, Satan has a counterfeit. He wants everybody that's his to be marked as well. And they're going to be marked, but beloved, as a child of God, you've been marked, and it shows ownership, it shows power, it shows authority, it shows protection. It also shows security, a promise of things to come. It's a note of guarantee, as it were. Understanding, beloved, that the Father planned it from the foundation of the world, the Son provided it, guaranteeing us our forgiveness and our inheritance, and the Spirit has pledged to fulfill it So we see that he's we have been staked by the Spirit. In verse number 14, he says, which is the earnest of our inheritance? until the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise of his glory. Now Stephen was kind of wondering what I was talking about when I said the word staked. So um I said I know it might be a little bit of a stretch, but I don't think so. And we get into the verse you'll understand here, but When when you stake something, somebody might say this. They'd be like, man, uh, I staked my reputation on you. They they put their entire reputation on what they believe to be a sound investment of their of their reputation. Or they might say, uh, you know, I've got a lot staked on this A lot what they did is they have placed or invested or given a large amount of something that they believe is valuable in something that they believe is going to give a good return or something they believe is going to come to fruition when you stake somebody. That's what it is. The Holy Spirit uh staked us. He is the earnest Of our inheritance. So we Philip says it like this: the Holy Spirit is not only the seal, he is the earnest. He's not only the proof of our position in Christ, he is the pledge of our possessions in Christ. He not only confirms our faith, he confirms our future He not only guarantees our eternal security, but he guarantees our eternal satisfaction. So beloved, that earnest is something I think that by and large maybe the youngest in here don't know what it is, but w we should understand it's a down payment If you've ever bought anything of any value or substance, like an expensive car or a house, really more so today, is where they might still use the term earnest, where you would give earnest money. you would make a down payment saying, I'm going to give you this much if I was buying a house from Lucas and I would say, okay, make an offer to Lucas for 25,000, is that good enough? Make an offer for 25,000. I'm gonna buy his his house from him for $25,000. And here's $5,000, earnest money. So he knows that I'm serious and I want to I want to close this deal. You know, you give him that, well, beloved the Holy Spirit is our down payment. He is the earnest payment for us, the earnest of our purchased Possession. Now, what is our purchased possession that it's talking about there? There is some great debate, many different ideas about what the purchased possession is, but in the context of the book of Ephesians, I think of it like this. I think about the fact that in Ephesians, what we are seeing is everything that we have in Christ. And I think when we look at that, say the Holy Spirit is the earnest of our purchased possession, I think the description would be everything that we have in Christ. The purchased possession is all these things that Paul is talking about in the book of Ephesians that have been given to us and that we are in Christ. Excuse me, beloved, our debt has been paid on Calvary and the final settlement is coming. The final settlement is coming just like we have a current loan and we've been discussing that recently and looking at the fact that in January of 28 we have a final settlement. That day's coming. And between now and then we've got to get everything together. But that final payment is going to be made when the when the tally is Add it up at the end, we've got to make that payment. If you shop at Harbor Freight, they have coupons. That you can take and when you check out, you can hand them that coupon and they'll give you whatever's on the coupon. A lot of times it's a junky tape measure Or uh junky flashlight or you know. I mean they're little things. They are pretty junky, but they're free and you can stick 'em in your car and You know, use them until they break and it's free anyway, right? Uh so it doesn't really matter, but you can get those those free things because you have that coupon when you check out. Well beloved, you know what, when we check out Of here, we have a down payment that's already been made. We've got an earnest payment of our purchased possession, all that we have in Jesus Christ, and that is an assurance Of a promissory note, a fulfillment that's going to be made when that day comes. Ephesians is all about the list of our riches that we have in Christ. Just like you go you like to uh look at your investments and see how they're doing. Timothy has an investment last night in devotions. He's like it he has one investment that went up 18% yesterday So yeah, amen. He made 18% on that. He's like, you know. So he he was making bank yesterday and was excited about that. You like to look at your investments. But beloved, that's the exciting thing about the book of Ephesians. It's like looking at all that we have in Christ. All that that we are in Christ and what God has provided for us because of his love and his goodness to us and seeing these things that we haven't done anything for, but have been granted and given to us. And beloved the Holy Spirit is the earnest of our inheritance. That promissory note, like an engagement ring, the promise of what's coming. It's not the wedding, it's not the marriage vows, but it is a ring that's the promise of what's coming. And you could look at that. He is the the earnest, the payment, the down payment, that assurance that we have. Beloved, we have assurance of our salvation because, first of all, we have a more sure word. The word of God says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thy heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. We have the Word of God on it, but not only that, we've been given the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit's work in our lives is a direct answer and a direct showing of the fact that we are saved. Beloved, if you have the Spirit, you're saved. If you don't have the spirit, you're not saved. That's one way you can know if you have been saved or not. In Romans chapter 8, verse number 9, he says, But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the Spirit of God dwells in you. Now, if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. He says, listen, if Christ dwells in you, you have the Spirit. Now you may not might not be yielding to Him, you might not be responding to Him, you might not be listening to Him, just like some children don't listen so well to their parents. But the fact of the matter is if you're a child of God, you have the Spirit in you, and he's saying he's there. He said, but if you don't have the Spirit, then you're not one of His. Because that's salvation, you get the Spirit of God. Now, if that is true, beloved, if indeed at salvation we get the Spirit of God, do you believe that we do? Okay, if that's true. And let me ask you this. Never really pondered it until I started seeing it here in this book of Ephesians right here. Consider this. What happens for those that teach that you lose your salvation? Do they lose the spirit? And then when they get it back next week, do they get the spirit back? And then when they lose their salvation again, do they lose the spirit again? What happens to the spirit, which is part of the Godhead? This is not a ghost, remember, it's it's it's the third uh member of the Trinity. What happens to the Spirit during this getting saved and losing your salvation, getting it back, losing it, getting it back? Let me show you what the Bible teaches. Turn to Ephesians chapter 4 and verse number 30. Now we're probably going to be dealing with this again here in about six or eight months when we get to Ephesians chapter four. But Look at Ephesians chapter 4, verse number 30. Look what it says. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed. What does it say? Unto the day of redemption. You're sealed unto the day of redemption. There is nothing in there and there's no room for Losing the Spirit and then getting the Spirit back and and and that that there itself is another testament to the security of the believer. That we know that once we're saved, we're saved. Why? Until the day of redemption. Why? Because it's not dependent upon us, it's dependent upon the God and Jesus Christ, what he did, and that Holy Spirit has healed us until the day of redemption. That's been done. That's covered. There's nothing work we can do about it. We see that until the redemption. Hey, listen, blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine. We've been sealed and sealed until the day of redemption. We see thirdly here that uh we have been strengthened by the Spirit. He says, Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and love unto all the saints. Now we may look at this verse again as we get into next week as 15 does go with the following verses some, but we see here The the possibility of what's possible through the Spirit of God. First of all, the testimony of their faith was evident. He says, Whereof I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord. You see, beloved, Paul had heard of their faith in Christ. Word of their testimony had reached them. Not just the converts that he knew personally, not just the people that he led to the Lord. But many other people that had come to Christ after Paul was gone. He had never even met them, and yet their testimony was carried back to them. Next week on Thursday night, you're going to hear testimony of many people that you've never met and probably won't meet until we get to heaven. But their testimony of faithfulness, their testimony of being a witness, their testimony of teaching and working with the kids and going out soul-winning and reaching the lost in the Philippines is going to be carried to you by via uh Brother Hardeker next week. We get the privilege of see of hearing through from our missionaries about People's testimonies around the world. And that's what Paul is saying. Boy, the testimony of your goodness, of your faith, what God is doing in your heart, man, it has reached us. Let me ask you tonight, beloved, what is your testimony? What have people heard about you? What would your testimony be if somebody was going to give a report to another church? Boy, the young people at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, here's the testimony they have. Boy, this person, Hunt Valley Baptist Church, listen, their testimony. What is your testimony? We all have a testimony. It's just what is it? Is it good? You see, our testimony should be one of faith. One that encourages and impacts others to follow God and do what God wants them to do What a powerful thing to consider that our testimony can reach around the world. And in today's world, it's easier than ever. With the smallest little click. Your testimony can be around the world. We've crossed over 120,000 listens on our sermon audio page. I I think Stephen, you remember last last month how many it was? I was gonna say I thought it was over sixteen thousand, but like twenty thousand listens last month. That's amazing the impact that you can have in today's world in such a sm with with the tools and technology we have and your testimony being carried around the world to impact others for Christ. We see their testimony of faith, and we see that the tale of their love. Paul describes the love that they had. He says, and the love unto all the saints. What an amazing description of the love that they had. The love that was present not just for their friends, not just for the people they liked. But for all the saints. Beloved, this is something that is only possible in reality through the power of the Holy Spirit. Human nature doesn't do that. Human nature is going to gravitate towards and embrace and love the couple of people or the few people that they can build a friendship with. But with the love of Christ in us and the Holy Spirit working through us, we can learn to love all the saints. We can love them all with the love of God, regardless of personality, regardless of culture, regardless of uh upbringing or Anything else that that society would put up as a barrier, uh, listen, the cross breaks all those down. We're all even at the foot of the cross. And we can love one another as God commands us to. That ministry of love is accomplished through the Holy Spirit. We see He commands us in John 13, 34. A new commandment I give unto you that you love one another. John 15, 12, this is my commandment that you love one another. John, 1 John 3. 23, and this is his commandment that we should believe on his name and the Son of Christ and love one another. 2 John 1, verse number 5. And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that ye love one another. Beloved, it's a command for us to love one another. We should have a love for all of the brethren. And that's something that's only possible through the power of the Spirit of God. When the Spirit of God works in your heart and you You can get over yourself and you can get over your own uh hesitation and restrictions and and you're able to show the love of God. Listen, it's compared to the love of Christ. Greater love hath no man than this, than a man laid down his life for his friends. That's the love that Christ has, and that's the love that we should have for one another through the power of the Holy Spirit. This power, the Holy Spirit completes this in us. Look at 1 Peter with me, 1 Peter 1. 22. 1 Peter 1. 22. I want you to see how the power of the Holy Spirit accomplishes this command in our hearts. He says in 1 Peter 1:22, see ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit. unto unfeigned love of the brethren. So you see, through the Spirit, beloved, we're able to have an unfeigned love for the brethren. Unfeigned means unfake. Means sincere. See that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently And this is possible through the Spirit of God. The Spirit is the one that allows you to like not just put on a face and not just try and act cordial and and and and be nice. In front of them, but talk about them behind their back? That's what the world does. False flattery for for entertainment purposes, but then uh criticism later That's what the world does, but we are to love one another, truly have love for one another, and that means we're doing what is best for that person and striving to do so in and through the power of the Holy Spirit When we have a cleanse soul, we're willing to submit to the Spirit and have sincere love for the brethren through the power of the Spirit of God. This is what the Spirit does in our lives. We're strengthened by the Spirit to be able to do this and many other things. It is the Spirit of God that makes a difference. A purified soul should produce passionate love in our heart for the brethren. You see, when God cleanses us, he changes us. And our relationship with God changes, and our relationship with our fellow man changes. Tonight, my encouragement to you is. Just a reminder of the work of the Holy Spirit. Now we ought to praise God and thank God for the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. What a blessing that is. to have his help, to have his strength and his guidance in our life. But also to exhort and encourage us to yield. Yield to the still small voice. To that the spirit that worketh in us, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. It is the Holy Spirit that's going to give you victorious Christian living. It's going to give you victory over sin. It's going to strengthen you to do the work that God has called us to. The question for you tonight or admonition is, will you obey the Spirit? Will you heed to that still small voice? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?