Knowledge. Now turning your Bibles to Matthew chapter twenty. And uh if you did not get a copy of the notes last week, we are completing the Sunday school lesson that I taught last week, but this is labor is in the vineyard. Brother, one of you guys want to uh so we did cover the first half of that last week. We are down to just the teaching. If you need one, these guys have it and you can give get a copy of that from them. So this was a very fun parable to study. Uh took took quite a bit of work. Uh extra reading uh to get a hold of this and to really uh find the actual interpretation. There's many applications, which is what we're going to look at today, is the applications. And you can apply the scripture to your life in a lot of ways, but there's only one interpretation. And uh so last week we saw the interpretation here. This really is dealing with rewards, I believe. But it's rewards based on your attitude or your spirit. Um and in context, if you remember, well let's just read it so that uh everybody is on the same page. We've got a few with us here that were not here last week. And I'm in the Old Testament still. So Matthew chapter number twenty, verses one through sixteen. So and it came to pass that when Jesus had finished these things Okay, so we know that he had just finished some sayings. What were those sayings? So we backed up last week and looked at that in context of what he was talking about. When he had finished these sayings he departed from Galilee and came into the coast of Jerea onto Jordan, and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them there. The Pharisees came also unto him, tempting him, saying unto him. Is it lawful? I am looking at the wrong passage of Scripture. And I have the wrong notes altogether. Let's see here. Alright. I'm jumping way early. So ver down to verse number sixteen. Um you guys are just following along with me. Um So that's to be a first refer to the last. Yep. Alright, so he said in verse number sixteen, and behold, one came and said unto him, Good master, what good things shall I do that I may have eternal life? So the rich young ruler here was uh asking in chapter nineteen, that's the problem, I'm looking in chapter nineteen. Um But in 19th, where we find the context of chapter 20, the rich running ruler was looking for eternal life, and he said, go sell all that you have and come back And uh he said, Oh, I can't do that. And he went away sad. Doesn't have to go away sad, but he did because he didn't want to let go of what he had. And then Jesus said, you know, you've got to sell all that you have. And Peter got the mindset, well, we sold everything we had. We left everything and we followed you. What do we get? So he kind of you see that spirit coming out uh in Peter's question that prompted this teaching. And then in chapter 20 Uh the parable starts here, for the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder which went out early in the morning to hire laborers in his vineyard. And when he had agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. So here the first group of laborers, they agreed on a penny a day. You see that kind of spirit that Peter had in chapter 19, where this laborer said, okay, I'll work for you. What what's what's what am I going to get? Well, how about if I pay you a quarter of a penny? No, that's not quite enough. I'm not going to work all day for that. What if I pay you a penny? Okay. So they agree on a penny and he goes into the vineyard, so there's that spirit of negotiation, of trying to find out what you're going to get out of it to go and labor And then you'll see the other laborers don't do that. Verse number three. And he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace. And he said unto them, go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way. Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise. And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the village And whatsoever is right, that shall I re that shall ye receive. So when even was come, the Lord of the vineyard saith unto his stewards, Call the laborers and give them their hire, beginning from the last unto the first. And when they came they were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny. But when the first came they supposed that they should have received more. And they likewise received every man a penny. And when they had received it, they murmured against the good men of the house, saying, These least have wrought but one hour And thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and the heat of the day. But we know that's what they agreed upon to work that day for that amount. But he answered one of them and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong. Did not thou agree with me for a penny? Take that thine is, and go thy way, I will give unto this last even as unto thee. As it is written, I'm sorry, as it is not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own Is thine eye evil because I am good? So the last shall be first, and the first shall be last, for many are called, but few chosen. So That parable is a parable of the vineyards, the laborers in the vineyard, and the idea that uh these men uh that went out in the sixth and the ninth and the eleventh hour just said, Hey, I will go serve, we're just glad to serve. And do what you want and we'll just take whatever you feel is right and not the spirit of trying to look at what we're going to get out of it. And it As we serve the Lord, we've got to be careful that our spirit is not, you know, the Bible does say give and it shall be given unto you. But if our goal is like a slot machine We're trying to think, you know, oh if I if I give this to him, I'm looking, you know, I'm I'm what is God going to do for me? Now God's going to bless you, and he's a debtor to no man. But our motivation can steal the blessing. Because our our heart ought to be just a matter of giving to God or giving to be a blessing to somebody and then let God uh do for you whatever is right. And uh, you know, maybe God has already given you that extra blessing that uh you know made it possible for you to be a help to somebody else. And uh if we have the wrong spirit, we go about things in the wrong way. So we talked through the beginning of these things We looked at number one there the request of the rich young year older. If you want to fill in your notes, I'll just give these to you. Number two, the revelation to the disciples. He showed the disciples the truth of the principles there. Then the reaction of Peter in 1927, this is all dealing with the context, Peter's reaction. He said, We forsook all and followed you. Then the reply of Christ. and his teachings there in in number four. So you got number one is request, number two is disciples, number three is Peter, number four is the reply of Christ. Then under B, number three the householder throughout the day found people standing idle and offered them a job. All right, everybody with me? We're all in the same case. Oh the the reaction of Peter. Yep, the reaction of Peter is number three. The reaction of Peter, the reply of Christ. The reply of Christ. Number three. It starts with request. You can't get it wrong, Harry. It says the the reaction, the reaction of Peter. So you can't get it wrong. And number two And uh disciples. You should have disciples there in the blank. Number four is reply of Christ. Then under B, characters, under B, characters, number three under characters is standing idle. Standing idle. The householder throughout the day he found people standing idle and offered them a job. That's number four, right? No, number three. Standing idle. You're just filling in the blanks. No, under characters, Harry. Alright, number five. I'll show this to you afterwards, Harry, so you can make sure they're right. Number five is with the last four groups that he hired He simply told them, Whatsoever is right, whatsoever is right I will give you. Then we looked last week with the truth of the parable, what it was teaching And the translation of the parable, we dealt with that. Now this morning we're going to deal with the teachings of the parable. The teachings of the parable. So first number one, any reward is remarkable. Any reward is remarkable, and we need to have that mindset, that idea that any reward God gives to us is remarkable We don't aren't in the position to be deserving of the reward. Um and so any reward is a remarkable thing that God would uh choose to give us that reward. He did not have to go out into the uh streets to get these men. He didn't have to do that. He was the owner of the vineyard. He could have found another way. And yet he came and he got these men. And so any reward that we receive from God is a remarkable thing. Every reward is righteous. Every reward is righteous. Um we see in verses four and verses seven. He says, and he said unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right, I will give you. Whatever God determines is right is going to be right. In our estimation, sometimes we might not perceive it so. We might think that this isn't fair or that's not fair. Uh but listen, with man, sometimes we get it wrong. But God's not going to get it wrong. Whatever he deems is right is going to be right. And we've got to trust him in that And that's what these men that uh signify their example, they just trusted the the vineyard owner, the landowner. They just said, hey, whatever's right you'll give us, okay. And they went to work Today we don't do that. We don't even do it on a handshake anymore. It's a contract. And the clauses here that you can get out of this or I can get out of this and uh I mean we don't do that anymore, but hey, they just trusted them. Whatever's right. And we as Christians need to have that spirit with God, knowing that God's going to do what's right by us and everyone else. And we don't have to be like this mentality of, well, I've got to protect number one. That's the world's mentality. I gotta look out for number one. That's my and they teach that. And they it's a philosophy or an idea that is is not just accepted but promoted today. Well you gotta at least look out for number one And it's not a godly mentality, it's not a godly spirit at all. And uh we need to uh uh you know, the Bible says esteem others better than ourselves. We need to look out for others and just trust God that God's going to do what's right. So the reward is righteous. God's fair in every situation. Each reward, letter C, each reward is reserved Each rew reward is reserved. God has a reward for you. And he has your name on it. He's not going to accidentally give it to somebody else. Each reward is what? Reserved. Each reward is reserved. He's not going to accidentally give your reward to somebody else. What you've earned, God's got it a record of it. God's got it counted counted down and marked. He knows the reward. As much as this parable has a caution for those who are great, those, you know, the principle, the last shall be first, but the first shall be last. As much as there's a caution here for those that are great that would want to lift themselves up or promote themselves, there's also an encouragement to those who are the least. In their eyes, in our own eyes, sometimes we think of people and or they think of themselves as, well, I just can't do much for God I don't have the means that I used to, or I don't have the ability to give a whole lot of money. Hey, the woman in the Bible that gave two mites. She was recorded for all eternity for that sacrifice that she gave. Was it great in man's eyes? No, but there's a whole lot of people that gave a great volume that in their bodies they're going to be first in line. But God's going to put her in the front of the line in front of many of them. Because of the her heart and her sacrifice that she gave. So there's an uh not just a caution for those that would think themselves great, but there is an encouragement for those who think themselves, oh, I I'm not I just can't do much. I don't have a whole lot of ability. I don't have a whole lot of strength. I don't have a lot of means. I'm just here. Hey, with the right kind of heart and the right kind of spirit. You'll be surprised. We'll all be surprised when we get to glory and see what God has done through those people. Who maybe they just sat in the back corner and didn't, you know, they weren't real vocal, but they had a great spirit and they loved God and they were praying. And they were looking to see God do great things. And their faith, uh, will will not know till we get to heaven the impact it has on a church or on a group of people. And how God used it to to help draw people to Christ. So there is that encouragement for those who think that what they're contributing to the kingdom of heaven might be least. But God says you might be put to the front of the line. Just be faithful and keep doing it. Don't be discouraged and say, well, it's not much, so I'm not even going to bother. Everybody's is important. Whatever it is. Whatever measure it is. Letter D there, by the continual coming of the steward we see the compassion of the Lord. I think this is really neat. The idea that Do you think that the landowner had no idea how much help he was going to need? I think he probably went out in the morning and knew that he needed ten laborers. And he went out and got ten laborers. But he had a heart of compassion for those who still needed work. And they probably could have got the job done. But he said, you know what, there's some people out there that still he went out again and he saw some people standing idle and he says, hey, why don't you go to the vineyard too? And he went out again later and he found some people standing idle and said, Hey, why why don't you go to the vineyard? I don't think it was because he needed more workers in the vineyard. I think they probably had enough. They could have got the job done. But he had compassion on them and was calling them to come and be a part of it. And he says, hey, whatever's fair, I'll give you. And you see that compassion in the end because he wasn't pinching his pennies. He he just wanted to be a blessing to all of them. And that is the our Lord and his compassion for us. He'll he'll him Take anybody that is willing. And you certainly could apply this to salvation and that anybody that's out there, the the call is still out. for those that are lost and need to come to Christ. It is the generosity of the landowner that provides for the reward, not the work that was done by the laborer And that's that's something we need to remember. It's not our work, but it's the generosity, the love of God that provides for it. Those who worked twelve hours did not deserve it any more than those who worked one. You know, if we're applying this to to heaven, do you think that because you have been saved for thirty-five years and you've been faithful to church that you are any more deserving of heaven? Than somebody that just got saved last week. No. We're not any more deserving of that reward of being in heaven because we've labored so long We've been privileged to labor so long. But it doesn't make us more deserving And whatever generation you go to, whatever time in history you go to, those that were in the early church, those that were in the uh New Testament church, uh they were just as deserving Or just as undeserving as we are undeserving. And uh so we're all equal there at the foot of the cross. It should not be about what we can get. It should be about what we can give. Too many people today have the Peter mindset. I've done this and I've done that and I I'm doing this, so God, what are you gonna do for me? Or the church. What's the church gonna do for me? You know, the church is God's hand here in the in the world today and people would look at it and say, Well, God should use the church to do this for me. Or God could could use a church to do this. And what's what's the church going to do for me? Uh it shouldn't be about what we are getting. It should be about what we can give. Peter saw the uh common condemnation of this rich man, and he sought for commendation from Christ. He says, hey, I I've forsaken all. I'm doing this and I'm doing this. And some don't we get like that sometimes? We're having a bad day and something goes wrong, and what do we do? We say, Man, I've been having my devotions and I've been tithing and I've been going to church. I don't deserve for this to happen We get like that, don't we? We think just because we've done a few things right, we all of a sudden don't deserve to have any hardship. We just w everything oughta be going, you know, it ought to all be peaches and cream And and, you know, fun and nice. I mean that that's just because I've been doing so good. But what about when we're not doing good? And we experiencing the grace and the love of God, and we think, oh, well, that's because God's love. It's all because of his love. It's all because of his grace. We know on our best day it's still filthy rags. But uh, you know, even in our prayer life, we get to pray and we think You know, God He has to answer this because I've been faithful to church for three months now. God has to answer my prayers because I've been doing good. I've been reading my Bible. I've been He does not have to He doesn't have to. It's on our best day, it's still the grace and the love of God that He gives us anything. And on our worst day, it's because of the grace and the love of God that He gives us anything. But we start to think of ourselves as something when we start seeing success in the Christian And we all ought to see success. That's what we're dealing with in the morning service, with with growth as Christians, and we ought to be growing. Um but don't think that because we're growing that all of a sudden we deserve what it is God's giving to us. is still the grace and the love of God. We too have a day in which to labor. A day in which to labor. This is the day of grace that we're living in Familiar passage of Scripture, say not ye therefore yet four months, and then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look unto the fields, for they were white. We have a day in which to labor. God's given us the day of grace, our time, not a twenty-four-hour period, but our time in history, our days that we have that we can labor for God. And we need to use them to the fullest of our ability. God looked into the out in the streets and he saw these men that were standing idle. And he said, why stand ye here idle? There is something that needs to be done. There is some work that needs to be accomplished, and there's a vineyard here that you can work in. And he called them to the work. That is God's way. He calls men to the work, to the work, to the work. We've got to work for the night is coming when no man can work. And as a Christian, we ought to all be busy doing something for God. Idleness. Has always been a tool of the devil. Idleness was the sin of Sodom. Idleness is a sin that we have today in our country. People just idle, accomplishing nothing. Looking For how many there's new this year just came out, according to the American Pediatric Society of Whatever, Whatever, new rules on screen time for children. According to health, what they feel your children, how much time they should spend in front of the screen or not in front of the screen. So I'm glad they're here to guide us. on what to do with our children. Um because we obviously don't know. But idleness. And God's not in idleness Matthew Henry said this, a man may go idly to hell, but he that would go to heaven must be busy. It's God's way that if you were in God's family, he would have us be serving. There's no place for the idler in the kingdom of heaven. You know, d just in case somebody thinks um that I'll wait to the eleventh hour since we're all gonna get rewards anyway. I'll just wait till the 11th hour, to the end of my life, and then I'll enlist. Then I will Well, if you notice here, each one of these groups of people, they responded when they were called. They did not reject and say, oh, I'm going to wait till the 11th hour. I think that what they received would have been different. They're not guaranteed an 11th hour And some people in their life they say, oh well, I'll just wait. I'm gonna I'm gonna you know eat, drink, and be merry, I'm gonna party, I'm gonna sow my wild oats, and someday down the road, I'll even Christians, when I get older After I have a family, once I get my house paid for, when I retire, uh there's always some other milestone that we want to get across before we say, well I'll start giving to the Lord, or I'll start serving God, or I'll Start being faithful at that time. Listen, we can't wait. We've got to enlist now. When you're called, when God speaks to you and says, hey, you ought to be doing this. All of these men responded and said, okay. And they went into the field. But when we reject, we're not guaranteed an 11th hour to be able to come and be a part of it. So we cannot afford one, two, and three under here, we cannot afford to be idle. Verses three and six. We see these men were found idle. We cannot afford to be jealous. Verse number twelve. You see that um In verse number 12 he says, saying that these the least have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us. Which have borne the burden and the heat of the day. They they they saw these other men that got what they got, and they thought, you know, this isn't fair, this isn't right, they got all that, and this is what these men agreed to. You can have a point of new one. Jealous. That's written in there already, so you don't have to fill that one in. The one before that is idle. Idle. You cannot afford to be idle. So this is that one. I haven't got to, yeah. So you're trying to get ahead of me now. Yeah. We can't afford to be jealous of what somebody somebody God blesses somebody else in the church. We see somebody come to church in a new car, think, man, I've been serving God, I've been working hard. You know, a lot of people drive a car for year years and years and never have a wreck. You feel like you've been driving a wreck for years and never had a car. You just kind of Kinda like man, this isn't fair. Hey. God's blessed us all above measure. We can't afford to be jealous about what God does for somebody else. Uh just look at ourselves I mean we cannot afford to be complaining. Verse eleven and twelve there. These men just complained. They they complained to the house, uh the owner, the goodman of the house, and said, Hey, this isn't fair, this is not right, I don't like that, I don't like that. Hey, God's been So good to us, we can't afford to complain. You know, whenever we find a complaining servant, we know that they are not yielded to the master. A complaining servant is not yielded to the master. Romans 2, verse number 4 says, Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering? Not knowing the goodness of God leadeth to repentance. Do you despise the riches, the goodness, the forbearance, the long-suffering of God in your life? A complaining servant, that's what he's doing. And uh we can't afford to, as a people, be complaining. We need to see all that God is doing for us.