Just the joy that is ours to honor these officers. We thank you so much for being with us. Uh uh This is our Sunday morning service, and in our Sunday morning service we do preach the word of God. So I I hope that you uh will allow me to take a few minutes here and preach the Word of God. Um I will try and uh go quick Again, according to my body clock, it's getting on about midnight right now, so uh I'm gonna go to sleep here shortly. But but uh I'll try and and move quickly Again, officers, I just can't say enough how much we appreciate you being with us, participating in the service, just being a part of things as you have, and I hope the service has been a blessing to you. I would like to take just a few minutes, if you would, turn in your Bibles that you have there to the book of Acts and chapter number 16. Acts 16 is where it will be. If you don't have a Bible and would like to look at one, there's usually one in the pew in front of you. In the middle there, uh you should be able to find. But there is in our text here uh an officer. Uh you know these officers they face many questions. They are faced with many problems. They have to deal with things. Over and over, uh, you know, they come upon them throughout a day, each shift that they're on, they solve problem after problem. Well, in our text there's an officer that was asked or that asked the most important question that was ever asked. And he was given the greatest answer that was ever given. Would you follow along with me in the Word of God as I read to you Acts chapter 16, verses 22 down through 34? And this will give you the story that we're looking at today. And the multitude rose up again together against them, and the magistrates rent off their clothes and commanded to beat them. And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into the prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely. who having received such a charge thrust them into the inner prison and made their fa their feet fast in the stocks. They handcuffed them. They threw them in the safest part of the prison Verse number 25, and at midnight Paul and Silas praying and singing praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all of the doors were opened, and everyone's bands were loosed. Jailer's worst nightmare for sure. Everybody was free. And the keeper of the prison awakened out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors opened, he drew out his sword and would have killed himself supposing that the prisoners had been fled. But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here. Then he called for a light and sprang in and came trembling and fell down before Paul and Silas and brought them out. And he said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord and to all that were in his house. And he took them the same hour of that night and washed their stripes and was baptized in he and all his straightway. And when he had brought them into his house he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. Beloved, this officer, this keeper of the jail, he asked of these men, Paul and Silas, the most important question that's ever been asked. He said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And was given the greatest answer that was ever given. You know, as the keeper of the jail, there would have seems to us there would have been other very important questions. He might have asked, how did your chains get loosed? How did the doors get opened? How is it that you're free? Why is it that you're still present? But upon his heart was conviction because of the testimony of Paul and Silas and their preaching of the word and their singing of songs. And he looked at them and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Can I present to you three simple things? First of all, is why did they ask the question? Well, they asked the question, the question was prompted by fear You see, under Roman law, the jailer knew that if he lost these prisoners, he would be charged. He would be quite possibly killed, and he instead of going under the uh sword of a Roman soldier decided at first he was going to kill himself. Then Paul and Silas said, hey, you don't have to do that. We are all here. You know, beloved This fear prompted him to ask the question: what must I do to be saved? You know, it is human nature to ignore the reality of death until we're faced with it directly. The sad reality is, is these officers put their lives in danger every day as they go out on the job in our communities. Their wives and children stay at home and prayerfully ask for their protection and and hope That they are uninjured and come home every day without incident, but they know that any given day in this wicked and cruel world that we live in Their lives are in danger. Many of us may not ponder or think about that possibility, but they're faced with this possibility on a daily basis. And I would have you know it is human nature to ignore the reality of it until we're faced with it This Philippian jailer here, he understood that the possibility of his death was imminent. And it provoked him to ask the question, boy, what's next? What's going to happen after I die? And he says, well, listen, Paul and Silas, can you tell me what must I do to be saved? Not only was it prompted by fear, but it was promoted by faith. You see, he his acknowledgement of life after death, his understanding that he needed salvation, just the asking of the question Was an expression of faith saying, hey, I understand that there's something after this. I understand that there's a creator, there's a God, and we're all going to stand for him before him one day. So I would have of you, gentlemen, tell me what must I do to be saved. That faith had rooted in his heart because he heard the teaching and the preaching of the Word of God. He listened to Paul and Silas there in the prisons. Maybe they were there in their cell and up through the chambers of the cell they heard Paul and Silas singing, Rock of Ages. Cleft for me, let me hide myself in thee, or alas, and did my Savior bleed And did my sovereign die? Or softly and tenderly Jesus is calling Calling for you and for me. Maybe they heard him sing, God sent his son They called him Jesus. He came to love. He'll and forgive. He lived and died To buy my portion, an empty grave is there to prove my Savior lives Because he lives, I confess tomorrow because he lives All fear is gone because he knows he holds a future. And life is worth a living just because he lives These men in bonds and in chains there in the prison were singing songs about Jesus and his resurrection and the life that they live, and there's something that reached down into the heart of that old Philippian jailer and he said, Boy, these guys got something that I don't have. They're facing life and they're facing hardship and they're facing challenge with the joy. I don't know what it is, but they got something that I'm missing. And so that Faith began to be born in their heart, and he he came to them and says, I want what you have. Tell me, Paul and Silas, what must I do to be saved? Oh, and can I ask of you here this morning, what was the answer? Can I tell you that the answer points to a person? He said unto them, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. The answer points to a person. Paul said. Hey, I'm a servant of Jesus, but I can't do much for you, but Jesus can. Hunt Valley Baptist Church can't do much for you, but Jesus can. There is no church in the world that can do much for you, but Jesus can. It points to a person. The Bible says, neither is there salvation. in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Hey, there's no other name but Jesus, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. It's Jesus. It points to a person, and that person is Jesus Christ. Paul pointed to Christ. Listen, anybody that points you anywhere else besides Jesus is pointing in the wrong place. Jesus is the Son of God. Jesus is the one who came and was born in a manger. Jesus is the one who lived a sinless life here on earth. Jesus is the one who was falsely accused, beaten and killed. Jesus is the one who suffered and died a brutal death on an old rugged cross. Jesus is the one who rose on the third day. And beloved, if you could be saved or some other way of salvation, why did Jesus do that? It points to a person, he says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. It also points to a plan. The plan started with believe Believe. You see, Paul says you must believe. Believe on Jesus. God has made it so simple, yet so many people fail to do it. What does it mean to believe on Maybe I can tell you the story here of Charles Bondin, a French tightrope walker who was the first to ever put a rope across that great Niagara Falls. He walked across that type rope 160 feet above the great Roaring Falls in July of 1859. Oh, he did so to the amazement of great crowds as people watched him walk across first on foot and then on a bicycle and then on stilts. He then grabbed a wheelbarrow, blindfolded himself, and walked across blindfolded When he reached the other side, he looked at the crowd who were cheering in amazement and he says, Are you was that impressive? And they said, Yes. He says, Do you want to see it again? And they said, Yes. And he says, Do you believe that I can go back across? And they said, Yes. And he said, Okay, who's willing to get in the wheelbarrow? There was nobody willing to get in the wheelbarrow. He says, wait a minute, you guys just all said that you believed that I could do it. You see, that's the difference between head knowledge. And heart knowledge between believing in and believing on. There are many people that believe in Jesus Christ. They know who he is. They celebrate Christmas and they celebrate Easter and they know about Jesus. And they say, oh yes, I know he can, but you have never got in the wheelbarrow. You've never believed on Jesus Christ. He says, What must I do to be saved? And it points to the person of Jesus, and it points to the plan, is believe on Jesus Christ. Putting your faith and trust in Him and in Him alone. And can I tell you, it provides us a promise. He says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and what? What's the last of the verse, Church? Thou shalt be saved. Thou shalt be saved. It is a promise. It's not maybe, it's not if you uh are able to attain a certain level of spirituality. It's not if you get baptized or you go to church a few more times or you you follow some set of rules or practices. No, he says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and the promises, thou shalt be saved. If you today were willing to put your faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the cross as forgiveness for your sin, you could be forgiven and you could have an answer to that question that has plagued the heart of men since the beginning of time. What must I do to be saved? Oh, I know we don't like to think about it. We put it out of our minds. We ignore the fact that the day is going to come when we too might be killed or death might be at our door, but the day is going to come sometime For all of us. And you can be prepared and be ready today if you would believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Quickly, can I give you the result? We see the result here. He was a changed man. We see in verse number 24, after he had been given the instructions. These men and what to do with them. He says, who having received such a charge, he thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. Well, if you read the concluding verses here, you see the difference, the change in him. He went from thrusting them, which literally means to cast, to toss. He thrust them angrily down on the ground in that inner prison. But now we see him Washing the stripes on the back of these prisoners. We need to be changed. There's a lot of people in this world that are trying to change themselves, trying to be a better husband, trying to be a better father, trying to be a better person Trying to change themselves, but what we need is Jesus Christ to change us from the inside out. That is the result of salvation. Because it is not us, but Christ in us. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 5, verse number 17, therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold all things are become new. Boy Beloved, there's so much we see the joy that he has there in verse number 34, and when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all of his house. Boy, the joy that he had. It's his entire demeanor changed. He was a changed man. That is the result of salvation. A question has been presented this morning. What must I do to be saved? I don't know where you're at in your life, but I ask of you, have you answered that question? Do you know beyond a shadow of a doubt that your sins are forgiven? That you are, as that Bible term means to be saved. That means to be rescued. None of us can save ourselves It's only in and through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none of the name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Through Jesus Christ and Him alone. Would you stand to your feet? Would you give me just a couple of minutes with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Just a couple of minutes and we're going to close the service. Every head bowed and every eye closed. I would ask you this morning, you say, Pastor Caleb, uh I am not 100% sure that my sins are forgiven. I I cannot answer that question. If somebody asks of me, what must I do to be saved? I don't I don't know if I am saved. Pastor Caleb, pray for me. Would you just show me by an uplifted hand? I'm not going to ask anything of you, but uh I'm not gonna embarrass you. I just want to pray for you. You say, Pastor Caleb, pray for me. Would you show me