It last Sunday night and I had forgot about the fact that we were having a missionary uh come through and if the Lord will uh uh uh give me peace about having them speak, I I like to at least give them one opportunity to share with the church family. If we're gonna send them across the and and to another country and have them minister to people, it's good to get a idea of how they deal with people. And so I try and do that if possible. Sometimes I still speak and and the Lord doesn't let me do it. But Anyway, so we had one last Sunday, so now we're going to conclude. Well we could spend many weeks on the armor of God, but I'm going to uh conclude our study on it here, uh the Armor of God, part number two. Uh this evening, turn to Ephesians chapter number six. Ephesians chapter number six, I know many of the young people, probably some of you adults, have committed these verses to memory, and uh that you're you're familiar with it. You know uh what the Bible is teaching here. I'm going to uh go a little bit different direction this evening uh than maybe what you've thought about. But we looked two weeks ago at the idea just kind of introducing the armor of God, and the focus of that really was just the idea that we are in a battle that we can't hope to endure in this battle except we have the strength of God. It's by His strength, and we've got to learn to rely on Him And the power of his might is how we're going to win the battle. And uh that was kind of the real focus of that. We know that we don't fight against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. And so he has provided for us an armor that is designed to protect us as we move into battle We are admonished here in the text to put on the whole armor of God. Multiple times he says the whole armor of God, and we need to put on the whole armor of God. I would like to take a few minutes tonight and remind us To have the armor of God. This is a lesson in the Foundations of Faith Discipleship series. Those of you that have taken the third series of lessons or are now involved in teaching that. You might want to take some notes tonight. There may be some little little thoughts that you could add to your notes as you teach it to others, some little areas that would give you some insight that might be a help to you as you're teaching it. This is important for every believer to have the armor of God and understand these truths. These pieces of armor are designed to provide protection for us. Each of them designed, uh well a number of them designed to protect a different portion of our body. Can do you believe tonight that God knows what Satan's plan is? That God knows how Satan is going to attack the believer And so God in his wisdom has instructed and told us so there's some areas of the body that need to be protected. That's the focus that I'm going to go tonight. We're not going to necessarily talk about the individual pieces of armor. uh but the area of the body that is to be protected and kind of what the implications are, this is my own application from this. And so they could be, these things could be taken a little bit one way or the other in this way of applying it. But I hope tonight maybe to give you some insight into this aspect of putting on the whole armor of God. Let's read our text here, beginning in verse number 10, reading down through verse number 17. He says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord in the power of his night might Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand, stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness And having your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, take the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. I would have you this evening Take notice, first of all, of the portion of the body that is mentioned. I'm going to say here he's imploring us or he's admonishing us to protect. Our character. Would you look with me there in verse number 14? He says, Stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth. Now, the loins is the center portion of the body. That would be from the waist down the loins of man. Don't want to chase that too far because in all actuality you know tonight that that is not talking about the physical loins of a man, right? I mean we know we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Against but against principality. So we know we're not talking about maybe the physical aspect. So if he's talking about the loins where he says, hey, uh stand therefore having your loins girded about with truth He's not dealing with this external aspect of our human body that's supposed to be, we we don't have You know, books that we strap on and hang around our loins to protect us. That's not that's not what he's talking about. He what I I believe tonight what he's talking about is that central part of the body. I believe that you can take it to mean the very core of who you are, your character. Those things that make up your personality, the things that people would define as who you are. The very core of who you are. In 1 Peter 1, verse number 13, he says, Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind. So he's describing the mind and saying, hey, there's an aspect of the loins of the mind. What he's saying is the center of it, the core of it, that part that is of most, utmost importance, the very Essence of it. So tonight I'm saying here, protect your character is who you are as a person. What he's dealing with here really is being a person of integrity, of having character So we see a couple of definitions here. The idea of GERD, that is to bind about with a belt. Physically, the aspect of GERDI up something. uh in the uh this time period. Uh you know many times they would wear uh long flowing robes and And when a man was going to get down and do some work or he was going to go into battle, he would take up his garments, wrap them around him, and he would gird that up around his waist so that he was free to move. so that he was able to accomplish the task. So that GERD is to bind about with a belt. You know, a belt keeps you from injury. If you think about a weightlifter, he puts on a on a belt and and straps that tight to give him some stability, to give him some uh, you know, a strong uh support. For the task at hand. What he's saying is gird up your loins, the very character, the very core of who you are, to help keep you from injury. A belt helps keep you from weariness. You see a lot of these uh compression sleeves and compression, I don't know, do you call them leggings? The compression thing that a lot of sports people wear today, the idea of adding support to that particular area of the body. Maybe they've had a previous injury there. They've had something that makes that maybe a little more susceptible to harm. And so they've got that extra support there. That's what the belt is. It girds you up. It keeps you from weariness. It keeps you from injury. Another definition is the word truth. What is truth? It literally is the word of God. The Bible says in John 17, 17, Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. So that it is the Word of God. So the Scripture, beloved, it provides all that we need. It is the Scripture, it is the truth of the Word of God that we are to have this to shape who we are. This is what's supposed to be guiding us in this life. This is what's supposed to be molding our character. This is what's supposed to be shaping our personalities. We are to be protected, girded up with the truth of the Word of God. Beloved, there's nothing more powerful this side of heaven. That would shape your life more than the Word of God. This is a living book. It is not just words on a page. It is the very words of God and if you will spend time in the Word of God and allow that to wash over your soul and shake who you are to turn you ultimately we know the goal is to be conformed into the image of His Son. Well the Word of God does that. So he's saying, hey, if you're going to make it, it's not a physical thing that you grab with a belt, but it's a spiritual thing that you uh Spend time and dwell in the Word of God and allow that to shape who you are. That's what he's talking about, girding up your loins. You know, Joseph abstained from one of the most alluring pleasures of man. Because he was girded up with truth. Because the word of God had so permeated his heart and his soul that when that Opportunity or that allurement or temptation came, he said, How shall I do this great wickedness against God? And you have on the other side of that somebody like Samson. who continually gave himself over to whatever his desire was instead of having his character shaped by the Word of God. What's going to keep you on the right track in this life is the Word of God. You've heard it said, this book will keep you from sin, or sin will keep you from this book. That's what he's saying. You want to make it, you want to be able to go into battle with your armor bright, gird up, have the word of God shaping your character. Then I would have you see, secondly, that we are to protect your chest. He says, having on the breastplate of righteousness. We know that the breast area of man is our chest, but we also know, again, that we're not talking about the physical breastplate. We're talking about that area between the neck and the waist, which contains the heart of man. So I believe what he's saying there is you need to protect your heart. The heart, beloved, is the source of your will and your emotions. We know that the plate here, the plate is a hard and solid, something stiff, something that's going to protect it. The military today use what they call a bulletproof vest, not so much carrying around plates anymore, but uh they got something to protect that area of the body. And righteousness, righteousness is to be in a right standing with God. So he says, having on the breastplate of righteousness, protecting your heart with righteousness. So what is our duty regarding this? Well we know the Bible tells us very clearly that we are to Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, with all thy might. You see, your heart is the core of your will and your emotions, your desires, and Satan would do all he can to Pull your desires away from God to this world He will continually put in front of you things that might grab a hold of your attention to pull your heart away from God. I want you to see there's three things in the book of Proverbs that Proverbs tells us that we're to do regarding the heart. Look at Proverbs chapter 4 and verse number 23. In Proverbs 4 and verse number 23, you tell me what it says there, the first thing that we see in Proverbs that we're supposed to do with our heart. When you find it and you read it, you tell me. Keep thy heart. Now does anybody know what that uh word keep literally means? Means to guard. It is to guard. So the first thing we see in the book of Proverbs that we're to do is we're to guard our hearts. Would you look secondly at Proverbs 23, 19? Proverbs 23, 19. You tell me what it says there that we're supposed to do. Guide. So we're supposed to guide our heart. So he tells us very clearly, you know, of course, this is uh you know, talking, speaking Proverbs as a general rule, speaking to the young man, and he's saying, hey, uh, you gotta guard your heart. You need to guide your heart. You see, there's a tendency for the heart of man. I'm prone to Wonder, Lord, I feel it. That's the tendency of man. But he's saying, wait, that's not what you're supposed to do. You're supposed to guard your heart, protect it from the allurements of the world, from Satan who would try and distract you And he says, now you also need to guide it. You need to give it direction. You need to point it where it's supposed to go. And I would have you see, look at Proverbs 23 and verse number 26. What's that we're supposed to do with our heart? Give. The third thing that Proverbs tells the young man to do with the heart is to give your heart. Can I tell you, young man, young lady, you gotta be careful who you give your heart to Because who has your heart is who has influence in your life One of the most challenging things for parents is as their young f young sons and daughters grow up, uh what happens is mom and dad have loved them and cared for them and fed them and sheltered them and clothed them and put up with all their foolishness and tried to train them and and lead them in the way that they should go. And are any parents perfect? No, and some of them are pretty stupid, but they still love their child and tried to do everything they could for them And then this young man or young lady will get to be about 15 or 16 years old, and they'll start spending time with a friend, and they will give their heart to their friend. And this little idiot who hasn't done anything for this guy now has more influence in the heart of that young man or young lady than mom and dad who's been investing in them for sixteen years. Young man, young lady, you need to guard your heart. You need to guide your heart. And the Bible is very implicit here. It is uh his father speaking to him and he says, you need to give your heart to me. You need to give your heart first to your Heavenly Father, and then you need to give your heart to your mom and dad. Let them be a guide for you. If you're going to uh protect your heart You've got to do so by guarding it, by guiding it, and by giving it. Because whoever has your heart has you. He says, put on the breastplate of righteousness. Can I tell you the best way mom and dad to end up with righteous son or daughter is to be a righteous mom or dad. Now, Christians sometimes look at this aspect of this breastplate of righteousness. They think it's something that you put on in a physical way, but it's it's not that. Do you understand? He's talking about the power of godliness. There is power in living a righteous life. He says, put on the breastplate of righteousness. If you want to protect your heart, live a righteous life. There's power in godliness. Many have a form of godliness, but they're denying the power thereof. That is, they are just going through some motions. They are denying the power that's in godliness in living a righteous life. the power of righteous living. We, of course, are made positionally righteous at salvation That's an imputed righteousness that we get from God. But practically, in this aspect of sanctification, we know that it is up to us to live righteously day by day. That's the decisions that we make. So you're saying, well, I want to put on the breastplate of righteousness, then live righteous life That's not something that you can get up in the morning and just strap on and say, okay, I've got it. No, what it is, it's when you make your decisions throughout a day, you're determining whether you're going to do right or not. This is how Daniel had the power to do right when he purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king's meat. Why? Because he was guarding his heart. He was guiding his heart. He had given his heart to God, and he says, Listen, I'm not going to defile myself with the king's meat. I'm going to live righteously Beloved, Satan's going to do all he can to put in your path things that would pull your heart away from God. But if we are guarding it, guiding it, and giving it to the right person, we can keep us from failing here. One of the reasons that we are no longer a righteous nation is because I don't know, probably 70, 80 years ago now, America took their heart away from God. Their heart, the heart of man, went away from God. You see, righteousness exalteth a nation. Right? But sin is a reproach to any people. So when America decided to stop being righteous, stop living righteously. They've taken their heart away from God. So what he's saying here is we need to protect our heart. Thirdly, he tells us you need to protect your chorus. In verse number 15, and your feet shaw with the preparation of the gospel of peace. This is the direction that you're heading in your life. How many of you believe that God has a will for you? God has a will. He has a direction. He has a way in which you should go. So let me give you some definitions here. The idea of having your feet shod, that word shod, is to bind up underneath. I did a lot of reading on this and there's some Very interesting stuff if you want to read it and do some studying on it. But it regarding the Roman soldiers and the footwear that they had, uh there was different footwear for different classifications of soldiers and uh very a lot of interesting stuff. But the idea really is the fact that you would have sure footing, that you would have a solid, something solid to protect your feet. But what I'm applying this to today is that it is the direction that you're heading in life. It's not so much that you put on a good pair of shoes in the morning, but that in the morning you determine the right direction that you're going to be heading. He says a couple other things here. Preparation that of course is to be ready, to be prepared. The gospel, we know, is the good news. That hasn't changed. Amen. And the idea of peace is the idea of reconciliation. Our peace, the peace we have in this life, comes from the knowledge that our path has been reconciled unto God. We have been reconciled unto God. So what is our duty regarding this? Well, we've got to control the direction of our feet, the direction that we're going. We've been reconciled unto God, and we know that God has a will for us, Ephesians 5:17. Wherefore, be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. So the Lord has a will for you. Brandon, would you help me want to have you come on up here? So you get up in the morning and you pray, I'm gonna have you come all the way over here, and you pray and you ask the Lord for direction and He He leads your life, and just for the sake of illustration What I'm going to have you do is I'm going to give you some instruction as if I was God, and I'm going to say, okay, what I want you to do today is I want you to walk towards the piano. Do you understand that as you are doing God's direction, that Satan is doing all he can to keep you from going in that path? Everywhere you go, he's gonna do everything he can to trip you up. He's gonna try and get you to fall To keep from being, thank you very much. Where to going the way that God wants you to go. So he's saying have your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel that is being confident and sure-footed, knowing what God wants you to do, and moving forward in faith in the direction that God has for you to go. Are you going to step with confidence, knowing the will of God for your life? Ephesians 4:17 says, This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord that ye henceforth walk. Not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind. So you're saying, listen, we're not supposed to be walking and doing whatever we think. We're to have peace in our heart and stability in our step because we are walking the way that God wants us to go. Having that confidence that you know you're doing what God wants you to do. There is one aspect of this that I can't neglect to mention as we before we move on, and the idea of that preparation. of the gospel. That idea is being prepared, being ready. And having your feet shod with that. He's saying taking some time to be ready with the gospel. Can I tell you that we're here on earth and God has given us something to do? His last command is our commission. We are to be sharing the gospel. And the idea of being prepared to do so means In your heart and mind, preparing yourself, knowing how to share the gospel, having your tools with you. Being ready to give the plan of salvation, if God brought somebody to you today and said, what must I do to be saved? Could you tell them what to do to be saved? Could you tell them according to the Word of God? He's saying here, listen, be prepared. Be ready to give the gospel. In the path that I have you to go, the direction that I'm sending you in life, I'm going to bring people providentially into your path that you'll have the opportunity to be a witness to. That you can tell about me, but if we have not prepared, we will not be ready to give the gospel. Make sure we're going the path that God wants us to go. And then lastly tonight, I would say we need to protect your concentration. He says here, and take the helmet of salvation. Take the helmet of salvation. Now again, we know we're not talking about a physical helmet that you put on that protects your head. from from damage. Obviously the head is very important. Uh can't go anywhere without that. Although some people try. But you you need to help you need your head. You need but what we're dealing with here is the the aspect of the mind. A helmet is that which goes over the head. It literally means to encompass about or to wrap around the head. Salvation, the helmet of salvation, that means deliverance. And uh can I tell you tonight that the mind is where battles are won or lost. We need to protect our mind. Having the helmet of salvation. Our duty is then being conscious of the fact that our mind is where the motivating force for the soul comes from. The mind is where the motivating force for the soul comes from. Do you realize that conviction of God? That ultimately may rest in your heart, but it begins in your mind. Where you open your mind to the Spirit of God and the Word of God, and it begins to settle in your heart and mind. And and the Holy Spirit begins to say, that is truth, and that is real, and this is what you need. And then the conviction of the Holy Spirit comes and rests in your heart, but it begins in the mind, and then repentance begins in the mind where you begin to yield to God and say, okay, Lord, I'm going to stop doing that. I'm going to start doing this. It's a battle that's won or lost in the mind The motivating force for what you do in life begins in the mind. So here is what he's saying, you need to protect that. Have that helmet of salvation protecting your mind. This is a confidence that's found in the complete assurance of your salvation. Helmet of salvation, that assurance that you know, that you know without question, without doubt, that you're on your way to heaven, that your sins have been forgiven, that you've put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and in Him alone There is no other way to heaven, according to the Word of God. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And I know that you guys know that tonight. I don't have to chase down that trail, but I want you to understand that confidence in your salvation is the helmet of salvation. That's what he's saying. That's what's going to protect you. We know we have been saved from the penalty of sin and from the power of sin over us, and one day we'll be saved from the presence of sin. This is a powerful truth that gives you confidence in this life. You know the soldier that has no assurance is suffering from a wound before he even goes into battle. That's one of the reasons why uh they try so hard the the morale of the military is so vital because their perception in their heart and mind of what is believed to be so as they go into battle is very important. They need to believe in that there is victory at hand, that they have the capacity to win. I was reading a liberal article this week which was written by somebody and they uh you know how they're trying to rewrite history and I was so mad at first because they're like George Washington actually turns out he was a big liar The whole thing about him being uh truthful and the apple tree scenario and all that was a lie made up by somebody and George Washington is a liar, and I'm like, what in the world are they talking about? So what they did is they took some of George Washington's military strategy that he did to win in battle and called him a liar because he was deceptive to the enemy. Because he actually, like when he was at Valley Forge and he didn't have any supplies, he would send uh communications. uh that were meant to fall into enemy hands that said we're looking forward to the reinforcements that'll be here on Tuesday So glad for all the gunpowder that's arriving Monday or whatever. You know, little things like this that somehow the enemy was supposed to get a hold of, which led them to believe that he had all of this. One time they took a whole bunch of uh uh gunpowder um jugs and they didn't have any gunpowder they actually were down to less than seven shots per soldier But they took all of their gunpowder jugs, filled them up with sand, and stacked them all around the base. So the militaries thought they had all this gunpowder, right? And so this liberal writer was saying that uh you know George Washington turns out he was a big liar uh because he was being deceptive in battle Well, when you're in battle, all's fair in love and war, amen. Well, I I don't think that that is uh w God You want to know what God thinks about it? Look what God did with Gideon. Okay? God had lined him up and had him stand with one guy and made the enemy think there was a whole platoon because he had one light. Okay, so It's okay when you're in battle to w do what you need to to win to win the battle. So George Washington wasn't a liar. They were just trying to find something to throw him some way to throw him under the bus And I don't know how I chased that big old rabbit, but uh the idea, oh, the whole idea is that their mindset of the military when they were going into battle, these men needed to feel they were gonna they were gonna win And beloved, the assurance of your salvation, to know that you're on the winning side, to know that He is your Savior and that your sins are forgiven. Beloved, I was talking to somebody in the auditorium just this morning, and I said, listen, once you Once you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, that is a settled matter. You can even later in life, you could decide that, listen, I don't love God. I don't want to follow God. I'm going to go my own way. You may even stand up and tell people, I never believed in God. But the fact of the matter is that as a young man or young lady, as an individual, if you put your faith and trust genuinely in Jesus Christ, your salvation is not dependent upon you. It's dependent upon God. God's the one that keeps your salvation and you may deny it, but that doesn't you're not going to lose it You may end up in heaven and be real disappointed. I don't think so, I'm being facetious, but you understand what they may say. They may say, I don't want anything to do with God, but if they put their faith and trust in Christ, and then they're saved and they're on their way to heaven. And that confidence gives you confidence to go into battle, to know that no matter what happens, I'm on the winning side. That I have the Lord Jesus Christ, and and we are victors, and ultimately in the end I'm going to be with him, and I can go into battle with that confidence and assurance. Satan is after your mind. He's going to do all he can to disrupt this mind He's going to do what he can to destroy your love for God, your care and compassion for one another in the church house. If you aren't careful, Satan's going to get in and use your mind to create all kinds of problems that don't have to be there. Can I tell you a secret? Just stop thinking about it. Just let it go. Just let it go. I can tell you that it is at the same time one of my greatest blessings as it is one of my biggest burdens. That is that I have a terrible memory because I don't have a problem letting it go. Because I cannot remember. And you know what? That's a blessing, because you can just let it go. That's okay. I don't even remember like what happened when and and this kind I just don't remember. I have to l I got too much other stuff to think about to try and worry about something that happened a long time ago. And and listen, I would encourage you don't let Satan win the battle in your mind. Protect your concentration. Think on these things. Amen. So the armor of God, maybe a little different way of of looking at it uh tonight, but seeing the aspects of the body that we're to protect and what it means for us. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?