And uh so we're going to read some some fitting verses as I bring a message this morning that is entitled The Facts. of freedom, facts of freedom. In John chapter 8, beginning in verse number 32 Reading down through verse number 36, we see the Word of God says, And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man. How sayest thou, ye shall be made free? Isn't that just like the world? They don't have any idea, they don't have any realization of the fact that they are in bondage. They they they wonder you you preach the salvation of the Lord and that they can be free indeed and they they say, well, we're free now. We're not in bondage. We can do what we want to do. What do you mean? How say ye we'll be made free? We're not we're not in bondage. Jesus goes on, and he says, in verse number 34, there, Jesus answered them, Verily, verily I say unto you, whosoever committeth sin, is a servant of sin. He is describing to them the fact that men are bound by the chains of sin and unable to free themselves. He says, and the servant abideth not in the house forever, but the son abideth. If the son, therefore, shall make you free, ye shall be free. indeed. He's saying, listen, there's nothing you can do about the bondage of sin that uh weighs you down. Like uh the chains of uh m Marley there in the Christmas Carol who's wearing these chains around. It is a bondage, it is a burden, it is a weight that's upon each and every soul. And they cannot know the freedom. that o that comes through Jesus Christ any other way. Oh, they can try and turn over a new leaf. Oh, they can try and be a good person. They can try and have and exercise some religious activities, but nothing removes the bonds of sin but the Jesus Christ and his forgiveness. You shall know the truth. The truth that you're going to know is that Jesus Christ came and he died for you. He was buried and he rose again on the third day so that he could be the sacrifice for your sin. He has paid your piss in debt, and if you'll accept it, you can be free indeed. Can I tell you this morning that America That name, the name of this country, just the utterance of that name is a name that is a declaration of hope, a declaration of freedom. The freedom that is enjoyed by America is unparalleled. Unparalleled in the world. And I hope today that you're thankful for the freedoms that you have. The freedoms as the Brother Taylor was talking about the other countries where the freedoms are not so prevalent. Or even to hold Christian paraphernalia, to have been visiting Christian websites or to have a Bible in your home could be grounds for being sent to jail I'm thankful today for the freedoms we have. The songwriter said in New York Harbor stands a lady with a torch raised to the sky, and all who see her know she stands For liberty for you and me. This liberty that we have in America. Patrick Henry declared those immortal words when he said, Gentlemen May cry for peace, but there is no peace. The war has actually begun. The next gale that sweeps from the north will bring to our ears the clash of resounding arms Our brethren are already in the field. Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God. I know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death. As Americans, we're free. We're free of tyranny that much of the world has endured for many generations. Can I remind you this morning that with the freedom that we enjoy, there is a responsibility that must be held Let me give you just a couple of facts about freedom this morning. They're facts that are well known. They're facts that you have already heard But just to remind you as we enter into this Fourth of July celebration and declaration of our independence, some truths that you might need to just ponder and think about. First of all, a reminder that freedom Is not free. Freedom that we enjoy, it cost everyone of the citizens today that live under freedom need to remember that it costs somebody. The 56 men that signed their name on that document, those 56 men are praised today They're applauded, they're they're thanked, they're recognized and extolled for their virtue and for their good deed and for their stands for a free nation. But when they signed it, can I tell you it wasn't that way? When they signed their names on the dotted line, they realized that they were very likely signing away their lives. The price that was paid by these men probably will never be fully understood. Probably never be fully appreciated. Who were these men? Some of them very soft-spoken, some of them stern, strong men. They were men of education. Twenty-four of them were lawyers or involved in the judicial system in some capacity. These men had security. They had homes. They had land and property. They had everything that in this world you would look at and say, oh, uh, they're all set. But they determined that liberty was more important than being set. Eleven of them were merchants. Nine of them were farmers, large owners of vast amounts of land. These were men of means, men that were well educated But when they signed their name, their lives changed. Five of the signers were captured by the British, executed as traitors For putting their name on that document. Twelve of them had their homes ransacked and burned. Eleven. Well, of the eleven that were merchants Carter Braxton of Virginia, a wealthy trader, saw his ships attacked in the sea, and the British Navy sank them. He had to sell his home and his properties in order to pay his debts, and he himself died in rags. Thomas McKean was so hunted and hounded by the British that he was forced to move from his family or move with his family constantly. He served in Congress without pay. Well that would be something today, huh? Congress by and large has forgot that their job is to serve the people. He served Congress without pay. Why? Because he believed in something bigger than himself. Well he was away. Vandals or soldiers looted his properties. The properties of many others were looted and destroyed. You could go on and on with the stories of these men that gave of themselves. And can I tell you for the last two hundred years there's been women and women who have fought to secure and maintain the freedoms that we have today. They did not just come because somebody decided they would be a good idea, but men sacrificed for them. They believed in something bigger than themselves. But not only do we today as citizens get to enjoy this freedom of this country, but I want you to know that as Christians, we enjoy the freedom that we have in Jesus Christ. And that too is a freedom that was not free. Jesus Christ gave himself a sacrifice for you and I. He paid the ultimate price. He purchased our freedom with his death on the cross. We are not made free from sin just because we decided to be, or because we thought we could earn it in some way. No, we have been made free from sin. It doesn't cost us anything But it cost Jesus everything. That's why 1 Corinthians 6. 20 says, For ye are bought with a price. You're bought with a price. It was not a price that we paid, but a price that Jesus paid. That's why Paul admonishes us in Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 1. Stand that stand fast, therefore, in the liberty of the Wherewith Christ hath made us free. Christ hath made us free. I want you to know that the freedom that we have as Christians was given to us by Jesus Christ. We need to remember the sacrifice that he paid. What was that price? The price of our freedom. On lonely Galgatha stood a cross, with my Lord raised to the sky. And all who kneel there live forever, as all the saved can testify. I'm so glad to be called a Christian, to be named with the ransomed and the free. As the statue liberates the citizen, so the cross liberates the soul. Oh, the cross is my statue of liberty It was there that my soul was set free. Can I ask you this morning, has your soul been set free? It does not matter what happens in this old world, and can I tell you that uh if something doesn't change in this country, the freedoms that we enjoy today are not long for this country. But the freedom that you have in Jesus Christ is for eternity. If you're here this morning and you don't know that freedom to be freed from the bondage of sin, it's available to you. By simply putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and his shed blood on the old rugged cross. That statue of liberty for the Christian, that testament to freedom for us. Not only beloved is freedom not free, but secondly, I want you to know that independence means dependence. Independence means dependence. For hundreds of years, the vast majority of Earth's population lived under some form of tyranny. Whether it was political. economic economical or religious oppression. Men came to the place where they longed for some type of freedom, just to be free That longing was so strong that men and women and families risked their lives. Came to a new world. Endured untold hardships in a new land. Why? Just to be free. Just to be out from under this tyranny. Men and women who came to this new land wanted to throw off the shackles of oppression. But that doesn't mean that they threw off all of the recognition of God and lived and did whatever they wanted to do. They actually, in their own words, in those familiar words, they said, for the support of this declaration The 56 men that signed that declaration, they said, for the support of this declaration, with firm reliance on the protection of the divine providence. We mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortune, and our sacred honor. You see, beloved, their independence from England Was a declaration of dependence on God. And that has been the standard for America I know men today want to deny it. But America was founded on Christian principles. And these men wanted to be free of the shackles of tyranny, but their declaration of independence from England was also a declaration of dependence. On God. They wanted freedom more than they wanted security. But they understood that they needed God to do it. Now I know that not all of our founding fathers were God-honoring, Bible-believing Baptist. Actually very few of them were Baptist. But can I tell you that the vast majority of them understood that there was a God in heaven that we were accountable to? And I know that of them, some of them did things that are reprehensible. Some of them participated in activities that they shouldn't have they have no business being involved in. Just like many of us. But they understood there was a God in heaven. And the fact is that they were reliant upon him for protection and provision. And ultimately they knew that he would be their judge. All you have to do is read the documents from that era, the governing documents, which ruled our country And the references to God and the Bible and our dependence on Him are immense. Even the national anthem which we sang this morning, the final verse says, Then conquer we must. When our cause it is just. And this be our motto in God We Trust. Are you guys awake? In God we trust. They're trying to take it off of our money. But I want you to know that we need to have a dependence on God. The failures of America, of this nation, is not an economic failure It is not a social inaptitude. It is not environmental negligence. It is not political neglect. Can I tell you that our failure as a nation has been a spiritual failure? It is when we stopped depending upon an Almighty God. When we stopped relying upon, honoring, and respecting, acknowledging the God that is in heaven, that rules in the affairs of men. America is great, not because she has purple mountain majesties. America has purple mountain majesties because America had a great God. And if we are going to continue to be a great nation, a nation whom holds freedom gear, we must remember that our independence means a dependence on God. Romans chapter 1, verse 21 and 22 says, Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Can I tell you that's our country today? As a nation which knew God, a nation that was surrendered and yielded to God and understood, oh they maybe didn't do what they knew they should do, maybe didn't always honor God, but they understood there was a God. Well we are fast reaching a place where we are right on par with third world countries that don't have a word of God in their language. People that do not know God at all. But we said, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations and their foolish hearts. were darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Isn't that the world today? Oh, we're ever increasing in knowledge, but never coming to the knowledge of truth. There is more knowledge available to each and every one of us at our fingertips today. But how much of the world knows the truth? Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free Beloved, the hope of this nation is not some politician Although we should do what we can to get godly people in office, I would have you know that that is not the hope of this country. The hope of this country is not better policies. The hope is not a is not a strategic plan of action. By which we can bring about political change. The hope of this country is prayer. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face, and turn from their wicked way. Beloved, the hope for this country, we can blame it on the politicians all we want. We can get mad about what's going on down in DC, but I want to ask you what's going on in our homes. What difference are we making? We're just complaining about it, we're just uh uh belly aching about it, but how much time have we been praying about it? It's high time that God's people get over their petty little differences and let go of their their bitterness and their anger and their little disagreements with With God, we're so consumed with some foolish little thing that happened in this church. Meanwhile, our nation is dying going to hell. It's about time God's people get over this foolishness and get on their knees before an Almighty God and begin to pray and seek God's face and begin to intercede on behalf of our country before God. We are going to begin a committed prayer time in the coming weeks as a church, as we as a church begin to pray for revival for ourselves and for this nation. We're going to continue that committed prayer time until November. Because, beloved, it's not a matter of who we get into office. It's a matter of a nation turning back to God. As the song was sung this morning so powerfully from the choir, bring us back to you, Lord. Bring us back to you. Independence means dependence. It is a sad fact that our nation, by and large, has left God. But many believers that have been set free by Jesus Christ have forgotten God as well. You know, don't we get really irritated at the spoiled brats who are on these campuses all over this country who want to burn American flags Who want to uh degrade the the freedoms that allow them to even have the education that they're getting. That allow the rest of the nation to pay for it, that that give them the right to be able to do what they're doing, and they have no conf I mean don't we get so upset about this foolishness. Men and women died and gave their life to protect that flag. But how often do we take for granted and forget the salvation that purchased our freedom? You and I will not experience the liberty that's found in the Christian life without a dependence upon God. You see, this world is mistaking. They think that they can just do whatever they want. Can I give you the last point here? I want you to know that liberty is limited. Liberty is limited. In 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse number 17, he says, now The Lord is that Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. You see, people mistakenly think that they have unchecked and unlimited liberty. They feel they have the freedom to do whatever they want to do. But beloved, that is not freedom You see, a great example of this is the man who says, Well, I'm free to do whatever I want to do. You can't tell me what to do. This is a free country. I'm free to engage in whatever wicked behavior I would like to, and therefore I'm going to take these drugs and I'm going to enjoy these drugs and I'm going to have a time of my life And you'll find that very quickly the freedom he thought he had to do whatever he wanted to do, he is now in bondage to that, bound by it, and cannot quit it. That's what sin does. Liberty is not liberty to do whatever you want, it's liberty to do whatever's right. That's how God designed it, that's how God plans it. Society today has perverted the meaning of liberty. They want to say my liberty is is personal choice. I get to, it's my my body, my choice And so they're going to take the human that is inside them and say, you have liberty in America to kill that other person. But what happened to the baby's choice? Yeah. Very well. You see, beloved, we we have perverted this whole idea of liberty in our country today. It's not not freedom to just do whatever we want to do. It's freedom to live inside the bounds of the laws of God that have been established for us. The reason that we're losing more and more of our freedoms is because men are demanding more and more liberty. They don't understand how it works. The more liberties you take, the less freedom you're going to have. You don't agree with that? Just take your car and drive 75 miles an hour down Shawan Road. You say it's a free country. I have liberty to do what I want. No, you don't. You have liberty to live inside the bounds of law. The more liberties you take, Your freedom will be taken from you. You get stopped a couple times, they'll take your license away. You get caught without a license, they'll take your car away. You get caught driving somebody else's. I mean ultimately you're going to end up in jail. All of your freedom gone. All of your liberty's gone. The cry in the world today for personal liberty. Is different from that cry of our founding fathers. They understood that their independence meant a dependence on God. You see, beloved, you don't get to just go rob a bank. You say, well, I'm free to do what I want to do. No, you're not. You can't just go rob a bank. You can't just go steal your neighbor's car. You can't just help yourself to whatever you would like. No. You don't get to draw a check from work and never show up. There are laws. There's limits to your liberty. And beloved, when we live inside the law, that's how liberty is protected Living inside the limits. You say, well, who sets the limits? The problem, by and large, in America today is they're trying to remove the limits. And that's why all of the liberties that we have had and enjoyed for two hundred years, uh we are in danger of losing. You see, liberty is freedom to do what's right. And as good citizens, we are to obey the laws of our land, with an understanding that God is the one who ordained the powers that be. were to live inside the bounds of law. And if at some point the laws of our land say, hey, it's fine for you to go ahead and do this, we always observe and follow the higher law. If God says don't do that, doesn't matter what society says. We do what God says. In Galatians 5. 13, he says, For brethren ye have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh By love, serve one another. He says, Hey, you have liberty in Jesus Christ. But just because you've been given liberty in Jesus Christ is not cause for you to just go do whatever you want to do. Don't use your liberty as occasion to go and sin against your brother or sister, or use it as a as freedom, uh as a declaration of your freedom to go live and sin and do as you want to do. No, we're to live inside the bounds of an Almighty God. And that is how the liberties we've been given are protected. I bring this to a conclusion this morning I hope that you enjoy the liberty that you have in America today. I hope that's something that you value and appreciate and you're truly thankful for. I also hope that you've had the privilege of knowing the truth that Jesus Christ came and died for you. That he paid your sin debt. And I hope that each and every one of you here know without question that your sins have been forgiven and he have been made free. I hope this morning that as a child of God, you're ready and eager to declare your dependence on Him. We don't like that today. We want to be independent. But the Christian needs to acknowledge his dependence on God. Ronald Reagan said, if we ever forget that we are one nation under God, then we will be one nation gone under. Would you stand to your feet with your head spout and your eyes closed?