We're continuing on and it's uh surprising. I think we're on our I think this is our tenth lesson of of the book of Psalms and it doesn't doesn't seem that way to be honest with you, but uh uh uh it's It's been fun and enjoyable and so I hope that uh you've been learning from it as well. I think last week our homework was to look at Psalm forty-two, forty-six and eighty-four and so we'll just look at psalm uh uh a little bit from those psalms the The title of today's is the Korah Psalms. The Korah Psalms. Before I move along, I will take the time to to go over some trivia that we didn't get a chance to go through last week and so uh just uh so that we look at and uh so so now we're going back a couple weeks all right a couple weeks in in uh and as well as a a couple questions from last week But uh the first one is uh we talked about mercy a couple weeks ago, but what does anyone remember another word for mercy Another word, another Bible word that we see for mercy. I gave about four examples of it, and does anyone remember any of them? Kindness was one of them, that's correct. Compassion was another, forgiveness and loving kindness. Were the ideas of mercy, and mercy is eternal, so certainly praise the Lord for that. Now, I gave a list of people in the scriptures who prayed for mercy Or prayed in regards to mercy. Does anyone have any of those listed, or does anyone recall some of those people that I mentioned that prayed and asked for mercy? David was one of them. Abraham, Moses, Jacob, and a couple of the obscure ones were Jonah, Jonah prayed for mercy, and the publican in the book of Luke. So those were the ones that that the questions that I had about mercy. Um, which covenant promised to bless and to curse? We talked about two covenants last week and uh they were named after people, so that's the clue that I'll give you. Uh one of them promised to bless and to curse. Does anyone remember? Remember the name of that one? Abraham. Abraham was the first one, and then so Abraham was the one where there was blessing and cursing. And then the date uh so that was that's called the Abrahamic covenant. Uh Abrahamic covenant, you'll see that, or you'll see p people mention that. And you'll also see people mention the Davidic covenant. And the Davidic covenant is the one where God promised that the throne would be established through the line of David. So those are covenants that we see in the Bible, and sometimes we'll make me mention of those But there's one that was the Abrahamic covenant and the other one to was Davidic. Last question. Is God's wrath present or delayed until the end of days? God's wrath, is it present or is it delayed until the end of days? It is present. And the Bible says in the book of John that uh if you he that believes in the Son of God and he that uh Uh if you don't believe in the name of the Son of God, the wrath of God abideth on him. And so so that's the Bible verse that we see to prove that. Very good. All right. Awesome. Awesome. Very good. And so now we're going to move into the next study where we're looking at what I've called, what I've titled the Korah Psalms. the Korah Psalms. And so we're going to turn to the book of Psalms. And I think you're already there. You should already be there. And I think if I didn't mention it already, we're going to be in Psalm 42 is where we're going to begin. Now, the Korah Psalms, I put the listing there for you. It's Psalm 42, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49. And then it makes a jump into eighty-four, eighty-five, and eighty-seven, and eighty-eight. And the reason these are called, or I call them the Korah Psalms, is because At the beginning of them, specifically, it talks about the sons of Korah, or it says, for the sons of Korah. And so in Psalm 42. As we look at this, let's just read it and uh and let's read Psalm 42, and I'll read it aloud as you follow along in your in your Bible. To the chief musician, Maskil for the sons of Korah. As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things I pour out my soul for in me. For I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God with the voice of joy and praise with a multitude that kept holy day Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance O my God, my soul is cast down within me, therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites from the hill Mizar. Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts, all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me. Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime, and in the night his song shall be with me. And my prayer unto the God of my life. I will say unto God, My rock, why hast thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with the sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me. While they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God So obviously the theme of this one is to hope in God. To hope in God. And we see that there in the beginning. Now when when When we see this term there in this passage, cast down, why is my soul cast down? It gives us the idea of discouragement. maybe uh on the brink of depression. So this man's soul feels cast down and so he's discouraged and he's down uh but he's kind of having a conversation and he's saying Why are you cast down hope in God? And so many of these Psalms are hopeful. They're positive, except one of them, and we'll we'll kind of talk about that a little bit As we read these Psalms, many times we read them, and certainly we can grow from them, and we're taught God's word, and we look at the emotions and the insights to the psalmist. And when we just read it just plain and simple, just open it and look at what the scripture says. We see the scriptures teach us truth. But I always want to encourage you that if you can to dig deeper. Not for a hidden mystical meeting or some unknown code in the scripture, but understanding the scripture better. To take a step back and to understand maybe a bigger picture or a wider context of some truth that the Bible teaches. So I'll mention this as an example. What do I mean by this? We know that Christ had twelve disciples. And we know that one of them was Matthew. Now does anyone Matthew's other name was Levi? And does anyone remember what Levi or Matthew's job was? He was a publican. He was a tax collector. He was, if in in in our days, an IRS agent. Now, meaning he was a government worker. Now, you think that people don't like IRS agents today? Well, in that time, the government The government and the people weren't necessarily hand in hand. The Jewish, the people, the overarching government was the Roman government. So Matthew worked for the Roman government. It was an oppressive regime that ruled over the Jews And many people in the public, many Jewish people would look at a tax collector and they would think that he was a traitor. He was a traitor because they he was uh Collecting taxes against his own people and working for the regime that was oppressing their people. So they were just a traitor, they were a sellout. Now we also understand that we have another disciple. His name was Simon. And in places in the scripture, he's known as Simon Zelotus. Simon Zelotus, that's another word for saying Simon the Zealot. Simon was a religious zealot. Now, the religious zealots of that day hated with a passion everything that had to do with Rome. And so the idea to get a better understanding is that Jesus had twelve disciples, two of them that in most cases would have hated each other. But here there was a group that were following Christ that had had their lives changed and they were walking hand in hand. the tax collector and the zealot. And it gives us kind of a different understanding of of the scripture. And so When we look deeper, it gives us a more enhanced view of the scripture. It adds more color to our view of the Bible picture. And so today is not any different. We come to these psalms and we look at them and we can certainly glean from them a lot of the Korah Psalms are very positive and very uplifting and uh pointing very much to God and to his to his uh glory But when we take back and we step back to look, when we take a step back, we look at who these people are, it gives us an appreciation. For the Psalms of the Sons of Korah. Now we see that these Psalms contain some notes of praise. We see that they contain some appreciation for the house of the Lord. So first, as we look at this, we're going to look fur first at the history of Korah. The history of Korah. So hopefully, if you can, maybe put a marker here in the book of Psalms. To fully understand, we need to look back at the history of Korah. Now, let me tell you a story. When I was in high school, there was a I had a teacher, and the teacher told us about a young lady who he had as a student. Now that young lady uh had her last name was Caponi. And as it turns out, when they talked and to when this teacher had talked to the student That uh the you know he he said he's like that I I haven't heard that name very very often. Where where's that from? And he said the l the young lady said, well, actually our family changed our name to Capone because uh our name was Capone and we were related to Al Capone and we didn't want that association so we changed our name. And so the idea is, you know, there's a this association that we have, and something comes to mind when we hear a name. And the same thing is true when we think of the sons of Korah. Let's look at the history of Korah. If you can, turn back to the book of Numbers. And again, if you can, just keep keep keep a tab there in the book of Psalms. But turn back to Numbers and you can turn to Numbers chapter 16. And it gives us just a brief uh in the beginning here, it gives us a brief uh lesson as to the line of the lineage of this man, Korah. Korah, uh, as it turns out, was a Levite. And it begins there in Numbers chapter sixteen, verse number one says this. It says now Korah, the son of Ishar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi So here, Korah, we find out that Korah was a Lev. He was one of the children in the tribe of Levites. And that's very important because we see that he is mentioned, and we have the mentioning of the lineage of the sons of this man named Kohath. Alright? Now Kohath or the sons of Koath had a certain responsibility. Alright, in Numbers chapter 4, we find that I'll read this for you. It says, this shall be the service of the of the sons of Koath in the tabernacle of the congregation about the most holy things. And when the camp setteth forward, Aaron shall come, and his sons and they shall take down the covering veil and cover the ark of testimony with it. Alright, so let's explain this. The Levites were all in charge of taking care of the tabernacle of God. And later on when the temple was built, they were in charge of working in the temple. The Levites would do the work there in the temple. Now, there were some that had some responsibility and others that had another responsibility. Now here we see in Numbers 4, the sons of Kohath had to take a job after the sons of Aaron were done. The sons of Aaron were the priests. They were the ones who were set apart to be the priests. And so that means, and there was one of them that would be the high priest. And the high priest would go into the Holy of Holies once a year. And we know that and w you know we've heard that explained. Now, when it was time to move, what this is explaining is that when they would move the tabernacle throughout the wilderness What they would do is that the sons of Aaron would go into the holy places and grab the furniture and cover the furniture with its coverings, with its skins. And so they would cover it and they would move it, bring all the furniture out. And they would then from moving it out and taking it, they would make sure, and it says there in verse uh 15 When Aaron and his sons have made an end of covering the sanctuary and all the vessels of the sanctuary as the camp is to set forward, after that the sons of Koath shall come to bear it But they shall not touch any holy thing lest they die. These things are the burden of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the congregation. So understand that the sons of Kohath would The the the the sons of Aaron would come in and they would take the furniture, the things that were in the tabernacle, they would cover it with skins, and then once they were done with that Then they would turn it over to the sons of Koath, and the sons of Koath would transport it. They were in charge of guarding the furniture when it was covered. Alright? Not when it was in service, but it would when it was covered, when it was put away. And so that was a very important responsibility. So the priests would cover the furnishings, and then the sons of Koath would come and they would carry them. It was an important responsibility to transport the items that were used in the tabernacle, but also because they were transporting them, they also had to protect them. They had to guard these items, even though they were put away as they were traveling through the wilderness. Of course, we know that they did that for a long time. The sons of Kohath had to protect these things. But something happened. Cora got discontent. Cora got bent out of shape And we see that in chapter sixteen in the book of Numbers, and that's that's pretty much where you where you should be at right now, I think And so we see this, it starts off with telling us who Korah is, and he comes from the line of Kohath, who was the son of Levi. And then it says Dathan and Biram, the sons of Eliab, and An, the son of Pel Pelh, Pelesh, Pileth. Sons of Reuben took men, and they rose up before Moses with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation Men of renown. And in verse 3 it says, And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you. Seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them. Wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord? So he is saying, Who do you think you are? We're all special. We're all holy, as he would say. And why do you lift yourselves, Moses and Aaron, up? Above the congregation of the Lord. And so there was this uprising, there was this insurrection that was growing And it was uh Korah and and Dathan and Abiram and An, and not just them, there was two hundred and fifty others that were men of renown, important people there that were i part of the the nation of Israel there. And there was an uprising, and they they they became discontent. Korah was unthankful with his responsibility. And we see that further down as we uh as we look at the scriptures. And when uh if you look at verse 4, it says when Moses heard it, he he fell on his face and uh uh uh Then he goes on and he says to you know make sure that we're we're going to take censors and we're going to find out uh who God has chosen. But there is a part here, verse 9 of chapter 16, verse 8 and 9. And Moses said unto Korah, Hear I pray you, ye sons of Levi. Seemeth it but a small thing unto you that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel to bring you near to himself to do the service of He's saying, Why are you taking for granted the great responsibility that God has given you? to take care of his tabernacle and this responsibility and this ministry that you have, sons of Korah, you sons of Levi, is it a small thing for you? Why are you looking down and why are you so uh uh uh unthankful with this responsibility. So he attacked Moses And Moses obviously mentioned what he did to him. And so that as it turns out, they stood against Moses. And this did not turn out well for Korah. Of course, here we're we're we're going over the history of Korah, what was associated with Korah. And if you follow along and if you remember the rest of the story, they go before God, and every man took his censor, and they said, okay, who is who is on God's side? And as it turns out, what ends up happening towards the end of the story is then Korah came up and was at least talking to Moses. But Dathan and Abiram, Moses and Aaron, said, hey, come and and you know test this out, see who who God is going to choose. And Dathan and Abiram were just like, we're not even going to go. And we see that there in the scripture. And finally, at the end of scripture, at the end of this passage, we see that Moses says, he says, if these men die, the normal death, God hath not sent me. And if you recall the story, this is the story in the book of Numbers where the earth opened up and Korah was basically consumed, fell into the earth, and then the earth closed back up. Something that was just completely unseen. And it was a very dramatic ending to this story. He died by getting swallowed up by the earth. Now if you turn over to chapter 26 of the book of Numbers, we'll see one more little nugget that goes along with what we're talking about. Numbers twenty-six verses nine and through eleven and the sons of Eliah, Nemuel and Dathan and Abiram, that is that Dathan and Abiram, which were famous in the congregation who strove against Moses. and against Aaron and the company of Korah when they strove against the Lord. Verse ten, and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them up together with Korah when that company died, what time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men. And they became a sign. Verse 11, notwithstanding, the children of Korah died not. So the children of Korah were spared. And when we see that, we see an interesting story of God's mercy. So understanding this background, we have this these men, uh, these these the people that were descendants that were associated with this man, Korah. Now let's look at some famous sons of Korah. some famous sons of Korah. Very interesting that as we consider this story, we have to see how those that were Korahites is what it was what they're mentioned as, how they were used. Let's turn over to 1 Chronicles chapter 6. We kind of see a little bit of their role. And it we we get a little explanation of who they are, that that we see they were they had an important role in the music worship of The house of God. 1 Chronicles 6, verses 31 through 34 And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the house of the Lord after that the ark had rest. And they ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernacle of the congregation with singing, until Solomon had built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, and then they waited on their office according to their order So understanding what they're saying is that there were people that were set apart to be singers when the ark was in front of the tabernacle. in the time of David, and then when Solomon had built the temple, they were set up and they were put to do that job there. Verse 34, excuse me, verse 33. And these are they that waited with their children, of the sons of the Kohathites. Here's the name again. Hemon. A singer, the son of Joel, the son of Shemuel, the son of Alcana, the son of Jerobam The son of Eliel, the son of Toa. We see this man Heman. Who is Heman? Heman in the book of The elsewhere, I believe, in uh uh 1 Kings chapter 4, the Bible talks about the wisdom of Heman. And Heman, as it says here, was the son of Joel, who was the son of Shemuel. Now, if you look at 1 Samuel 8:1 and 2, let me read this to you. And it came to pass when Samuel was old, that he had his son he made his sons judges over Israel. Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second Abira Abiah, they were judges in Beersheba. So understand what's happening here is that when you look at who the sons of Korah were, who were the children that were the sons of Korah, there was this person that was known to be wise. His name was Heman. But Heman was the grandson of Samuel, Samuel the prophet. Samuel also was one of the sons of Korah. So when we see that, these sons of Korah had a particular role in the music ministry The music also for war, when it was a time of war, very important. So the sons of Korah had an important role. And they no longer took more upon themselves, the sons of Korah served the Lord. So then let's look real briefly at the words of the sons of Korah, which is what we're looking at now when we go back to the book of Psalms. The sons of Korah had eleven psalms attributed to them. I want to look at some of the phrases that we find so that we can get a really good insight as to what just What the sons of Korah are saying. As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee. That's in Psalm 1, Psalm 42. We mentioned that already. Psalm 44 says this in verse 8. This is another one of the Psalms of the Sons of Korah. In God we boast all the day long and praise thy name forever. Selah. Psalm 46, which is another, it says this, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountain be carried into the midst of the sea. The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge, Selah. Psalm forty-seven, another one says this for the Lord most high is terrible, he is a great king over all the earth, and terrible obviously is used in uh uh in uh uh in a in a positive way there uh in terms of like saying uh awesome or awe-inspiring. And so Then in verse 8 of Psalm 47, God reigneth over the heathen, God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness So we have these words, we have words of praise, and we have words of might, and we have these words that the sons of Korah were singing. praise to God in front of whether it be the tabernacle or in front of the uh the temple, we see that the sons of Korah were at the forefront of praising God. And then we see one of the best ones, Psalm 84. Psalm 84 we see as a tribute to the house of the Lord. And it was a tribute to the role and the responsibility that they had. Embracing their role, not despising it. What was their role? They were the people that were protecting, protecting God's house. They were, and we see this word in this passage in Psalm 84, the doorkeepers. Now the doorkeepers, many times we think as the person that's like the porter, the person that's opening the door. But the idea here is that they were the people that were protecting the house. They were the the ones that were guarding. They were the security team of the the of the temple. They were the doorkeepers. So what does it say in Psalm 84? Look at verse 1. It says, How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts! My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My soul is desiring to be in the courts of God. My heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. If we go down there, we go down to verse 10. For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. What a beautiful thing. So we see in 1 Chronicles 9:17, this is where we get the idea that they were porters. The porters were Shalom and Achob and Talmud and Ahiman. and their brethren Shalom was the t was the chief who hitherto waited in the king's gate eastward They were porters in the company of the children of Levi, and Shalem, the son of Kor, the son of Ibiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brethren of the house of his father, the Korahites were over the work of the service, keepers of the gates of the tabernacle, and their fathers, being over the host of the Lord, were keepers of the entry. They were the doorkeepers. That's where we get that. Now, what's interesting is that in Psalm 84 it says here, I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. What is that a reference to? Well, if we went back to Numbers chapter 16, there's a point here In verse 25 and 26, and I'll read this for you, it says, And Moses rose up and went unto Dathan and Abiram. These are the people that were uh in part of the uprising, and the elders of Israel followed him. And he spake unto the congregation, saying, Depart, I pray, you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye be consumed in all their sins. So Moses was telling the people in the congregation of Israel, again, millions of people that were out in the wilderness, and he's telling them, get away from Dathan and Rabbiram and these people that are part of this uprising, this rebellion from the tents of these wicked men. And we see that reference going back to Psalm 84 where it's saying, I'd rather be a doorkeeper and the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. And so we see these interrelated references In these Psalms of the Sons of Korah. We covered one of them already. We talked about it in Psalm 85. Psalm 85 was the revival psalm. And so we talked about that already. So we have these great psalms of praise where the sons of Korah are Sharing words and songs of might and of being close to God and how wonderful it is and what they would rather be doing. And again, it was a place where they were happy with the responsibility that they had. Then we have this other psalm, Psalm 88. This is known as the Dark Psalm. It's the the psalm of sorrow. And it's a very uh it is a very dark psalm. There's not a lot of of positivity in it. Uh it's not it it's a very You know, as we were talking about downcast, cast down type of psalm, that would be the the tone of this psalm. But what I think we can learn from this is that even in darkness, we can still turn to God. Because even though Psalm 88 as a whole is very. Dark, it starts off with this. This will let me let me let me read the inscription for you so that you can get a so you can get an idea. a song or psalm for the sons of Korah to the chief musician upon Mahaleth Leonoth, Maskil of, and here's the name, Hemon the Ezrahite So here we have Heeman who wrote this psalm. Heeman wrote this very dark psalm, and even though it's we we we would call it dark, The first verse is this, O Lord God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee. And so I think what we learn is that we can Turn to God regardless of what darkness we're facing. We can trust that He hears us regardless of what darkness that we're facing. So the question really comes back to what can we take away, what can we learn from the Psalms of Korah? I believe when we read these Psalms, they are looking at God in a positive manner. They are opening up to the Lord. Now, in difficult times, you have two options. You can turn to God or you can turn your back on God. And the sons of Korah had some baggage that was associated with their name. But in light of that, they served the Lord. They were happy with the responsibility that they had. w within God's house. They were joyful about and when we read these, and when we read these passages to think that it was a person that, hey, he was just he was just happy just to be there because of the the name associated with his family. He was just happy just to be a part And then we see these verses that that the Bible preserves for us. It says, as the heart panteth after the water brooks so panteth my soul after thee. Just like a deer desires the water coming from the brook, So is my soul thirsty for you, God. That's essentially what it's saying. Verse 2: my soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before my God? Then we it goes on and we see these wonderful wonderful tributes and how happy they are to be in the the house of God and how happy they are to be uh part of of serving God and and serving in the in the tabernacle or serving in the temple. And obviously they make reference to some of these things that are associated with their family, but they're saying, hey, in spite of that, we're so happy to be where we are to be serving where we are, to be in the place that we are. We would rather be here than anywhere else. And that's the spirit and the tone that we get. And they served God with great energy. They weren't looking for more. They appreciated the honor it was to serve the Lord. And so that's what we take away from it. It's what a joy and what a privilege it is that we can serve God. And so hopefully we we can look at this from a different light of saying, hey, the sons of Korah, in spite of their baggage, in spite of their past They certainly were able to look at what they had to do and the service that they had to give to God, and they gave it their all because they were just happy just to be able to be a part. Because they were spared. And their family was spared. And so they said, you know what? We're going to serve the Lord. And so what a neat background story to to think about as we read and as we look at the at the these psalms so that they can add some more color to to to the picture that we see. And so when we see the sons of Korah mentioned, think about that. Think about that as you read these in uh in the scripture. So let's go ahead and close and let's close with a word of prayer. Father, we do love you and we thank you for the day. Lord, what a joy it is to be able to serve you, to serve in your house. And Father, we know that Lord, you have responsibilities for each of us to do. Lord, I just pray that you would help us to fulfill those things that you desire for us. Lord, help us to to serve you in the right spirit with the right heart. Lord, not looking around at what other people are doing, but Lord, looking uh up to you and And understanding what it is that you have for us to do. Father, we'll thank you for all you do. We ask for your blessing tonight. We ask that you would give us safety, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.