The topic that I'm going to be preaching about this morning is a topic that I have always enjoyed. Uh I'm the title of this morning's message is The Successful Saint. successful saint and uh I've always enjoyed success. Uh when I was a young man I desired to be successful. I wanted to be maybe successful in the world's eyes. Successful in that means had those ambitions as a young man. I mean what young man didn't? I don't think any young men said, I just want to I just want to be a bum. I mean maybe there's a few, but uh for the most part men men who men want to be successful. They wanna be uh you know, they want to achieve something. There's something built into a man that just wanna accomplish something, you know And I've always liked the idea of success and looking at it through the scriptures and and uh success in in life and and in family and and means and so on. And so this idea of success I've always enjoyed talking about. Now today's world we are motivated and driven by success. In today's world, I'll tell you, people are just driven by success. Whether that success is realized or just perceived, we all love the story. The rags to riches, dramas that are part of that American dream. We like to hear the stories of somebody who came here with nothing. And through hard work and perseverance, was able to succeed at life and accomplish something. But I wonder, is that American dream what success is? Is that how success should be defined? If so, let me ask you, how much money equals success? I mean, how much money do you have to have to be successful? I mean is a hundred thousand a year success? Or do we have to go beyond that? When I was 16 years old, uh I worked for uh Walmart and Sam Walton was still alive. Sam Walton was worth $40 billion. And I worked at the Walmart in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, which is not too far from Bentonville, Arkansas, where Walmart was started. And Sam Walton came and visited our store. And worth forty billion dollars and he still drove an old Ford pickup truck. So is success, I mean do you ha w what kind of car do you have to drive in order to be able to suc say you were successful How big of a house do you have to get? I mean, where's the line? Is it a $200,000 house, a million-dollar house? I mean, how big of a house is success equated to? You know, we've come into the place in our society, at least in American culture, where success is kind of put into our minds as happening to be number one. It's the idea, this this idea that it's just you've got to be number one to be successful, but nothing could be further from the truth. Jeff Bayos is worth $131. 4 billion. I said $131. 4 billion. He is the wealthiest man in America and probably the world. Uh not sure about the world because I didn't look up the world. But you know what? Down the list I mean number five. Mark Zuckerberg. I mean he's only worth 62 billion. That's it. He's number five. So is he still successful? Financially, I mean. What about Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla? Do you know he's number 40? He's 40 places down the list of the wealthiest people of the world. He's only worth $22 billion He's so far from first place it's not even funny. He can't even see first place. He's only worth $22 billion. I don't know how far down the list Donald Trump is. But do you know Donald Trump is only worth three point seven billion? He's only worth three point seven. So he's not successful. What I'm saying is in our mind we get this idea that we've got to be first or the fastest or the best to be successful I want you to realize this morning that as I preach about success, I'm not preaching or a proponent of the ever-popular prosperity gospel. This success gospel, the idea that is preached by popular televangelists Who get up and say, if you're a believer and you have enough faith, you'll be wealthy if you plant a seed into my ministry. If you give, I saw a news broadcast of one of these prosperity gospel preachers who was talking about how uh God was going to prosper all those people that gave to his ministry. in years to come and just talking about how successful all of them were going to be because they gave so that his ministry could buy a $20 million jet. And he was standing in front of his twenty million dollar jet and uh you know this this prosperity gospel I want you to understand even though it sells it's heresy. It's not what the Bible teaches. Although we're going to talk to you about being a successful saint today, I want you to know that God does want you to be successful. God wants you to experience spiritual victory and true biblical success in your life. Let's look first of all here this morning at the perception of success. We've kind of laid the groundwork in that idea already, the perception, what is our mind's eye, what is the perception of success? I mean, is it being first? Is it Is it having the most money? Is it attaining a certain amount? Look with me at Joshua chapter 1 and verse number 1. Follow with me as we read down through verse number 9. Now after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of Nun. Moses ministered, saying, Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore, arise, go over this Jordan, thou, and all this people, unto the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you, as I said unto Moses. For the wilderness, and this Lebanon, even unto the great river, the river Euphrates. All the land of the Hittites and unto the great sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your coast. In verse number five, he says, There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Be strong and of good courage, for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them. Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses, my servant, commanded thee Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. And thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Have not I commanded thee, be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. God promised his man here success, that what he did would prosper. That he would experience and know success everywhere he went. This world looks at success as the idea of the quickest way to get what you want. But is success really getting what you want? The world would have us believe that it is, and the world would say it's necessary to do whatever you have to do to get success. Success is getting what I want, whether that be this particular job or that promotion or this house or that vehicle or this amount of salary, I'm going to go after it, and I'm going to pursue it, and that's what I want, and I'm going to attain that, and when I've attained it, I will be successful. They feel that if you are able to get what you want, no matter the cost, no matter who it hurts, along the way, that if you get what you want, You'll be satisfied. The problem is that satisfaction is an elusive dream. That's just out of reach. No matter how much you attain, no matter how successful you might be The goal keeps moving. The finish line doesn't stay there. I mean, it's just part of life. I read an article this week about rich people. Rich people feel that you don't even qualify as rich until your worth is in excess of 100 million You see the finish line keeps moving. Do you understand that your definition of wealthy changes with the accumulation of wealth? You see, by the world's, by most of the world's definition of wealthy, every single person in here is wealthy, is rich. Rich. But I doubt there is one person in here that would define themselves as rich We may have got to the place where we would say, oh well, I'm comfortable. I think I'm okay. But do you understand with the accumulation of wealth, our definition of rich moves? The goal keeps changing. That elusive dream of, oh, now I'm successful keeps getting further away. One man that they interviewed, worth millions, they did not give his exact net worth, but he said that he still has great anxiety Probably more now than ever in my life, even though I'm worth more today than I ever have been. He said, with all this money I fear living longer than I project and I'll run out. He says, I'm gonna live too long and I'm gonna run out run out of money. The goal keeps moving. The Bible tells us that. The Bible says in Proverbs 27, 20, that the eyes of man are never satisfied. So certainly the uh the goal or the the measurement of success cannot be just the attainment of what we want. Because that that goal keeps moving, that finish line keeps moving. The drive to attain, the drive to succeed in this worldly fashion will destroy you. It will destroy all that you hold dear. You will sacrifice the things in life that are truly valuable, the things that are of utmost importance in order to attain that which doesn't make any difference. That which will not provide any satisfaction or give you any real enjoyment. There is nothing wrong with desiring to do your best There's nothing wrong with working hard to strive to attain or be successful at something, especially in areas and abilities where God has given you a natural gift or a skill. There's nothing wrong with desiring to do your best at it, to be successful at it. But when success is defined as getting what I want, And being willing to do whatever it takes to get there, we are truly in a world of hurt. We're truly in a lot of trouble. In the book, Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, the author says this: many people spend their lives climbing the ladder of success. only to find it has been leaning against the wrong wall. What he's saying is when you finally get what you want, you find out you didn't really want it. It didn't bring the satisfaction you thought it would it would. It didn't bring that fulfillment, that that goal, that measurement of okay now I'm successful. It didn't it didn't give you that. You've worked so hard climbing that ladder and found out it was leaning in the wrong place. Solomon was a great Man. Solomon of great accomplishments in his life, success given to him by God. Attained much wealth and possessions and things. Could we take a second and learn from him? Solomon said this. He says, I made me great works, I builded me houses, I planted me vineyards, I made my gardens and orchards and trees in them all kinds I made pools of water, the waters therewith, the wood that bringeth forth trees. So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. He was the Jeff Baos of his day. He had more than anybody else. He had it all. And in Ecclesiastes 2, verse number 17, he says Therefore I hated life. Therefore I hated life. Because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous The perception of success All that accomplishment did not give him the feeling of success. I recall visiting the Ubarai uh re uh resort in India When we were on their missions trip there, we were in India and we went to this resort, a very elite resort. We did not go there to stay or to we just went to visit with one of the college students who worked there and he wanted to show us where he worked. So he took us in and took us on a golf cart and drove us around, showed us the resort and he took us to a little villa that is on the resort there and he said this villa rents for ten thousand dollars a night Ten thousand dollars a night. Ten thousand US. Over six hundred thousand rupees. And he said it uh The sad thing is one time he had a family stayed there seventeen days. And he said the amazing thing is the first four days the husband and wife didn't talk to each other because they had had a fight He said, Pastor Caleb, talking to Mary and I, he said, it's amazing how miserable the people are who come to this resort. And have the money to stay here. He looked at Mary and I. He says, I would rather be you than one of them any day of the week. They have it all, but they lost what they had. On October fifth, two thousand eleven, at fifty-six years old, Steve Jobs Died of complications from pancreatic cancer. Even though he had spent $100,000 to have his DNA sequenced Allowing doctors to specifically target treatment to the particular molecular pathways that were defective in his body. But still, he passed away Ten billion dollars. And it couldn't buy him another day. For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world? And lose his own soul. If you're here this morning and you've been going after that American dream and you've been looking for success, I want you to understand That it's not going to bring satisfaction. It's not going to bring fulfillment. It's not going to bring that success you think. You could gain the whole world, and you've lost it all if you lose your soul. You need Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior to forgive you of your sin and to give you an amazing home in heaven one day. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Stop chasing that American success and look at the Savior. Look at the Savior This is the perception of success in our country, which we know is wrong, but I want you to see the promise of success that we have in the passage of Scripture here this morning. morning, there's promises that are here that are for us as believers. They're not promises to everybody in the world. They're not promises to just anybody that wants to take a hold of them. They're promises to believers. To those that believe in Jesus Christ and have put their faith and trust in him. In verse number five, we have the promise of his presence. He says, There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. We have the promise of God's presence. As a believer in our life, God has promised to be with us. To be with us in every hour of our day. Do you know that God cares about you this morning? He is concerned about the number of hairs on your head. Every one of them. He doesn't have much of a job with me. Some of you, he's got some work cut out for him. But God is concerned about you. He loves you He wants to be with you. He said he'll never leave you nor forsake you. That in your greatest hour of need, God is there with you He is there in the hospital room in the quiet of the night when you're alone and the family's gone home and the doctors are out of the room and you're by yourself and there's some infection or some problem or surgery that you've just had and you don't know where the outcome is going to be. But you've got God there, and you can turn and look your Savior in the eye and say, thank you, Jesus, for being with me tonight. He's with you. In that hour. All the money in the world can't provide you that. But you've got God's presence in that hour of need, and you've got God's presence in the hour of joy as well to be able to celebrate with and rejoice. Talk about the goodness and the blessings of God on your life. Whether that be a new car or a new house or a new uh addition to the family. Amen. Whatever there is that God has blessed you with, you look at that and you can say, Thank you, God. Every good gift and every perfect gift cometh from above. You can rejoice with him and his provision and his goodness for you and for your life. What a thrill to have God's presence. He's also promised us protection. He says there again in verse number five, he says, There shall not any man be able to stand before thee. All the days of thy life, as I was with Moses, I'll be with you. Hey, he's going to protect you. I'm more convinced today, now, at this stage of life, than I ever have been of God's divine protection of his saints. Those who are in God's will, following him. Listen, if you're running from God God might be the one that's sending by the the the wagon, might be the one taking you to a little hospital visit God me might be the one trying to get your attention because you're running for him. But if you're a saint and you're following God and trying like we said this morning, what direction are you headed? Heading towards God, I hope Not that you're perfect, not that you don't ever fall, not that you don't ever falter or slip up, but when you stand up, you say, okay, which way? Okay, God, that's the way. And you head towards God again. When you're following after God, you've got God's presence. You've got God's presence. God's protection. No man's going to be able to rise against you. God's going to protect you, keep you safe. Hey, when we were in India, we were in a couple of places that uh weren't real safe for white boys like me. But listen. I've got a heavenly father. And I wasn't stressing about it. I wasn't too worried. And praise God, my wife wasn't too worried either. I hope her confidence was in God and not in me because I'm not sure uh how much I could have done, but I certainly would have tried. Something happened. But listen We were there in a place that maybe wasn't safe, but God said He would protect us. No harm can come to the believer except God allow it. We could give you illustrations about people on the mission field and those that have stood in places where uh you know people were ready to attack and they saw surrounded by them uh a group of men. W we can talk about how uh you know like George Washington on on his horse and and when he when the when the battle was done he took his coat off and had all kinds of holes through this coat But no bullet holes in him. God's divine protection. Beloved, God protects his people God, you've got God, the promise of God's presence and the promise of his protection. There is a hedge of protection around the believer that nothing can Can enter except God allow it. He's also promised for us prosperity. In verses seven and eight He says, Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe, to do according to the law which Moses my servant commandeth thee. Turn not from it to the right hand, to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. You ever seen some people it just seems like they just prosper? They just prosper He says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. Then thou shalt make thy way prosperous. Then thou shalt have good success. We've got a promise of success from God. But you see, these verses are what you call condition promises. It's a condition promise. We have a promise, and we have a right as believers to be able to claim the promise from God if we meet the condition. If we meet the condition. So what is the possession of success? How do we as believers today, God has promised us success, how do we possess that? How do we attain that? How do we have this elusive success that we desire in life? I want you to see that obedience is the path to success. Obedience is the path to success. Listen, we talked about in the beginning, the attainment of a certain level of wealth is not Going to give you satisfaction. But I can guarantee you the fulfillment of God's desire for you in your life will give you satisfaction. You will have the joy of the Lord, you will have his strength, you will have his presence, his protection, and you will feel prosperous, sometimes to the point where you're embarrassed about how good God has been to you. And you'll just look at it and you'll say, Wow, having just done what God wanted you to do. All these young men in here, I know you're ambitious. Young ladies around the auditorium, I know you've got things you want to do. You're looking at life and was talking this morning to Peter, and he wants to be a surgeon. Listen, if that's God's will for you, Peter, I hope you do it. One day you may be working on me. Study hard, man. You learn learn good. You you it's it's possible. One day I could be coming to your office and you'd be saying, Pastor Caleb, got that bubble in the middle you gotta do something about Need to work on that, preacher. I don't know, but if that's God's will for you, that's where you'll find success. That's where you'll find satisfaction. But in just pursuing what you want, what you want, what you want, it's an elusive dream that you never attain. You never get it. How do we get success? We do what God wants us to do. The obedience is the path to success. He says there twice, hey, observe to do. All that God had said. Don't turn from it. Not from the left hand or the right. Don't turn away. Meditate day and night in the Word of God. Find out what God wants for you. Learn what God desires for the Christian. Desire that and go after it. Keep yourself in the law, he says, keep it in thy mouth, like right on the tip of your tongue. The laws of God, the direction that God wants, and observe to do it. Just observe to do what God wants, and you'll find success. Oh, you may experience some of this world's success. God has blessed many beyond measure. But the satisfaction, the joy, and the fulfillment does not come From the attainment of those things. For a man's life consisteth not of the abundance of the things that he hath. But the joy and the thrill and the satisfaction in life comes from following God. And just doing what God wants you to do. Like Joshua, we're going to face times of testing to see how committed we are. To what God wants. If you read just a couple of chapters over, I think it's chapter number six, you find Joshua before a city called Jericho. You remember that story? Joshua is at Jericho, and God said, Hey, what you need to do is you need to march around the city. And you and I would look at that and say, that doesn't make sense, God. That's not really the plan that I would put in place in order to achieve this victory. But are you going to do what God said, or are you going to do what you say? And Joshua had to decide, well, do I want victory? Do I want a success? He had to put maybe what he thought about it Maybe even what some of his generals thought, like Joshua, has plum lost his marbles. We're just walking when are we gonna attack? We're just walking around this city. This doesn't make any sense. You know, sometimes following and doing what God wants you to do, you think, man, it doesn't make sense. I don't see how this is gonna work. I don't see how ninety percent is gonna go further than a hundred. That just doesn't make sense But do you want success? Or do you want to do what you want to do? Because if we observe to do all according to What God has said, then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, then thou shalt have good success. Just doing what God says. They had to march around the city, and you know the story and I'm not going to re-preach it, but hey, they had victory, right? Doing what didn't make sense at all, but they followed God's plan. Then you go to the next chapter and you find them there at a city called Ai. And man, this is a little bitty city. I mean, we could we could whip them with one hand tied behind our back. Guys, let's go up. But God had given them some commands and told them some things to do, and uh Aiken stole the bacon And Aiken walked away with some things that he was not supposed to. They didn't observe to do all. Oh, they did most of what they were supposed to do, but Aiken thought, you know what? I want success. I want some of this possession. I would like to be happy, and I would be happy if I could get what I want. And he went into a tent and took some garments and some some precious metals and some silver and he took it back to his tent and he buried it. But In his desire to get what he wanted, he lost everything he had. Including his own life. You see, that's how the success The success of this world is so elusive. You go after it, you never attain it, but you lose what you already had. But if you follow God, His blessings just continue. They just continue. They just continue. Knowing that this world's success does not satisfy, that it is not measured by our accomplishments. But being faithful to God. I think there's some in here this morning that they're succeeding at getting what they want, but you're failing at getting what you need. You're succeeding at getting what it is that you want. Because of the American dream and the possibilities that are available to us. But I think you might be failing at getting what you need. There's some who are climbing the ladder of success. One day they're going to realize it's leaning against the wrong way. Let us as believers today be faithful to God and let Him prosper us as he sees fit. The pathway to success, to prosperity, to victory is obedience to God. We can't expect the God of truth to be with us when we neglect the truth of God.