So, I'm going to go ahead and do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. We introduced this activity. And I'll tell you what, as you can see by the condition of the target, that the men and boys loved it. Uh it was only about a day and a half, and they will only do it during free time when we weren't doing other things, but they've already broke all the way through. uh the the the target is damaged so you can no longer uh hit right there in the center of it. But they had a they had a really good time. I did notice that nobody sat on the front row this morning here. So that's a good thing, but uh we thoroughly enjoyed throwing these axes. Of course outside is is a much better place for it. And taking the time to do this Build this target and throw this axe wouldn't do any good without the axe head. You could stand here and throw a stick at that all day, and the stick is not gonna stick. It's the axe head and the weight. that's here and the sharp edge that cuts that allows it to stick. If you're gonna accomplish much with an axe, you need the head. This morning I want to preach for just a few minutes on the absentects. The absentee. Bibles in 2 Kings, the first seven verses of chapter number six here, story is given to us. Takes place with the prophet Elisha, where a laborer, a worker, has lost his axe head Would you look at the text with me and follow along as I read the passage of scripture we're going to be gleaning from this morning? In 2 Kings chapter 6, verse 1, the Bible says, And the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, Behold now the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan, and take thence every man a beam, and let us make a place there where we may dwell. And he answered, Go ye And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go. So he went with them, and when they came to Jordan, they cut down wood But as one was felling a beam, the axe had fell into the water, and he cried, and he said, Alas, master, for it was borrowed. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed him the place, and he cut down a stick and cast it in thither, and the iron did swim Therefore said he, take it up to thee. And he put out his hand and he took it up. Elisha here The prophet of God that followed Elijah, this prophet that was given a double portion of that power that his teacher had been blessed with by God. Had been involved in training young men, preparing them for the ministry, furthering the work of God, and these sons of the prophets, these uh men that were preparing and ready for the ministry found they were in a place where it was a little bit too straight for them, the Bible says, which means tight, narrow. It was getting a little bit crowded. There were too many guys in one room. They said, we need to build something else. We need to make this a little bit more conducive to furthering the work of God, to accomplishing more for God. We're at a place right now we're at capacity and Boy, we need to grow and we need to do more for God. And if we had another dorm or we had a little more space, we could do and accomplish something great. Boy, Elisha, what do you think of that? And he said, Yeah, why don't you go do it So they went down by the Jordan and began to cut wood so that they could accomplish the task. Now That little hatchet that I had, it's probably not what they were using. They were probably using something more like this to cut wood with. And it just so happens that this head is actually a little bit loose. So I'm just kidding. I'm not throwing that. Yeah. Yeah, I I I I ain't throwing that one. Um it is actually i i it could this head could come off of here. You see it moving there? So, this son of the prophet here, this man who is unnamed in the scriptures, we don't know his name, and I think possibly because maybe God wants us to put ourselves in this position. He had a task to do, he had a job to do, and he lost the ability To accomplish the job that God wanted him to do. The power to do the work. That cutting edge was no longer present. And boy, he was standing there with a stick, and that wasn't going to get the job done. I want you to see several things as we walk through these verses here this morning. And uh take an opportunity to preach a little bit, and hopefully the Spirit of God will touch your heart for where you're at. Because I believe this is a fitting message not just for our church today, but for God's people of any generation. Because if any of us were honest Before God today, we would have to say, there's been days in our life, there's been times in our life when we lost our cutting edge. When we lost the power that was needed to do the work that God wanted us to do, when we lost the joy of serving God and the excitement of seeing God do great things and the desire to just go forward and do more for God. All that passion was gone. Sometimes we need to get that cutting edge back. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to your heart as we look at this message this morning on the absent acts Lord, we're thankful that we can come to you and pray in every hour of need. This morning we need you to speak to our hearts Each and every person here has a burden, has a challenge, has a struggle, a weakness, a sin. There's something in our lives that we're dealing with that nobody else knows, but God you know You know where we're weak and where we're strong and what our help is what we need for help this morning. And I pray, God, you'd use your work, your word, to do its work in our lives. Bless this time in Jesus' name. Amen. I would have you first of all see that they recognized the problem. They recognized a problem. In verse number one, he says, And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now, the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. They reached a place where they said, hey, we want to accomplish more for God. We want to do more for God. And where we are right now, it's It's restrictive. It's too tight. There's not enough space. And we really can't do it right here. And there's this problem and that hindrance. And boy, if we had a larger facility We could really do something for God. They saw the need, and I praise God for people that have a passion and a desire to see God do great things. And they see a need and they're willing to push forward and to go do it. Amen. I'll tell you that's a good problem to have when you say, oh, my classroom is too small. We're gonna have to find a bigger room because the kids just don't fit in here anymore I think that's a problem in the nursery right now. The nursery's too small and we've got to find a place to put these kids. Uh you can keep having kids. We'll find we'll find another room. Amen I'll tell you, it's a good problem to have when when you run out of space and and we're we're excited to see that problem. We'll we'll look at it and say, hey, God's blessing, and there's a need Amen. We're looking for God to do great things, and it ought to excite us. And sometimes a growing church has pains, and sometimes a growing church endures some struggle because they're growing. But those are exciting things. They said, boy, there's a problem here. Elisha, it's getting a little too narrow for us. Man, what a privilege to see God doing something. We need some people with that kind of passion. They're not content with where they're at right now and what God's doing in their heart right now. They're not content with where uh what they're seeing God do through their life right now. They notice something. They say, we've got to do more for God. We see them here requesting permission. In verse number two, they say, Let us go, we pray thee. unto the Jordan, and take thence every man a beam, and let us make a place there where we dwell. And he answered, Go ye. You see, they made a request They made a request, and it's not a popular thing today, but it's here in the text, so I'm going to point it out. There was somebody responsible. There was somebody that had the authority. They recognized that. It wasn't just a free-for-all, do whatever we want to do. They said, hey, here's somebody that's in charge, and somebody that that God has blessed, and somebody that God is leading, and he's the one that is directing this thing. So we're going to go to him. And I believe in the world today that God blesses the local church. And I believe that ministries are to be led and operated through the local church. I received a request this week for our church to support a ministry. Seems like a very good ministry, but it's what we would call a para-church organization. They may be doing great things, but what I'm saying is they are not connected with the church. They're not underneath the authority of a church. They're just doing what they want to do. And they might be doing some great things, but I believe that God blesses and works through the local church. The church is what God died for and gave himself for. The Bible says he loved the church and gave himself for it. So there's a a recognition of authority there. Even in the church, we don't have everybody just doing whatever they want to do There's a uh uh a place, uh there's an organization, there's there's uh uh here's how we want to run things, this is what we want to do, this is how we wanna look, this is how we want the church to go, and and everybody recognizes that. They certainly did. They had a passion to see the work move forward. They were ready to go do it. And I'll tell you what, any leader loves a guy with some ambition. Any any any business owner, you get a young man, you get a young lady that has passion, that has drive, that's ready to go to work That sees the problem and starts to tackle it. Oh, we've got to get this done. It's time to clean this up. It's time to put these things away. I mean, you're excited about somebody that sees the need and goes after it. Amen. That's a blessing. And even in the Lord's work, it's exciting when there's people that have a passion and they have a desire and they want to accomplish something for God. These young men came and said, Hey, you know what? There's some people out here that don't have the gospel yet. Could we take some John and Romans and go get it to them? Amen. Let's go. Let's do it. Let's load up and go get it to them Hey, there's some kids in my class that they they would really like to have an activity and we could have something for them and we could have this class and activity and this would be a blessing. Amen. Let's do it. Let's go There's some drive there. Do you have drive for the things of God this morning? Do you have zeal? These young men had a passion for it. Don't lose your zeal for the work of God I believe God's pleased when we have a zeal for the things of the Lord. Just a drive to see God's work move forward. Whatever we need to do, however we can accomplish it, whatever work needs done, we want to see God's work move forward. Whatever that is, I'll do it. I'll be a part of it. Let's do it. We see here also in verse number two, we see replete participation. He says, let us go, we pray thee, into Jordan. And take thence, what's the next three words? Every man a beam. Every man. Not two men. Not just the guy that was excited about it. Not just the guy that happened to notice that, hey, here's a need here But everybody said, you know what, you're right, there is a need. Boy, there is a burden, there is a challenge. Let's get everybody together. We're going to go down here and we're going to do this. Every man went down and picked up his axe and said, let's go cut down some trees. Let's go build a dormitory for the men in the sons of the prophets. Let's go prepare and make a way for them Every man participated. Listen, the work of God takes complete participation. Oh, I've seen it over the years. The work of God will get done. It'll get done. It just won't get done as effectively. And it'll be a lot harder for the few that do it because there's a bunch sitting by the sidelines. There's a bunch that say, oh, that's a good idea. Yeah, why don't you guys do that? Don't you love it when somebody says in a group they're like, hey, don't you think we ought to take the trash out? And you're like, yeah, I think that's a good idea. Why don't you do that? No, I said we ought to take a tragedy out. Yeah, we heard you, but it was your idea, why don't you do it, you know? You love it when they just a volunteer you, you've been volunteered, right? Oh. But it takes everybody getting involved. E. L. Moody used to say It's a whole lot better for ten men to do the work of one than for one man to have to do the work of ten. And I would just encourage you, get involved. Get involved. Be a part of what God's doing here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You know, sometimes people say, well, I I'm not part of the in crowd, and we work hard to try and be sure that we don't have like an in crowd. We don't have uh uh cliques in our church and groups, it's we're we're a family and we're all together. But you know what? Nobody's excluded you. You can pick up your axe and show it for work. You can say, I'm here I'm ready to sweep the floors. I'm ready to take out the trash. I'm ready to vacuum. I'm ready to cook for for second Sunday uh the community cookout. I'm ready to s to watch a bounce house. I'm ready. I mean you can stand at the outside And sit over here and see all the activity going on. Say, man, there's a lot going on over there. It's pretty busy. I wish I was a part of the team. Or you can get up and sign up and say I am part of the team. Listen, if you need a personal invitation from me, you've got it. Um if you need me to write it down, let me know and I'll I'll send you one in writing. We want you to be part of the team. We want you to be included. Nobody's trying to exclude you or you're just as valuable and just as important as the guy that's standing up here today Because we're all God's children. There's nobody in this room any more important than anybody else. There's just people saying, hey, what can I do? Where can I jump in? And and they they get involved. And you say, man, sure see a lot of Bob Gamble. He's out there all the time doing this and doing that and doing that. Boy, the church must really love him. No, he really loves the church. And he's getting involved. Are you getting involved? It takes complete participation. It takes everybody being involved. Just pick up your axe and jump in. You don't have to sit by the sidelines. And we see here a relationship petitioned in verse number three. And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servant. And he answered, I will go. So he went with them when they came to Jordan, for they wanted Elisha to be with them. You know the Old Testament God's man was how you got a hold of God. You went in and through God's man, and I praise God today that we believe in the priesthood of the believer and that you don't have to come to me. You go directly to God. You talk to him in in in your the privacy of your home or as you're walking down the road or at work or wherever. We can go directly to God and we can have God's presence. But what I want to say is they they wanted fellowship here. They wanted that relationship. They valued it. And they said, hey, you know what, Elisha, you don't have to do the work, but boy, we sure would love to have you there. We just want you to come and be a part of it. And you know, there's something about being around somebody whom God is blessing. Do you know when you're around somebody whom God is blessing, a little bit of that blessing falls off on you It's just the way it is. You see that over and over in the scriptures. And they wanted God's blessing. They wanted God's presence. They said, Elisha, would you come with us? How bad do you want God's presence today? What would you do to have God's presence in your life? They sought after that relationship. They weren't content without that relationship. You know it wasn't long ago that Elisha was with his Leader, his teacher, Elijah. Remember? It's getting towards the end, and Elijah said, Hey, why don't you just tarry here? And he says, Nope, I'm going where you go. I'm staying with you. I want to be where God's presence is. He desired that, and these men they desired that Elisha be present with them. They didn't want to go down there and do the work. without him. Then we see the ruin presented. Verse number five he says, but As one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water. This really is the heart of the story with regards to application and the truth here, that the cutting head of the axe fell off. The power to do the work was gone. His ability to accomplish something was no longer there. Have you ever used a hammer with a loose head? Not not not on there very good Not only is that unsafe, but it's hard to use. His ability to accomplish the work was hindered. You know, uh this axe, we've had this for a number of years and we've been babying along because we don't do a whole lot of work with the axe. We have a hydraulic log splitter, amen. But this head has been loose for years. And there's been several times that the boys were using it, and I've told them, hey, watch that head. Be careful what you do because that head's loose. That y you see you're aware of it. When you're using something that's loose, and here's what I'm saying is unless this young man was completely ignorant, and that is possible because we know young men, Um but it unless this I mean probably wasn't. He was probably a skilled laborer. He knew the head was loose Here's what I'm saying is spiritual Christians know when the head's loose. Hasn't come all the way off yet. Haven't lost everything yet, but you know the joy is gone. You know the desire's gone. You know the passion that you once had is not really there. You haven't completely lost the head, and you're not sitting by the sidelines with just the stick saying, Well, I'm not doing anything for God anymore. You're still a little bit active, but you know the head's loose What I'm saying is if you're aware of that, do something before it's too late, and the ability and the power to accomplish anything for God is gone The sensitive Kristen knows the head's loose. He's aware of that and can do what's necessary Hey, you know what? How many of you that work with hammers? Here's a good application. You're gonna like this. You guys ready? You work with hammers? If you have a wooden handled hammer that the head is loose on, what do you do to it? Yeah you're going down the road. You're you're too far down the road. What do you do for an immediate fix? You Pastor Derek got it. What you do is you drop it in a bucket of water. You drop it in water because water causes the wood to expand, and then the head's tight again. Now it's going to dry out again. And To to to get through another day, you might drop it in a bucket of water again. What do we know is water? The Word of God. Kristen, you're thinking the head might be a little loose? Maybe you need to get saturated in the water. In the water of the Word. The Word of God can tighten that up. Get in the Word of God. You say, well, I don't have the passion to do that anymore. The head's loose. You know, beloved, a man doesn't just one day commit adultery. Just all of a sudden, just go do that. No, a long time ago the head got loose. And he started letting his eyes wander. He started pondering and thinking about things that he shouldn't. Started entertaining, enjoying some friendship that was leading the wrong direction. He didn't just wake up one day and all of a sudden the head flew off and fell into adultery. No, a long time ago the head got loose, and he didn't do anything about it. Young people Young lady doesn't all of a sudden just one day lose her virginity. Doesn't just happen like that. It happens because she starts entertaining thoughts she shouldn't. She starts enjoying the company of a guy that's a rotten bum. That doesn't love you, even though he says he does. You go down that road with a loose head. And you end up losing something you can never get back. You don't just all of a sudden one day hate your parents. What I'm saying is way back here, somewhere in your life, and I don't know what you're dealing with right now, and I I I couldn't possibly hit every situation that's of that's present in this room. What I'm saying is you don't all of a sudden one day just the axe fall off and your life falls apart down here. Way back here the head was loose and you could do something about it. Sensitive Christian does. I want you to notice the place that he lost the head. It says here that, but as one was felling a beam. Okay, he was active. He was in the work. He was busy. He wasn't standing over here. It wasn't a government job. He wasn't standing over here leaning on his axe. You know? No, he was active. He was busy. He was in the work. He was getting at it. And all of a sudden the accent fell off. What I'm saying is sometimes even those that are active and busy in the church The axe head can come off. Sometimes even more likely to, because what we've done is we've traded our activity for spirituality. You understand just because you're busy in the church doesn't make you spiritual? Sometimes it's just the exact opposite. Because we're letting our activity for God stand for our spirituality. And that's not necessarily true. Now I believe when you're spiritual, the love of Christ will constrain you and you will be serving God. I think that's just a natural byproduct of it. But what happens? It's because you know how the Bible says that man looketh on the outward, but God looketh on the heart? Because man looks on the outward, I think what happens a lot of times Is we get active and we get busy serving God and boy we're really at it and boy look at me I'm look at what all what I'm doing for God man everybody's seeing me work yeah hallelujah and we stopped reading the Bible And we stop praying. And we stop seeking God's power. And before we know it, we're standing up here. And boy, we're making a lot of noise. But we aren't getting anything done. Because a long time ago We let the cutting edge go. We let that which gives us power to accomplish God's work go. We're just all about the activity now, making a lot of racket, making a lot of noise, and looking really good We aren't getting anything done. If you don't get anything else, that right there could transform this church. Krishna is not about what we're doing. It's about the spiritual heart of man. How is that relationship with our Heavenly Father? This man was busy. We could give a little bit of an application. It might be a stretch from the text, but uh There is maybe one idea here that it's possible that he lost his axe head in such a major way because he was a little bit too close to the shoreline. It's gone, it's sunk. It might have been wiser to be a couple trees back from right from the edge But I'm saying there's a lot of Christians the reason that they mess up in such a major way is because they're a little bit too close to the world. They're hanging out. Yeah, they're busy. They're still serving God, right? They're doing what God wants. But they're hanging out right next to the world. And when you're that close, you're bound to trip and fall in. We were working on the pool the other day at the property. Got a bunch of maintenance we've got to do on that. And uh Miss Christina came up to visit Pastor Derek and she had the kids with her And right away it was the the the pool was all green and nasty. I mean it was terrible looking, you know. Uh and these kids of course Where are they gonna go? Right to the edge. They're looking right in there. And Pastor Derek's like, hey, hey, get away from the edge. He did not want to go in that water after 'em. He had no question he could save 'em. We're all right there. But he does not want to jump in that water. And so he's like, get back from the edge. He says, You see where that that concrete changes color? Don't get any closer than that He says, just don't even step over there because and after a little while Ms. Christine's like, all right, all you guys come here. Outside the fence. Everybody outside the fence, you know. Why? Because you get close to the edge and something's bound to happen We see that this morning. The ruin was presented. The axe head was gone. His ability to do God's work was passed. We see the regret professed here, second half of this verse. He says, and he cried, and he said, Alas, Master, it was borrowed. He says, oh no, the power is gone, the strength is gone, the ability to do this work is gone. You know what's amazing is that he cried out, it bothered him. And sometimes the sad thing is, Christian, is those whose whom whose axe head is gone, whose strength is gone People around them, their husband or their wife are burdened for them, or sometimes a parent is burdened for their child, or sometimes a church member is burdened for a friend, and they see the accent is gone But the one who has no access is not worried about it. Praise God for friends who pray and seek God on your behalf That want to hold you up and want to strengthen you, want to say, hey, there's a problem that I see here, and we need to come along and we need to get this fixed. This man saw it. He recognized it. He had a burden. He said it was borrowed. Can you have you ever borrowed something and broke it? That's terrible, isn't it? You're like sick to your stomach. Like, man, now I gotta I gotta buy him a new one. It's by the way, that's what you oughta do. Shouldn't be giving something back broken. Somebody borrowed our car once and blew the engine up and came back and dropped the keys off and said, here you go, your car is broken down out there. You ought to try and give it back in better shape than you got it. This man said, hey, I was given care of this tool. I was given stewardship of this. It's my responsibility. And you know what, beloved? You and I have been made stewards by a heavenly Father. The Bible says we've been made stewards of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And our talents You know if I say this I'm gonna put somebody's name in your mind. Our talents are on loan from God. You guys know who I'm talking about. I'm not talking about in the narcissistic self-promoting way that Rush Limbaugh does that. But do you know what? All of us are talents run loan from God. Every bit of the talent and skill we have and the and the abilities we have given to us by God, and we've been made stewards of them. And we're to use them to accomplish God's work. He knew his ability to work was done until he got the power back. You know it's never a waste of time to sharpen your axe. Never a waste of time to sharpen your axe. We do a lot of wood cutting. Kids sold probably 30 30 cords of wood last year. That's a lot of wood. And uh we of course don't use an axe, praise the Lord. Uh we use chainsaws. But you know, it took me several years to learn how to s effectively sharpen the chain of a chainsaw. I used to take them to a shop and pay six dollars a chain to have them sharpen, but I had a whole stack of chains and I took them in and one time I took them all at once and I said, I need all these sharpened. And they're like, oh, okay. And then they handed them back to me and it was ninety-three dollars. And I said, I'm gonna learn how to sharpen these myself. And so I started learning, and boy, was it was quite a it was a lot harder than it looked on YouTube, I'll tell you that. But I did learn And man, it makes such a huge difference when you have a sharp chain. You drop that down in the wood and you have these huge chunks flying out and it's just eating its way through the wood. I mean, that's fun. Somebody that knows how to use a chainsaw, they can walk up and they can tell you just by the sound of your saw if it's got a sharp chain or not. They can look at that dust coming out of there and they're like, uh buddy, it's supposed to be in wood chips, not dust. If it's throwing dust, your chain's not sharp. And it takes it burns the motor up on your chainsaw and it takes three, four, five times as much work. You know, some of you have been struggling in the work of God so hard, you're like, man, it's so hard to serve God. Your chainsaw sharp. The power to do the work is not there. You need to sharpen the chain, sharpen the axe. I want you to see quickly. I'm in I'm in I'm done. I have a couple other points, but I won't spend long here. We've got the responding prophet, the man of God responds, and he comes. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed him the place, and he cut it down a stick and cast it in thither, and the iron did swim. The man of God responded, he said, Where do you where did it fall? Listen, Christians, it's pretty uh pretty simple, but What you got to do is if you lost the power of God, have you lost the ability to to do things, you lost that passion you once had for God Where did you lose it? I I mean I've had many Christians come and say, oh, I'm just not as excited about reading the Word of God anymore, or oh, I just I'm just not so thrilled about being in church anymore. There's no desire or passion anymore. Well what happened? What was going on in your life back when you had it? Maybe you need to go back to that place. Maybe you need to get back to reading the Word of God, get back to souling, get back to giving, get back to serving Get back to the place where you lost that passion, where you lost that desire to witness, where you lost that desire to talk to God. Get back to that place. Go back to where you lost it. The man of God said, Where where did it go in? That's a good place to start. Let's go there where where where you lost it Then we see the requirement proclaimed in verse number 7. He says, Therefore said he, Take it up. Take it up to thee. And he put out his hand and he took it. You see, beloved, when you come back to God, God will always do his part. The man of God, it's just a miraculous thing. God He threw in a stick, and God made the iron of the axe head swim. He made it float to the top. You see, we have a miracle working God. God can take that broken-down marriage. If you think there's no hope left, it's gone. And he can put it back together. I've seen him do it. God can take that struggle and burden that the child that you think is lost and he's just too far gone? God can make the axe head swim. God can take that financial situation that you're looking at and say it's impossible. There's no way I can face that. I don't know what I'm going to do. God can make the axe head swim. We serve a miracle-working God. We come back to Him. God does the miraculous We see there in that last verse that there's a part that we have to do. He told him, reach down and take it up. Pick it up again. Get back to where you lost. Get that axe head, put it back on there, and get back to doing what you're doing. Get back to doing what God wants you to do I don't know where you're at and what miracle you need in your life today, but we serve a miracle serving God. And we have the power to do the work of God available to us. Sadly, there's been many times in my life. I've been in the ministry my whole life. I've been born in a pastor's home. There's been many times in my life where I was over here doing the work with just a stick. And man it wears you out. You get so tired. You get so frustrated. You get short with people. You lose all your patience. You start to think, what's it for? Why am I bothering? Friend, when you put the axe head back on. And get the power of God. You know, there is something fun about cutting a tree down with an axe. You give any kid an axe, he's gonna go cut something down. It doesn't mean he's gonna cut something down. You better you better make sure you know what he's cutting on because you're gonna come outside and find him your your tree out front, that cherry tree you love so much. It's just f you swing that axe and those wood chips fly. And man, when you're serving God and the power of God, and you you walk into somebody's house and you say, Can I tell you about my Jesus? They bowed down right there in their living room and they called upon Jesus and asked him to say you walk out of there and say, Woo! Hallelujah! Man serving God is good. Look what God did, and it wasn't you. It's God led you, God directed you, and you you deal with the situation or the thing that you're facing. I want you to understand God wants to do it through you, but you got to reach down and pick up that power, pick up that X head, and put it back on and get back to doing what God wants you to do.