Turn your Bibles to Philippians chapter two, Philippians chapter two tonight. We're going to look at the Word of God as we've been studying the book of Philippians. We finished up Philippians chapter one. I'm not going to take time to review uh uh our Philippians chapter one. We'll do that another night and bring every everything up to speed, but we'll start this evening just in chapter number two. Would you follow along with me as we read? I'm just going to read the first eleven verses uh of this chapter. We're not going to get that far this evening, but just kind of so we have the context of the discussion here, some very powerful, powerful verses. in this chapter, uh just reading them uh stirs my heart, speaks to me. He says here in Philippians chapter two and verse number one, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, any comfort of love, if any fellowship fellowship of the Spirit, if any vows and mercies. Fulfill ye my joy that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashioned as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God also had highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father Lord, as we look into your word tonight as we seek for you to speak to our hearts, we pray, Lord, that you would open up our hearts and minds to the truths of your word, that you would stir us. That you would challenge us, that you would draw us into your presence, that you might use this unworthy vessel to share this worthy message from your word tonight with your people. We ask you, Lord, that You would give me clarity of thought and liberty to preach, that Lord, you would take the thoughts that are here, that, Lord, there's some that's just doctrinal, it's just teaching, but there's some that we need to be challenged in. Lord, I pray that you would lead through the message tonight, that you would speak to your people, and may they be glad that they were in the house of the Lord this evening. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, beloved, I don't suppose that there is anything that is more heart-wrenching than when a family is torn apart. This has lasting effects that many carry all the way to the grave with them. Kids oftentimes are scarred for life. Mates will develop an aversion to trust where they can't trust anybody because those that they trusted most of all betrayed them. On a national scale, this is called civil war. A time when brother is turned against brother and son is turned against father This does not only happen on a national level where nations are torn apart, and not only does it happen in individual homes where homes are torn apart But it also reaches into the family of God. The sad event, it is a sad event when division Rises up inside the church, inside the family of God, and that group of people from which unity should naturally flow is torn apart. And the heart of believers, which should be unified, is replaced with hostility. This happens, of course, because we're human. Because we're still just sinners saved by grace. We still carry around that old man and we battle with that flesh and Oftentimes we're not walking in the Spirit as we know we should. And Satan is able to gain a foothold and wreak havoc in God's house. The title of tonight's message, from which we will be drawing from the first four verses of this text, Philippians 2, verses 1 through 4, is The Guise of Unity The guise of unity. Guise is a word that maybe you're less familiar with. I asked a couple people what it was if they knew if I just said guise. They're like, use it in a sentence. It means appearance. Uh a a word that would be more familiar if I put a DE in front of it and say disguise. Right? Oh yeah, I know what that is, a disguise. Well, guise is a is an appearance. If I said, Under the guise of friendship, he offered me a cup of water. That makes it very familiar. Well, the title of tonight's message is The Guise of Unity. What is the appearance of unity? What is the the uh uh a cinnamon for that c cinnamon, yeah, synonym for that would be uh similitude, a guise, a something like that, an appearance of. And so what is unity? What does it mean for us? Tonight I We say, what does it look like? What is the likeness of unity? What is the appearance of of unity? Well I would purport to you tonight that it could be summed up in one word. What does unity look like? It looks like humility. I want us to look at this text this evening and see several thoughts. We're going to look at these first four verses. In verse number one, I want you to see the desire for unity. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercy. This word if here is not a question Although we many times would use it as a question in the text here, and those that are a lot smarter than me in the study of Greek have talked about the character and the the uh you know the the male and female side of the word and all the stuff that goes with the Greek and I I can't even talk about it educate like I know anything about it But they say this word specifically literally means since. It's not if as in a question, it's stated as a fact. Since There be, therefore, consolation in Christ, since there be comfort of love, since there's fellowship of the Spirit Since there's bows of mercies, or because of, because we have experienced these things, these are part of our life. They should motivate us, they should bring us to the place where we say and desire, want to have unity. Consolation of Christ. Consolation could be listed as comfort, but comfort is comes next. So what would this be? It's a little deeper than just comfort. This consolation of Christ is something deeper, stronger than comfort. Literally means to encourage. To encourage. Has Christ ever done anything for you? Have you ever found yourself at a place where you had nowhere to look but to the Lord and there he was? Have you had an answer to prayer? Have you found some encouragement in Christ at some time in your life? I hope so. It wouldn't bother me if you even said amen. Or if you said yes or or or sure enough and and preach it, brother. Whatever, whatever I I just Has God encouraged you sometime in your life? Have you felt and known consolation of Christ in your hour of need? We have experienced that. We've had that and praise God for it. What kind of a God would he be if in your hour of need he was not there? But praise him that he is a friend that's closer than a brother. That he is there always in our hour of need. He does encourage us. He does answer our prayers. He does meet our needs. He has given us salvation. That consolation in Christ. There's comfort of love. Because there is comfort in love. You know, isn't there comfort in love? Isn't it just nice to know that you're loved? I mean, I'll tell you, I've told you many times I can go through just about anything because I know at the end of the day I can go home and my wife is there. And she loves me And it doesn't matter what somebody else thinks of me, they may think I'm the biggest bum in the world and they're probably not that far off. But I've got my wife fooled because she thinks I'm a great guy She loves me. She's excited about me being home. She puts her arms around me and says, I mean the world to her. And I've got that love. And there's comfort in that. And I take strength in that. And I have courage because of that. The comfort of love. And beloved, one of the greatest joys of being a Christian is that although we failed our Savior over and over and over again, we look into his eyes and we say, Thank you, Lord, for loving me. For loving me, even though I'm not worthy of your love. For loving me, even though I failed you over and over again. But praise God, I'm loved by Jesus Christ tonight. I have his love. And oh, does that constrain me and motivate me and stir me to try and be more for my Savior? I hope it does for you. We have this comfort of love. Beloved, if we have a comfort of love, we should be willing and ready to share that love with the world. Yea, not with the world only, but with our brothers and sisters in Christ. Yes Christ's love for us should motivate us to love one another. 2 Corinthians 1, verse 3-4 says, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies. and the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulations, that when we may be able to comfort them. which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. We've got and have and enjoy the comfort of God. And he says, hey, we've got that comfort. We've enjoyed that comfort. We should be ready and able to share it with others. There's a comfort of love. There's a communion of spirit This fellowship, this fellowship of the spirit that we have, you'll notice this spirit is capitalized. It's because he's not talking about the spirits or that you have a communion with some spirits or that You saw some spirits, but that you have fellowship with the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, the Comforter which has been sent to us by our Heavenly Father He is that comforter that has come to us all. Not just one of us, but all of us. And there's communion in the Spirit. There's fellowship with the Spirit I'll tell you what I hope that you long for and look for the Holy Spirit to speak to you. This last week. I think it was Chris Starr that was preaching. And he said, you know, I I can't remember who who he was quoting. He told he named some some preacher. And he said, the preacher always said, I I I go to the altar when God speaks to my heart. And I go to the altar when God doesn't. Talking about the it should not be a long time in between when the Holy Spirit speaks to us. If it's been weeks and months or sometimes even years since the Holy Spirit has reached down from heaven and touched your heart and Stirred you in a service and challenged you to change something or start something or stop something or do something or even just confess something to him, then there's something missing We ought to look for that communion with the Holy Spirit of God, and if it's been a long time since God's talked to you, you ought to say, Lord, what's wrong? Talk to me, Lord. Speak to my heart. Challenge me, stir me, change me, do something, Lord. Let me know that I still have a relationship with you. I hope you're looking for that. That communion of the Spirit. And there's only one Spirit. And beloved, if we're walking in the Spirit, there will be harmony in the church We see this compassion, this bowels and mercies, a phrase that we don't use much today, but The idea of, I mean, sometimes you feel something so strongly it literally turns your gut. It literally reaches down and almost makes your heart ache. That compassion that's there, that concern for one another. If nothing else, a heart of compassion for each other should promote unity. It's amazing how We can cry over some movie that's most of the time fiction. Just well written and well orchestrated Yet the burden and heartache of our brethren doesn't move us. We need to have compassion. Is there a desire, beloved, for unity? He gives us in verse number two what we could look at as a definition of unity as he goes on to describe it and says, this is what's necessary. He says, fulfill ye my joy. That ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Kind of gives us this definition of unity Kind of explains it right there. It's pretty straightforward. He says, Fulfill ye my joy. Think with me, if you would, about the joy that a parent receives when he sees the success of his children. I mean there's almost nothing like it. You know, you see your son or daughter achieving and and being, uh, you know, Alicia, I'm letting the cat out of the bag. I don't know how much she dislikes this, but Maybe I'll find out. I don't know. But she just texted us last night. She says, I know it's late. It was about eleven thirty last night. She says, I know it's late there. Uh but they just asked me to be on the college ensemble next year, so I'm going to be traveling with the ensemble. She was very excited about it. And of course I text her and says, Hey, I'm so proud of you. You're uh uh chip off the old No, I didn't say that. I said I'm just I'm proud of you. God's using you and I I'm I'm thrilled to be your dad. You know, what a what a blessing. Just to see your children suc successful and and their achieving and accomplishing and doing right. I mean it brings joy to your heart And Paul's telling the church here, he says, fulfill ye my joy. He says, Man, nothing would make me happier, nothing would give me more joy to see the unity in God's church, to see this church being of one mind. We're not going to get to verse number five, but it ties into this very strongly. But verse 4 here, I want you to notice the, I'm sorry, verse 2 through 4, but notice the focus that's put on the mind. The importance of our mind. First of all, we see a like-mind. He said, you're like-minded. This is a singleness of mind. There's a balance between having unity but not having uniformity. We don't need uniformity. We don't need God's not interested in having a whole bunch of robots. A whole bunch of people that look and act and talk all exactly the same. God saved you as an individual and has a plan for you. You are fearfully and wonderfully made in the eyes of God. And God wants to use you just like you are. He wants to build you and grow you into his image and make you into the image of Christ. But he doesn't want us all to be like Brother Glover. Praise the Lord. He doesn't he doesn't want all all you ladies to be like Miss Leanne Everyone has their own personality. Everybody's different, but we're all fitly joined together to make up the body of Christ. But God might want you to give up your personality or your preferences He's not asking you to change your personality, your preferences, but he might ask you to give up a preference for a brother in Christ He might ask you, you know, this Paul tells us clearly about this where where he says, you know what, I I like meat, but I'd be willing not to eat meat if it might offend somebody. So Paul had a right to eat meat. He could eat meat. He enjoyed eating meat. But Paul was saying, I I'll be willing not to if if it is going to hurt a brother in Christ. Because I want to honor God and draw men to God and change, be used of God to influence them for Him. A difference in preference will not break harmony, but a difference in purpose will That's the foundation of it is being like minded wanting, desiring the same thing. What should we desire? The key verse for Philippians, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain. We say not only that we need to be like-minded, but we see we need to be led, have a lead mind. Not lead as in the hard metal, uh lead as in directed. We need to have a mind that's led by Christ. One mind. The only way we have one mind is if there's somebody giving the instructions And it can't be this person over here giving the instructions and this person over here giving the instructions. We're working on the garage And Andrew's up on the ladder there and he's screwing in the you know the pull down stairs for attic stairs, the spring loaded things that you you hold he's holding it up in the air and he's trying to put a screw in, and I'm standing on the ground And my dad's standing on the ground, and Dave Adams is standing on the ground, and some other guy from New York is standing on the ground. And all four of them gave instructions to Andrew on what to do And I said, well I just want to get in, so I'm gonna tell you I'm gonna tell you something too. Want to get in on the instructions. That was a uh idea of too many chiefs and not enough Indians, right? That was Everybody had it like telling them what to do and contrary like do this or try this or do that and Andrew's the one hanging on the ceiling trying to get this thing screwed into the before it fell. and everybody do this and and I just thought it was funny. Everybody had a comment on how we should get it done, you know. And uh th you know, you can't have uh one mind when you're using four different guys' minds about how to do it Well, Christ has given us one book. And we have one Holy Spirit that leads us and guides us into all truth. He's left us this instruction book with the one guide that guides us. I think about it like this, beloved. Think about an orchestra. Where every instrument functions in its own capacity. The trumpet is not trying to sound like a trombone. The trumpet is not trying to be a French horn. Each instrument is uniquely designed to fulfill its own capacity to do its own thing, but when they're put together, there's great harmony. And something beautiful is made when each of them perform as they should in their own capacity. And I think that's how a church is supposed to be. Filled with God's people, all unique people, all different people, all different personalities, all different spirits and temperaments, and and some are exciting and some are less exciting and and We can go through all the ramifications, but when we're all put together, God makes something truly beautiful, and it's called the family of God. When we're functioning and performing as God meant for us to do, because we have one mind. We see Belabi Wash supposed to have a lowly mind. He says, in lowliness of mind. This really is, as I said, the beginning. What does unity look like? It at the root of it all really is humility Andrew Murray said this. The humble person is not one who thinks meanly of himself. He simply does not think of himself. Somebody else said it like this. Somebody that's humble is not one that thinks less of himself. It's one who thinks of himself less. Think less about ourselves It's not that you are fearfully and wonderfully made, and God made you who you are, and praise the Lord for the gifts and talents and skills that you have and use them to the fullest of their capacity for His honor and glory. You don't have to think less of yourself. Just think of yourself less. Have a lowly mind. Weirsby said this. The truly humble person knows himself and accepts himself and yields himself to Christ to be a servant and to use what he is And has for the glory of God and the good of others. That's what a lowly mind is. We're also to have a loving mind. He said if we beloved have experienced the love of Christ, we should be willing and ready to share the love of Christ with others. We should love the unlovable. It's sad, but for many years, critics of the church have described and talked about how the church is quick to shoot its wounded. How the church is the first to attack those that are down and fallen instead of loving and lifting them back into the fold. Let us not be accused of that at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. But to have a loving mind. I want you to see the destruction of unity. He says, verse number three, he says, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind, and I took that from that verse and stuck it to the point above that. But lowliness of mind. So I took that that portion out and added to the point before in the description. But uh here the destruction, you see first, let nothing be done through strife, vainglory, but let each esteem others better than themselves You see when actions are motivated by strife, unity never happens. When what we do is motivated by strife, what is strife? Strife is faction or contention. What does the Bible tell us about contention in Proverbs? Only by pride. You see, there's the complete opposite of humility. Only by pride cometh contention. This is what strife is, it's contention. It's to split apart. The word has with it the meaning of of rivalry. this this rivalry, this competition. Now we we like competition. In good favor and good fun, you know, we talk about playing sports and you know, winning and we like to win and good competition in a game, that's great, but there shouldn't be competition in the church. It should never be, oh, I could sing a song much better than that. Oh, look how she played the piano. Why she missed that one key? I would have never missed that key. Look how he dresses when he comes to church. Boy, I dress so much sharper than that. It's not competition in God's house. There's not a rivalry. There shouldn't be this this tension, this this contention that comes because there's some level of competition. I hope that you in and through the power of the Spirit of God are over able to overcome any of that foolishness. It shouldn't even enter the heart of a Christian when he's serving God that there's some rivalry or competition between others in God's house. We're all bringing honor and glory to him, and it's about him, not us. When actions are motivated by self-importance. He said, let nothing be done through strife or what's the other word there? Vainglory. Vainglory. This self-importance that comes. I think of vain glory and uh you know I could tell you illustrations about myself, but let's remove it from me and let's talk about, you know, sometimes little kids, they're so impressed with themselves. And they're like, you know, Dad watch me uh last Sunday uh there was a kid out there uh at a week ago Sunday at the anniversary Sunday and uh they threw a stick up in the air and a stick came down and hit him in the head. You know. Um, you know, I mean that's kinda like kids like look, look at me and throws it up and whacks himself, right? Uh and you're like, Okay, good job there, buddy. You know? Uh vaing glory, right? Sometimes I think maybe God looks at us and and we're so proud of ourselves for what we did. And God's like You just hit yourself in the head. I mean, you just accomplish something like that. It's vainglory. Anything we can and do in R is because of the glory of God. And we can't glory in ourselves. What hast thou that thou hast not received? What are you that God didn't make? Oh, but look at me. Look at how I can't. No. This self-importance, when actions are motivated by self-importance, it's going to destroy unity When one looks for self-promotion, he will find himself at odds with others Beloved, no one is indispensable in the Lord's work. No one. We've seen that here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We've seen how God can bring up anybody and use them for his honor and glory. Oliver B. Green said this. There are few people in every church who think that God could not get along without them. They have yet to discover he already is. Yeah. That's thinking. Self-importance. No one is indispensable. And then when actions are motivated by self-interest. By self-interest. He says they're let each esteem others better than themselves. Contrary to popular opinion I don't need to think more highly of myself. I don't need to think more about myself. I don't need greater self-esteem. You see, for the last 30 years we have been fed a bill of goods about self-esteem and self-promotion, which is contrary to biblical principle. And we as a society today are reaping a whole generation or two of self-absorbed narcissists who believe the world resolves around them. And what they think and feel is of utmost importance and everybody should listen to what they have to say. You see it's not self interest that's gonna bring unity. That doesn't bring unity. But destroys it. Our last point tonight, look at verse number four. We see the development of unity. He tells us here how to do it. He says, look not every man on his own things. But every man also in the things of others. I mean what a what an outline he gave us. He just laid it out right here. He just described it all, laid it all out. He says, okay, so you want unity, here's how you get it. Let not every man think on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. You see, when we reach the end of ourselves and surrender our mind to Christ. We will approach life with a new outlook instead of our natural habit of an inward look. We see in this verse two things. There must be an attitude There must be a present attitude, an attitude that leads us, esteeming others better than yourselves. Verse number three, the end of that, and looking not every man on his own things, we see this esteeming others better than yourself. Here's an attitude that establishes our motivation for our actions. Many times, I mean think with me if you would about a mother and a mother's love. Isn't a mother I mean it's just her heart to l to esteem her family better than herself. It's just the the habit of hers. She always wants to feed the kids and get everything done for the family. It's just moms are are that way. I mean, what would it cost you to pay somebody to fill mom shoes? I mean Yeah, I know. I mean just think about it. So to love the kids when they're screaming and take care of them when they're sick and change their their clothes and and wash their clothes and feed them and clean up from feeding them and get it. I mean it's just never ending. That's the love of a mother. And that's the heart of esteeming others better than yourselves. I'll tell you this would solve so much conflict. If we had that kind of a heart. Esteeming others better than themselves. Uh I'm trying to decide whether to get into this. There's a whole aspect of this. If you apply this to the work the workforce. Where the employee esteems the boss and the company better than themselves, that company will never have a problem with that employee. But then it goes the flip side of that as well, if the employer esteems others better than themselves and looks at the employee as a valuable benefit and an asset to the company and wants to do what he can to take care of him and and you have that mutual esteeming others better than yourselves and those two people will continue to work together forever and never have a problem. Because they're practicing what the Bible says here. When we f fail to do that is when we get into problems. You know This is let's look at the last one. There's an action that must be practiced. Verse number four, there, the last thing here. There's an action that must be practiced. First of all, the attitude that must be present. That's the attitude of esteeming others better than yourselves. Then the action that must be practiced is look on the needs of others. Look on the needs of others. Are you looking for the needs of others? Or are we too absorbed in our own life and our own problems and our own situations to look for the needs of others? Do you think or believe that others are more deserving than you? That you should be doing all you can to help them? Or do you think they should be doing all they can to help you? How is your spirit in that? Answer those questions for yourself You see this this right here is where we can make our walk match our talk. I'm a Christian. Are you looking to the needs of others? Are you are you do you have that action that's being practiced in your life? This is when we can become a channel of blessing to others in and through the Spirit of God. How important are the things of others to you? How important are the needs of your wife, sir? See this is getting it down where the rubber meets the road. Come home from a long day of work. She wants to describe how the sink is stopped up. I don't want to hear about that. I've had a long day. Are you looking to the needs of others? She wants to tell you how the kids are acting up and they need to be dealt with. I don't want to deal with that. I I I are you looking to the needs of others? Hmm You see, our tendency is to make light of others' concerns, but be very worried about our own. A doctor was asked Sir, what do you consider to be a major surgery? He wisely answered. A major surgery is any surgery that you are having. A minor surgery is any surgery someone else is having Isn't that how we look at it? I mean if we're just really honest. Yeah, minor surgery is anything somebody else is dealing with. Doesn't matter what it is, if we're going under the knife, it's major, amen. I mean that's how that's how we look at it. You know, we could say this about problems as well. What's a major problem? Any problem I'm having is major. Or it wouldn't be a problem, right? I mean it but we look oh that's nothing. You see, looking on the needs of others, esteeming others better than yourself. That's putting feet to your Christianity. The love of Christ is put on display through the actions of a surrendered Christian as he looks to the needs of others. Harmony with others, beloved, starts when we have harmony with God. You'll never achieve harmony in God's house. You'll never achieve harmony with your brothers and sisters in Christ if you don't first have harmony with God. And as we close, I want to make sure that you know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you're saved, you're on your way to heaven. But not only that, beloved, as as a Christian, you and I both know that we can get sideways with God. And we can't expect to have a good relationship and have harmony. You know what, when when Several of the and I'm not a I wish I was a better piano player or instrumentalist or whatever, but you you all that play instruments, if one of them strings is off on the violin, that just does not sound right, does it? I mean everybody's playing and and everybody's like, um you're missing a note there. You you gotta tune that thing up, right? Christian, we can't expect to have harmony in God's house when we as individuals don't have harmony with God first. That's what we've got to do. So do you have harmony with God tonight? That's where it starts. And then he'll make even your enemies to be at peace with you.