Turn your Bibles tonight to Matthew chapter number five. Matthew chapter number five. This passage of scripture here, which is known to all believers, is the Sermon on the Mount. Begins with these powerful statements called the Beatitudes. Now, in this introduction, I'm going to say some truths. Uh as I was writing this out, uh I'm afraid the introduction gets missed a lot. And I thought, you know These I I I I want to forewarn them to engage their mind because just in the introduction as I talk about these things, there's going to be some truths that are stated, some principles, and I believe that they're important, and I want you to get them. The beatitudes here that we find in this passage of Scripture are not just some pious platitudes. They're not just some sweet sentiments or some good generalizations about the Christian life. These are in fact the description of the heart of a real Christian. Maybe if you've been a believer for a number of years It's possible that these statements, the beatitudes, and the truths that are given there maybe don't hold quite the same weight as they once did in your mind. I wonder how long it's been since we've given any real thought to the Beatitudes, to the truth that's carried in these few short verses. The fact is, beloved, as you give careful study to these beatitudes, one is faced with his own worthiness to be called a Christian. For these are a list, a description. I'm going to call the message tonight, title it The Spirit of a Christian. I toyed around with just because of my affinity for alliteration, the character of a Christian. But throughout the Bible, there's several different places you could go, and you'll find a kind of a synopsis a description of a Christian, and this is one of those. And as you read these, I wonder how worthy we are to carry that name, Christian. We all know, beloved, that the word blessed means happy. But in the context of these verses, I believe it's so much more than a superficial uh happiness, like a a joy or a uh happiness that is for a time, but instead it describes for us a proper attitude and actions in the heart of a Christian Who lives in light, who lives his life with the peace and contentment that only comes through harmony with Christ. I know I said a mouthful there, but this is a description. The idea of being blessed is not just happy. But instead describes for us the proper attitude and actions of a Christian who lives with the peace and contentment that is only attained. through harmony with Christ. Well we need to realize as we read these verses is that the emphasis here, beloved, is not on the blessing received. A lot of times we look at these verses and it is the reward that captures our attention. But in context and with an understanding of what Christ was teaching, it is not the reward that is important, it is the requirement that's important. It is the idea that there is a heart that in a certain way is fit for this reward. What's important is not the blessing, but the condition of the heart of the Christian who receives it. So as we read these verses, I would like you to think about that in that context. As you read in And follow along as we read these beginning verses, think about it in the aspect of a heart that's portraying these truths or exemplifying these truths and carrying with it the name Christian. Beginning in verse number one, follow along with me as I read down to verse number twelve. The Bible says, and seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain and went When he was set, his disciples came to him, and he opened his mouth and he taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek. For they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you This passage of Scripture, the theme of the Sermon on the Mount, is the kingdom of heaven I believe it is found nine times, save one, which is we're very familiar with, my light verse, Matthew 6, 33, which is the kingdom of God. seek ye first the kingdom of God. But I believe it's nine times in the Sermon of the Mount that you see the phrase, the kingdom of heaven. So Christ is talking about the kingdom of heaven, and he's talking to citizens of the kingdom. He's talking to the disciples And to you and I. He is describing the state of the heart that is ready to receive this gift, this reward. The emphasis is on the heart of the individual. I have some M MMs in my office. You know, I had a lot of MMs since the message that I preached. And I had all those MMs up here. And uh I have not been eating one a day. Um but I have those MMs and I'm not a big chocolate fan, so I do have those in my office and uh occasionally uh Joe and Kate will find their way to my office. And they know I've got a stack of M and M's in there and and they come in and the first time they came, you know, of course I asked mom and dad can they have some and And they are wide eyed and they came up, you know, and and they just wanted to dive right in, like just cr and and I don't think anybody else that wants them necessarily wanted Joe and Kate's hands down in the jar. So I told them, I says, open your hand, open your hand, so I can pour in the MMs. That is the spirit in which these truths, I believe, are given, where God is emphasizing and saying, here is the heart. That is this way. Here is the heart that receives this. Here is the heart. This is what a Christian is, and this Christian receives this. So we see first of all tonight that a person that is poor in spirit, I have as my outline kind of added uh uh an alliteration for you if you'd like to note it down, uh add it in the margin of your Bible or write it down if you're keeping notes, but you could put intrinsic humility He said, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. To be poor in spirit is not to have a bad attitude. Daniel, you know, the Bible says he had an excellent spirit. So the opposite must be a poor spirit, right? That's not what he's talking about here. Blessed are the poor in spirit. He's not talking about that. He's talking about the idea of humility. To be poor in spirit is to be humble. But this humility, beloved, is rooted in an understanding of our sinful nature. You see, you have to know in the context of what he's talking about, it's not just a matter of humility, but it's it's a humility with an understanding of who we are as sinners before God. It's amazing to think that there would be anybody that strives to live in light of this word. That isn't just fed up with the old flesh. That isn't just fed up with the sin nature And I mean we know what we are. I mean, as I pondered and thought about this, somebody that has to be so full of themselves, they have to live in such a way that they're God. That they see themselves in God and there is no other authority and there is no, they can be and do whatever they want to do But if you're trying to live in light of the Word of God and honor and please God and bring glory to Him, you and I, we we continually fall short of this. And if we, the closer we are to the Word of God, the more like we are going to be, the more we're going to be like the prophet who said, Woe is me, for I am undone. I mean just it's not the closer we are to God and the more righteous we are, the more righteous we feel. Boy, I'm I'm really good. No, the Bible teaches an exact opposite. The more righteous we become, the more righteousness we attain in and through the glory of God, the more we realize we're distracted sinners. That it's all God. To be poor in spirit is to have a humble opinion of ourselves. Barnes says it like this. To be poor in spirit is to have a humble opinion of ourselves, to be sensible that we are sinners, and have no righteousness of our own. To be willing to be saved only by the rich grace and mercy of God. You see, that's to be poor in spirit. Realizing that no righteousness we have comes from us. No man has yet come to Christ except he first humbled himself. Yet he he first realized how much of a sinner he was and that he needed Jesus. He's got to humble himself and realize he needs a savior. To be poor in spirit is to be overwhelmed with our own spiritual poverty. Too many of us that have been saved for some time have reached a point of satisfaction in our spiritual lives. We've reached a point of contentment and we feel like we are uh we've we've attained. We've reached a level of righteousness and a level of contentment in our life, and we feel like we are pretty righteous people We've lost the desperation. We've lost the feeling Of our spiritual poverty. We are as the Pharisees who feel they are justified by their own deeds. We feel that the good things we do, the righteousness we have, somehow makes us righteous. But we know in the truth of the matter on our best day it's filthy rags, and that any righteousness we have is from God. So to be poor in spirit is to keep that ever before our hearts and minds. Sadly, we today have become like the church at Laodicea. And Christ said to them, Because thou sayest I'm rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. We we've got a level of righteousness and we we we know how to carry our Bible and and we know the terminology and we know the phrases and we know what to say and and we're content and happy with that kind of stuff and we don't know how wretched we really are. He said, Blessed are the poor in spirit. We have intrinsic humility. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. I believe, beloved, this is a description of somebody that He's saying, blessed are the poor in spirit. The poor in spirit is the kind of person That's in the kingdom of heaven. Because they understand where they are. I don't believe that this is a condition of heaven. And let me let me explain what I'm saying is there are some that believe that the beatitudes are actions or things that we must do to attain heaven. We know that salvation is by grace and through faith alone, nothing more. But here he's describing the heart of somebody. Who will be in heaven. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. We see, secondly, a morning spirit. This is going to initially seem as a shock to you, like it did to my wife when she saw my outline. But next to this you could put identifiable humility. I'm sorry, identifiable humiliation. Identifiable humiliation. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Now, we have been referring to this verse recently, which has brought me to this text and why I've been studying it, but I believe it certainly can be applied and used in the way in which we've been using it, and those that mourn will be comforted. But in the context of the Scripture, in the context of what Christ is is teaching here. He's teaching on a humiliation, on a shame over sin You take that first point, blessed are they which are poor in spirit, and you see somebody that's in that place where they They acknowledge and they realize the sin that they have, like the prophet that said, Woe is me, for I am undone. And that is going to lead itself right into a kind of person that has a mourning spirit where they are mourning over to have grief over their own sin. Because of the sin that's in their life, there is a grief that's ever present in their hearts and mind as they acknowledge their own shortcomings and their own failures. I can't help but think of David in Psalms 51 where he says, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness. According unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, and thee only have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive. You see this David crying this out, he sees his sin is ever before him. There's a uh humiliation there because of that sin The spirit of a true Christian is going to be one that's broken over sin, grieved We've been dealing with grief. The idea of grief and how it grips the heart of somebody because of the loss of a loved one. But I wonder how many Christians are grieved over the loss of righteousness. Grieved in their hearts carrying grief and mourning because of the sin that's before us Not just the sin of our own, but I think the sin of others. We see over and over again in the scriptures men of God who are broken over the sins of the people. They were broken over the sins of the people, grieved for them. Do you mourn over the sin of others, or do you just criticize others? You know, I think we could be a lot more help to our kids if we mourned over their sin instead of just got mad at them over Really feeling that weight. It's the Pharisees the etherical spirit that says, I'm glad that I'm not like the publican It's the heart of a Christian that says, I'm broken over this sin. The sin that's running rampant in our country. The sin that's running rampant in our communities that we're seeing is ever before us. When Christ was teaching on the parable of the two debtors, he looked at Simon and asked him, Who do you think loved him most? The one whom fifty was forgiven, or the one who was forgiven five hundred? Simon says, well, I suppose the one that was forgiven more. I think that's the idea that we have to see How much more there is to be forgiven. There's a great connection between these first two. One will first be humbled before he'll ever begin to mourn over his sin. But the Bible's clear that when he does mourn over his sin, he'll be comforted. He'll be comforted. I praise God that when we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin. To cleanse us from all unrighteousness. When you mourn, and as David cried out to be forgiven, and be washed and to be made clean, he was made clean. He was washed 2 Corinthians 1, verses 3 through 5 says, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. whom comforteth us in all our tribulations, that we may be able to comfort them which were in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. God will comfort us. But it takes mourning. I wonder: do we have that poor spirit? Do we have that mourning spirit? We see thirdly here a meek spirit. He says, blessed are the meek. You could put next to this interested helpfulness. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. You know, meek is to be gentle. Meek is not to be weak. That's not what it's talking about. I I know you've heard it described before, but meekness really is power under control. I think about a horse. You think about all the power that a horse has. I mean a massive animals. An amazing amount of strength. And yet they can be as timid as a lamb. They've got all that strength. But they're controlling it. And that's how I think about meekness, that's how I think about Christ. I it just it just boggles my mind when I think about Christ carrying his cross up to Golgotha to be killed. All that power And it's under control. I mean he could have wiped out them all. He could have called ten thousand angels. He could have done whatever he wanted to do to justify himself and to defend himself and to to to speak for himself but he didn't he held it all in check And it's mind-boggling to me. I mean I get cut off in traffic and and I'm I I I wanna I don't have road rage, but boy Sometimes I miss the opportunity to honk and I'm like, man, I should have honked at that guy, you know. I mean I like at least one of them know I didn't appreciate that, you know. And you think about that's just I got cut off in traffic How dumb and how pitily and how stupid is that? And here was Christ, perfect, sinless Savior Carrying his own cross to be crucified. And he's got all the power in the world and could do anything to stop it. And he didn't Meekness. Power under control. Blessed are meek, for they shall inherit the earth. This is the kind of individual who would rather suffer himself than be responsible for hurting someone else. I think Christ typifies that. I mean you think about Moses. The Bible says of Moses that Moses was uh very meek above all the men which were upon the face of the earth. That's a pretty high statement by God. But you know what? Moses is the one who when the people sinned, he said, God. If you'll be merciful to them, you can blot my name out. See, that's meekness. That's being willing or wanting to take the punishment, the pain, whatever you can do to suffer for somebody else's sake. Meekness. Moses was stated as being the most meek there ever was, and that's what he did. I think of someone that's meek is someone that's teachable. able to take instruction. You know, Brother Ross, Pastor Ross, he's a nationally recognized and and and speaks all over the country. He could speak out every week if he wanted to. He turns down meetings all the time. He's requested everywhere. And uh, you know, he comes here and and he he treats me like I'm somebody. You know, he just I I I he he a he asks me, always wants to know what what are you guys doing of your church. What have you been preaching on recently, you know? And he's taking notes. He's stealing my ideas is what he's doing. But what I'm saying is he he's willing to glean from me. Who am I? I'm just I'm just uh you know I'm getting older, but I'm a young young preacher and and here's this seasoned man of God that preaches all over the country, you know, w why would he even be interested at all in what I have to say. Somebody is meek. Tozer in his book, The Pursuit of God, said this. The meek man is not a human mouse afflicted with a sense of his own inferiority. Rather He may be, in his moral life, as bold as a lion or as strong as Samson, but he has stopped being fooled about himself He has accepted God's estimation of his own life. He knows he's as weak and as helpless as God has declared him to be. But paradoxally, he also knows at the same time that he is in the sight of God more important than the angels themselves. In himself, he is nothing, but in God, he is everything. That's understanding meekness. The meek man sees himself through the eyes of God, sees himself as fearfully and wonderfully made. But broken and undone without Christ. He does not have to defend himself because he knows that God will defend him. And the reward is that they shall inherit the earth. The meek shall be looked down upon here in this world, but from heaven their personal From heaven they're lifted up. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Lest you be concerned, we're not going to get to all of them today. I know you were thinking, oh my goodness. He's gonna go through the yeah, we're gonna be here a while. Get comfortable. We're gonna stop after this next one tonight. I know I knew I wouldn't get him done. So we're going to deal here with blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. We see the hungry spirit, or what I entitled an intense. an intense hunger. This is a descriptive character trait of the child of God when you have real hunger for the things of God. I don't know that I've ever been in the place that I would like to try and describe. And that is in a place where you You really are hungry. I mean, in the place where you have gone without food for such an extent of time that that you you you just you hunger. You're feeling those pains. You you hunger or thirst. You've gone without liquid or or you know, I mean y these people that have been put into prison camps And starved and and made to live on a piece of bread and and water every day That type of hunger, where they desire and want food. That's what I see here as an intense hunger for righteousness. This is the need of the Christian heart A hunger that's strong and doesn't go away, who desires and longs for spiritual things. Have you ever been hungry for a particular thing? Like for me, it's pretty regular. I'm hungry for a good steak. I I I I like a good steak and sometimes you just get that longing for man, I ha it's been a while since I've had just a really good steak and You get that way and and sometimes you know when it gets to the point where you put it off for several weeks and you haven't had a good steak and it's now now you're like, yeah Uh I don't care what it costs. We're gonna go out, we're gonna have a good steak, we're gonna go enjoy a meal. You just got that anchoring. I don't know, some of you ladies maybe when you were expecting you got you really wanted something, I've heard some crazy things like you know, pickles dipped in peanut butter and and stuff that's just goofy, but you just like, I gotta have it. You know, I'm I I I'm hungry for it. I want that particular thing But I wonder have we felt a hunger for righteousness like that? Where it hasn't been part of our life and it's been several days or it's been several weeks. Or there's been a while and we get to the place where our body longs for it, our mind desires it, and we're just seeking after it, and we hunger and thirst for righteousness The average Christian today is more hungry for wealth than righteousness. They they would work hard and and strive to to to try and attain a certain level of status in this world or to be able to buy a particular car. They'll give extensive amount of effort and and work so much to be able to Own this vehicle. But how much will we give to be righteous? How much do we long for it and long for it that we can be righteous Christians I think of our pleasure crazy society and how much they desire to go after types of pleasure. Maybe you have these thrill seekers, like Bob Gamble who jumped out of an airplane, you know He he he makes me he makes me look bad. I've wanted to jump out of an airplane forever. Here Bob goes and does it, you know. Uh I that's one of those things I've been putting off Although I did go Andrew and I we went to the skydiving place over uh in White Marsh, you know, where you you go into the tunnel and they you you get to You're on the ground, but it's like your sky. I mean, so that was fun. But you know this this world they just long after pleasure, don't they? They just want it. As a Christian, the Christian's heart. The heart of a Christian is going to long for righteousness. It's going to long for righteousness Do you want to know if you're hungry for it? Look at what you're spending your time on. Look at what you're spending your money on Look at what you're going after. We know David was a man after God's own heart. And it's no wonder. Psalms 42, verses 1 or 2. He says, as the heart panteth after water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? He wanted God. He hungered and thirsted for righteousness. Paul was like that. We know Paul, he says, yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ. Being found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of the God by faith. Paul wanted righteousness. That was of utmost importance. Everything else he could let go. I wonder what we would let go to have righteousness. As a child of God, I'm going to hunger and thirst for righteousness. You know, a lot of times in our lives we build up an appetite for different things. You develop an appetite. As I said, like me, I enjoy a good steak. Sometimes you have an appetite for certain times, certain types of entertainment. Some people that have a a background where at one point they they drank and that's something that they enjoyed, they they've got that appetite that's there. That'll always be there, an appetite for that that they've they've put away by the grace of God. But there's an appetite for that. And many times this old flesh has appetites for this world. But you know as a Christian, we have to develop an appetite for righteousness. Have you ever developed an appetite? Something you knew you needed to eat? Something you knew you needed to to do, like exercise? Safe no. I haven't I do it but I have no appetite for it. You know, y maybe maybe it's healthy healthy food. At first you're like, ah, I really don't want that, but you know you found out after you kinda cut out the sugars and got rid of some of that stuff and then you started you started eating the the more healthy meals, you you kind of you got an appetite for it. When you came home, you're like, you know what, I'm hungry for that. Or before you were hungry for cheesecake. Now you're hungry for that, you know? You can develop an appetite for righteousness if we go after it Beloved, and we're going to close this tonight, but this is a description of the true heart and attitude of a Christian. So I wonder, is it the description Of your heart. Can I read for you another passage from Tozer's book on the pursuit of God? He says a fairly accurate description of the human race might be furnished by taking the Beatitudes and turning them wrong side out. And saying, here is the human race. For the exact opposite of the virtue in the Beatitudes are the very qualities which distinguish human life and conduct. In the world of men, we find nothing approaching the virtues for which Jesus spoke. In the opening words of his famous Sermon on the Mount Instead of poverty of spirit, we find the rankest kind of pride. Instead of mourners, we find pleasure Instead of pleasure seekers, instead of meekness, we find arrogance. Instead of hunger for righteousness, we find and hear men saying, I'm rich and increased with mine own goods and have Need of nothing. Beloved, if we can describe a lost man by listing the opposite of these truths, then we should certainly be able to describe a Christian by naming them. Not in the pursuit of them. You understand the title of Tozer's book was The Pursuit of God. And sometimes we miss the mark there. Sometimes we go after and pursue these things. When what we should pursue is God and these things come. These characteristics are those which will be characterized of a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. They're poor in spirit. They realize their sinfulness. They mourn over their sin and the sins of others. They're meek. They're gentle towards God and others. They're teachable. And thus they hunger and thirst After righteousness which they desperately need.