One of the most familiar of all parables. I think a lot of times even people that uh are not in church, people that uh would not be scholars of the Word of God or maybe have never even read the Word of God. I believe that they uh probably have heard of the parable of the Good Samaritan. Uh you know, this idea of a good Samaritan's actually becomes synonymous with d doing a good deed with being, you know, nice to a neighbor or to helping somebody in the community. Uh oftentimes on the news you'll hear uh the news reporters say, and we had a good Samaritan today that found himself on the short end of the stick or you know, we had a good Samaritan that stopped by and saved the life of somebody else. I mean this phrase has become synonymous in our in our society. with somebody that is showing compassion and concern when it wasn't necessarily expected. I wonder if these news broadcasters and Sometimes others, if they knew that that phrase, a good Samaritan, came directly out of the scriptures, if they would continue to use it, they might decide they want to find another way to describe uh a good deed. I I don't know. But even have uh hospitals that have been named after uh you know this idea, Good Samaritan Hospital, or we have laws laws in uh the country now that are called Good Samaritan laws. And uh in the state of Maryland, just by way of information, uh the Good Samaritan law was enacted primarily to uh provide some measure of protection against prosecution for anybody involved in a drug related phone call or helping somebody that was overdosing uh there the the frequency of people dying from overdose was getting out of control And so several states enacted the Good Samaritan laws to protect those individuals. A lot of times people had somebody else present with them But out of fear of prosecution, like they were partaking in these drugs, they may even been selling the drugs. So out of fear of prosecution, they won't call this person any help. They'll just let 'em die And leave, run away. And so what they've done is the Good Samaritan law uh provides protection for them, even though they may be partakers in the crime in some way. No information Now the police are free to continue to investigate and if they find other information and find out, you know, you're a drug dealer, well then they can prosecute on that. But they're trying to get people to not be afraid of prosecution and then call and maybe save the life of somebody. in a bad way. Now some other states, that's as far as it goes in the state of Maryland uh as of right now, from what I understand. But this parable that's very familiar, let's let's read through it starting in verse number 25, chapter 10, verse number 25, down through verse number 37. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said unto him, What is written in the law? How? Readest thou? And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength and with all thy mind, and thy neighbour as thyself. And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right, This do, and thou shalt live And, but he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment. and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side And likewise a Levite, when he was at that place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan As he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, and he went to him and bound up his wounds pouring in oil and wine and set him on his own beast and brought him to an end and took care of him And on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two pence and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. Which now of these thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? And he said, He that showeth mercy on him Then said Jesus unto him, Go and do thou likewise. So the parable of the Good Samaritan So first of all, following the outline direction that we have gone as we've looked at each of these different parables is the context, the telling of the parable, uh kind of giving some background information. where this takes place. We see here obviously that the lawyer comes and he asked two questions. He asked two questions of Jesus. The first was, what must I do to inherit eternal life. And as Jesus customer custom was many times when people asked questions because he wanted them to think. He wanted them to evaluate where they were and what how they look at things. Jesus answered a question with a question. Jesus looks at him and says, well, I'll tell you, what does the law say? He says, What what that thou knowest the law, what do you think the law says? And the lawyer, very proficient in the law, the lawyer knowing and understanding the law, um He answers correctly. He quotes Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse number 4, and Leviticus 19, verse number 18, in his answer. Uh I think it's amazing that this lawyer understood the truth of the Ten Commandments. I know sometimes we think in our minds that maybe the scribes and the Pharisees The Old Testament saints did not understand the scope of these two commandments Until we get to the New Testament, where Jesus tells us what is the greatest commandment? To love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And the second is like unto the first, to love thy neighbor as thyself. We see that in the New Testament, and a lot of times in our mind we think, well, that's not till the New Testament That they had the Ten Commandments in the Old Testament and didn't really grasp or understand that until Christ. But here we have this lawyer give us this answer. He says, hey, the law is summed up in these two these two. Love God, love your neighbor. He he understood that, and it's kind of neat to see But then he asked a second question in a measure to try, the Bible says there, to justify himself. What was the second question that he asked? Who is my neighbor? Yeah, who is my neighbor? He says, Well who is my neighbor? Uh you know, trying to say, Well, I uh I take care of the guy next door. I mean or I take care of the guy that I know. Uh, you know, who who is my neighbor? Um and he understood the principle, but trying to justify himself, he was trying to maybe get by a little bit. I think that it's clear here there is some measure of a challenge given to Jesus in this in this question. It wasn't just that this lawyer was interested. that he was wondering about these truths because you see in the scripture there in verse number 25 he says, and behold a certain lawyer stood up. So he stood up to confront Jesus, and then it says here that he tempted him, saying, Master, you know that the idea of a temptation is a test. There's a test there. There's something. So he came to Jesus not just a matter of uh inquiring about this, but was almost looking uh to maybe see what Jesus Understood about the law, or in some way he was challenging or testing Jesus in his question. And of course, the lesson that we get of the Good Samaritan is what follows because of that. And we see that Jesus in giving him this example uses the Samaritan. The Samaritan, a certain Samaritan. Jesus gets kind of specific at times. He says a certain Samaritan came. And it is interesting to me that Jesus used the idea of a Samaritan. A Samaritan was the lowest of the low in Jewish society. If you were to look up there they're still available today if you get any different types of commentaries or Even do uh a search online, I'm sure you could find uh a diagram about the hierarchy inside of Jewish society and uh how they perceived individuals. And some of these you're going to be familiar with, but I put them here in the list of order of importance and how they fall in the hierarchy of Jewish society. And there is the priest, they're first. Then the Levites, they're second. Then you have the sinners, the outcast and uh the tax collectors. I mean you know how far down the line tax collectors were in Jewish society and what we know about them. Well, after that, after the sinners, those who would be considered outcast, those that were still part of Jewish society, but they were the lowest of the low, after that came the Samaritans. And then came the Gentiles. And so the Samaritan was beyond the lowest in Jewish society. They were hated, they were despised. This was so ingrained in Jewish society and how they felt and how they thought about these things, this hierarchy, that in the synagogue the priest would read the book first He had the privilege of being the first reader, and then the Levite would come and read after that. And then anybody else could participate in the services or whatever in their respective roles after that, but it was part of the uh procedures that are followed in the synagogue there So these Samaritans were despised. In regards to the location that Jesus gave, there's something that people knew and understood to be a rough road, the road from Jerusalem to Jericho. It's interesting that he says there in in in verse number 30, I think, and Jesus answered, and he said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem. to Jericho. There's a direction there, and we do know from the story here that he was that they were going to Jericho from Jerusalem. This is important as we see in a little bit long later when we get into the lesson, you'll see why that kind of is important in in as far as how you're thinking about it. But there this road was a steep road, going down. Even in Jesus' words, he talked about he's going down. Um not just heading south, but actually a change in elevation. There was 3,300 feet difference between these two cities. In close to about well, almost a 20-mile trip. And in that 20-mile trip, there's 3,300 feet change So it wasn't down, it was a rocky place, it was a hilly place, there was a place that there was lots of uh places to hide, and it was known for being a treacherous road. uh a place where you might very likely get robbed. We know there's places today where you don't want to go and you just say, hey Go there at your own risk because uh you're probably gonna get robbed. You're probably gonna get something stolen, and you've got to be careful with that. And so people understood that about this road from Jericho to Jerusalem and back that it was a place where they would get robbed. It actually became known as the Way of Blood. This is what the road was titled. It's what they knew it to be, the way of blood. So when Jesus began to tell about this story of happened on this road It is very believable. This could very well happen. This is something that would probably be seen in that day and age. Then we see the characters of the parable. You have a certain man. This would be the victim, this certain man. I think it's interesting that Christ here doesn't give us a particular nationality. He doesn't give us a particular group of people or a class of people. He just says a certain man. And it's interesting because Jesus once again removes all measure of prejudice. He removes all measure of classes and nationalities. It doesn't matter who the man was. It doesn't matter what race he came from. It doesn't matter whether he was rich. or poor. It's a man. There was a man in need. He was taken upon, he was beaten, he was stripped of his raiment and left for dead. And Christ very uh wisely for us left out his national nationality uh that people if he he put a nationality there people might think well it's our responsibility to help those people that nationality and that's it because that's what gave she just gave us in the example but here he's saying all men Whatever man. And it's amazing to me that somebody could have a measure of prejudice in their heart that they feel whatever class or nation or nationality there is, how could they possibly feel in their heart that somebody is less than them? Not worthy of respect, not worthy of any compassion. It just fathoms my mind. And some people actually in the course of religion or in the pursuit of religion felt they were doing God's work. in suppressing or injuring or taking advantage of a group of people that they felt was a lower class. That's not taught anywhere in the scriptures and nowhere is it ever supported by biblical truths. We know that all men are created equal. And God created us all, and there's only one race, the human race, and God is not concerned. And we should not be concerned. about where a person came from, about their educational status, about their financial status, about how how much money they have or don't have. We should have compassion on all men like Christ has compassion on all men. We have this certain man. We believe that this uh lawyer probably felt like we would in our mind. I mean if somebody began to tell you a story for me as an American, if somebody said Hey, there was a guy running to the store the other day. In my mind, I wouldn't automatically picture a Filipino. I wouldn't say, you know Oh, there's a Filipino dude running to the store, you know. I I wouldn't picture that. In my mind I would picture somebody like me, right? I mean we just we naturally think in those terms. So I think that this lawyer probably thought, oh, there was a Jewish guy Heading down the road from Jerusalem to Jericho. And so he probably felt that that's who Jesus was talking about, as we typically think in those terms. Then you see the robbers, these thieves. You know, it's in all times, all the way back here in the Bible, there has been men. Who took advantage of other men. There's been men who hurt other men. There's been men who have done wrong because sin has been in a world and sin causes people to do things that are wrong. that are unthinkable. And so there's robbers there in the Bible, and there's robbers today, and there will be robbers in the future until Jesus comes and sets up his kingdom. So this is something we're going to have to deal with. Then you have the religious crowd. The religious crowd. For their religion, you have the priest and the Levite. You understand that their religion did not allow them to touch a dead body. So it's possible that they thought, man, if I go over there and I touch that dead body, I'll be unclean. And so I'll be unfit to fulfill my duty in the synagogue because I'm unclean, because I touched a dead body. So in their mind, they might very well be spiritualizing the fact that they're not helping him. Oh, I can't do that because then I'll be unclean. Now here's where it comes into play that it's important. Jesus described the fact that they were going away from Jerusalem, not to Jerusalem Their duty in the synagogue would have already been fulfilled. They were going home. They weren't going to the synagogue. That was the wrong direction. So they couldn't have been thinking in their mind, oh, if I do this I'm going to be unclean, but it's something that was possibly there because of their religion that they had. Then you see the righteous man. The Samaritan, who had compassion. Didn't have a lot of rich ri religion, didn't have a lot of ri rituals or ceremonies and all that, but he was righteous in that he did what God wanted him to do. He had compassion. And then you have the innkeeper that uh in he goes and he cares and he does what is what is asked of him. So this is kind of gives you some of the context and understanding that. Then let's talk about the translation of the parable. I've given you very clearly here something that uh is a misinterpretation a lot of times here first of all is a caution concerning allegorical interpretations. A lot of parables people try and look at and find something deeper. They don't want to take it at face value. They want to dig in and really evaluate and let's find something deeper here. And sometimes you think you hear them and they sound good and you think, man, that's neat. That's a neat interpretation Um but it's going beyond the meaning here. We're talking about a real event that uh is very likely to happen in real society with real people, uh and so what's what's being taught is On the face, it's on the surface. We don't have to dig down. And it's interesting just to see some of the different I just took one of them here. An allegorical interpretation. They look at it like this. The traveler represents the man who has left the heavenly city, Jerusalem. So Jerusalem pictures the heavenly city. For a worldly one, Jericho. So this traveler was leaving Jerusalem going to Jericho. The robbers, they represent the devil and sin who have come in and left a man dead or dying in his sin. The priests and the Levites, they refer to the law and the sacrifices, which are unable to help. The priests and the Levites weren't able to, the law and the sacrifices don't help. It's not what you need. The good Samaritan is Jesus. The wine represents the blood of Christ, and the oil represents the Holy Spirit. The inn is the church. The innkeeper is a representative of the apostles, and the two coins That were left represent the baptism and the Lord's Supper. Now you gotta be pretty creative to get all that I mean you see the effort to try and to get things and in in some ways it's applicable. And you could say, Oh, that's true. The law and the prophets, they couldn't do anything for us. We needed Jesus Jesus Christ. We needed him, you know, so uh you know, some ways you could look at that, but it's just it's a stretch and you gotta be very careful. Now some people use this parable to try and teach works. salvation. They try and teach work salvation. Because of Jesus' words here, um help me out. In uh what verse are we looking for where Jesus told him Do this and you shall be lived. And likewise Levite when he was at the place came and looked at one. Twenty eight. That's probably it. Um and he said unto him, Thou hast answered right. This do and thou shalt live. And so he gives them the commandments and he says, Hey, you've got to do this and you'll live. And so they're saying, if you want to live Then you have to obey the commandments. So salvation is dependent upon obeying the commandments. That's what he said. Do this and you shall live. So they try and use this to teach that I want you to understand that what Christ was doing here is twofold. One is he was showing this man, trying to get him to think and realize that he couldn't actually do this. It was almost a uh uh maybe facetious in how he's saying, okay, love God with all your heart and love your neighbors yourself If you can fulfill the law, if you can do this, you can live. Letting it register in the man's mind He couldn't do that. The man quickly had to say, oh, well, if I have to do that, then who's my neighbor? It's amazing to me that the man obviously felt that he loved the Lord his God with all his heart, with all his mind, and all of his strength, because there was no question raised about that. But as far as the neighbor, he thought Okay, I'm good on the love God part, but on my neighbor, I'm not sure. Who's my neighbor? Find out how I'm doing on that side of it. So Jesus was trying to get him to think. not saying that uh this is the way in which you get heaven. Secondly, we have to take the rest of the scripture. You don't throw out all of the rest of the Bible that teaches, for by grace are you safe through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. It's a very clear verse. You don't take that and throw it out and try and find it in here. Right? So you got to remember those things. Sometimes people will grab one thing and try and teach a doctrine, but they're getting they're throwing out everything else that's already been taught to us. So We see that uh we need to be careful about allegorical interpretations that take you down uh the the wrong road. Um You also could say here, just by way of application, that Jesus may have been saying to him, let someone, the Samaritan, let someone who's been despised. And rejected by men, come and pay the price for you Let someone who's been despised and rejected by men come and pay the price. This man, the Samaritan who was despised and he was rejected, considered an outcast, came in. Cared for him, nursed him back to health, and paid his price, and Jesus, who was despised and rejected of him, did that for us. So you have these religious guys, they come up. And uh they're caught up in the religion, they're caught up in the ritual, they're caught up in all these, but none of it changed their lives They had all of these this outward form, but didn't have the power of godliness. Didn't have righteousness The righteous individual gave himself and his possessions. He bandaged the wounds of this individual. He applied oil and wine, which is essentially uh administering first aid. He gave the man a measure of first aid, applied oil and wine to clean the wound and to put some kind of salve on it. I mean he He administered what type of first aid he could, and then he put him on his own animal, and he walked. Put him on his own animal, nursed him back to health, went and he paid for the man to be be cared for. Now two uh denari, uh as the scripture talks about here, is essentially two days' wages of that time period. So he gave two days wages and said, hey, if there's any other expense, let me know and I'll and I'll cover it. You know, be sure you take care of them And then we see our responsibility that's given to us in the truth of this parable, what God would have men of the kingdom be like. You see, these parables deal with the kingdom. And this is talking about what people of the kingdom are like. Look at uh Luke chapter 10, verse number one. After these things, the Lord appointed here. I wrote down the wrong verse here. So I apologize. But these parables are talking about the kingdom and the kingdom of heaven and what it's going to be like and as Jesus describes and talks about what people of the kingdom are going to act like and how we should act as children of the king. So the truth of the parable. Now I took some thoughts from directly from Warren Worsby, put them in quotes here and And italics, to make sure you know this was just directly from him. This is what he said about this parable. Our greatest responsibility is to obey the greatest of the commandments. We cannot rightly love God or our neighbor until we have God's love in our hearts. We must not spiritualize this parable or turn it into an allegory of salvation. It's not dealing with salvation. This parable is not dealing with salvation. He says the point is simply that our neighbor is anybody who needs us Anybody whom we can help. And the question we must answer is not, who is my neighbor, but to whom can I be a neighbor? It's a different way of looking at it. What is the responsibility? Not who is my neighbor, saying who do I have to help? It's saying who is who can I make my neighbor? Who can I help? That's the way to look at it. So some teachings, some teachings of the parable. What can we learn from this and take away from it? And this is the meat of it, and I've taken the the bulk of our time to talk about the parable itself. So what we're dealing with here is a philosophy of life. It's a way of looking at life that's in stark contrast to this world. It's important that we understand Jesus here is showing the difference between works and fruit. Works is the idea, what must I do? But fruit is the idea, what I do is the result of being inside. You see, works is the idea, what must I do to inherit the kingdom? Fruit is what I do is because I'm in the kingdom. the fruit of our actions as a result of works. Instead of trying to earn our way to heaven, what we do is because God has already given us heaven. Because he's already showed his love towards us. Because he already divided died for us. Somebody put it like this, I've listened to it here, The Thief. His philosophy is, what is yours is mine, and I'm going to take it. Then you have the priests and the Levites, the religious crowds, uh, what is mine is mine and I'm gonna keep it They're religious, but then you have the Samaritan or the righteous, what is mine is God's, and I'll give it It's a philosophy of life. It's a way of looking at life. He took pity on him. The Greek word used here for pity is uh uh of identification. He identified. He had pity on him. He he identified with this individual. Sometimes you go through things in your life that make it so that you can identify with somebody else. This outcast This outcast of society, the Samaritan, had been, I'm sure, the brunt of many jokes. I'm sure had been made fun of, laughed, and mocked, had been maybe even beaten himself So when he saw somebody beaten on the side of the road in his mind, he said, I've been there. I identify with him. And he went and had compassion on him. Why? Because he had endured some things like that. The priest and the Levite never understood anything like that. They didn't even know. They hadn't had to do that. So sometimes when you have to go through something, realize God's preparing you maybe so that you can have compassion and help somebody else. He was asking, who do I have to help? Or how much do I have to do? Or how much love do I have to have? And Jesus changed the question and makes the neighbor the subject. Love does not ask how far do I have to go. Love asks, what can I do? You know, with your mate, it's not a matter of what do I have to do? I mean Let's let's put it down on paper. What do I have to do to make you happy? That shouldn't be the question. If you're if your relationships at that point in your marriage You need to come see me. I want to help you. That's not where you should be. It shouldn't be what do I have to do? It ought to be an expression And a showing of love that is continual, that goes so far beyond what we have to do, that there is no question about your love or her love for each other. When we talk about Christ, it ought never be what do we have to do to make God happy? Show me in black and white, Pastor, show me in Scripture, what do I have to do? About God, what can I do? Show me what I can do for you. Lord, I love you so much. You've done so much for me. I want to do this for you. That's the difference. Several things. Verse number 34 tells us that the Samaritan did the opposite of that of the religious crowd. The religious crowd, they passed by on the other side of the street. They saw the man injured, and they went the other way. Verse 34 says that the good Samaritan went to him. He went to him. You know, if we're gonna make a difference in people's lives, we've got to go to them. We've got to go to them. We've got to go where they're at. And uh y That's what makes the difference. Going to them. Going in the in the direction. You wanna you wanna uh pulse of your Christianity, want to get an idea of where it's at? Which direction are you going? When there's a need, when there's a call for help, when there's a uh uh somebody burdened, do you find yourself going to them? Hey, brother, I heard about your need. Is there something that I I can do or do you think man I don't if I if I see him I'm gonna feel like I have to do something and so I'm gonna go I'm gonna go over here. I mean which direction are you going? That'll give you a pulse of where your Christianity is. So who is our neighbor according to this? Anyone that has a need that we have the ability to fulfill. So anybody that's in need that we have the may the ability to fulfill, Christ is teaching us that they are our neighbor and we should do what we can. No race, no position, no status, no religion should get in the way of this. Now true compassion costs several things, and I don't have time this morning to get into this, but it takes time to invest in others, it takes risk, and it takes money. He used his own money. In conclusion, here we have true compassion and expression of our love in action. We are like, when we do this, we're like Christ. Certainly. Like he was instruct instructing this lawyer to be. Christ was telling him to do this. Christ tells us in Ephesians 5, 1 and 2, be therefore followers of God as dear children and walk in love. We are to walk in love as believers. Truly all men ought to be our neighbor, and we are to have compassion on them. Compassion that makes our righteousness, that it would exceed that righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. So as we close, let me close with the words that Christ gave this lawyer. And he said, go and do thou likewise. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today and the time in Sunday school here, this very applicable uh lesson on the Good Samaritan. And Lord, I know we've heard it. I know probably there's not one person in here that hasn't heard a lesson on the Good Samaritan in their life and understand the principles that are taught there. But I pray, Lord, that we wouldn't be like the uh priest and a Lev who knew all of these things but didn't do it. Lord, I pray that we would realize our Test of our Christianity is not what we know, but what we do. And Lord, I pray you would help us to do, to go and do likewise. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.