Turn your Bibles this morning to Luke chapter number 11. Luke chapter number 11. We are dealing with and talking today about our theme verse for the month. We, of course, closing in on the end of this year, where our theme has been on bended knee, where we strive to focus and approach every aspect of our life. With prayer on bended knee. It's been a challenging study for me throughout the year, bringing a new message every month. on prayer. I hope that as we've talked about prayer, that you haven't grown weary of the subject, but maybe have been given a shot in the arm at the beginning of each month to pursue it a little further. To dig a little bit deeper. In our text this morning, we're going to look at a greater context of the verses that are on the screen, but These are the verses in which our theme for the month comes, the idea of persistence in prayer and So the verses here, verses 9, 8 through 10, there, we want to read those verse 8 through 10, just the theme, and then we're going to look at much greater context for our message this morning, but just follow along as we read this morning just those few verses, verse 8 through 10, the verses of our theme this month. He says, and I say unto you Though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as he needeth. And I say unto you, Ask and it shall be given unto you, seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. Would you pray with me? Lord, we come to you right now. We want to turn this service over to you. I ask you, Lord, to be with my voice that you would keep it strong for the message this morning and that it might not be a distraction to your word. I pray that you would draw us into your presence, that you would speak to our hearts. We're grateful for your love for us. We're grateful, God, that we can come to you in prayer in our hour of need. You're always there. Lord, I ask you to turn our hearts and minds towards this matter of prayer and stir us once again to the pursuit of it. That we might be persistent in prayer. As is in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Well, beloved, prayer is the privilege of every believer. It is the gift of God that we have access to the throne and we can go to our Heavenly Father and talk to Him at any time. One may need a, well one needs a call of God on their life to be a pastor. One may need uh extra effort and and time of studying and preparation to fulfill different aspects of ministry Whether that would be you know evangelism or or outreach or you know nursing home ministry, there may be some some level of study or preparation for different aspects, but prayer is available to everybody. Prayer is something that every Christian can and should be involved in. The sad truth of the matter is, is although it's available to all, there are very few who participate. Consistently in this matter of prayer we might endeavor or give some great effort to practicing in order to sing in front of the church. We would Practice a special and and practice over and over and over again. The choir practice three, four, five, six weeks sometimes for one song that they're going to sing for Sunday morning. We would never attempt to teach a Sunday school class without some study, without some preparation, some effort given to what it is you're going to say. And yet we assume that we shall become proficient prayer warriors without any effort. We just feel like, oh, you know, I will be a prayer warrior. I will be proficient in prayer without any thought or without giving any time to studying prayer or seeing what Christ has to say about prayer or reading after great prayer warriors of the past Well, the cri the disciples wanted to be better prayer warriors, and in our text it opens up really, if you go all the way back to verse number one where the disciples ask of Christ Lord, teach us to pray. If you had the opportunity to ask one thing of Christ, what would it be? They were there with Jesus and could have asked of him, oh, almost anything, but they they were there and they said, Lord, teach us to pray. Today we're going to be looking at the aspect of the idea of persistence in prayer. Jesus did begin to teach them to pray and The focus of the message this morning is going to be on persistence of prayer. The example that Christ gives us in a parable here in the text. For beloved, persistence in prayer will result in the provision of the request. It is persistence that results in provision. But we see in the answer that he gave the disciples, Christ teaches them, first of all, he teaches them how to pray properly. Verses 1 through 4. These are familiar verses to anybody that's been in church for very long, although they are slightly different than the more familiar passage over in Matthew chapter 6. But here we have Christ teaching them to pray, telling them how to pray. And beloved, these verses that Christ gives to the believer as a pattern of prayer are not a set of words that are to be recited methodically without thought. This is not the he was not saying pray these the these words just say this and this is the magic formula that will give to you spirituality You know, that's that's not what Christ was saying. Like, Lord, now I lay me down to sleep, and I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. Many people like to use memorized or wrote prayers because there is no effort in that. There is no thought in that. There is no seeking or fervency in that. We can do that easily, and so we have fulfilled our religious duty And maybe even feel spiritual, but that's not what Christ was saying here. He wasn't saying to them, just repeat these words, but he's saying to them, pray for these things. Pray for this purpose of this reason. Remember these matters. And he begins there, of course. Describing or reminding us that we're praying based upon a relationship. He says, Our Father. Our Father. Is he your Father today? Is that something that's settled that you know beyond a shadow of a doubt? That when you bow your head and you begin to pray that you are indeed praying to your Father in heaven, it's based on a relationship. Now, not everybody is a child of God. The Bible says to as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. You at some point in your life have to have been adopted into the family of God. Become a child of God. And when you do that, you're praying and you're praying to your father. Maybe this morning you look at your life and wonder, but I want to encourage you to be sure that you have a relationship with the Father. Because that is where the foundation of our privilege to come in prayer is established. He gives this model prayer, and he teaches, first of all, and we're going to go through this pretty quickly, but he teaches us to acknowledge his royalty He said, hallowed be thy name. It's a recognition of who God is: King of kings and Lord of Lords, the creator of the universe, the savior of our soul, God Himself. Recognizing who God is. So when we pray, we acknowledge who God is. We're talking to our Father, but He is also the creator of the universe. Spending some time in praise and adoration and acknowledging his royalty. And then we ask for his return. He says, Thy kingdom come. Beloved, are you looking forward to his return? Thy kingdom come. I'll tell you what, sometimes when the burdens of this life get heavy, you just long for the Lord to return. You just want to say, Oh, even so, Lord, come quickly I'll tell you what, I know it's the easy way out, and it would kind of be cheating, but I'm tired of fighting, Lord. I want to get out of this old rat race and be done with all this foolishness. I want to be in your presence He said, even so, Lord, come he says, recognize when you're praying, there's not just saying thy kingdom come, but it's saying, Lord, I'm looking for your return. Lord, I long to see you again. Boy, my heart is heavy and rejoicing about that day when we can see your face. I don't know when it's going to be, but I'm ready, Lord. Would you come? Would you come? Then we acquiesce to his rule He says, thy will be done on earth as it is. Lord, you might not come today, and if you're not your will to come today, I want your will to be done. Whatever your will is, Lord, even in our life, even in the prayers that we have, we should be praying for His will. Jesus Christ Himself said, Not my will but thine be done. Should we expect to have anything more than that? But to be praying in the will of God and yielding our will to Him, and sometimes we want things that we want. Or we're asking for something that we want, and that's our desire, but we've got to remember to acquiesce to his rule in our life. That's what he's saying, thy will be done. And then we articulate our request. Give us this day our daily bread. So it's not just saying give us this day our daily bread, but it's articulating your request. Do you have a request today? You know, my kids don't have any problem coming to me and asking. They don't mind at all coming and saying, hey Dad, can I have this ice cream? You know? Whatever it is, they they come and they they have a request and they they come boldly to me and they they they ask freely and usually the answer is no, amen. No. But hey They come. We've got a heavenly father that says come and ask. That's what we're supposed to do, is ask. Articulate your request, and then we adjust our receipt. He says and forgive us our debtors as we forgive. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. You see, you gotta reconcile, you gotta you gotta balance the receipt. You got some things on on your side of the plate as well, right? And we got some things that that we want to ask the Lord to forgive us So we've got to be willing to forgive others. And we ask the Lord to help us with that and Cover our sin and forgive us what he what what we've done. You got some you got some debts? You can turn them over to God, amen. And we await his restraint. He says, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. We we look to him, Lord help us. This whole world's wicked, this place we live and all this Lord, there's deliver us from temptation. There's temptation on every hand. There's evil everywhere in this world. Lord, deliver us from that today. And you pray that. Lord help me. And you might be struggling with something in your life. Whatever it might be, and I I don't feel led to go down any paths right now and talk about different sin that you might be struggling with. But the idea is that you don't just say, Lord, keep me from temptation. What you do is say, Lord keep me from going to that place or keep me from participating in this activity or keep me from talking that way or from allowing my anger to get the better of me whatever it is you're struggling with you ask God to help you with that. And we affirm his reliability. For thine is the g kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. God, I know you can do all this, and I'm praying, and I'm praying in faith believing that you can do it. So he teaches them to pray properly. I could speak for the balance of our time this morning on these verses, but that's not the focus of the message this morning. If you desire to know more about that, I preached a message entitled The Pattern of Prayer early this year. And it's available on Sermon Auto. You can go there and it kind of walks through this in that way and teaching about the Lord's Prayer and how it's a pattern for us. You can learn more about it by going listening to that So not only does Christ teach the disciples that they should pray properly, but he goes on to teach them that they should pray persistently. Persistently. I think it's amazing that in God's divine wisdom Christ is teaching the disciples how to pray, and he includes quite a number of verses. Dealing specifically with the idea that you and I are to be persistent in prayer is not just a matter of a flippant request or a passing uh asking, but that there's an idea of there given to us clearly by Christ that we are to come and keep on coming. We are to ask and keep on asking There's persistency that's expected by God. And I I I can't articulate why exactly all that is, because beloved, you know as well as I do that our Heavenly Father knows what you have need of before you even ask him. He knows what you need. And praise God, there's some times in in life where he provides and gives even though you didn't ask. He just could he know what the need is and he just provides it But there's other times, beloved, he's looking for you to ask. And not just ask once, but ask again. Ask again. And maybe it's an exercise in faith. Maybe it's a developing of our relationship with Him, but there is, without a doubt, teaching here given to us to be persistent in prayer. And he said unto them, verse number five, which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves. For a friend of mine is in his journey, is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him And he from within shall answer and say, trouble me not, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give thee I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth. And I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given unto you, seek, and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. First of all, I want you to realize that there was an actual problem. There was an actual problem here. You see, this man had a need to lay some bread, some food, before a guest. Now, to us, that may not seem like much of a problem. But in this society, hospitality was taken very seriously. Nobody would consider or think at all about somebody coming to their home and not having something to lay before them. This was a serious matter to him. He had to have something. It might not be fancy, but they would have something to lay before their guest. Hospitality, we've all but lost it in America today. But at one time it was serious matter to be hospitable. You may not even like the guy, but you're going to be hospitable. And this was very serious. He had an actual problem. He had a need. I want you to realize that this need was present and it was real, and that it came up unexpectedly. Have you ever had a need come up unexpectedly? Something that just happened, maybe broken down on the side of the road, car ever go out on you? Decide not to go any further. Maybe your house flooded. Broken pipe or something. Basement flooded. I've enjoyed that a couple of times. Amen. Maybe you lost a job. But something in your life happens that was unexpected. And presents or brings to you a need. Maybe it's a sick child. Beloved, what you see is that it is the urgency of the unexpected that drives us to our knees. When you and I have a problem, we bring it to Christ. We take the burden to the Lord. It should be the habit and the pattern of every believer to carry his burden to Christ. The actual problem is real in whether we would look at it and say, well, this is a great problem or an insignificant problem, but either way, we It should be the pattern and the habit of the Christian to carry every burden to Christ. We may look at it and say, well, my car's broken down on the side of the road. Is God going to magically fix it? I believe he could. Just like Gus was talking about this morning, the live stream's not working unless God just decides to make it work. We've played with it, we've we've messed with it, we've done Did a bunch of reading trying to figure out what the problem is or something communication ain't working, but boy, that would be nice if God would just fix it. That would be a blessing. And I believe he could. He created this whole world out of nothing. I don't think fixing your car is that big a problem. But we look at it and say, well, you know I mean God's not going to actually like fix the car. But you don't know what God's going to do. I've been there before where the car wouldn't wouldn't start and said, Man, you know Lord, I I do not have time to deal with this. I don't know what's wrong right now, but you know, I'll get it to somebody that can look at it if you can get me home. And the car started. You don't know what God's gonna do. You don't know what what you might be down on the side of the road right over here on Beaver Dam And you think you're all alone, you say, Lord, I I sure do need some help, and then a church member pulls up right behind you. They come up and they say, I'm saying that because that happened to me on Beaver Dam. I was broken down. I wasn't there five minutes, and here's a church member. Hey. You need something? God knows. You don't know what God's gonna do and how He's gonna help meet the need or provide or solve the problem. He can do some miraculous things that It is the urgency of the problem, beloved, that drives us to our need, often needs often the emergency that we're faced with is what is where true prayer is born from. Because of that urgency of the need. Somebody said true prayer never occurs apart from the sense of a real need. True prayer never occurs apart from the sense of a real need. You've got to feel that need to actually begin to truly engage in prayer. Do you have an actual problem this morning Do you have something that you need? You can take it to the Lord. We see the accepted pertinence here. Something that's pertinent is applicable. Have you ever had somebody come to you and tell you something and in your mind you're wondering, like, what does this have to do with me? I mean you you even ask sometimes like, okay, they get all done and you're like, Alright, so why did you tell me that? I I listened to the whole story, but I'm really not sure what that has to do with me or or w w what are you expecting. Are you asking something or and they're like, oh I just thought you'd want to know. Oh, okay. Well thanks You know, well here this is pertinent. What I'm saying, beloved, is that he came to a friend with his request. He went to the right place. This request was based upon a relationship that he had with this man. It was a friend. He didn't just come and ask a complete stranger. He didn't just go to the next door down the street, somebody he doesn't have any relationship with, doesn't know him from Adam, and bang on the door and say, hey, give me some bread No, he had a friendship there. He had a relationship there. It was established. You have to understand the pressures that are at play here. You see, when somebody doesn't have sufficient to care for something, there's a little bit of embarrassment there I mean he surely didn't want his guest who was now sitting in the house to know he had no food. So I can imagine he snuck out the back door and ran to the neighbor real quick. He's like Hey, uh I'll uh well in the house there. He's like, I'll be just just a minute, I'll be just a minute, just relax, make yourself at home. And he ran to the neighbor real quick. Hey man, I I I need some food. My friend's sitting in the house right now, ready to eat I mean he doesn't want his friend to know he has no food. Not only that, he doesn't want to tell a complete stranger that he doesn't have any food. He wants to go somebody to somebody he trusts. To somebody he has a relationship with that he knows would help him. And wouldn't think less of him for not having sufficient. To provide. You know, I have been there. Maybe I asked a group of people, like, hey, let's go to a restaurant, you know, I'll buy dinner. And we go out to eat, and I thought I had sufficient cash. But Pastor Dare quartered rib by stake. And then I I get out there and it's time to pay and I'm like Hmm, here's a problem. I just told all these people I'm covering dinner and looks like I might be a little short. I don't want to tell all them I don't have money. Okay guys, I need to take up a collection. I don't have fun But you know what I do? I go to a friend. I go to somebody I can trust, kind of on the side and say, hey You got fifty bucks? Get it back to you later, but you know, just I'm a little short. You see, you go to somebody you can trust. It's applicable. There's a relationship there. Christ takes the pertinence of this relationship even further. Because here in the beginning we see him talking about a friend, but he takes it from friendship to family, and then he takes it from family to faith. Where he tells us in verse number eleven, he's talking about this friend first in verse five there, and he goes on and describes that friend that goes and asks. But then in verse number eleven he says If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, so he takes that relationship even further Not just friendship, but now it's a father-son relationship. And which of you would not provide or give to your son what do you ask? And then he takes that relationship one step further in verse number 12, and he says, how much more shall your heavenly father He takes it from friendship to family to faith, the progression there of that relationship. Beloved, I want you to know that our Request, our coming and asking is based on that, on the relationship that's there. We see an advancing of persistence. He goes on and says there, verse number nine, and I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened. An advancing of persistence. Not just a casual asking, not just a passing remark. But first you begin with that level of just ask. Where he says, ask. And it shall be given unto you. And it's just an asking. And maybe I mean I think about something like when I'm pulling into a parking lot and I'm in a big hurry and I I'll I'll ask the Lord, Lord Boy it would be nice if I had a spot right down front so I could get in and get out. And and I just kind of quick, just in passing No fervently seeking God, no begging on my knees, but here's a parking spot, and I'm I'm pulling in and more than once in my life, and it doesn't happen every time Lest you think I'm a liar. But it has happened. Where I'm in a hurry and I'll say, Lord, I sure need a spot right down front. That would be that would be a help to me right now. I gotta get this and get out. And I pull in and there's somebody pulling out. Second spot from the front. I pull right in there and run in the store, get what I need. Just ask. You can just come, Lord, boy, this would be great. Would you do this, boy? That would be nice if I get into the store and and what I need today was on sale. We could save some money, amen. I want to be a good steward, Lord. I want to be a good steward. We just ask. You got some things like that you just come and ask God for. There's an asking here, a kind of he he reiterates the idea of faith, a reminder that we're promised, ask and you shall receive. Are you asking in faith believing? Then he goes on and he says, seek. This is beyond just quick ask. Here lies a process of pursuit. Seeking. Seeking God. Looking for an answer. Spending, investing some time and energy seeking. I think about blind Bartimaeus in the New Testament there who didn't have the means or the wherewithal to go see Christ. He had heard about this man, this Jesus who healed the sick and made the blind to see. And I can imagine in his heart and mind thinking and longing for an opportunity to see Jesus. Just one opportunity to ask of Christ, to speak to him. I imagine him thinking and asking people around the path or the way, the road there, saying, hey, have you heard about when Jesus is coming? Have you heard of Jesus is coming by and blind Barnabai is sitting there in the way? And hears a commotion one day, kind of a group of people, and he can't see, but he asks somebody, he says, hey What's all the commotion? Why why are there so many people around? What's going on today? And haven't you heard Jesus is in town? Oh oh Jesus is Jesus is here Now again, he can't see where Jesus is. He can't see if he's right here present or down the road. So I imagine him asking somebody, is he close? Is he right here or Is he still a ways away? Is he approached? And in the context of the passage there, if you go and read it, there's a kind of a understanding or idea where people don't have time for Bartimaeus And I can imagine as he's trying to tell he he probably grabs somebody and says, Hey, hey, how close is Jesus right now? How close is he And they were like, hey, leave me alone. Leave me alone. He's not here yet. Don't worry about it. Or whatever. They don't want to be bothered with him. But Vine Barterme is finally Afraid to lose his opportunity, his chance, he calls out loudly. He says, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. Jesus could be two blocks away still. He doesn't know, but he doesn't want to miss a chance. And so he calls out again. He doesn't know where he's at. He doesn't know how far away. Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. He's seeking Jesus. Looking, he's calling once and twice and again. And then if you read the story there, the people say, hey Pardon me, it's quiet down. Stop that calling out. Jesus doesn't have time for you. He doesn't want to see you. Be quiet. But he wasn't going to be quiet, was he? He had one chance. Jesus was coming by and he was going to call and he's calling him out and beloved what I want you to understand Is that we can can you picture it, Jesus walking down the street there? Do you think Barnabas was the only one that was calling him No, there's a lot of people calling him. I think about it like a uh like a news uh presidential news briefing where all the where all the Reporters are like, hey, hey, what are you going to do about this? And everybody's calling out all kinds of stuff. I picture Jesus walking down the road and all these people calling him. But there's one call he heard and he answered on that day, and it was a call for mercy. Beloved, I want you to know Jesus always answers the call for mercy. He says, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. He stops. The crowd stops and he says, Who is that? Where is he? Bring him to me. And he asks him what he will, and Barnabas says, Oh, that I could have my sight. And he said, Go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. You see, there's a level of seeking. It's it's beyond just uh passing question. I think of Paul there In the New Testament, when he had that thorn in the flesh. The Bible says thrice, three times he asked Christ about this. Lord, would you take this from me? And if you know the story, you know that Christ didn't take that from him, but what God did is God gave him an answer. God illuminated his mind and allowed him to realize the reason he had the thorn in the flesh. And gave him grace to endure it. He said, Paul, you have that throne in the flesh for a reason, but my grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in your weakness. And he understood from God because he sought after him. It's beyond asking, and then you go on to knocking. Knocking. You see, this is where true persist true persistence is seen. Effort is invested in knocking. Time is invested in knocking. Repetition is implied by knocking. I can see this guy out the house. Initially he kind of probably just called out, Hey, Joe! Hey man, come on! I need some bread. And Joe's like, oh dad That's Caleb again. Oh my goodness. He sticks his head up. Hey, go away, man. My kids are asleep. Now you know in those types of houses usually they're two story and probably Everybody the family slept in one large room. They were he says there, my kids are in bed here with me. Basically everybody's asleep. We're all, you know, they didn't all have their private rooms like we do today. He's like, I'm not gonna not gonna bother and disturb everybody. Go away. And the neighbors like, no, no, no, hey, come on, man. I know you've got bread I need some bread. My name my friend is here. Help me out. And he's and then you know the guy upstairs in the bedroom just laying there ignoring him. He's like, I know you hear me. I know you can hear me up there. I ain't going away. The guy's up in bed. Man, I do not want to get out of bed for this guy. But he ain't going away. And I want you to understand there's this parable is not teaching that we have a reluctant God that doesn't want to meet your need. He does want to meet your need. But he desires that we show faith and that we show persistence and come to him again and again, asking of him that he would meet the need Do you remember Hannah over there desirous of a baby? She prayed. She prayed, she fasted, she wept, she vowed 1 Samuel 1 verse 12 says, and it came to pass as she continued in prayer. She continued in prayer. Persistence, beloved. Don't you got something you need, you have a burden that you have, you have uh need, don't give up on that. Keep carrying that to God. Keep bringing that in in prayer to Him. Keep asking. That's what he asked for us. And it is an exercise in faith as we come to him again and again in faith, believing that God can and will answer us. And as we do it, not only did Christ give to them a pattern of how we should pray, not only does he teach that they should pray persistently, but he also teaches that we should pray positively. Positively. Verse number ten there he says, For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. I look at this as there are some things, beloved, that you will get that you will accomplish through just asking. But there are other things that can only be accomplished or that you will only receive by seeking. And yet there are others that you will only see fruit from when we approach over into the area of knocking. I think Christ in another place said it to the disciples like this this kind cometh not but by prayer and fasting. The idea that there has got to be a little bit more effort extended. I'm not going to meet this need because you happen to, on your way to work, passing by, see something and say, Oh Lord, would you give me that? Now it may be God's will that you have it, it may be God's will that he meets that need, but he wants you to come again and again fervently seeking, knocking, asking that he would bring it to you. And we pray positively, that is, with the idea, with an expectation. With an expectation that he can and will meet the need. We have a promise from God on it, friend. And then he gives them an example. He says, Which of you shall, if ye have a son, shall ask bread of any of you that is a father? Who will give him a stone? And if he ask a fish, who will give him a serpent? Or if he shall ask an egg, who will offer him a scorpion? I think it's Christ uh you know he's being facetious or uh kind of maybe a little bit over like way overboard. Because like obviously this is not gonna happen. You're not gonna do that to your children. Then he goes on and says, if ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father? Give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him. I want you to understand, beloved, it is in and through the power of the Holy Spirit, the work of the Holy Spirit in which needs are met. So although this is certainly can be applied to asking for the Holy Spirit, I believe it's in the context here applied to God meeting the need, whatever the need is, and it's for the work of the Spirit There we should come to Him with a spirit of expectation when we pray because we have a promise from God. You know, sometimes we pray once or twice or three times, but we quit praying. Maybe our faith is small. Sometimes we quit praying because we feel our request is insignificant. Beloved, I want you to know that there are no insignificant requests with God. There's no insignificant request. He says, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. There's no insignificant request. Whatever request you have, whatever burden you have, whatever struggle you're facing, take it to him in prayer. That's what he calls it for us to do. There is no insignificant request. Sometimes people quit praying, maybe they feel the request is insignificant, but also sometimes they feel their relationship is inferior. They feel they aren't important enough to go to God with that need. Can I tell you something this morning? With the power of the Word of God, there is nobody in here today that is inferior. God has given access to every one of us in equal proportion. There's no one in here that has any more or any less access to God than I do. There's no one in here that has any more or any less access to God than anyone else in here. We all have been given. We believe in the priesthood of the believer, beloved, when the Veil was rent into. There's no longer the priest and the high priest and the people. Christ gave each and every one of us access to him directly, only one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, and we come and we can pray individually directly to our Heavenly Father. There's nobody in between. Your relationship is not inferior. You know, sometimes People feel they don't have that relationship and so they can't ask. You know, Caleb would come up to me today and ask me, what are we eating for lunch today? But well Anna might do that. You know, kids that don't know me uh wouldn't come up and and ask what do you why they don't have that relationship. They d they don't they wouldn't come up and just say, Hey, what are we eating for lunch today? I mean they don't have that. They're they're not my child, right? So sometimes people they don't know for sure that they have that relationship with God. They don't know for sure that they've been adopted into the family of God, that they have that relationship, and so they don't they can't go to Him boldly. So I would exhort, I would implore you today to be assured of that. The whole aspect of this idea of prayer is based on the relationship. We have access to God because He's our Father, but He's not our Father just because we were born. He's our Father because we've been born again Born again by the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed for us and washes away our sin, we come in faith, trusting that sacrifice to forgive us of our sin. And give us that relationship with the Father. So if you don't have that relationship with the Father, you can use the Well I pray, but I don't feel like my prayers do anything, or I don't know if it's accomplishing anything and sometimes that's a matter of faith and that faith needs to be developed and to grow but sometimes it's because you don't have that relationship with the Father I want to exhort and encourage you to make sure you have that relationship. That's what it's based on. And then we know, beloved, that the Bible says that your iniquities have separated you between you and your Father. And sometimes we've done some things, and you and I know when we've done some things that have separated us from the Father. We know when the relationship is not good. And yeah, you're right. You're coming to God and You don't feel like you can ask of him because you know that the relationship is not right. But the blessed thing about our Father is If you confess your sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And that relationship can be restored like that. Your Heavenly Father is not going to hold it over your head. Your Heavenly Father is not going to beat you up with it for the next ten years. Your Heavenly Father is going to forgive you. Restore the relationship. And you can come to him with confidence. I think of Brian Bartermaeus there just crying out for mercy. Maybe you need to start there. Say, Lord, I got some other knees, but first of all, would you have some mercy on me? When he extends his mercy, then he says, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? And you say, Oh Lord, this is what's on my heart. And you bring it to him in prayer. So this morning, how's your relationship with the Father? Have you been asking, knocking, seeking? Have you been praying persistently? Folks, we could never have a better teacher on the subject of prayer than Christ Himself. And in response to the disciples' request, Lord, teach us to pray. He taught them to pray properly, to pray persistently. And to pray positively. I hope we heed Christ's teaching this morning.