It is profoundly theological uh a book that has a lot of depth to it. You can really dig into it. I was uh having a conversation with somebody just before church tonight with the idea of predestination and God's foreknowledge and uh you know the this this topic that our finite brains have a real hard time grasping uh how God can know something is going to happen but not make it happen. Uh and you know we're limited that that is addressed and talked about and the book of Romans, but it also at the same time, although it's profoundly theological, it uh is also powerfully practical. There are a lot of things that we get that we hold on to uh for the Christian life that that come from the book of Romans, and not the least of which is the God's simple plan of salvation. The the Romans road is found throughout this book. God's plan of bringing somebody to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ in a very clear, concise way is brought forth in the book of Romans. And we see that uh here in the book of Romans over and over again. But We're often told to look hold on to, you know, uh believe on the promises of God. We're told to just that that the promise is not not one of God's promises has failed, and we can take them to the bank and and we ought to be holding and grabbing a hold of those promises for encouragement. And these are true statements. But what I want you to know and realize tonight is that there is an aspect of the Christian life that is critical, that is necessary. For any of those promises to be a route reality in our lives. They don't just happen. I want you to see from our text this morning or this evening here That in order for the promise to be realized in our life, we must have faith. The promise is realized through faith. And we're going to see that in Romans chapter 4. Look down in verse number 13. We could read the entirety of the chapter, but uh we're the story really picks up and kind of narrows in on the topic this evening in verse number 13. And to follow along as we read down through verse number 25, the end of the chapter, think about the story if you would, and maybe fill some of the gaps in your mind of what's maybe not given to us here. Maybe that you might know already if you have some Bible knowledge. Just put yourself in the story that's taking place and think about where it's at and what it's talking about. And we're going to develop it a little bit as we go through the message this evening. But we begin in verse number 13. He says For the promise that he should be the heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law. But through the righteousness of faith. For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made void, and the promise made of none effect. Because the law worketh wrath, for where no law is, there is no transgression. Therefore, it is of faith that it might be by grace To the end of the promise might be sure to all the seed, not to that only which is of the law, but to also, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham. who is the father of us all. As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations, before him whom he believed, even God, who quickened the dead, and calleth those things which be not as though they were, who against hope believeth in hope, that he might become the father of many nations. According to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be. And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead. when he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God. And being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able also to perform, and therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed unto him, but for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus, our Lord, from the dead. Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification We see here again so many theological truths presented even in this short pet passage, and I read it kind of slow because you have to Think about what he's saying because the way the words are are written, uh you you have to engage your brain a little bit and contemplate and think about the truth that he is communicating. But beloved, we know that The just that we know that we're justified by faith. In verse number 16, he tells us the very beginning of that In a verse that's worded differently than what we're used to, but it says almost the same thing. Notice it says, Therefore, it is of faith that it might be by grace. For by grace are you saved through faith. So what he's saying, he says, it is of faith That it might be of grace. That in order for the grace of God to be a reality in our lives, you've got to have faith in God. For by grace are you saved through faith. And the the the grace of God will never be a reality in somebody's life until they come to the place that they're ready to put off everything else this world has offered and and to put all of their own works aside and say, okay, I'm going to trust without hesitation in the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the cross. I'm going to put my complete faith. I'm going to believe. If you believe in your heart, If you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. So in order, salvation comes to the heart of the man that believes, that has faith that for by grace he is saved through faith. And so this is given to us here. We realize at the very beginning, the Christian life begins with faith. So not only is the requirement for us to come to God A requirement of faith. In order for us to please God, we've got to continue to have faith. For we know without faith, uh it is impossible to please Him. We've got to have faith in every aspect of our life. I think many times as I contemplated this text here and looking at Abraham, that many times we want to hold on to a promise or look at the promises of God and think they should just be in our lives or that they're going to come to fruition, but we need to realize or understand that the promises are only realized through faith. That is how they become a reality, which we see in the story of Abraham and Sarah. Paul is diving deep. Here with the Jews. He's discussing with them. We didn't read the beginning part of the chapter, but the beginning part of the chapter he's discussing with them circumcision. And going over it with them. He is the father, the founding father of their nation, and they would have understood that. They would have known who Abraham was. And so he's teaching them that this covenant promise that was given them, uh, which was promised back in Genesis chapter 17 and verse number two, he says, And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thy seed exceedingly. God had told him, hey, you are gonna have uh an entire nation that's gonna be your heirs and and It didn't look like it would happen So Paul is drawing this example for them and discussing with them the idea of circumcision. We need to remember that circumcision was a symbol of their faith. Just like for us, baptism is a symbol. It is a picture of our faith in God. You see, Abraham was not made righteous because of circumcision. That was a picture of his faith in God which made him righteous. That was very is very clearly stated to us here. Romans chapter 4, look down back at verse number 3. In verse number three, he says, For what saith the Scripture, Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. His faith, his belief in God is where his righteousness came from. And he believed in the promises of God. We believe in God's promises for salvation, and we must continue to believe and have faith in God throughout our Christian life, that the other promises that are in the Word of God could be a reality for us. In verse number 13, he says, for the promise that he should be the heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law. He says, hey, the promise of this did not come to him through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. What I want to put to you tonight is that faith changed the direction of Abraham's life. I wonder, has faith changed the direction of your life Has faith in God literally taken you from the path and the direction that you were headed down a new path? Understanding that as we believe God and we follow God, that we're we're exercising faith. We are displaying faith when we make decisions to follow and do what God wants us to do. To do, and it takes us down a new path, and this is what happened in the life of Abraham. Beloved, faith is the key that unlocks the promises of God. Faith is the key that unlocks the promises of God, and we read through the Psalms and the promises that are there, and we have books that are written. It's just the entire book is just the promises of God and you can read through those and be so encouraged and you think about those things. But those things don't just happen for you. They happen because you have faith to believe that God is going to bring them to fruition in your life So what kind of faith is it that realizes the promises of God? That's what we want to look at this evening. What kind of faith is it that will help us or enable us to To realize the promises of God in our life. First of all, we see that it is faith that is secure. In verse number 17, he says, As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations before him. whom he believed, even God. Saying, he has made him a nation before him in whom he believed. We could say him in whom he believed, even God, and this is who he believed in, who who quickeneth the dead and calleth those things which be not as though they were. And beloved, what is the beginning of verse number 18? Who against hope believed in hope? What I want you to understand is against all hope, against all practical expectations, Abraham continued to have a secure faith. That is, he believed God for what was impossible. For what in any other circumstance would have been completely undeniably impossible to do, and yet he looked at that and he said, Okay, I can believe God for the impossible. Can you believe God for the impossible tonight? God said he would be the father of many nations, and you guys know the story. You guys know Abraham and Sarah, they hadn't had any children yet. Do you understand that in the time frame that this was, this was not like today where people are being told don't have kids, where people are being told go have a career and and you know why would you want to have children? No, this was a time frame Where a woman without children was frowned upon, considered maybe even to be per cursed by God because she didn't have children And so this is something that for years they would have been looking at, trying to have kids and doing all that they could to have kids, and all these all this time they still didn't have any children And yet God comes and says they're going to be the mother and father of an entire nation? They're going to have all of these heirs as the sands of the sea? I mean, how is that even possible? Who against all hope Believed in hope. They continued to have hope. They didn't have any sons, nor did they have any reasonable expectation. Of getting any sons, but God. But God God came on the scene, and you know the story that they gave birth to their son Isaac, and Isaac gave birth to Jacob and Esau, and Jacob's children. And grandchildren become the 12 nations of Israel, and the Jewish nation is born. Who against hope believed hope. Didn't have any other reason to. He didn't consider the problem. He considered the promise. He didn't look at all the reasons why it wouldn't happen. He looked at the fact that God had said it would happen. Having that secure faith, what I'm saying tonight is that Abram had faith to believe the impossible. My family and I, we love singing that song. You ask me why I believe like I do. Why I'm so convinced that the Bible is true. I'm here to tell you it's only because I've been through enough to see what faith does. Faith sees the invisible, believes the impossible, receives the incredible, No matter what was. Faith moves the unmovable, proves the unprovable for anyone willing to trust. Believe and you'll see what faith does believe. A faith that can believe God for the impossible. I want to ask you tonight if you've been looking at things in your life and said it's impossible? Maybe you've looked at a situation you said it's impossible for me to ever get out of debt. I'm so far gone, there's no way that I could change this situation. It's impossible for my relationship to be restored. again. It's impossible for me to and you fill the blank with whatever you want tonight that Satan has put in your mind and said it's impossible. It can't happen. But beloved, with faith, God said all things are possible. It's all possible with him William Booth, the founder of the Salvation Army, said, God loves with a great love the man whose heart is bursting with a passion for the impossible. Do we have that kind of faith to believe God for the impossible? Just this week I was having a discussion with somebody and they said to me, Pastor, I mean, let's be realistic, what is the chances that we're actually going to ever build a building out on the new property? So God can do anything. I mean, five million dollars is nothing to him. Five million I mean, yeah, I know in our mind it looks impossible. I have no doubt. You know? Unless Lee brother Lee's gonna cash in his four hundred one K or something, I don't know. I mean Yeah. He could cash it in and we would have to help him get get clear of what he owes, right? Hey, i we look at it and say, boy, this is impossible that we could do this, but God can do anything. You know, I heard a quote by Elon Musk this week. He said, if you were paid $2,000 an hour, And you worked a 40-hour week, every week of the year, and you did so for 2,000 years, you still would be worth less than 10% of what I'm worth today. I mean you can't we can't even comprehend the amount of money that's out there. I mean the money is there and God can bring it in. What I'm saying is God can do the impossible But do we have faith to believe him for the impossible? God can do it, and we've seen in our church here God do some truly amazing and impossible things. And we can continue to see those come to fruition in our lives personally and in the life of our church if we could just believe God for the impossible. Have faith that in in God's time and in God's will, if we take the steps as we've always said, if we do what we can do God will do the rest. Amen. And that's all we can do right now today. We look at it and say, boy, this task is too Uh daunting. There's there's no light at the end of the tumble. Doesn't seem like it's possible, but what I do know is I can do what I can do today and trust God today, and then God can do the impossible Faith that is secure, we see secondly, faith that staggers not. I'm going to apply this in a little bit different way as I contemplated and thought through these verses here. Just really, I looked at that and and uh on the surface, look at let's just read it, verses number 19 and 20. And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead. You understand he's talking about, he says maybe his body wasn't dead when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promises of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God. As I considered this and I thought, well, this is almost a little bit discouraging. Because on the surface you look at it and say, well, uh I can't stagger. That means I can't doubt. I mean, if I if I doubt at all I'm gonna, it's not gonna happen. The promise is not gonna come to fruition. And I mean, which one of us has that kind of faith? Which one of us can say we never did doubt? I mean, the disciples themselves said, Lord, we believe. But help our unbelief. We believe, but maybe not as much as we should, or maybe not quite as strong as we think we need to, or you know what I'm saying is I looked at that and I said, wait a minute Does that mean in order for the promises of God to become a reality in my life, that I cannot falter, that I cannot ever uh waver in my faith? And as we contemplate or consider the story of Abraham and Sarah, I want you to realize, beloved, that what I believe is that although we falter, although we fail, we don't stay there. We continue to go back to God and continue to trust God for the promises. And you say, well, where do you get that? Well, let's look at the story of Abraham and Sarah. You remember they were promised a son, right? Although it didn't happen right away. And you remember the story, Sarah says, you know what? God promised you a son. Maybe not me. Maybe the problem is we know I can't have kids. I mean we've never been I've never been able to have kids. Maybe in order let's help God out here. Let's find a way to get the promises of God realized in our life. Have you ever tried to do that? Let's find a way to make this happen. And so she says, why don't you go into Hagar? My handmaid and you can go into her and and and be with her and you and you'll have a son and it's amazing because she has a son and they look at it on the surface initially and they think wow look God provided a son they have Ishmael Oh, look at that. But that was not God's plan, was it? You see, that was not the promised son. That was the work of man, and man trying to make it come to pass. And the problems that arose that are still afflicting the people of Israel because of this son. Is phenomenal. In their own way they work to see God's plan come to fruition in their life. They wanted the promise to be realized and they thought, well, let's do it like this, but that was not the promise on it. It was not God's plan. The encouraging thing that I take from this, beloved, is that even when you fall down, you can get up. Even when you may falter in your faith That does not mean that the promise will not come to pass in your life. They what I would look at it and say is although they messed up, although they did the wrong thing in trying to make it happen to themselves, they went back to God and said, okay, we messed up, but we trust you, God. We have faith that you will do what you said you're going to do. We tried to do it like this, but we know that that wasn't your plan, and they continue to trust and God did give them a son. So although they faltered, although they uh failed miserably in this aspect, they were able to come back to God and God still allowed the promise to be realized in their life. And that gives hope to me. Because I know that I've made a mess of my share of things. Abraham and Sarah sure messed it up. But God still came through when they continued to believe and trust him. And although I've made a mess of things, I can continue to trust God as well. And I can have the promises of God be come to fruition in my life as well. Faith says, although I've messed up and I've fallen down, I can get up again. I can start again. Beloved, just don't give up on God because God hasn't given up on you. Keep going back to him. We see a faith that staggers not, and we see, lastly this evening, a faith that is stronger and stronger. I believe it is God's plan for us to continue to grow in faith. In verse number 20, there he says, and stagered not at the promises of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith. I don't care how long you've been at this thing as a Christian. Your faith can grow tonight. There's some of us who an exercise of our faith would be a very small step. For other of us, maybe an exercise would be a little bit bigger step. And for some, maybe it's a very big step. But every one of us, no matter where we are in our Christian walk with God, We can all grow in faith. And understanding how important it is for us to have faith Without faith, it is impossible to please him. Understanding the only way that God's provision, God's promises are made a reality in our life is through faith. We should be encouraged and challenged to continue to grow in faith. We should be getting stronger and stronger. Practice, practice, practice. The more you exercise your faith, the stronger you get in your faith. What I'm saying is believe God for the little things. And you'll grow in faith to the place where you can believe Him for the big things. You believe God for the little things when you pray for the small things. Beloved, if you don't have enough faith to pray for a nice day tomorrow. You need a nice day and you're going to pray that you have a nice day. If you don't have enough faith to pray for that, how do you expect to have faith to pray to heal your son or daughter? How do you expect to have faith to pray to see God come through? If you can't pray for a parking space You know, some people would mock and laugh and say, well why would you I mean that's kind of foolish. Pray that you would have a parking space. You know, maybe you hurtin' like Jacob and can't hardly walk around And you need it well, I need a parking space close to up front because my foot's killing me and I sure don't want to walk that far. And and uh I can tell you the number of times Mary pulling into a lot. I I usually don't do that, so I'm not practicing what I preach here. Uh I just park wherever. But Mary's like, especially when the kids were younger, pray for a space and then point out, look at what God did. Look at what God did. God God gave us a parking space right up You know, I had a conversation with somebody this week about uh the importance of establishing biblical expectations in the hearts of our children. If we don't correctly establish biblical expectations, and that means you have to be careful what you communicate, careful what you say, because they need to have biblical expectations. Sometimes people get mad at God because their expectations of what God's supposed to do for them is wrong. Where did they get those expectations? From parents who were unwise in what they communicated And so teaching through times like that, praying for something simple like a car space, and then God gives it to you, and you show look at how God gave us this time, and then next time there's not one. And you say, you know what? There was probably somebody that was hurting a lot worse than me that needed that space today. And although God didn't give me the space today, God answered somebody else's prayer and put them there and and he understands we can we can walk. So teaching your child that it doesn't always come to pass. You want to put somebody's faith in crisis. Teach them that God always gives you what you want. That you can pray and God's going to do it. We ought to believe in God, but we need to understand how God's work and understand his God always answers prayer, but sometimes the answer is no Sometimes the answer is not now. It's not always yes. And it's not until we get to heaven that we'll be able to thank God for the times he said no. Because we didn't know the whole story. We didn't understand. In our mind we thought we needed that. One day we'll understand why God said no. Build that faith in the life of your children, but also in your own life, trusting God for the little things, and you'll trust Him for the big things. Abraham saw God work in his life over and over, and his faith grew to the point that he could hope against all hope. He grew stronger and stronger. Look at verse number 21. The Bible says there in verse number 21, he says, and being fully persuaded. That what he had promised, he was able to perform. Are you fully persuaded that God would do it? Fully persuaded that God can do it Being fully persuaded. Exercising your faith builds faith. This kind of confidence in God, being fully persuaded, has only developed over time. As we, as our faith increases, so does your ability to obey I can just thinking about times when the kids were younger and you know kids are growing up and you're trying to teach them and As they're going through that transitional stage and Andrew who's in the sound booth right now he was probably in in our family the one that kind of Being the oldest boy, you know, he knew. He knew how to do stuff, right? And you're trying to teach him. And he's kind of like, I know. And and I can do it. And you're just trying to show him like if you do it like this or this is how you want to do this to put this back together and you know he'll he'll I I I can do it or I wanna do it. And you see hasn't come to the place where He can he wants to trust dad completely. But the older they get, the more they start to understand that God dad dad has some knowledge and some experience. And when he said you probably want to do it this way That there's a reason. And so they start to learn that. The more the more things they go through, the more times that d dad gives them c correct advice, correct direction, they say, oh yeah, I can trust what dad says on this. And beloved, the more times we exercise faith in God, it'll increase our faith to say, yeah, I can trust God. God has led me right. God has guided me correctly over and over again in my life and I can trust him and your ability to obey will grow as your faith grows. So I bring this to a conclusion tonight. I want you to consider the reason that we do this. Look at verse number 20. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith. Giving glory to God. Giving glory to God. Beloved, our expectant, unwavering, and ever-growing faith glorifies God. It glorifies God. It's not just a matter of us being able to get what we want. It's a matter of glorifying God in our life. And allowing the promises of God to be realized in our life. Faith is the key to unlocking the promises of God. Through faith, we're saved. Through faith, we grow. And through faith, we experience the abundant life that God has for us. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed