Matthew chapter 13, we'll go there tonight, and it is a joy to be here. And uh the winter weather, unpredictable, and so we just go with it. Uh that's something I don't get a vote in. So whatever the Lord sends, we're grateful for. And uh the only regret of the change of plans it with us me having to leave on Wednesday morning was that uh we care for my mom or my uh my mother-in-law, my wife's mother, who I only say good things about, by the way. shocked and appalled that anyone would would tell mother in law jokes and anything like that. I brother, I I Wow. But but you confessed it before the church, and so I think we need to forgive him for it and move on. So but uh yes, um we care for her and we weren't able to arrange care uh for that length of time. So I've never gone stagged to a marriage retreat before. We're trying to work out a way where I can get an eight by ten picture of my wife that's set beside me Uh so that uh so anyway we'll we'll have a good time. The Lord knew all of this, and so I looked at the forecast on Wednesday morning and Figured they are not going to b they are n I was flying from Indy to to Detroit to here and both Indy and Detroit are getting pounded today and I was not going to be able to make those flights. They so anyway the Lord worked it out so that Uh I told my wife, uh if I'm gonna be there, I've gotta get in the truck and I gotta head that way. And and I c didn't have the heart to call you and cancel it again. So uh Yeah, but I can tell you're over the bitterness of that, so that's that's good that uh he's working through things. He's better. He keeps getting better and better. And so that's good. What did I tell you? Matthew chapter thirteen? And it is a joy to be here. I appreciate your pastor so much And I mean that. I like being around him. I love the way uh he's one of these guys that I call an idea guy. He's always thinking about his church, always thinking about uh how he can be a blessing and what he can do and how he can challenge And how he can grow grow you. And um and I appreciate that the fact that God has given him a strong pastor's heart. We're going to look at verse number forty-four of Matthew chapter number thirteen, verse number forty-four. This is a one. verse parable. And so we're going to just read this one verse and then we're going to zero in on this and give you something that the Lord gave me recently. um from his word that was such a blessing to me and a help and so I put it into m practice personally myself and uh then uh later on developed a message because I felt like the truth Helped me so much, I wanted to share it with my people. I'm going to bring it to you tonight. Matthew chapter 13, verse 44. The Bible says, and again, the kingdom of heaven Is like unto a treasure hid in a field. And uh the wit-the which, when a man hath found, he hideth And for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath and buyeth that field. Heavenly Father, bless the reading of your word and open our hearts. Help me as I bring the message tonight, Lord. And I pray above all, dear God, that we would be helped to be more like you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. This is one of the parables that we know as the Kingdom of Heaven parables Every parable takes an earthly story or an earthly event or an earthly truth and teaches us some kind of a heavenly A heavenly lesson from it. But the Kingdom of Heaven parables are unique in this regard. The Kingdom of Heaven parables gives us heaven's view of earthly happenings. And the kingdom of heaven, parables, gives God an opportunity to come down and take something that is earthly. And then to raise us up to God's perspective and to allow us to see something about the earth, about people, that that is that that allows us to see it the way God sees it. And let me just say this. It's a good day in our lives when we strive to see things from God's perspective and not just our perspective. And I think these Kingdom of Heaven parables allows us to go up beside God, sit beside God, and say, Let me tell you how I view these things down here on earth. And you know, I want to see. The issues of today, the way God sees the issues of today. I want to see the events that are going on from God's perspective, and I want to definitely learn to look at people from God's point of view. And so as we read again this verse, again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hidden a field, the which when a man hath found he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, all that he hath And buy it that field. So let's break this down. Just one verse. A man discovers a hid treasure in a field. The only problem is the field doesn't belong to him. I don't know why he was in the field. If he was a country boy like me, he was probably just cutting across the field to get home. We seldom took the roads to get from one buddy's house to another. We just cut across the fields. Matter of fact We lived out in the country, and to be honest with you, property boundaries didn't mean a whole lot to me as a little boy. I thought I owned the world. Well Bob Wearer fence was just something to get down underneath and crawl underneath and keep going, so maybe he was cut across the field. Maybe he had been hired by the man to work in the field, but in the process of being on another man's property in his field, he finds a hid treasure. The Bible says, though, that he keeps his discovery a secret. There's a little phrase there that says, he hideth He hideth, the which when a man hath found, he hideth. What does that mean? That means that he kept it a secret. He discovered it when he said to himself, I'm not telling anybody. Or maybe he uncovered it. You know what he did? He then covered it back. And so we see a man that's in a field that doesn't belong to him and he discovers this hid treasure. He keeps this discovery a secret. And then even though the Bible doesn't say this, we can understand it from the reading that he negotiates the price of the field because he does know what the man would sell it for. You had to approach him first of all and say, would you be interested in selling? And then they had to negotiate a price. And so we know that he now understands what it's going to cost to buy the field. And as He's walking home. I think he's calculating in his mind because the price is high. And he begins to, I think, go down through all of his assets, all of his property, everything he owns. The Bible says, everything that he owns And he finally figures out that I believe if I sell absolutely everything that I own, I'll just have enough to be able to buy this field from this man. So I picture him the day that he purchases it, walking up with his fortune in his hand. Nothing else besides the clothes on his back, everything else that he has and owns He holds it in his hand and he hands it over to the man. But by the way, the Bible says he does it with joy. Because he believes that if he buys the field, by doing so he will enrich him So here's the story of a man who saw something of great value and decided he was willing to sell everything in order to secure this treasure The only way that he could get the treasure was to buy the field. The treasure, you see, was hid. In the field. The treasure was connected to the field. The treasure came with the field, and the field came with the treasure. If he was going to possess the treasure, then he had to be willing to buy the field. By the way, from the story, I don't see that he really wanted the field. But you know what he wanted? He wanted the treasure that was in the field. That if he's going to get the treasure that's in the field, He was going to have to buy the field. Now being a country boy, I can also tell you a little bit about fields. Because if there's something I do know about it, I know about fields. Listen very carefully There were weeds in that field. There were mice in that field. There were nettles in that field. There were thorns in that field. There were, this is what we call back home, cockleburrs, I don't know if you call them that, in the field. I can promise you this, there was dirt in that field, and when it rained, there was mud in that field. There were ants in that field. There were snakes in that field. I've never seen one in my life, but I've seen what what they can do. There were jiggers in that field. Think about that. There might have been a skunk or two living in that field, or at least maybe passing through from time to time. There were spiders in that field. What are you saying, preacher? I'm saying this. The man knew these things. He was in the field, so he knew what was in the field, and he knew what came with the field. But you know what? He decided to forget everything that came with the field. And he was willing to give everything he had to buy the field. Because of the treasure that he had discovered in that field. Now stay with me, the treasure was of such great value to him that he was willing to buy the weeds, the weeds to get the treasure. He was willing to put up with the nettles and the thorns to get the treasure. The dirt and the mud was worth the treasure. The ants, the mice, the jiggers, the occasional skunk was worth the treasure. I mean, if he had to walk through a spiderweb or two as he crossed the field on the way to the treasure, it was a small price to pay because of the value of the treasure. Folks, I'm going to say this. I'll never understand all or what God saw in me and you. But God saw in the souls of mankind a great treasure. Yes, he saw our sin, but he also saw our souls. God considered the cost. Think about the cost, folks And he said, mankind is worth it. So God paid the greatest price that's ever been paid for anything when he purchased back the souls of lost men. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. You know what? Jesus was sent to secure payment for the treasure. Jesus said, I want the treasure. But I'll have to buy a field to get the treasure. But you know what? You know what? I don't understand it. Because I know this, when he got Jerry Ross, he got a lot of negatives. When he got Jerry Ross, not everything that came with it was good But he looked up and he saw some value in the souls of mankind, and he said, You know what? I'll be willing to pay the price. By the way, we ought to stop and consider the great price that was paid. Just so that we can again be thankful. Jesus said this if I'm going to get the treasure of the souls of men, then I have to be born into a sinful world. I'll have to be birthed in a stable, laid in a manger, but you know what, if that's what it costs to get the treasure, I'll pay the price. I'll have to be raised in a poor family, I'll have to Be misunderstood. If I'm going to get the treasure, I'll have to be denied by someone who promised to never do it I'd have to be betrayed by one of my hand-picked disciples. I'll have to be arrested and falsely accused, but you know what? The treasure's worth it I have to experience sorrow and rejection, be hated, be mocked, wear a purple robe and a crown of thorns and And then have the reed snatched out of my hand and the thorns beat to my skull, but that's what it costs for the souls of men. It's a treasure I want, and I'll pay the price I have to be beaten and whipped and condemned and sentenced to death. I'll have to walk up Golgotha's Hill where there waits three rusty nails and those nails will pierce me, but you know what? If that's what it costs, I want the treasure. I'll be spit upon, I'll be shamed. I'll look down towards earth and watch my my earthly mother's heart break. I'll look up towards heaven and see my Heavenly Father turn his back on me, something he'd never experienced. I'm willing to become sin If I have to become the unblemished sacrifice to get the treasure, then let it be. You know what? If I have to become sin, then I'll become sin If I have to watch my father turn his back on me, then I'll accept that as part of the prize. If I have to endure the punishment that comes with forever pain for the sins of mankind, folks, think of what he did He looked up from Calvary and he cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That was the price, and he was willing to pay it. I'll be honest with you folks, let's just all stop and say this together. I don't understand it. I'll never comprehend it. I don't see that much worth in mankind. But God saw something that me and you can't See. And he wanted us so bad he was willing to. Listen, I talked about the man showed up with all of his fortune, but at least he had the clothes on his back. He hung there naked. He didn't even have the clothes on his back. He paid everything For the sins of mankind. Think about that. He did that knowing. He did that knowing that not everybody would accept it. He did that knowing That some would reject it, some would despise it. Hey, some people mock the gospel story and call it a fairy tale. But he said, you know what, I'll still pay the price. Because you know what? A few will not Because of those few, I'll pay the price of the sins of all mankind. And God was willing, folks, to buy the field to get the treasure. Now think what came with the souls of mankind. Come on, a field came with it What came with saving mankind? What came with Terry Ross? What came with the salvation of our souls? What else did he get He knew he would get our failings, but he said, I still will buy the church because I want the treasure. He got my faithlessness. He got my failings. He got my falling He got my edemic nature. He got my inconsistencies. He got my sinfulness and my stumbling. And sadly, sadly from time to time my wicked stubbornness But he said, you know what, I want the treasure. And if I have to buy the field to get the treasure, then I'll buy the field to get the treasure. He wanted me despite my imperfection. God paid the ultimate price because he wanted the treasure even though he knew it came with a field. Now this is the kingdom of heaven. Parable. And what he's doing, he's trying to bring us up to heaven and view mankind through his eyes. And folks, let me say this. If God was willing to put up with all of that and still want me. Then maybe this parable is not just about us learning how God views us, but maybe we can learn a little bit about how to view each other. You know what? Think about this. If God knew all these things and still wanted us, you think maybe we could cut each other a little slack from time to time? If you want the treasure, folks. You have to buy the field. Because every treasure comes with the field. But you know what? Every field has a treasure. Everybody in this room is a treasure. But every one of us comes with the field. You can just go right like that right now and just shake your head. Okay? Yes, Mr. and Mrs. Pharisee. Everybody is a treasure, but everybody comes with the field. Everybody comes with the field. Comes with our imperfections. I think as Christians, we need to see people the way God sees people. I think we need to see, I think we need to get a kingdom of heaven view of people instead of a kingdom of earth view of people. I'm going to try to help the church in the next few minutes, so please pray for me and listen carefully. Number one Let's see the treasure of lost souls and be willing to buy the field. Let's see the treasure of lost souls and be willing to buy the field You see, folks, people hear that my dad pastored, was a preacher for 41 years, and they just assumed that I was born into a Christian home. That mom and dad were Christian parents. I was not born into a Christian home. I was born into the home of an unsaved couple. Mom and dad didn't get saved till they were 26 years of age. You know what, I was five years old before they walked into church for the first time as a married couple. You know what? That wouldn't have happened except by the divine grace of God. My dad was offered a job over in Terre Haute, Indiana, and he left the hometown of Green Castle and moved over and bought a little mini farm. just north of Brazil, Indiana, so that he'd be closer to be able to commute back and forth to work and little twenty-four-acre mini farm kind of his dream place and You know what? Mom and Dad were just the typical, come on, this was 1966, just the typical lost American couple in 1966. But we were blessed because across the road from where we live, this new place that my dad bought was a Christian couple by the name of Jerry and Ruth Persi. And folks, listen to me. Jerry and Ruth Purcell were our next door neighbors. We walked out in our front yard, they could see us. They walked out in their front yard, we could see them. And I can tell you this right away. I'm sure that they saw that there was a field that moved in next door, that that family had a field. But I was so glad that Jerry and Ruth herself. Did not look across the street and just see a field. I'm glad when Jerry and Ruth Purcell looked over at a lost young couple, they said, I believe there's a treasure in that field. Now, folks, let me tell you, there was a field and it was pretty evident. My dad at that time would walk out in the front yard to do something. You know what he'd do? He'd reach in his pocket and pull out a pack of cigarettes and light a cigarette. You know what? If you watch my mom come out from time to time, you know what? She wasn't always dressed according to biblical standards You know what, folks? My mom also smoked at the time. And listen, I want to help the Church of Jesus Christ. By the way, I'm all for separation, but I'm not for isolation. And I think that what we need to start doing is going back to seeing unchurched people the way God sees unchurched people. He looks at the treasure. And I feel like the Church of Jesus Christ has got the point, all we see is the field. And we just shake our head and cluck our tongues and And boy, we just railed against the field. And by the way, I'm all for preaching against sin because if we'd have gone to a church that didn't preach against sin, there would have been no conviction And there have been no true salvation. And I'm not saying to back off preaching against sin, and I'm not saying to drop our standards, and I'm not saying to change anything Except maybe this. Maybe we need to see lost people the way God sees lost people. Maybe we need to understand that when God saw us, He saw treasure. He didn't just see what we were. He saw what we could be. Jerry Ruth Purcell, I'm sure, saw all of our faults But you know what they decided to do? They decided to say, let's just sell all, let's just go buy that field and see if we can get the treasure. And so you know what they did? They just decided to be good neighbors. And we need a revival of just being good neighbors. Man. I mean here they come over with plate of cookies, you know, when we first moved there and introduced themselves in a housewarming gift. Come on, if they were down by the mailbox and they got their mail before we got ours, then they'd grab ours and they'd said one of the boys running up knocking on the front door just hand us the mail you know what they decided to do they decided let's just start investing let's just see if we can buy the field Hey, when dad and us boys were trying to get the hay up and the storm clouds were rolling in, you know, Jerry and the boys, his boys would jump the fence, come over and help us get the hay up. And what he saw was this. He saw something of value. And he said, let's invest in it. You know what? They began to invite us to church and invite us to church and invite us to church and I'll tell you this. They had to invite us several times. First time, second time, third time, fourth time, fifth time. I got to the point where I couldn't wait for Jerry Purcell to come over and invite Dad to church. I just always try to sneak up and listen. I was wondering in my head, my little boy head Does Dad have a book somewhere called The Excuses and Not to Come to Church? Because man, a line, he'd come up with a new one every week and they were always very creative. But you know what? Jerry Purcell decided he just wasn't going to quit. So he invested the prayer time, the patience. Come on now. Decided he was just going to reach out and And practice good works so that we can see and glorify our Heavenly Father. He was going to invest in the people across the street. He saw potential where nobody else would have seen it And they kept coming, they kept coming, and finally Jerry Purcell had this really, I think he thought was a great idea. And he came over and knocked on the door and And he was talking to mom and dad at the door, and here I come slipping up. I want to listen to what the excuse is going to be this time. And he said to my mother, he said to my mom, and my dad was there, but he said specifically, my mom, he said, Don, I I understand that you and Bob aren't really interested in coming to church. But we were wondering, we take the boys to church. And to this day I don't know why that struck my mom the way it did, but oh man, she got offended. And she looked at him and said, what? You take our kids to church? You think you're going to take our kids to church? Let me tell you something, mister. If our kids are going to church this Sunday, we'll be the one that takes them. And she slammed the door in his face. Slammed the door in his face. And as soon as she did, my dad looked over and said, You know what you just said? She said, I'm gonna take my kids to church. I'm gonna tell you something. I think he's gonna take my kids to church. I'll take my kids to church. W What I'll do, so get Now I want you to I want you to think about this. You know, so many people late years later knew Bob and Donna Ross, you know and they knew that he started the church that I that I pastor today started in 1973 and a guy's living around. And you know what? God's Blessing on them. My my mother, one of the most godly women you'd ever meet. My my dad one I mean this, one of the most humble, godly men of God you'll ever meet. And you know, I'm sorry, but it seems like all the churches want them then. They want them when they're that. But they're not too much interested when they're not. And I guess I've got to ask the question, folks, because this question, I promise you, I posed to my church, to myself first, and to my church before I ever brought it to your pulpit. But I had to ask myself, do we really want to reach unchurched people? Come on, are we just trading church members like we used to trade football and baseball cards? Is that what our ministries have become? Are we all just staring at the back door hoping some you know Bible college graduate family will come in with some sharp kids and join our church and then we can be happy? By the way, I had more trouble with some of them than I have the guy with the pack of cigarettes that came in, amen. So because at least he knows he has a field. Some people I think they ought to call themselves the treasure family You know, because they're a treasure with no field. No, no, we've all got a field. We all got a field. And God got a mess when he got every single one of us And so, you know what, I think to myself, you know what, if we're going to get back into the Bob and Donna Ross Getting a family that's not saved business, you know what we're gonna have to do, we're gonna have to understand folks that comes with a field. Now listen to me. When we walked in the back of the Rock Run Baptist Church for the first time, we did not look like church people We were not dressed like church people. We did not act like church people. We didn't know how to act like church people. You know why? Because my family was lost. You know what? They didn't have any church background. They were dying on their way. If they died in that state, they were going to split hell wide open. And you know what? My mom and dad didn't get saved the first week. And they didn't get saved the second week. And they didn't get saved the third week. And you know what? We were hit and miss and hit and miss for a while, but people loved us and they made us feel at home and they went out of their way to be a blessing to us and thank God for Pastor Elmer Evans and his sweet wife, Mrs. Evans, that came to our home and visited us and had us to their home long before we ever were saved And they cared about us. And they had to look past a lot of stuff. But they saw treasure. I think they saw what God saw. When he looked down at the human race and said, what kind of price do I need to pay to buy their souls back? And you know what? There was a field But you know what? They were willing to buy the field to get the trash. And you know what? Finally revival meeting came. And uh Jerry Purcell invites dad to revival service. Now listen, it was a big step for us just to come on Sunday morning. But now they're going to do revival. I remember my dad coming home and he's talking at dinner table and he's like Honey, that they want us to go to revival. What's a revival? Well, the best I can understand that they have church on Monday night and Tuesday night and Wednesday night and Thursday night and Friday night. You gotta see the look on my mom thinking, Every night? Every what'd you tell them? Well, I told them we'd come one night, Monday night, and that's it. Oh my goodness sake. We're gonna go to church on Monday night. Yes, I promised him Monday night. All right So we went to church on Monday night. Tuesday, Dad got home from work and he looked at everybody and said, get ready, we're going back. Wednesday night and he said, get ready, we're going back. Thursday, got home by work. Get ready, we're going back. We thought to ourselves, he's lost his mind. Thursday night when the service closed down. I didn't know this until later when my dad testified But you know what he said on the way home or on the way across the parking lot out of that church to his car, he was under such Holy Spirit conviction that he put his hand on the hand on the door handle of the vehicle And he said, God, if you'll let me live 24 hours and get back here on Friday night, I'll get saved. By the way, God heard that sinner's prayer and God extended 24 hours more of grace Allowed my dad to get back there. And as soon as the piano player during the invitation hit the first note, my dad dropped a songbook and headed up there. And you ought to see all of us kids. We were like, well, now what is going on We didn't understand it. But my dad got bored again. Folks listen to me. God looked out at the the world and looked at a sinful man. And you know what he did? He said, I'll send the The greatest thing that I have, I'll pay the ultimate price because that's how bad I want them, knowing that a lot of them are going to reject it, knowing that it's not always going to work out. Well, preacher I've invested And several people like that and none of them spanned out. Why don't you just invest in one more? Come on, why don't you just invest in one more? There's a lot of people that have rejected Christ And you know what? Through the centuries a lot of people said no to Jesus, and yet he still came to us. He still came to us. He still offered it one more time. Folks, uh I think as we invest in lost people and as we run the ministries and as we knock at doors, we have to understand something. Yes? The world's a mess. And by the way, Bob and Donna Ross and those four kids were a mess. And I I'd like to say that America's gotten better and it hasn't gotten better in those days. I finally the other day just had to kind of say to my church, why don't you all just look up here and look Listen to me because I want you to hear me. By the way, folks, I want to reiterate this. I'm not talking about this nonsense where let's become more like the world so that the world will be feel comfortable. You know what? The standard of Holiness in the Bible has not flinched and shouldn't move ever. And I'm not talking about dropping any standard. By the way, come visit Blessed Old Baptist Church. I doubt if there's very few preachers in America that have higher standards or stronger convictions, and we don't just say we have them, we preach them and we practice them. But you've got to understand something. When you're having new church people, new unchurch people walk through the door in this day and age. I just finally had to tell our church, you've got to understand the average couple, the average family that walks in and visits, Lesroak Baptist Church for the first time, you better understand what we're getting. Okay, we're getting people that probably aren't married and they're living together. Okay? We're getting people that are a lot of times Some of them, maybe both of them, have been divorced and remarried. There's a blended family situation. You know what? They're going to have worldly habits and a humanistic viewpoint because they're they came up through a public school system that taught them humanist Folks, listen to me. Yes, America's a mess. And people are a mess. But you think we can look past that long enough to realize that in every single one of them there's the treasure of a lost soul? And you know what? I just want to say this. I'm so glad that the Rock Rub Baptist Church accepted us And loved us for where we were at that time. I'm sorry, brother. If we're going to sing just as I am, we're going to have to take them just as they are. Okay. And I think sometimes when people come on come on, you're gonna you run a bus minister, praise the Lord, and you see that teen girl, and she walks in and half of her hair is orange and half of her hair is green And you know what good independent fundamental Baptist women do? They clutch their tongue and shake their head and say, What has the world come to? And let me tell you what's underneath that orange and green hair. There's a treasure. And let me tell you what that orange and green hair is. This is what it is. Help me. Help! Help me! That's what it is. That's what the tattoos are. That's what the piercing is. Come on, that's all that's what all the the transgender, bisexual, homosexual nonsense It's what it all is. They they're out there trying everything that's out there because they got this big giant black hole in their heart. And they've thrown everything in the world into it, and it doesn't fill it up, and the only thing that can fix it is Jesus. And when sinners come into the house of God, they don't need our judgment. They don't need our rolling of the eyes. They don't need thank God. I don't think this happened. Thank God no family went to Elmer Evans and said Preacher, you know this Ross family's been coming, you know. Um, you know, are are they really us? I mean, are these the kind of people we're really looking for? And yet I've heard those words come out of the mouth of independent fundamental Baptist people. Yes, they're the people we're looking for. Yes, they're the people we're looking for. We're looking for lost people. I mean, come on. Come on. I think that there's a great advantage to having a A spiritual heritage. I also think there's a danger. I think sometimes by the time we get down to third generation, fourth generation Christians If we're not careful, we just get this idea that we just, man, you know what? We're so separated that we're isolated. Brother, we're not going to touch a sinner with a ten-foot pole, and yet Jesus went out to eat with them and sat with them and loved them. By the way, he didn't participate in their sin. He didn't drop his standard of holiness one-fifth. It would be blasphemous. to suggest that he did. But you know how you're going to reach lost people? You've got to get in there, rub shoulders with them a little bit. You got to befriend them. You gotta invest in them. You gotta care for them. Hey, listen, do you want the treasure? And you gotta buy the field You gotta buy the field. When I went to Bible college, I was tricked into the bus ministry at Bible college, tricked into the bus ministry. I was tricked into the bus ministry. I'm not over that bitterness. I was tricked into the bus ministry. I joined Fisherman's Club. I knew that I wasn't very good at at winning people to Christ, and they had a trainer-trainee program. So when I enrolled in Bible college, I said, I want to learn how to be a soul winner. They said, Join Fisherman's Club. My roommate I was in Fisherman's Club a whole year, my roommate, Johnny Esposito, kept trying to get me on his bus route. I said, I'm already in a ministry. Well just You can do that on Saturday. Just ride my bus on Sunday. Johnny, I've got other things I'm trying to accomplish for a whole year. He kept begging me and kept asking me to come and help on his bus route Father had this big day and he said, Gary, listen, I'm not asking that you come all the time, but we're gonna have extra kids, but I just need you could you just come one Sunday? Come on, bus workers. Just one Sunday. How many of you just went one Sunday Now I didn't realize that he was getting ready to ambush me. This was a total setup. So I didn't visit on the route on Saturday. I just agreed to write on Sunday Him and his lady workers and his workers went and they got construction paper and they went to every single bus family and they had them make Brother Jerry Ross a welcome to our bus route card. They bought candy bars and gave them to the kids and say, now you're gonna make a card, you're gonna bring this candy bar. And I mean, here I got on the bus unsuspecting. With a with a pure and good heart to just help one week. And these cute little bus kids came on the bus and they said, Are you brother Terry? Yeah, I prayed for you. Here's a card I made for you, and I love you And then one after another, one after another, one after another. Then as we get done, and you know what I'm thinking? I'm thinking, man, I I like the bus ministry You know I saw that first weekend, treasure, treasure, treasure, treasure, treasure was not the light You little kids when you get off the bus world. Jerry, I am gonna pray all week that you ride our bus again next Sunday. I hope I see you next that is so wickedly unfair. That is so wrong. And I thought, man, I love the bus ministry. Treasure, treasure, treasure, treasure, bus ministry. And so, you know what I did? I rode the next week. And I thought, you know what, I can go on fishing with Club and I can at least ride the bus. And I rode the next week. And I rode the next week. And you know what I then I started visiting it part of Saturday on the bus ministry. And you know what it didn't take me very long to realize. Come on, bus workers. There's a lot of field. That comes with the bus ministry. Come on, there's those cold mornings where you don't go get on a bus, you get into a deep freeze. It's just the bus that sat there all last night and turned into a deep freeze. Sweltering hot, bus breakdowns. Come on. Amen. Used to help it happen a lot in the 70s and 80s. You know what? The same little kid that gave me a card Two weeks later kicked me in the shin and told me they never wanted to see me again and didn't come back after that. And then you went you know what you have to decide at some point. Come on, I'm t I'm telling you, I'm telling you right now why why we have church offers. I'm telling you right now why we have a lot of people that get in for a while and get out. Let me tell you what ministry is. Let me tell you what this thing of reaching lost souls is. It's buying fields. So that we can get treasures. You know what I decided when I figured out it wasn't all treasure? I had to decide whether or not I'd be willing to buy the field. Whether or not I'd be willing to go up there when I didn't want to, come on when I was tired, put in the extra hours, put the investment in. Visit all the regulars, go soul winning, go try to sign up new kids, and then go around and and disciple some of the kids that are showing potential. And brother, if you're gonna do it right, it takes a lot of time. But you know what? A week ago Tuesday. No, a week ago Monday. A week ago Monday, I was driving up to the airport to fly out to a quick meeting and back for Wednesday night. And as I'm driving to the airport, I get a call on my phone. I look down, it says Mike and Lydia Lemma. And I hit the button, put it on speaker so I can drive, and I said, Hey. Mike and Lydia Lima are missionaries to Zacatecas, Texas. I'm sorry, Zacatecas, Mexico. And uh Lydia, I met for the first time as a little 14-year-old girl up on my bus trail. And uh she says, hi brother Jerry. Mike's here, and they got it on speaker. Hi, brother, hi brother Mike, hi Lydia. Why did you call me? Well, we were sitting here eating breakfast and we were wondering why Brother Jerry doesn't love us anymore, and he never calls us and checks on us. See, they never stop being bus kids, all right? And I said, well I love loved you enough to answer your call, so here I am She said, and she laughed, and we spent about 20 minutes as I'm driving. By the way, they started seven churches in Mexico. That little 14-year-old girl who I met on the street of Chicago, by the way, who wasn't dressed right, whose dad was a drunk. whose sisters I never could hardly ever get to come to church, who had a little handicapped little brother in a wheelchair, and by the way, God's gift to her. The other two girls didn't really want to watch her. uh Tony. And so Lydia and Mom always worked. And so Lydia had to stay home off the streets. Thank God. A little protected girl in a wicked, wicked, wicked environment, and you talk about a field coming with the treasure. But you know what? Me and my wife began to invest in her from 14 to 17 years of age and got her through some of the those tough things. Watched her eventually enroll in Bible college and You know, all those Saturdays, all the weariness of the bus ministry, that little girl and her husband have seen more people say than I'll have any chance of seeing in my lifetime. They've already lacked me many times. And it just seems like everybody wants to talk about some treasure. But not everybody wants the field. And what we're going to have to decide is this. I'm not talking again, I don't want to be misunderstood. I'm talking about dropping standards I'm not talking about dropping convictions. I'm not talking about moving the needle anywhere. Except maybe the needle in our heart Where we can just begin to look at people the way God looks at people.