That is known to the heart of God that he held in till he was ready to reveal it to the heart of man. And so it was always something that God knew. And you know what the Old Testament saints knew that there were some things that that that were not for them to know. In uh Deuteronomy twenty nine, twenty nine, the Bible says the secret things belongeth unto the Lord our God But those things which are revealed belongeth unto us, and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. They knew that there were some things that God knew that were secret that maybe they that God didn't reveal to them, but they said, hey, those things belong to God, but what's been revealed to us, we're responsible for. Now we have the complete Word of God, and we have all that God wants us to know in His Word revealed unto us. And there are some things that we won't know till we get to heaven. But what we do know, what we have revealed unto us, we're responsible for. And we are to be stewards of these mysteries that we see in the Word of God. So turn with me this evening to 1 Corinthians chapter number 15. 1 Corinthians chapter number 15. And we're going to look at another one of these great mysteries that we find in the Word of God. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, all the way down to verse number 51, where we see this referenced, and then we will look at this. The entire text of it as we get into it, but the reference to the mystery here, 1 Corinthians 15, 51, and he says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. And what we're dealing with here this evening is the mystery of the rapture. The mystery of the rapture of the saints. We're going to have the rapture of the saints. Um and And anytime that people talk about this idea of the rapture, there are some key passages of scripture which are very clear and they teach this very clearly. And we're going to of course look at those, but along with some other ones this evening, I'll give you a lot of different scriptures as we hopefully uh some of you I think we may teach you some things tonight about the rapture. I think Maybe some things that you haven't heard before, or if you're new uh to your faith or you're growing in some of these areas, you might learn some stuff tonight. But some of you might be a matter of Just hopefully exciting you and reminding you of what it is, this mystery of the rapture that's going to take place where God's going to come for his saints. And we were going to hopefully give you these things this evening as they unfold for us. The word rapture itself is not found in the Word of God. Although we refer to that a lot, and a lot of people say it, and they talk about the rapture, and the rapture is coming, man, we can't wait for the rapture, and uh that but that word itself is actually not found in the Word of God The word rapture is more of a definitive term, a descriptive term describing what happens in 1 Thessalonians where the idea is I think it's verse number 17 where he says, we're going to be caught up together with him in the clouds, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. So the rapture is kind of a synopsis of that idea of being caught up together in the clouds. Being caught up. Those words caught up have the meaning of being raptured, being quickly pulled up, being raptured out of here. And so that's where the term rapture comes from. I feel that I ought to take just a minute as we begin here this evening and make sure that everybody understands that although the rapture is the next thing on God's calendar, and we're looking forward to the rapture, amen? Although that's the next thing on the calendar, I want to remind everybody and make sure you understand that the rapture and the second coming of Christ are two different, distinct events in history. The rapture is the next thing on the calendar, and a lot of times when we talk about things, even even in our conversations, I think we're Uh and not it's not sin by any means, but we might be a little loose in our terminology or in our talking and we're like, hey, uh, you know, the signs of the times, I mean it's coming, he's coming, and We're talking about two events there because in the scriptures 90% of the time when when it's talking about the signs of the times, it's in reference to the second coming. Not in reference to the rapture. The rapture is the next thing on the calendar, and then there's something that happens in between the rapture and the second coming. Does anybody know what it is? The tribulation period, yes. So there's a division of seven years in between there, between the rapture of the saints and the second coming of the Lord. And so a lot of times when we talk about these, we almost refer to them interchangeably or you know together and we're most of the time as Christians we're talking about the rapture because that's the next thing on the calendar, but our reference to different events And different Bible passages, sometimes uh the the actual reference is dealing with the second coming. So I just want to make sure everybody knows that they're two separate events divided by seven years, the tribulation period where the Antichrist will set himself up as the uh uh you know king of the of the world, the the the ruler here on earth and and men that were here before the rapture started are gonna all believe a lie. Uh they're not gonna believe the truth um at the rapture um Uh immediately up in heaven, there's something that begins to take place with the saints that are there. Does anybody know what that is? The judgment seat of Christ takes place. The rapture, we all go to heaven. The judgment seat of Christ starts to take place in heaven. And then the rapture the uh tribulation takes place here on earth and then up in heaven at the close of that seven-year period. Um Jesus is coming, the second coming, and right before we come down we have the marriage supper of the Lamb, and then we have he comes down, he fights the battle of Armageddon. And then he begins to set up his thousand-year reign of Christ here on earth. During that thousand years, we know that Satan is bound. And uh held and Jesus rules here on earth. So there's many differences between the rapture and the second coming. I'm going to give you some of those just quickly. Uh just uh help you put in your mind the the differences here. The rapture, Christ is coming for his saints. And the second coming, Christ is coming with his saints. You see, in the rapture, we're going to go up, we're going to be with them, we're going to go through the judgment seat, then we're going to go through the marriage, supper the lamb, and then in the second coming, we're coming back with him. So we're going to be with him. In the rapture, we're going to be in the clouds. We're going to meet him in the air. Jesus is not going to set his feet on the ground, but in the second coming, he's going to come down and he's going to set his feet on top of a mountain. Does anybody know what mountain? Yes, the Mount of Olives. He's going to set his feet down upon the Mount of Olives. Then the rapture is a time of joy. But the second coming is actually talked about in the uh The book of Joel as a time of sadness. The second coming talked about a time of darkness. The reason for that is because God's going to judge the world. They're going to be judged for the things that they've done. And that judgment is coming. It's going to be a time of fear and trembling for those that are here. The rapture is a time of reunion, but the second coming is a time of judgment. In the rapture, Jesus Christ comes as the bridegroom. In the second coming, he comes as the king to rule and reign. Uh the rapture is i at an unknown time. We don't know when it's gonna be. Uh it could be any moment. Could be right now. We don't know when the rapture is going to be. But we do know that the second coming is seven years after the rapture. So the the tribulation period starts immediately at the rapture, then you have seven years, and at the conclusion of those seven years, the second coming is going to take place. At the rapture, the covenants given, the unfulfilled covenants given to the children of Israel, are not going to be fulfilled. But they'll be fulfilled at the second coming. And uh so the covenants that he hasn't fulfilled yet will be fulfilled at that time. At the rapture, the devil is not bound. Sin is still allowed to reign here on earth. The the world is still going to be a wicked place. But hey, at the second coming. The devil's bound, cast into uh uh you know the bottomless pit, and then sin is is bound as well and taken away for that thousand-year reign of Jesus Jesus Christ. So some of the differences between the Rapture and the Second Coming. We want to look tonight at the Rapture. You should be in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, a key passage with regards to the Rapture. And this passage of scripture says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of eye, at the last trump, for the trump shall sound and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be Changed. We shall be changed. So I want to talk to you first about the transformation, the transformation that's going to take place at the rapture. This mystery that was unknown to Old Testament saints is revealed unto us. And we ought to be excited about the fact that we're going to be raptured out of here one day and that there's a change that's going to take place. And he tells us about that change. First of all, the saints are going to be restored. Look at verse number 53. We're going to be restored. Verse 53, he says, for this corruptible must put on incorruption. This mortality must put on immortality. The corruptible things, the things in our body that are corruptible, the sin that every one of us were born with, that's in our blood, that little bit of leaven that leaveneth the whole up, that's going to be taken away. The corruptible is going to be removed and we're going to put on incorruption. The mortal is going to be removed. That thing that causes, wherefore is by sin into the world and death by sin, so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. The decay that comes with death that was put on all of us because of sin, that decay is going to be removed. These bodies that decay and they wither and they get weaker and then you know, just talking to Brother Crane before church tonight, he's like, Man, well probably won't be too long. I'm gonna have to go have cataract surgery, my eyes are getting worse and I said, man, you got a few years on me and I'm feeling my eyes already, you know. But hey, these bodies decay. But that decay is going to be removed. This mortal's got to put on immortality. We're going to be what I mean by restored is we're going to be put back to what God meant for us to be. You see, before sin, we were supposed to be with him. Sin brought in death. Sin brought in corruption. Sin brought in all of these things into the world that we live and deal with now. But one day they're going to be removed. It's going to be restored to the way God wants it to be. Philippians 3. 21 says, Who shall change our vile body? That it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself. One day, this old vile body is going to put on incorruption and put on immortality. We're going to be restored to the way God wanted us to be. We're also the saints are going to be revived Revived. He says in our text here, 1 Corinthians 15, or um we're going to be revived. I'm sorry, uh A different text, Thessalonians four, sixteen and seventeen, and we'll be in Thessalonians in a minute, but he says, For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Those people that died are going to be revived. You know all the time in the scriptures whenever you hear about or talk about or think about the word resurrection or somebody being raised from the dead, do you know it's talking about the body? The body being raised. Because we know that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. To be absent with the body if you don't know the Lord is to be in hell. There's no middle ground. There's no holding stage. There's no place where you go for a little while and wait it out. To be absent from the body is to be in one of those two places. The soul doesn't need to be revived. The soul doesn't need to be resurrected. Immediately it's in heaven or it's in hell. But the body is resurrected. As Jesus Christ Himself rose from the dead as our first fruits, as the example for us and proof that He could reign over death in a grave So, the dead shall rise first. Then those that are alive and remain. Those that are alive shall rise, be caught up together with him in the air. Those that are alive. You know, it's both those that are saved and those that are safe. You see, there's a lot of people during that time when Jesus comes again. In in our he says in that scripture I read that uh we we shall not all sleep. What that's talking about is there's going to be some people that are saved when Jesus comes back And we're not going to have to experience death. That would be fun. Your appointment, it's appointed unto man once to die. Your appointment with death would have been canceled by God Himself. Your appointment was canceled. He says, you know what? I'm coming. Oh everybody's saved. You're believers right now. Your appointment with death's been canceled. You're caught up together with him in the air. You're alive and saved, you're caught up with him. Your appointment with death has been canceled But there's a lot of people that may uh, you know, children that are born during that time, children that haven't, you know, learned, I believe those that are safe We'll be caught up together with him in the air as well. Those that haven't reached the age of accountability, those that are older but for some reason God saw fit to allow them to be born without a mental capacity to understand or comprehend what they're doing, they're safe. They may not know or be able to get saved by following the biblical principles, but God did not give them the mind in which they could understand that, and so God does not hold them accountable for that sin. They're safe. And that's where a child is safe. We know that children aren't made safe because they go through baptism. Children aren't made safe from hell or guaranteed heaven because they went through confirmation. Or because they they follow through with some type of uh you know ritual or practice. They're safe already because of the compassion and love of the Lord Jesus Christ. And they ought to get baptized after they get saved, after they've reached the age of accountability. This is our final victory when we are caught up together with the Lord in the air So shall we ever be with the Lord. In John chapter 11, verse 25 and 26, he said, Jesus saith unto her, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Okay, so what he's saying right there is Well, we read just a second ago that the dead in Christ shall rise first. So that's what he's talking about. Do you see that? The dead in Christ shall rise first. He says, He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Verse number 26 says, And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believeth thou this? He's saying, hey, at that time, he that liveth and believeth in me shall never die. That's exciting. We don't have to experience or go through death if you're alive when Jesus determines or decides to come back again. Then, so we see the transformation that takes place. We are restored and we are revived. Then I want you to see the translation The translation. And that uh turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verses 13 through 18. 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 13 through 18. He says, but I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that which we are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. So let me give you a few things here about the translation. What's going to happen here? We are going to be removed. We're going to be removed from this place. We're going to be removed from this whole world and all of its troubles and its trials. We are pre-tribulationalist We believe in pre-tribulationalism. We do not believe in mid-trib or post-trib And you'll hear that word tossed around, or you might hear somebody talking about these on the radio or so on. I want you to know that we believe in pre-tribulationalism. We believe that the church is not going to be here. Those saints that are saved before the rapture are going to be taken out of here. They're not going to endure or have to go through the tribulation. Now you might be pre-chip, mid-chip, or post-chip. It doesn't matter. You guys know what I'm talking about? You can you can eat a chip before you say your prayer, or you can eat a chip after you say your prayer, or you pre-chip or post-chip. You know, you sit down at the restaurant and they bring you the chips. So can you eat a chip before or after? I don't really care if you're pre-chip or post-chip, doesn't matter to me. But you better have it settled that you're pre-trimm. You're pre-tribulationalists that we are not going to be here and this is a big deal. It's Bible doctrine. And there are a lot of people that have other beliefs that Teach them and preach them about this thing. But the Bible's clear that the saint is not going to have to endure this The tribulation specifically is dealing with the context in the context of the Old Testament is dealing with the nation of Israel. And God has promised that Christians, saved believers, will be raptured out of here. Let me give you these references on this promise that we're not going to be here. 1 Thessalonians 1, verse number 10. He says, and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. Jesus Christ has delivered us from the wrath to come because we believed on him who gave his life for us. We have been delivered from that wrath. The wrath to come during the tribulation period. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse number 9. He says, For God hath not appointed us To wrath. Talking about that tribulation period, that tribulation time. God didn't appoint us to wrath. We're not going to have to go through that. Revelation chapter 3 and verse number 10. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation. Now that hour of temptation is talking about the tribulation period. He's talking to the church of Philippi there. And uh he says, he goes on, he says, which shall come upon the world to try to keep I'm sorry. Which shall come upon all the world to try them that dwell upon the earth. That is talking about the wrath, and I said the church of uh Philippi, I meant Philadelphia. The Church of Philadelphia, the Church of Brotherly Love, and the Book of Revelation is who he's talking to there in Revelation chapter 3, verse number 10. I think it's probably around verse number seven or verse number eight where he begins talking to the church of Philadelphia. So we're going to be removed from this old world. We're going to be removed from the presence of sin. Amen? Isn't that going to be good? I'll tell you what, I'm looking forward to it. Not only are we going to be removed, but we are going to be reunited. We're going to be reunited with those that have gone on before. With our loved ones, our family members, young and old alike, those that have trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. We're going to be reunited We're going to be reunited with the Lord Himself. Be able to go and to be in the presence of the Lord, the Bible tells us in Titus chapter 2, verse number 13. And we're going to be reunited with the converts that we've had the privilege of leading to the Lord. 2 Corinthians 1, verse number 14, the Apostle Paul says. As also ye have acknowledged us in part, that we are your rejoicing, even as ye also are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. He says, hey, in the day when the Lord Jesus Christ comes, you are our rejoicing. We're going to be rejoicing because we get to see you. And you're going to be rejoicing because you get to see us. In 1 Thessalonians 2. 19, he says a very similar thing. He says, For what is our hope? Our joy. Or crown of rejoicing, are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at His coming. I mean, you think about this: if you had the privilege Maybe you're driving to work one day this next week, and you drive by a car wreck, and this car is got gas dripping out all over. And you see the the the tire on the car has caught caught on f on uh the on in on fire and it's burning. You jump out of the car and you run over there and you you you extract somebody from the vehicle just before this car explodes You were able to save their life. And maybe mom is right there and she sees you save their the her little boy or little girl's life For the rest of your days, anytime you saw them, they would look at you and say, man Thank you so much for pulling me out of that car. I owe all that I've been able to experience to you. I owe everything that I've had, the joys that I've had, and the thrills that I've had, and All the love that I've experienced and all these things that I've got, I owe it to you. Thank you so much for saving my life. And you would look at them and you'd say, you know what? I may have done a lot of stupid things in my life. I may not have done too many things right. But saving you out of that fire, that was something I did that was good. And I'm excited about it. It would bring joy to your heart just to see them living and doing good. Am I right? Amen. That's what we're talking about when we get to heaven. You're going to be restored with those that you've had the privilege of leading to the Lord Jesus Christ, of pointing to Calvary. And for the uh as the ages roll on, as as we sing, you know, over a thousand years and it's just begun. They're going to look at you and say, Man, all that I've experienced is because you shared the gospel with me. All that I've got to be thrilled about and to enjoy and to be here in the presence of Jesus in the end of the Angels, thank you so much for giving me the scriptures, pointing me to Jesus. And you'll look at that and say, you know what, I didn't do much right on earth But giving you that gospel track, telling you where you could meet Jesus, pointing you to the Bible, there's something there's something I did that mattered. Amen. We're going to get to be reunited with those that we've given the gospel to. We're going to get a relocation as well. We're here on earth, but the Bible tells us that Jesus has gone and he's gone to prepare a place for us. That where I am, there ye may be also. The Bible tells us he's going to prepare a mansion, and I don't know if you you're one of these who want to believe he's talking about a room. That's fine if you want a room Hey, I think whatever it is, we'll be just content to be in heaven. To be with Jesus. The Bible tells us he's gone to prepare a mansion. Let not your hearts be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many. mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there ye may be also. And praise the Lord, we're going to be rewarded as well. Rewarded for the things that we've done here in 1 Corinthians 3. Verse number thirteen, uh verse number twelve, thirteen and fourteen. He says, Now if any man build upon this foundation, gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest, for the days shall declare it. because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work, what sort it is, if any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. What a challenge for us to make sure the work that we're doing is work that abides. A lot of it's wood, hay, and stubble, and it's going to burn up. It's gone. You know, the other day on I think this week, I think it was on Tuesday, I went down to the barn and we had three trash cans plum full to the top with all the stuff from the uh uh uh chili cook off the fall activity and I started the burn barrel on fire and went over there and dumped one can in Dump second can in, dump third can in. All of it. These cans were patched to the to their gills Put it all inside of one can, and you know today when I went by that burn barrel, there wasn't even an inch of uh stuff in the bottom of the burn barrel It's all gone. A lot of we do here on earth, that's what it's gonna amount to. Just gonna it's just gonna be gone. It would behoove us to invest our time and injuries in in energies into things that are going to last that we'll be rewarded for. So what can we take away from this? What are the takeaways? We see the transformation and the trans That's going to come of this mystery. What do we take away from it? The Bible gives us several things that we need to keep in mind to remember. Of course, we're to keep our eye on the eastern sky. Be looking for that day as as believers, knowing that the Lord is coming again. But we also are to be abounding In verse number 58, he says, therefore, therefore, why? Therefore, because Jesus is coming. Because of the rapture, therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know that your labor is not in vain. In the Lord. We're to be abounding in the work of the Lord because of His coming. We are to be abiding in Him. 1 John 2, verse number 28 says, And now, little children, abide in Him. that when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. We need to abide in him, because he's coming, and we don't know when And if we're just abiding in him, you won't get caught ashamed. There's been times when I came home came around the corner and one of my kids, you know, jumped up or stopped what they were doing immediately and they just had that look of just guilt all over their face. Like, uh, dad just caught me. uh, you know, whatever, eating cookies or or who knows what they were doing at at the time. But, you know, you've come in and you've seen those that you've been over like that. You've caught 'em in that place. Don't want to get caught like that? Abide in Christ. Abide in Christ. I talk to you all the time about how do you know you're in God's will. What does God want me to do, you know, five years from now? I don't I don't know what direction to head Listen, if you just do what you know you're supposed to do right now, you just abide in Christ and be what God wants you to be today. And then tomorrow when you get up, you abide in Christ and be what God wants you to be tomorrow And the next day when you get up, you abide in Christ and be what God wants you to be that day. Then five years from now it'll take care of itself. Right. And there's no question you will be where God wants you to be five years from now, because you've just taken one day at a time and tried your best to be what God wants you to be God wanted you to be. Abide in Christ, and we won't have to be ashamed at his appearing. We're to have confidence. Philippians 1, verse number 6. He says, Being confident of this very thing, that he which has begun a good work in you will perform it. until the day of Jesus Christ. God's doing a work in us and we can be confident that uh he'll perform it until he comes. He's gonna come. It's not a matter of of if, it's when. It's gonna happen. We can be confident confidence in him. We're to have patience. James 5, verse number 7. He says, be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. We're to be patient. We don't know when he's coming. Maybe today, maybe tomorrow, and I know we say, even so, Lord, come quickly. And we we some days we are so Fed up with this whole world, the flesh, the devil. We just, oh Lord, I don't understand why you tarry. Would you just come? He says, be patient. He's coming. We can be confident that he's going to, and until he does, be patient for the coming of the Lord. And then in James 5, verse number 8, he tells us that we ought to be stable He says, be ye also patient. Stablish your hearts for the coming of the Lord. Draweth nigh. Be stable. Don't be uh hot and cold and hot and cold. Don't be up and down and up and down and don't be uh, you know this, this week, and then this, that week, as believers, we ought to find some stability in Christ And be stable as Christians. This is some takeaways that we can get because we know the rapture's coming. The mystery of the rapture. We've reminded you of this mystery and what it means to us as believers and what we ought to be doing and waiting for that. Excuse me, let's close in prayer and then uh I'm gonna have Pastor Gus come and we'll take our prayer request this evening and then divide up for our Thursday evening prayer. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the privilege uh that's ours to come and to be in church. Lord, we look for the rapture. Lord, we we look for that day when we're caught up together in the clouds. And Lord, I know that uh many saints have told me time and again And as they've gotten older, they they get to the point where they've got more over there than they've got here, and their heart longs to to be at home in heaven with you. Lord, there's just nothing in this whole world they've got to live for anymore, and they're looking for the day when you would come. Lord, we know that your timing is perfect. I pray you'd give us patience and that you'd give us stability. Lord, give us confidence in you and help us to abide in you as we're waiting for you. For that day. Lord, we'll praise you for it. We ask this in Jesus blessed name. Amen