Turn your Bibles to First Peter this morning. First Peter. Kind of an interesting lesson today. Turn to First Peter chapter five. The lion that king of the jungle he is able to uh hunt by day or night, doesn't matter. Uh he can go out and find and get his prey. He hunts with tremendous stealth, even though he's a large beast. Uh he that is due partially to the fact that his paws are are padded uh tremendously so that he can make his way, even though he's so big, he can go through the brush and and uh things without making too much noise. He is able to creep stealthily. I don't know if you've ever been in a zoo and watched him. I mean they just You know, even the little cat has those characteristics. You watch your cat coming around just trying to be so still and stealthily come around the corner. Well uh the lion will stealthily get to within a hundred feet of its prey. Once he's within a hundred feet or less, he pounces and accelerates to over 30 miles an hour To attack and catch its prey. A male lion is able to eat upwards of 80 pounds of meat in one setting. Lions are very muscular. They have a different uh bone structure than the rest of the animal kingdom, a lot less bone mass and a lot more muscle mass This allows them with their four paw forepaws a lion can break the back of a zebra with one strike. That's the strength that's in the forepaw of the lion. I mean that's that's pretty strong. You think about all that a like you know, uh a horse or a zebra could carry, you can load all that on there, you can break their back in one strike. Of all the four well of the four cats that can roar, that would be the lion, the tiger, the leopard, and the jaguar, the roar of a lion is So loud and has so much uh force that when he roars, it stirs up dust. And the roar of a lion can be heard upwards of five miles away. That is the roar of a lion. Our world today scoffs at the idea of a personal devil. They scoff and laugh and and and make fun of. They they uh picture him as this guy in a in a red cape carrying around a pitchfork and and it's all fun and games. But I want to remind you today that we have an enemy. That's right. The enemy of every believer. And the Bible is very clear. The enemy of every believer is Satan. And he is a roaring lion. seeking whom he may devour. This morning I want to bring a lesson entitled The Lion's Roar. The Lion's Roar as we try and remind every Christian of that enemy we face. That would seek to keep us from being victorious Christians for our Lord and Savior. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you that you would speak to our hearts as we come into your presence, Lord, as we look into your word. Lord, give me clarity of thought. Lord, I pray that you would take this lesson as a reminder to the fact that, Lord, we are in a spiritual battle, that we do have an enemy. And he is raising war on the lives of believers. I pray, Lord, that we would not be ignorant of his devices. Lord, we would uh utilize the strengths and powers that you've given us in your word. By your strength, overcome and be victorious, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to see a few thoughts this morning. First of all, that uh This this lion in our text here, 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse number 8, a familiar verse to many of you. I'm sure most of you probably could even quote it. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. This is our enemy. This is Satan. He is a roaring lion. You know, he he is there. He's a definite foe. This is something, as I said, the world mocks at, laughs at, maybe uh tries to make light of. And if you aren't careful, you kind of buy into that and you think don't don't realize that there is a definite enemy that we face. It's it's not something that is a fairy tale or or that's just makes for for stories that we can scare children. It's an enemy that we all face, even as adults. Satan is real, and he has real characteristics. If you think about all that is evil in life, all that is wicked, if you take the most vile of things and you think about that, that is Satan personified. He is evil in the flesh. And Satan I want to remind you this morning is just fine with you thinking that he's not real. He's just fine with you thinking that it's all a joke and that you don't really have to be conscious of him or aware of him. Go through your life and don't worry about it Satan is fine with that because he has an agenda. John ten tells us the thief cometh but for to steal and to kill and destroy. Of course we know Christ that I have come that you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. The thief cometh not but to steal, for to steal, to kill, and to destroy. You know, this is not an exaggeration. This is Satan's agenda. And this is not given to us here as a, you know, I think about our our court case and and how the proponents took a ad out in the paper and it said, church comes to rape, plunder, and pillage our land. You know? Um That's an exaggeration. I mean that is just complete and utter foolishness. Like what in the world? That's that's that's verbiage meant to in in incite uh a response and and try and stir people up against the church, you know. And that is all put in there and was strategically stated so that they might gain a following against the church But ge Jesus, God here in his word, did not put this down uh to try and just uh overstate something. He told us what the characteristic of Satan is, what his desire is is to steal, to kill, and destroy. That's his goal and his ambition in every part of your life that's what he wants to do to you. And beloved, he doesn't take any time off. Twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, three hundred and sixty-five days a year, you and I have an enemy that's out to destroy our lives. You know the lion will usually take its prey from the stragglers. The lion is not gonna work harder than he has to. You know what's funny, I I in preparation for this, I I watched several of the videos that are on YouTube. How in in a zoo, you know, the lion tries to attack a baby. And it's amazing how there's all these people along the glass. But who does the lion go after? The littlest one. There's a whole group of people over here, but there's one by the baby over here by itself. And the lion goes over there. If the baby walks across the glass this way, the lion's following the baby. Looking for that easy prey. Beloved, that's why it's important that we stay in the safeguards of a church family. That we have brothers and sisters in Christ looking out for us and praying for us and standing with us because we have an enemy and Satan's out to get a hold and to destroy your life and he's gonna take the stragglers. He's going to take those that are just on the edge and just kind of barely there and and just in a little bit but not really committed, not sure if they really want to be a part of the team or not. They're just hanging back. Well they're the easy prey They're the ones that are on the edge and Satan's going to come. And one of the reasons why so many Christians that are just getting just starting out have such a hard time getting any victory in their life is because they they just hang back on the edge They're leaving themselves outside. They're not being protected. They don't have the the the full uh benefit of being in the family of God and participating in church and And having everybody praying for you and that protection that comes from being in a group. From having all those. That lion doesn't usually come and try and pounce on a group. But that's what Satan does. He attacks the stragglers. He attacks the weak. He attacks those that are on the edge. And I want you to understand this morning that you and I are consistently as a target for Satan. We got to be careful that we're not on the edge, we're not straggling behind. Satan watches you. He knows your strengths and weaknesses. And Satan had to learn those by observing you over time. He knows he he has studied you. He knows what areas you're strong in, and he's not going to attack you in those areas. But he also knows what areas you're weak. You know, uh I have no temptation in my life at all to drink. You could put a five hundred dollar cup of scotch right there and it wouldn't matter to me. I mean, no temptation. I mean I think this stuff stinks. I don't know why anybody would drink it, you know. Now my wife feels that way about Mount Dew, but but but I'm saying I have no temptation. That's n Satan is not gonna come and try and tempt me uh with alcohol But there are some of you that have that taste for that. And Satan knows it. And he would come and try and tempt you and and draw you away. You see, we're enticed By our own lust. A lust is a desire. And it's our own desires, it's the things that we like, the things that we want, and Satan knows what those are. How many of you know what Anderson's favorite chocolate is? Reese's. Reese's man. He's the Reese's man's monster. He likes Reese's. And and you know what? That's I mean, if Satan was gonna tempt him to steal You know, he he's not gonna put out out on the You tell him Harry. He's not gonna put out on the counter uh something that he doesn't like. He's not gonna put a bag of broccoli out there. But he might put a resus. Oh nobody's gonna nobody's gonna miss that, you know. Just take that. Why? Because he knows what he likes. He knows what he wants. Satan's gonna come after you because he studied you. He he has that knowledge. He knows your strengths and weaknesses. What I want to remind you this morning is that Satan is the enemy and sin is the weapon. No matter what you're dealing with in life, Satan is the enemy and sin is the weapon. If you have an addiction that you're thinking I'm having a hard time getting past this or I can't get over it, Satan's the enemy and sin is the weapon. There's maybe you're enduring something from somebody else. Maybe uh maybe let's take these boys right here. Let's say uh Anderson is being unkind to Andrew. And he is p using whatever his personality strengths or weaknesses are and he's hurting Andrew Satan is the enemy and sin is the weapon. If you are enduring something at work and somebody's unkind to you or there's something going on at work that's You see, we like to have something physical we can point at and say, that's the idiot that is doing this to me. That's that's what we like to do. We like to point at somebody and we like to have that tangible thing that we can grab a hold of. Right But I want to remind you that Satan's the enemy and sin is the weapon. You see, if we didn't if man hadn't fallen into sin, we wouldn't have these problems. But sin is the underlying problem. Ultimately, if Anderson's doing something against Andrew, whether it's Andrew's uh perception of the situation or or Anderson's Involvement of the situation, I should have picked two people without A's, because now I'm getting them confused. Whatever he's doing in his personality, the the root, the bottom of it is sin. There's a sin problem there, and maybe he's doing something he shouldn't be doing, and maybe he's reading a situation he shouldn't be doing, reading it, but ultimately there shouldn't be a anger between these two. Because as Christians we need to understand that sin is the problem, sin is the weapon, and Satan is the enemy. Ultimately, they need to get mad at Satan and go to God in prayer and say, Lord, help me fix this situation. Help me find a solution. Help me work through this because the the the it's not a matter of hating this individual because at the root of it, at the bottom of it, it is sin. And it's Satan. I'm not saying that the things that you are enduring or you're dealing with are not happening. I mean we could talk about something that's that's very personal, let's say depression. You're dealing with depression. Ultimately Sin is the weapon and Satan is the enemy. That is the root of it. That is if you take it down to its basest form, that's the problem. We've got to learn and figure out how to deal with that. I'm not saying you aren't going through depression. I'm not saying that that's not real. I'm not saying that you aren't i you aren't living in that nightmare. You are And it manifests itself in our own reality, but at the root of it, it's sin and Satan He is the enemy. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. The battle is not between Anderson and Andrew. I know a lot of times we like to make it that. Because we like to have somebody to yell at. Because we like to have somebody to be an enemy. But Satan is the enemy. Satan is the one we should hate. Satan is the one we should be mad at. Satan is the one that we should be trying to find a means or a way to get back at, not the flesh and blood. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against rulers of darkness of this world. Listen, if we could keep this in perspective and realize this, remember this. It would help you a lot in your life in your life's relationships. Even between husband and wife. Sin is the problem. And Satan is the enemy. I want you to know that not only is he a definite foe, but He's a devouring foe. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. He's seeking you and I. He's on the hunt. He's going after us. That's what he wants. That word devouring appears eight times in the New Testament. And it's a word that is such that it almost doesn't really need any definition or defining. That just the word gives you that mental image. The word it has just how it sounds. It sounds vile, you know, devouring. I mean, it just sounds like it's it's No good. I mean even if you don't know what it was, you would say devouring, that can't be good. Uh but devouring to consume completely. They say that uh an anaconda devours its meal. That is, it consumes its meal completely. An anaconda can swallow up to a five-foot-tall human. A crocodile hole. Its body, the anaconda's body, would take about two weeks to uh digest that human. Bone, hair, skin, everything. All of it is digested. And then he doesn't need to eat for two months. But he devours his meal That's the picture there of Satan. The destructive force that he brings. His attack is personal against you. He tries to deceive your mind. We're not to be ignorant of Satan's devices. He works hard to deceive your mind so that you're not thinking correctly, so that you can view things in the wrong perspective. He tries to destroy the body He'll even do what he can to weaken or destroy the body physically. Hey, he he tried to tempt Christ to jump off the top of the temple, right? Hey, cast yourself down from here Don't think that Satan's not behind the the increase in suicide in our society. In an effort to destroy the body, he attacks somebody's mind, gets them to the place where they feel like there is no hope at all and they can't they can't go on. They can't see any way out, and they take their own life. He depresses, discourages, disappoints the heart. God and Jesus will never let you down, but Satan makes a habit or a practice of it. It's his MO. It's what he wants to do to try and depress and discourage you Satan's attack is persistent. You know, he doesn't give up. He keeps on going. You know, uh when he was tempting uh Christ there In uh Luke, he was tempting him, and he tempted him with one thing, and then he tempted him with another thing, and then he tempted him again, and I praise God that he was never victorious with Christ. That in every every time Christ was victorious and Satan won no victories there. But in Luke chapter 4, verse number 13 he says, And when the devil had ended all the temptations He departed from him for a season. For a season. That tells me, beloved, that there are seasons of attack. And seasons of reprieve. When you get to to heal, when you get to build some strength. But listen, if you take the season of reprieve and you don't do any physical training, you don't do any preparation, you don't do any building of your strength If you just maintain that level of just barely hanging on Christianity, when the season of retrieve is over and Satan comes back to you because he's persistent, he's gonna look for that opportunity, he's gonna come back, then you'll be taken out. So you beg God to put a hedge about you, you beg Him to protect you, to keep you from temptation. And God grants that and gives you a season where He has He has kept Satan away. He's kept Satan at bay. And you feel like, man, I'm doing okay. Oh, I can finally breathe. I'm fine. And you don't use that opportunity to build some strength spiritually and get closer to God, you're leaving the door open for Satan to come back For that next season. The next season of attack. Because he's gonna come again. He's persistent. He's not gonna give up. You know, not only Is Satan a definite foe? He's real. He's out there. Not only is he a devouring foe, some somebody that's truly dangerous. He wants to destroy, he came to kill and destroy and to steal. There's no question about that. And that's all bad news. And for a Christian, you look at that and you think, man, Pastor Caleb, what do we need to get ourselves into a shelter? and hide away and and and there's no hope for me. How can I as a Christian possibly uh make it? I mean uh just just barely hanging on here and you're telling me Satan is so strong and powerful, what can I possibly do? Well let me give you some encouraging words here. Satan's also a defeated foe. He's a defeated foe. Beloved, Christ defeated Satan. God has given you and I the victory already. The Bible says here that Satan is as As a roaring lion. He's not a roaring lion. He's as a roaring lion. Christ is giving us some some descriptive characteristics about Satan and that he is subtle and that he is strong and that he does devour that he does use his roar to try and intimidate and to scare. Do you know that a lion gets about forty percent of its diet simply from scaring off other Uh animals that have already hunted and taken uh prey. The lion doesn't even want to hunt, he just roars and scares off this uh this animal worked hard and hunted and killed this prey and he's sitting there eating his dinner. And the lion comes up and says, I'll have that. Thank you for killing that for me. And that poor little animal's got to go out and hunt again because the lion just took it. Forty percent of what he wants, he gets just by stealing it. He said we get some characteristics about Satan, but he's not really a roaring lion. He's defeated. You know it's when I was watching those videos, these lions, they're coming up. They're sneaking up, this baby sitting there, and they're just so still, like nobody could see them. Everybody's there watching them, you know. And his lion is so just just You know, getting over the log and then getting so close and there was one that the baby was sitting there and uh the lion was probably from maybe here to Brother Glover away. And the lion pounced. And then you know what happened? Hit the glass And the babies just hitting hitting the glass, you know, and and and talking and you know and uh you know several of 'em, the the lions there behind the glass and just you know, trying to get it, trying to get it and just wiping and can't touch it. I look at that as a picture of the Christian behind the protective glass of God. He can't touch you. He's a defeated foe. Yes, he's there. Yes, we need to be aware of him. Yes, we need to know he is powerful. And that it behooves us to stay behind the glass. Amen. Because there we are protected. There we have God's strength fighting for us. Jesus gave you and I the victory through the cross. In Colossians 2, verse number 15, he says, and having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing. over them. He made a show of them openly, triumphing over Jesus when he went to the cross, he all Satan's plans and plots and all that he did uh was made a show of. That was nothing. Jesus won and gave us the victory over death and sin because of what he did for us. In 1 John 3, verse number 8, he says, He that committeth sin is of the devil. For the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil. That he might destroy the works of the devil. God has given you and I the victory, beloved. It's up to us to exercise that victory. It's up to us to use that power that's been given to us. We can't be foolish and ignore the fact that there's a devil. We can't say, oh Well, God's given us the victory, so I can go do and participate and be involved in anything I want and God's just gonna give me the victory. I I mean only somebody completely ignorant would do that. Because you understand you put yourself the Bible says to don't give place to the devil. You put yourself out out, you know, in in the zoo, the glass is there for a reason. You put yourself inside that cage and you're in trouble. Yeah. You you see some I didn't watch any of those, but you see sometimes the videos of the the you know the Bible says foolishness abound in the heart of a child? You see some dumb teenagers and they're in the zoo and the science say don't go beyond this, stay out, keep out whatever and they they they want to do it and then what the zoo keepers have to kill kill one of the animals or something to protect the human. Which by the way they should do, but that uh child It's is his fault. He went out there. And that's the thing. God has given us the victory over Satan, but you've got some principles that you he leaves for us to exercise. It's not something that just happens. You see, Satan's power, Satan's ability is limited. Satan is not omnipotent. That is all powerful. He's not all-powerful. Satan is not omniscient. That's all-knowing. He doesn't know everything. He had to watch you. and learn. He's not omnipresent. Sat Satan can't be everywhere at once like God. So he's got to have some some minions and he's got lots of those. But he's got demons and principalities and powers. He's got those that can be at work for him to to to watch you, but he he can't be everywhere at once. So he has to put others to work for him. Some like yeah you put my neighbor to work You know, he's limited and God's given us power over him. Greater is he is in you than he is in the world. There is no question there. There's a promise from God there. Luke 9 Luke 10, verse number 19 says, Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy. And nothing shall by any means hurt you. Now I want you to understand that verse there, although the snake handling churches like to use it and say that God's given them power over snakes. That's not what the verse is talking about there. Again, he's using animals to describe types and these types of things. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against flesh and blood. Principalities against powers, against rulers in darkness. That's what we're fighting against. And Christ is giving these examples and saying, listen, God's given you power over this. So that nothing can harm you. Now you understand the other side of that. You say, well, God's going to protect me, so um I'm just going to go drive my car 120 miles an hour and Okay, no, you you are you've walked outside the protection of God. You you're you are being foolish. And praise God he may in that situation save your life But you may have to endure some of the consequences of having done that foolishness. You may be hospitalized, you may lose the use of one of your limbs. You who knows what the damages are ultimately going to be. But you don't just say, well, God's going to protect me, so you jump off of a bridge, you know That's you got the other side of that. Now God has given us the victory, but we've got to be cautious, realize that Satan's out there and he does want to destroy us. Satan should not, beloved, have any stronghold in your life, because you have been given victory over him. 2 Corinthians 10 verse number 4 says, For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. God wants to give you victory in your life. If Satan has a stronghold in your life, he's got something that you feel like you can't get the victory in, and you first fighting and dealing with. I want you to know that you You God's given you the victory already. He's promised that to you. You've got to exercise and use the power that He's given you. Jesus has given us the ability to have victory through His name. You know the devil hates the name of Jesus. That's right. He hates the name of Jesus. Any place that Jesus is, Satan cannot be. They cannot occupy the same space. That's why I do not believe it's possible for a Christian to be demon-possessed. Because once you have your heart where Jesus Christ comes to live in the person of the Holy Spirit, living in your heart. I don't believe Satan and him can what fellowship have light with darkness? That's right. None. When you turn on the lights, the darkness flees. They cannot coexist. They cannot be in the same place. So Christ and Satan cannot both occupy the same heart. So you cannot, as a Christian, once you're saved, bought by the blood of Jesus Christ and put your faith and trust in him, you cannot be demon-possessed, but you can be demon-oppressed. That is having external influences, external oppression, external forces, Satan trying to attack you from the outside. But Jesus is on the inside, and greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. If we're going to have victory, the Bible tells us to submit to God. James 4. 7, submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Are you submitted to God? Are you submitted to his rule in your life? The demands that he's put on your life. Ephesians 4. 27 is where we see the verse, neither give place to the devil, and I can encourage you to do your own study here on Ephesians 4. There's A whole list of things in that passage on Ephesians 4 that we are not to give place to the devil in. Areas that Christians would might have a tendency to give place to the devil. And God says, don't give place to the devil. Don't open that door. I don't know where it is in your heart or in your life, what it is you might be dealing with. This morning I wanted to remind us all that Satan is the end of the day. And sin is his weapon. And we're not to be ignorant of his devices. That he is fighting against all of us. And that we've got to remember that, that He's the enemy, He's the one we're mad at, He's the one we're getting victory over, in and through what Christ did on the cross, and the name of Jesus Christ that's working in and through us each and every day. And you can have the victory. Yes, he's a definite foe. He's out there. Oh, he's a devouring foe. He's dangerous, and we've got to watch out for him. But he's a defeated foe. We can have victory through Jesus Christ.