Couple different passages for uh Sunday school this morning, but Proverbs twenty three Set this down here Well, Proverbs chapter twenty-three verses seventeen and eighteen is the heart. of the message this morning, the the the lesson here in Sunday school. And uh the Bible says here, let not thine heart envy sinners. But be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long, for surely there is an end, and thine expectation shall not be cut off. A few weeks ago for Faith in Blue Sunday, I was led to preach on the idea of the forecast, that there is a forecast. And the forecast is sure, and the one that gives and uh uh uh that made the forecast is is a hundred percent accurate and the idea Uh for that message was really geared to, it was written for the lost man. That message was written for those that maybe don't know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, that they might see that there's a forecast, that they're is indeed an end of life, but not only that, there is a judgment day coming afterwards. And uh the the goal and the ambition, of course, of that day was to strive to encourage those that were present, if they didn't know Jesus as their Lord and Savior. that they might prepare and be ready for that day. But there's an application with regards to that sure end For the Christian as well. I did not take time to get into that on that day, but I want you to understand that there's an application for us. The end is sure. The end is sure. And that's the title of the Sunday school lesson this morning. And this I will take and apply it to us. As believers, those that do know Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. Because the end is sure, beloved, that's the reason that we have a day like faith in blue. Because the end is sure is the reason that we spend so much time and energy and effort in trying to get the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the world. That's why we go out and pass out John of Romans on on Saturday and other times. And that's why we have a track ministry where we encourage you to participate and take gospel tracks and pass them out as you check out at the grocery stand and as you get your checks cashed at the bank and as you're getting gas at the gas station and as you see your neighbor walking down the street Just any opportunity we can to get the message of the gospel out because we know there's an end. That is a sure thing, and with that knowledge and that understanding, it behooves us To be investing in reaching the lost, getting that soul-saving message of the gospel to them He says here though, let not thine heart envy sinners. Let not thine heart envy sinners What I want you to see is, beloved, if you're not careful, as a Christian, as somebody who already knows that they're on their way to heaven. We will reach the place in our life where we begin to envy the sinner. Look with me, if you would, in Psalm 73. We're actually going to be in Psalm 74 in the morning service. Don't look ahead yet. We'll get to that later. But Psalm 73 here in Sunday school. Would you read with me the first verse? Emphasizing the section there, but up to the first comma. Psalm 73, I'm sorry, verse number three. Look down at verse number three. And read with me verse number three. He says, For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked The psalmist in this passage, which is Asaf, a writer of many of the psalms, a singer of Israel. I don't know what's going on in Asaf's life. I don't know exactly what motivated him to write this particular particular psalm, but I do know that he had reached a point where he was envious. Where he he looked at this world and he saw from his view, from his perspective, that it seemed like the world was really doing good. He was envious of them and their prosperity. But it was from a skewed point of view. You know, young people, I want to encourage you, or let's remind you this morning the world has nothing to offer. The world has nothing to offer, and I know that as we uh you look out at the world, especially young people that grow up in a in a good, solid church and they've been as it were sheltered and and and kept from all the harms of the world. A lot of times they look out with a little bit of longing for the world and and and what's out there and think, boy, it looks so nice It looks so appealing. It looks so appetizing. But I want you to understand this morning that what the world has to offer is but smoke and mirrors. There is no substance there, there is no validity there, there is nothing of real meaning and value. There's an old idiom which some of you young people might not know as much or be as familiar with, but i it it's it goes like this. It's called whistling in the dark. What the world has to offer is like that, like whistle in the dark. That that thought or that idea, when they say that they're whistling the dark, is the idea that, like, let's say, for instance, you you were walking down a dark alley. And you pretty much knew you weren't going to get out the other side without getting mugged. I mean you pretty much knew that this was a bad idea. That this this is gonna end bad. I'm gonna be hurt before I get out the other end. But but you just start whistling anyway. Just whistling like everything's okay. Like hey, it's sunshine, it's summertime in my heart. It is summertime in my heart. Meanwhile your heart is beating out of your chest because you know you're gonna get killed, right? That's what whistle in the dark is. And I want you to understand that's what the world's doing. They're whistling in the dark. They're acting like they're pretending like everything's fine and everything's okay. But they don't have all the joy and the hope that's available to the Christian. The psalmist was envious When he saw the wicked from his skewed point of view, look down with me at verse number four. And uh verses 4 to 12 are his view of the wicked from this skewed point of view. He says here, for there are no bands in their death. He's saying, hey, their death, there's no bands. There's nothing bad there. He said, but their strength is firm. There are not any troubles as other men, neither are they plagued like other men. Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain. Violence covereth them as a garment. Their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than heart could wish. I mean it is not that sometimes you look out at the world and you think, boy, they got everything They got more than heart could wish. I mean, you look at it and you think, boy, look at all the toys they have, look at all the things that they have, look at the big house they're driving, look at the beautiful car that they have You know, your your neighbor's talking to you about his new car and tell you, yeah, I had my last car for ten years and never had a wreck. Then you've got to say, well, I had a wreck for ten years, never had a car You know, you you just you're looking at it and saying, man, they got everything. They got more than heart could desire. They got it all. Look at verse 8. He says, They're corrupt, and they speak wickedly concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth. Therefore, his people return hither, and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them. He saying they're just full cups are poured out on them. Just poured out on them. And they say, How doth God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world, they increase in riches. And what I'm saying, young people and old alike, is if you're not careful, you will look at the world. You look at those whom the forecast is really not that good. But you'll look at them and you will become envious. You'll look at their life and you'll start to think, oh, look at all what they have, look at how they're prosperous and look at look at how they are are benefiting day by day. It just seems like they're not having any troubles. Just seems like things are going okay for them. If you're not careful, you'll you'll be like demons. Who forsook God having loved this present world? He looked out and he saw all that the world had to offer and thought, you know, that's what I want, and he walked away from God. When what the world has to offer is empty, you'll get a false view of what you have with God You'll get a false view of what it all means, you as a Christian, and what you're doing. You think, man, I'm I'm going to church. Here I am in Sunday school. I've been I'm participating in the ministries. I'm serving God and look at all the problems I have. I'm trying to do everything right. I'm trying to serve God and honor Him. I'm trying to do all this and look at where I am. You see, that's what Aesaph saw. Look at verses 13 through 16. This is his view of himself in light of that skewed view. Look what he says here in verses 13 through 16. He says, Verily, I have cleansed my heart in vain. I washed my hands in innocency. For all the day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning. He says, I got clean in vain. I wash my hands and I'm doing right in vain. God has chastened me like one of his children, and I've been under conviction, and I've changed all these things in my life, and I've done all of that for nothing. I still have trouble. I still have problems. You see his his skewed view uh even of himself and of his work and of his effort. If you're not careful, you think, man, all that this time going to church. For what? I I I've surrendered and followed God. I've been given to missions. I've been tithing. I've been I've been participating in re outreach and given tracts and doing all these things and For what? He says in verse number 15, If I say, I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. He thought about all that he was doing for God and all the time he spent in trying to be clean and trying to do right and trying to just yield to what God wanted him to do. All of the effort. And he thought it was for nothing. You know, if you're not careful, adult, you'll get to the point and you think, man, Coming in for choir, giving up my Sunday afternoon and my nap time. For what Coming coming in and being part of the security team and giving extra effort and and working working here at the church for for w why? Why why do I do that? Studying and preparing there's people downstairs teaching Sunday school for all these kids and they come in and I walk through the classes this morning, couple classes with just two kids in there And the c class thinking teacher might be thinking, well, why why do I do this? All this effort for just these just two kids. Just three kids. You know, if you're not careful, you'll allow the devil to give you a skewed point of view. He says, be not envious of the wicked. And when Aesaph was envious, this was his view of himself. When we're envious of the wicked, when we allow ourselves to look out at the world, we'll get this view. And this is not the view that God wants us to have. There was something that changed Aesop's view. Look in verse number 17 He said in verse number 17, he says, Until I went into the sanctuary of God, then understood I their end. He said, then I understood their end. Then I understood that all of that perceived prosperity was meaningless. All of that perceived success and Recognition had no value. There was nothing there of any substance. I want you to understand this morning, young people, I would not trade places with the most successful movie star in America today. Take take the money out of it, regardless of the finances. Listen, there's one thing that God has blessed me with that supersedes and and goes above and beyond anything that that that these movie stars can get any type of recognition and that is a family that loves me. A wife that is still with me. That loving and caring relationship that's there cannot be replaced. And the the the utter foolishness and the filth that goes on in Hollywood. People look at that and say, boy, I love to be a movie star. It's a mess. Their lives are miserable. Their lives are miserable. And ultimately, you can look and see the end of what that life has got them And you say, yeah, I don't I don't I don't think that's what I want. Oh I know when you're young it's hard to see But could you take the advice of some of the older people in here and realize there is no joy or success in that? It's empty. He understood their end. Beloved, there is an end for any who don't know God. And it's not pretty You know what's amazing is our heart breaks for people going through tragedy You know, we're we're moved with compassion when we see uh somebody struggling. I was praying and hoping that this thing in Ukraine would be done by now Not only is it not done, it's intensified. It's gotten worse. And you look at that and and and your heart uh goes out to them and you see homes that are destroyed and you see families, moms weeping uh uh on the news broadcast because their son was shot and killed in the street, wasn't even in the military Just killed and and your heart breaks for them. You see boys, the children who lost their mom and dad and and and your heart goes out to them and you know what there's there's churches all over America today that are giving uh financially to send humanitarian aid over to Ukraine. And that's great. I know of one church that's in excess of a million dollars that they've sent to Ukraine. That's wonderful But do you know something, Christian? People in Ukraine have been dying and going to hell since they became a republic in 1917. And I wonder how many of these churches saw that end. What I'm saying is we get a broken heart because a child has lost his mom and dad. But are we broken because we see the end that that mom and dad ended up in, or the end that that child is going to end up in? The reason we serve God, the reason we have ministries, the reason we work so hard is because the world is lost and they're dying without Jesus Christ. And ultimately the end is a whole lot worse than not having some food on the table tonight. The end is worse than not having enough clothes to be warm when it's Cold. The end is so much worse than being sick and not having medical aid or care to meet the needs that you have. The end is an eternity in a place the Bible describes as hell How broken are we as Christians over that end? Churches are moved today to send humanitarian aid to this country that's in need because of this hardship, and great, I'm glad. But where were the churches that were moved to send them a gospel message? We can raise a million dollars to send medical aid over there, but we can't raise a thousand to buy scripture. It we need to have a proper understanding of the end. There is an end He says, until I went in to the sanctuary of God, then understood I their end. He goes on in verse number 18. He says, surely thou dost set them in a slippery place. Thou castest them down into destruction. How are they brought into desolation? As in a moment, they're utterly consumed with terrors As a dream, when one awaketh, so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image But I'm wanting you to see this morning is that what we do and what we give and the effort extended is for a reason. There's a purpose. Don't let Satan skew your thinking and say that it's in vain. Don't be envious of the wicked. But not only is there an end of the wicked, there's an end of the righteous. That too is why we must be so actively involved in reaching the lost. Because one day there's an end for us. And our ability or opportunity to share the gospel will be gone. He says, let not thine heart envy sinners. But be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long. Be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long. Surely there's an end. He said, Listen, there's an end, and so because of that You've got to live daily in the fear of God. Don't live daily and envious of what this world has. Don't live daily thinking about, oh, all of the prosperity and the success and the toys that they have sitting in their driveway. No, live daily, all the day long in fear of God. Because there's an end for you and I as well. And we have a responsibility, we have a duty. To remember, to live in the fear of the Lord each and every day. What you're doing has a purpose Galatians 6. 9 says, And let us not be weary in well-doing. For in due season we shall reap if we faint not. You will reap if you faint not. But I'm saying, beloved, is keep on doing right. Keep on getting out here to church. Keep on being in Sunday school. Keep on singing in the choir. Keep on serving in the ministries in the Ushers Ministry and the Security Ministry and the Sound Ministry I've been working on a on a schedule, just a detailed diagram of the church and the folks and where people are serving and where they're involved. Some people got their name all over that thing. It's not like, oh, okay, this person serves right here. It's like, oh, they serve here and they serve here and they serve here and and they're working over here and And some of you guys are running around like a chicken with your head cut off on a Sunday. You gotta be over in the nursery and you gotta be downstairs in Sunday school and you've got to be in choir and you're supposed to sing a special and then you're back in the nursery. I mean, sometimes you think, man, it's it's craziness. Be not weary in well-doing. Just keep on serving God. There's a reason. Listen, it might be hard sometimes, but keep being faithful. Because there is an end There is an end. And you know, you see the end of some things before the ultimate end that we're talking about. You know, I look here and I see some some younger families. You know, sometimes it's it's hard raising kids. Some days it seems like all you're doing is discipline in those Children. Those gifts from God, Amen. Some days it seems like they're a gift from the devil. Like, oh my goodness. But you're training them and you're working hard and and trying to keep them and and and you know some days you may think, I don't know, is it worth it all? Man, when you get up and you drag them to church and you get them to ministries and you bring them to activities and you're trying to keep them in God's house and get them to Sunday school and be here Sunday night and you think, man, it's so much work, it's so hard, I don't know, is it worth it? It's worth it. It's worth it. You know, I look back here and uh I see Miss Lee Ann. Whose son Jacob is not a total disgrace. Jacob's doing good. Leanne, is it worth it? It's worth it. Oh, I know, especially as a young father, young mother, I know when you're working with those kids, may the days are long. Some days feel like they're never gonna end. But how many of older folks can say the days are long, but the years pass fast? And it's worth it. When you reach that point and they rise up and call you blessed. When they honor you, when they honor God You know, maybe you look at it and you say, Well, Pastor Caleb, I haven't been doing really good In this area or that area. I haven't really been living in the fear of the Lord. Well guess what? It's not the end yet. It's not the end yet. You know what they say, it ain't over toe. I'll let you plug into whatever saying you want to say right there It ain't over. You still got time. You still got you can change from here on out Ecclesiastes 7. 1 says, a good name is better than precious ointment. In that same verse, he says, the day of death than that, the day of one's birth. He talks about a good name that better be chosen than he says the day of one's death is better than the day of one's birth. You know, when you were born, you were given a name. You didn't get a choice of that You were handed that name. That's what you get. Tough luck. But you know what? The name you die with is up to you The name you die with is up to you. You can decide to make that name whatever you want it to be It's not the end yet. You've still got time and you can live daily in the fear of the Lord and bring honor and glory to God and let your name be one that's known as somebody that loves God, that loves people. that cared for his wife, that served her family, that was faithful until the end. Don't don't get to the end and have those that are tasked with putting you to rest trying to find something good to say. I I've been in the funerals where people are are working hard to have something positive to say. I mean in in in private before the before the actual funeral family members telling me, you know, he was the sorriest, honoriest, you know, meanest. Uh I mean just I I'm not talking because I got nothing good to say. Don't don't get to the end and be that person. It's not the end yet. You can still do something about it Don't get to the end and have your testimony be one of these. Well, he used to go to church. He used to serve God. He used to do this. There was a time when he Why not be faithful till the end? Ecclesiastes 7 verse 8 says, Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof. Maybe you've been struggling. Listen, the last chapter's not written yet. Better is the end of a thing Maybe you've been m messing up, been falling short, been giving in to to Satan a little bit Well the nice thing is you can change that. The last chapter is not written. You can step up and you can start to live in the fear of the Lord daily because you know the end is coming, and listen, it's not that far off. You can get on fire for God today. You can do something for God while you still have time. Brother Bond, how old are you? Eighty Brother John? Eighty-six. I was gonna say eighty-four. Is he the oldest one in here? I know he's only got a couple years on a couple of the other U guys, but you're like, yeah, he's got us beat. But you know what? Still not the end. Still got some time. You can be an encouragement to the younger generation. You can be a help to them You can let him see a guy that's faithful that loves God and loves people. Brother John has it has his own his own heartaches. He has his own burdens and problems. But it's not the end yet. He's got the the opportunity to still do something for God. Our text verse there, he says, For surely there is an end, and then he says, And thine expectation shall not be cut off. Now that word expectation literally means a chord. A chord. I have a chord here. And uh s here you grab that cord. Hold on to it. So Here's the idea. I have an expectation in my heart based on the promises of the Word of God. If you train up a child in the way he should go when he's old, he will not depart from it. That he will give honor to his parents. He will rise up and call him blessed. I've got an expectation and a promise from God, and what he's saying, he says here: live every day in the fear of the Lord. Live every day with the knowledge that there's an end. There is an expectation And as long as I continue to live every day in the fear of the Lord and I continue to do what God says about raising and training my children and trying to be honest to Him, there's an expectation And God says that if you do that, your expectation will not be cut off. It doesn't cut. Thank you, Lord. Amen. But when we go our own way and do our own thing, right? It gets cut off. You know, let me Illustrate it like this. We're gonna get in trouble here. Here, can you hold that? Don't don't let go of it You don't want don't want to fail, okay? Hold on. We're gonna we're gonna go right over everybody's head here because we're gonna establish an expectation. You see what I know I gotta wait because uh Miss Trudy, we're gonna go right over your head. Hold it up there. Okay, we're gonna establish this. I want you to hold this side. Hold it tight. Now you guys don't let go of that, or you're gonna mess up my illustration Here's what I know. Young ladies have a desire in their heart for somebody to love them. That's right. They've got a desire to have a passion, that that relationship that just takes the breath away That they they long for that relationship. Now I am really embarrassing these two. They're looking for that relationship. And what I want you to understand is when you live in the fear of the Lord, there's an expectation, that passion that's in your heart, that you long to have. God will give that to you. As long as you follow that line. But you know what? When you decide, oh, that's not the direction I want to go, here let go. And you decide to go another way, that expectation is cut off. That's good. That's good. You see, there's an end. If you just do what God says to do, if you bring honor and glory to God To fulfill his expectations, you'll reach your expectation. It's a promise from God. The Bible says it like this. Be not weary in well-doing, for in due season ye shall reap if ye faint not. So my my lesson this morning is I know sometimes as we serve God it gets wearisome. I know sometimes in the day-to-day, the days seem long, and we think, boy, is there ever going to be an end? But there is. And the expectation that you have will not be cut off if you just keep doing it