Alright, turn your Bibles if you would this morning to John chapter 15. John chapter 15. I'm going to deal this morning with our verse of the month. In the middle of this passage of Scripture on the vine and the branches, God gives to us an amazing Promise concerning prayer. The provision of prayer, the possibility is made available to us. And a promise is stated clearly in these verses concerning this thing of prayer. Follow along if you're there already in John chapter 15. If you're at home, grab your Bible, open it to John 15, follow along with us as we read these verses, beginning in verse number 1. We're going to read down through verse number 10. He says, I am the true vine, and my father is the husband. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh it away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he pruneth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine. No more can ye, except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me ye can do nothing. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered. And men gathered them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. So shall ye be my disciples. And as the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commandments. And abide in his love. We've attempted this year to put an emphasis on this matter of prayer in our lives. However feeble the attempt may have been, we have done so with pure motives. We have done so with a right heart. With an endeavor to motivate God's people to approach life on bended knee, to seek our Lord. And gain power through prayer. Beloved God has given us the tools that we need for victorious Christian living. Prayer is the key that unlocks the storehouse of God. Prayer is the switch that turns on the power of God. Prayer is the plow that breaks up the foul ground. Prayer is the torch that cuts the chains of sin. Prayer is that tool, beloved, that every Christian needs. I know that for every spiritual failure There has first been a prayer failure. This, the greatest tool of the Christian life, which has been made available to us in and through Jesus Christ. Is greatly neglected. Thus far this year we've looked at ten messages The beginning of each month, along with our theme verse for the month, covering such topics as the power of prayer and the pursuit of prayer. The possibility of prayer, the priority that prayer should have in our lives, the privilege that prayer is to all of us, the prerequisites there are to successful prayer. We've looked at these and other topics Dealing with prayer, but I wonder, with all of the emphasis and focus on prayer, how money, how much more prayer are you and I spending with God today than we were in January? Here we are approaching the second to last month of this year. We're closing in on this theme, and this is going to be done and gone. The books that we've read and the sermons we've heard and the emphasis that's been put on prayer, is that going to be gone as well This morning we look at this very familiar passage dealing with fruit bearing, the vine and the branches. That relationship that we have with Jesus Christ as we consider the provision of prayer given to us by Christ This tool that's made available to us. I wonder Have we learned the lesson of it? There's one word in this text that's used ten times in these ten verses. It is the word abide. You see, Christian, fruit bearing is not made possible or doesn't come about because we extend more effort. Fruit bearing is not made possible because we all of a sudden are doubling or tripling our uh our our uh struggle to make it happen. No. If you see in the text here that fruit bearing And thereby I would say the successful Christian life is found in abiding. When you walk through a vineyard, you see The large cluster of grapes growing here on this vine, on this branch. You don't think, oh boy, this branch really, really struggled to have all of this fruit. No, it was just tied into the vine. It was abiding in the vine, and that fruit came as a result of being tied in to the right place. If you and I are going to have true power in prayer, we must learn, beloved, the secret of abiding. The secret of abiding. Verse number seven is that tremendous promise given to us. He says, if ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will. And it shall be done unto you. Wow. What a promise. Ye ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. What a promise. That we get from God. I would like you to see three simple things from this text this morning. First of all, I want you to become familiar with the fact that there is limitation found in not abiding. There's limitation that's found when we don't abide. Many times as Christians, we want to have a successful Christian life. We want to be victorious and we want to accomplish a lot for Christ. And we're we're giving it all a valiant effort and struggling and working so hard to see God do something Great and and I I I see sometimes maybe young Christians or or baby Christians or new new people that come to the church and and they want to be victorious as a Christian and and they feel like they're giving so much effort, but they're not seeing any fruit. They're not seeing any results. They're not seeing any change. They're not seeing any difference. And they look at it and they say, Man, this Christian life is so hard. I'm giving it everything I got But I'm not seeing any fruit, I'm not seeing any difference, I'm not seeing any change because they haven't learned the secret of abiding There is a limitation found in not abiding. You see in verse number five, he says, I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me And I in him, the same, bringeth forth much fruit. For without me, ye can do nothing. You see, here friend, when we don't abide, we can do nothing. Without him, we can cannot be victorious as a Christian. Without him, we cannot succeed in this Christian life. Without him, we won't get victory over that besetting sin. Without him, you won't see fruit at last. There's limitations. There's too many of us Christians that are trying to succeed at this Christian life all on our own. We're trying to do it and we're you're putting forth a valiant effort and you're you're working hard. But the secret is abiding. In him. For without him we can do nothing. There is an old song Entitled That Without Him We Can Do Nothing and It reads like this, Without Him I Could Do Nothing. Without him, I would surely fail. Without him, I would be drifting like a ship without a sail. Without him, I could be dying Without him, I would be enslaved. Without him, life would be hopeless. But with Jesus, thank God, I'm saved. You see, without him we can do nothing. Beloved, without him we are sheep without a shepherd. Without him, we are a body without a head. Without him, we are aliens in a foreign land without an ambassador. Without him, we are literally without hope. The Bible says in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 12 and 13, he says that at the time ye were without Christ. Being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ. You see, without him, you have no hope. But with him, you're made nigh through the blood of Christ. We've got to get to the place, beloved, where we understand our limitations and begin to abide in Him. Too many people in this life, they reach the point that they feel that they're doing okay. They reach the point they think, well, everything's alright. Or I'm I'm I'm making it okay. I mean I I understand when tragedy or trial comes that That of course causes us to look up, but too many times we get into this Christian life or this life in it in and of itself, and we look at it and we think, well, I'm doing okay. We're kind of like that rich man in Luke chapter twelve, who said, Oh Eat, drink, be merry. He he was just I I'm doing fine. Look at what all I've got. I've got all this. And and Christ looked at him and said, Thou fool, this night thou soul soul shall be required of thee. Too many times because things are going okay, we think we're okay. But we're not okay, friend. Without him, we can do nothing. We need to learn how to abide. The author of that psalm, without him, we can do nothing. He wrote that song when he was 17 years old. He was in the military. And military life had driven him to the point where he had realized that there were some challenges and struggles, and he says, man, without him, I can do nothing. His family were gospel singers, and he hitchhiked over 600 miles to be at the min the Memphis Gospel Convention in 1963. He and his family sang that song at the Memphis Gospel Convention in 1963 for the very first time. He pinned the words, without him, I can do nothing. Elvis Presley was in the audience that day. Elvis Presley heard that song, went to him immediately following the thing, and said, Hey, can I record that on my next album? He gave him permission to do it. Over the next year, over 100 other nationally recognized artists recorded that song. This young man at seventeen years old went from being a nobody to being famous. He went from having nothing to being wealthy. And he began to think that he was okay. You see, he pinned the words, without him I can do nothing. Yet that very same year he began to live his life as though he didn't need him. And for seventeen years the author of that song lived without him. And all he learned in those seventeen years was the further he went without him the more hopeless his life became. For seventeen years his life went downhill further and further and further until he was addicted. To not just one but many drugs, ultimately a heroin addict. His life all but destroyed And finally he came back to the message of his own song that says, without him, I'm hopeless. And he saw his life for what it was as hopeless without Christ. But dear friend, does God have to take you to this end of a street and put you down in a gutter and to a place where there's nothing left? for you to turn your eyes heavenward and look up and acknowledge that without him we are nothing Boy, there's no limitation for us as Christians. We've got to learn to abide in Him. It's in him that we find love Boy, in verse number nine, he says, In the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. Well, what a privilege to be loved of God. To know and experience the love of God in your heart that's there and present with you all the time. To rejoice with you when you're rejoicing and to weep with you when you're weeping. But to know that love of God that's rich and pure. It's when we abide that we really see the love of God. You see, dear friend, it's through God's love that we experience the power of pruning. In verse number two he says, Every branch that is in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. I'm not going to spend much time there, once you understand fruits, but branches that aren't aren't doing anything, they're cut down. They're hewn down. They're taken away. But every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it. And it may that it may bring forth more fruit. You see, beloved, the pruning that the Father does. It's never to hurt. It's always to help. We have some some plants around here that Miss Amy cares for. And it seems like the more she ha cuts at 'em, the more they grow. She she cuts 'em back and they just take over. And she's like, I just trimmed that thing and look it's already growing all the way out. It's hanging over the sidewalk and everything. And y the more you cut it, the more it grows. The more fruit it brings forth, the bigger it blossoms, the more flowers are seen and enjoyed. And God knows that about our life, and so he, on purpose, will lovingly prune those areas that need to be cut away. Oh, don't begrudge the pruning of God, Christian. Let God do that because you'll be able to bring forth more fruit. Andrew Murray wrote on abiding. He said this, abiding in Christ. This is indeed the Father's object in sending the trial. In the storm, the tree strikes its deepest roots in the soil In the hurricane, the inhabitants of the house abide within and rejoice in the shelter provided. So by suffering the Father would lead us to enter more deeply into the love of Christ. Our hearts are continually prone to wander from Him. Prosperity and enjoyment all too easily satisfy us. Dulling our spiritual perception and making us unfit for communion with Him. It is an unspeakable mercy that the Father comes with his chastisement Making the world around us as dark and as unattractive, leading us to feel more deeply our sinful way, and for a time to lose our joy. In what has become so dangerous. He does it in the hope that we might find our rest in Christ in time of trouble. So that we shall learn to choose abiding in Him as our only portion. And when the affliction is removed, Having grown so firmly into him that even in prosperity he shall be our only joy So much has he set his heart on this, that though he has indeed no pleasure in afflicting us, He will not keep back even the most painful chastisement, if he can, but thereby guide his beloved child to come home. And abide in his son. Christian, pray for grace. Pray for grace to see every trouble, small or great. As the Father's finger pointing to his son, saying, abide. Abide. It is the work of God that prunes us. that we might learn to abide. It's motivated by love. It's also The procedure of purifying that we see because of the love of God that we're purified. He says in verse number three, Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Can I ask you this morning, have you been made clean? Have you been washed in the blood of the Lamb? Have you been to Jesus for his cleansing power? Are you fully trusting in his grace this hour? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Beloved, it was God. He commended his love toward us. He showed his love. He demonstrated his love. He showed his love. And that while we were yet sinners, he died for us. That love was extended and sent to us without any hope of it being reciprocated, that we might know the forgiveness of God and be washed and made clean. Praise God for that love this morning. Dear friend, it's this love that also gave us the provision of prayer. He says, if you abide in me and my words abide in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you. Prayer. Prayer is that spreading out of our helplessness before God. That laying out our burden, our trial, our test, our care, being real familiar with our limitations. But laying them out before God who has no limitations and seeking God's help. This is made available because of God's love. So what is the lesson of abiding? What is the lesson of abiding? Well, he says in verse number 10, if ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love Even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and I abide in his love. How do we abide? Say, Pastor, yeah, I I see that. It's very clear. If we're going to really have victory, if we're really going to know this power in this Christian life, we've got to learn to abide. So how do we abide? Well he tells us here in verse number 10. The lesson is you keep his commandments. You continue to obey. You see, Christ set for us the example and gave us the directions. He says, even as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. He says, just like I did. Just like I have kept and done the will of my Father which is in heaven, and I abide in his love. So as ye keep my commandments, You'll abide in my love. John 6. 38 says, For I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. Christ's plan from the beginning was to fulfill the will of the Father. Is your desire to fulfill the will of Christ? To truly learn to abide, we've got to learn to obey. That's the secret of abiding, is obeying. 1 John 2 verses 3 through 6 says, and hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. How are you doing this morning, keeping his commandments? Oh, we want to have power in prayer, and we want to experience power in this Christian life, and we want to be able to ask anything that we will and it be done unto us. But there's a prerequisite to that. We've got to abide. And abiding means obeying. So how are we doing this morning? Abiding? How are we doing? Obeying. This morning, those present and those that are tuning in online, you need first to determine, are you in the vine? Are you in the vine? Have you been grafted in, you know, as Gentiles? The Gentiles in the Word of God, they were often referred to as called dogs. They weren't they weren't part of the Jewish nation But Christ came and provided a way whereby we could be grafted into the family of God You've got to find and know beyond a shadow of a doubt this morning that you are part of the vine, that you've been grafted in. Have your sins been forgiven? Have you been washed clean by the blood of the Lamb? If not, God loves you this morning. He sent his son to die for you so that you could know forgiveness of sin and be grafted in to the vine. For all of those who are listening this morning online or in person, you know that to be true about you. You say, I know that I'm saved, I know my sins have been forgiven. The question goes forth, how are you doing on abiding We've talked a whole lot about prayer this year, and we've talked about a lot of different aspects of prayer and different utilities of prayer, but Real power in prayer comes from abiding. It's not how much we're struggling through it. It's how much We're resting in him. Do you know that rest? Do you know that quiet heart, that quiet confidence that comes only from abiding in him? I wonder if the reason we're not seeing some of our prayers answered is because we Have stopped abiding. Again, the secret to abiding is obey.