Philippians chapter number one, as we've already read this, I've had several people comment uh on how they've enjoyed this study thus far and looking forward to the coming verses. So particular verses in this first chapter or in the coming chapters that have meant a lot to them in the past and they're excited to see where uh the study leads us and where we end up uh looking at those different things. Um But uh I'm excited tonight to give you the thought. The title of tonight's message is Growth of Love, the Growth of Love, verses 7 through 11 Uh so if you allow me just to read those verses to get the context here of the verses that we're going to look at, he says, even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart. Inasmuch as both in my bonds and in the defense and the confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the vows of Jesus Christ. And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense, till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which by Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God. So we went through an introduction, talked about Paul as the author, we talked about the church or the city of Philippi as a chief city, a Roman colony, learning about the fact it's in Macedonia and this region uh and And uh studying out those things and then we saw that it was around fifty uh AD that Paul went there and visited, and then about ten years later when he was actually in prison in Rome that he wrote back to Rome uh wrote back to the Church of Philippi from Rome in uh a response to their kindness to him. And this was a thank you note back to them, an expression of gratitude. kind of a personal letter. It's a note that has been said to be the uh joy the joy letter, Paul's letter of joy, as that is the theme of Philippians, joy and the sufficiency of Christ. with the key verse being verse chapter one, verse number twenty-one, There for me to live as Christ to die is gained. We looked the first week at the greeting of the saints, saw that Timothy and Paul uh were these servants of Christ and we of course challenged to be the servants that they were and follow that example realizing that we are saints positionally made a saint by uh our salvation and putting our faith and trust in Christ and that we should live and act like saints, having this new possession that saints have, the grace and the peace of God that's given to us. Last Thursday night we studied and looked at the giving of thanks. In verses three through six. We saw that sincere heart of gratitude that Paul had, and it's evident in all of his letters as you hear him expressing gratitude continually and And uh we were challenged just to really as Christians, if anybody's in the world is thankful, Christians ought to be thankful. We ought to have a heart of gratitude. It's something that should be prevalent in our lives. And then we see to Paul his supplication. His supplication with joy in verse number four. And it was a habit of Paul's life to pray and to pray continually. And one of the reasons he was successful in his ministry, not only because he was a servant, but he was Continually supplicating, asking God and seeking God's strength. And we as a church are focusing on prayer this year, desiring God to do great works in our midst, stirring and and our hearts up to do great works, and that takes place in our quiet time and our prayer time individually, where God challenges us and we get a hold of Him and beg God to do great things in Him. We saw the sharing of the gospel in verse number s number five. We're understanding they had a great unifying fellowship around this, the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is the unifying fellowship that we have in a church, as well as uh as the the Bible says, that your spirit beareth witness and It's amazing how you can go anywhere in the world and when you find a brother or sister in Christ, there is a common bond there. There is a fellowship of the gospel that you have that brings you together and It's exciting to be a part of the family of God. Then we saw the security that's found in Christ in verse number six, and that is that w process, that what Christ began in you, he's going to perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. that beginning of of salvation, the foundation of the Christian life where we come to Him through the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And then We are through the process of our life. There's three states of the Christian that are described in that verse number six. You have the state of salvation. Then there's the state of sanctification, that process, that time period between salvation, and the third state, which is glorification. In the state of salvation, we're saved from the penalty of sin. No longer do we have to spend an eternity in hell because Jesus Christ paid the price for us, and we're saved from the penalty of sin. Then in the process of sanctification we're saved from the power of sin in our life. Sin does no longer have power or dominion over us. We don't have to sin. that God has made a way of escape for us and we can get free from that power of sin and and praise God one day we're going to be saved from the presence of sin and glorification. That's when we get to heaven. And we'll no longer have to deal with this old flesh and with sin. We saw that as we looked last week at that the giving of thanks, verses three through six. Tonight we want to look verses 7 through 11, and we've we've titled this The Growth of Love. Now, I I thought about or considered breaking verses 7-8 into its own message entitled The Guild of Believers. the guild of believers and certainly could have taken that and that that fellowship, that common bond, that group where Paul here is talking about the the friendship that he has and and the the bond that they have in verse seven and eight. But I've uh broke this into my first point here tonight. We're going to call that compassion expressed. As Paul expresses his compassion for them Even that is meat for me to think of you all, because I have you in my heart, he says. I've got you in my heart. There was a heartfelt sympathy for them, a compassion for them, a love that he had for them, he desired for them. He said it's fitting. I'm sorry, he said it's meat for me, which means fitting. He said it's meat for me, and that means it's fitting. It's fitting for me to Feel this way, it's it it makes sense. It's It's practical. He says, I feel this way for you because I have held you in my heart. Although Paul was separated from them by many, many miles. He was in Rome and uh there they were in in the church or the city of Philippi, yet he held them in his heart. That word heart includes his mind and emotions. He held them and he thought about them continually. He prayed for them. He wanted what was best for them. They were on his mind. They were in his heart And as you have friends and loved ones who might be in another part of the country, yet they're often on your mind. Are they not? They're in your heart. You think and you talk to them and say, I pray for you often, or I thought about you today, or I'm praying for you right now, and you're holding them in your heart and mind. He goes on to describe, it's even deeper than that. He said there's a help in suffering. As he said to them, as much as you were as both in my bonds. And in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. They were in his bonds. So he had sympathy, they were in his heart, and they were in my bonds. They didn't just talk about a fellowship they had. They were committed to him. They were together in it. They weren't just what we would call fair weather friends. You know, you've had those that one guy said Uh well, I don't have to outrun the lion, I just have to outrun you. You know, I mean that's somebody's a fair weather friend, right? They ain't too worried. about whether you make it or not, just whether they make it or not. Well they weren't that way with Paul. They had they said uh they were gonna be in his bonds with him. They were joining with him This cause for this suffering that they were that he was going through, I want you to understand, beloved, the cause was the gospel. It was not a crime that he had committed It was not some atrocity against society. It's because he was a preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ that he was imprisoned. And let me just say that it is fast approaching a day when we in America are going to be persecuted for simply preaching this book. I believe it's going to come sooner rather than later. I have thought through my life many times that The time of persecution, well, that will never happen in America. Or that's going to be so far down the road it's generations away. But at the pace that we're moving in our world today, it's not going to be long. Some will be persecuted here in America just for standing on the truth of the Word of God. The believers at Philippi were willing to identify with Paul this enemy of the state. I mean, think about that. Let's say they started here in America throwing people in prison for believing this book. And then you're gonna say, Oh yeah, I'm with him. Mmm. You see that puts a whole new whole new light on that identifying with Paul when Paul was imprisoned and they were going after Christians. Them saying, hey, we love and support Paul, we're with Paul, we're for Paul. They were willing to put themselves on the line in an acknowledgement of that. There's a movement in the world today where people want to distance themselves. from anything that can be perceived as negative. I mean if if John was involved in anything that could be perceived as negative Everybody's just going to distance themselves from him, right? They're just going to, oh, we don't want to be, no, oh, I knew him at one time, but I mean, like Peter denying Christ. It just came to my mind. But that's basically what it was. They're just saying, oh, I uh no, we're not with him. We're not with him. We don't know him But are you willing to, as persecution comes, are you willing to really stand and stand with your brothers and sisters in Christ who might Be challenged in knowing that if you stand with them, you're going to be accused of the same offense they're accused of. You say, Well, no, I just want to, I just I want to be a Christian, but I want to do it in my house. I don't want to bother anybody, and I don't want anybody to bother me. Well that's nice. But what about when they start coming after other people that you say you love? And you support. Are you willing to be like these people at Philippi that they said, hey, Paul Paul recognized you guys have been with me even in my bonds, even in defense and confirmation of the gospel. They stuck with Paul through thick and thin, through good and bad. You know, I'm sure there were some very exciting days with Paul. I mean you think about listening to Paul preach on Mars Hill. You think about him challenging them Pharisees and and and with Paul's uh ability with the languages and And his knowledge of the background and being able to, I mean, isn't it just amazing to listen to somebody that really can present a great argument and state it clearly? And I mean being there and I mean sure people were there with Paul like that's right Paul, you tell 'em. I mean they're cheering for him and happy and thrilled and and oh seeing people come to Christ and And seeing the church grow and seeing these exciting things. That would have been fun. And oh yeah, we want to be part of that. But what about when it gets hard? When there's persecution, when it's not the popular thing to call yourself a Christian. They stood in defense of the gospel. And with Paul, even when it wasn't popular. Yeah. You remember Christ Himself looked at the disciples and said, Will you also go away? Well you are uh are you gonna leave too? It's not as fun and as exciting anymore, and there's some challenges, and and yeah, Peter, you know what? You're not only gonna live for me, you're gonna die for me. Are you gonna leave? Or are you willing to stand? Are you willing to join in and I can I can only imagine what Paul felt as he's locked in prison and he's alone. But here these saints came and stood with them and said, We're with you, Paul. We'll identify with you. We're going to hold you up. We're praying with you. We're praying for you. I can only imagine the strength that Paul got from them. He said they were partakers, that is, co-participants. They helped. They're partakers of the Paul's gospel. Now that's not obviously a gospel that Paul was Administering or g or or I'm sorry, not gospel grace. It's not he said we're partakers of the same grace. And it's not grace that Paul had or grace was bestowing. But it was the same grace that Paul had. They're partakers, they're co-laborers together in this grace that God had given to Paul. God had given it to them as well. They had a common goal in seeing this to be successful. Paul believed, beloved, that his inc his incarceration was for the furtherance of the gospel. Look down at verse number twelve of of the text. He said, but I would you should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me Have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. He said, This all that I've endured, the time in prison, these challenges, the grace of God has allowed me to understand this is for a purpose. This is for a reason and God is in control. Paul hungered for that spiritual society that they had, that that closeness that they had. He longed after it. He said, How greatly I long after you in the bowels of Jesus Christ. He opens that verse with God is my record. That means God is my witness. God is my witness, he's saying, that uh I'm testifying the truth. I'm saying this, and God knows it to be a fact. How he longed after them. Now the word bowels here, our modern society has turned the term bowels into uh something that means different things And what the scriptures are talking about here. In modern society, it kind of paints a picture for you which is not pleasant. But at this time it would have been it would have met your your deepest heart. The lowest part of your strongest part of your feelings, your heart. He says, I feel it. We might today say something like, my heart aches for you. And and just that that feeling, that deep burden that you have for somebody, and it literally you feel it in your heart, and it it just hurts for another. And you long to see them helped or or their need met or whatever it might be. That's what Paul's saying when he says that. J. Vernon McGee says The word bows is offensive to some folks. One sweet dear lady, whom I am sure had never used a bad word in her life, came to me and said, Dr. McGee, do not read it like that. It is crude I answer to her, that's what the Bible says, ma'am, and that's the way I think I should read it. Just as it is put. Vows really means tender feelings. That is really a marvelous statement that Paul says that he had longs for all of them in the tender feelings of Jesus Christ. Actually, it's quite accurate to use the word bows for this measure of feeling. So Paul longed for them. He had that deep feeling for them day by day. He was saying that I love you with the love that Jesus Christ has. I mean that's amazing. What a tall order to say I love you like Jesus Christ. As I pondered that, I thought, man, that's a pretty that's a pretty uh high bar to set. But right away my mind went, well, that's the bar that Christ set for men to love their wives Men ought to love their wives as Christ loved the church. So he is the example, and Paul is saying to the best of his ability, he loved them that way, as in Christ. Beloved, do you love God's people that way? In verses three through eight, we kind of see that expression of gratitude expressed in prayer. But in nine through eleven, we see Paul praying for them specifically. He prays for three things. First, he prays that their charity would be expanded. In verse number nine, he says, And this I pray that your love may abound yet more and more. in knowledge in all judgment. Now I'm not going to spend much time here because we've just preached three messages on charity on Sunday morning and uh discussed love in uh uh you know very succinctly and and walk through that chapter together and I that's available to listen to and you can go to it at any time on sermon audio. But what I want to point out to you here, he says, in this I pray that your love may abound. There's not a period right there, is there? So he goes on. He says, I pray that your love may abound yet more and more in what? In knowledge and judgment. In knowledge and judgment. I want you to understand, beloved, that love is not to be blind. Although we like to say love is blind, and sometimes as men we praise God that love can be blind, and uh we're thankful, or else uh our better halves might not be with us, amen. Uh but Love, in the Christian sense that we're talking about here, is not just supposed to be blind as portrayed or looked at as a lot of times in society. Love is to be balanced with knowledge and judgment. That it would ex he says that it would abound yet more and more in knowledge and in judgment. Knowledge is an intellectual knowledge, an intellectual understanding of something. What do you know about that person? You know, husbands are to dwell with their wives according to knowledge. We're supposed to know them. You know, really, love has a lot more to do with the choice. uh with an understanding than with the gushy-feely thing that uh Hollywood portrays. It's a knowledge. You dwell with them according to knowledge and we're supposed to know, beloved, and our love. We don't Just love anything and everything. We're supposed to love the things that God loves. And that means we have to know what God loves. We gotta have that knowledge. And it can't just be a blanket statement or just a, oh, well, we just we're Christians, so we have the love of Christ, and we just love everybody. Love is to be balanced with knowledge and judgment. Judgment, beloved Means discernment. And it is a mark of maturity that you exercise and use discernment How many of you know that babies put everything in their mouth? It really doesn't matter what it is. If it's loose, it's gonna go in the mouth, right? Andrew uh ate a cricket once when he was young. Uh, you know, and that's a constant challenge for for parents, like, no no no, don't put that in your mouth A sign of maturity is that they start to have some discernment and realize there's some things you're not supposed to put in your mouth. There's some things you really I mean you ask Andrew today and it grosses him out to think that he ate a cricket. You know? I mean just I I eat I ate a cricket? I oh no, you know, that's nasty. Well he's got some discernment now. That's what's supposed to happen as Christians. That love that we have that crumb God puts in our heart as Christians When you're saved, you have the love of Christ in you and you love everybody. I was talking to Neetine this week, and he was talking about how as he got saved. that he just desired to express and to tell everybody about Christ and he just thought that everybody was going to hear it and and believe it and and see what he saw and and be ready. He said even my own family was mad at me. He said, I didn't understand why they weren't hearing the truth. It's like I'm not some stranger, I'm their own son. And now my mom doesn't even want to talk to me. Well, praise God over some period of days and time, and I don't know the total time frame, but he was able to lead his mom to Christ. And then and she is the one that carried him to church as a young man. But he understood the truth that that they just did religious activity. They didn't have a personal relationship with Christ. And for him to convince his mother of that, he said, this is very hard, Pastor. And he says, then he says, I was looking, I was watching her, and I didn't see any change. Like I didn't see, I was thinking like immediately she should be doing this and this and this and and I was saying, what's wrong with her? She must not be saved. He said, but then last week she told me well two weeks ago she told me that she had a burden in her heart for a lifelong friend who she knew wasn't saved. And I said, oh That's God, that's the Holy Spirit. He said she asked me to pray. And and she he said sh I began praying and he said then she called me last week and said she led her lifelong friend to Christ. That fruit. There's a process, there's something happens in the birth of a young baby Christian. They desire the things of God and they want to love everybody. They ought to just look at this, let's just love everybody. But there's some there has to come a measure of knowledge where you learn what God loves and a measure of discernment where you realize not everything goes in your mouth Not everything is believable. Not everything is what you should be doing. There are, you ought to have some discernment It's gotta be balanced. That love of Christ gotta be balanced with knowledge and judgment. I want you to understand that truth always judges error. It has to. Truth always judges error. And we see in verse number 10 a canny excellence. A canny excellence. In verse number 10 he says, that ye may approve things that are excellent. That you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. There is a level here where you're taking this discernment to another level. You're taking this idea of discernment in your life to the next step. There's an excellence about you that only can come from Jesus Christ. Paul wanted them to approve things that were excellent. This further growth of discernment is a honing of your skills, an understanding. And Christian, as the longer you've been saved, the more discernment you should have. You shouldn't be so easily swayed by somebody who happens to produce a video on YouTube. And starts to tell you about how uh Jesus is coming on this particular date How maybe a young Christian who hasn't spent time studying the Word of God and doesn't know these principles or truths doesn't have the knowledge to exercise discernment to know that guy has to be a false teacher because the Bible very clearly tells us we do not know the day or the hour. But as you get knowledge, your discernment should grow and you should be more discerning as a as an older, more mature Christian. You've got to approve those things. Approve means to prove by test. And what is the test? The Word of God Approve those things. Is what's being said line up with the scripture or not? Does it line up with what God said for us to do? Approve those things. If you're going to approve something by impli implication, that means you're going to disapprove of something else. And what I want you to understand is contrary to popular belief that you should not judge anything. This you are supposed to make judgments. You are to approve those things That means you discern. That means you judge whether it be right or wrong, not on your own knowledge, because what we think is not what's important, but what the Word of God says. If you're in the park and some guy that looks a little bit creepy Gets out of a white cargo van and starts inviting kids to come get in a van. Well, we're we're not supposed to judge We're not supposed to stereotype. He's probably a nice guy. You're an idiot. You wouldn't you wouldn't do that No parent would do that. They would say, wait, wait, no, no, you can don't even talk to that guy, you know? Stranger danger, amen. You gotta stay away from him We're supposed to do that. We are supposed to use the brain that God has put into our head. And having that guided by the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And discernment, beloved, comes from the Holy Spirit inside. Which uses the knowledge that you have to give you discernment to know that this is right and this is wrong The more mature you are as a Christian, the more evident that will be in your life. You will see those things, and the Spirit will tell you. You know, that word excellent, prove those things that are excellent. You see, we need to examine everything that the world throws us and choose the worthy thing. The word excellent literally means of utmost worthiness. Choosing the things that are of utmost value. Do you understand, beloved, that sometimes something good can be keeping you from the best? Something best. So it's not it's not necessarily something wrong, but we are supposed to examine and prove those things That are excellent. That means of most value, of the utmost value. So although exercise is good, The Bible says it profiteth, even though it says a little. Profiteth a little. But exercise is good, right? Amen. It's good. It's good for your body. Helps keep you young, keeps you trim. But if you're spending all your time exercising physically and not spending any time, if you're taking the time that you should or could be looking at the Word of God, You tell me which of those two things are more excellent. Which one is of utmost value? Right. According to the Word of God, it's His Word. We have to in our life choose the things that are of utmost value. We look at and evaluate what we're doing with our time. Is it sinful to watch a movie? No. I mean, maybe if you watch the wrong kind of movie, but there's nothing wrong with that. You can watch a movie and enjoy that with your family, and that can be fun. But if you do it during church, which of those two things are of utmost value? We are to, as Christians, we are to look at our life and approve those things which are going to be of the most worthy, most valuable. What's going to matter for eternity and what's going to only last for today? What is God going to value and what do I value? What is of utmost value? That's what he's saying to them. Paul is telling them, there's a canny excellence about you. You've got that. You've got it down. Paul wanted him to live in sincerity, without offense. Now, I want you to understand that what this is talking about is without offending God. You understand as you stand on the word of God that at some point you're probably going to offend somebody in this world. What this is talking about is without offending God. You see We're to approve those things that are excellent according to who? According to who? God. We're going to prove those things that are excellent according to God. And if we're going to be sincere, this is sincere and approving those things, This word here sincere literally means without wax. You say what? Without wax? That seems peculiar Well, the reason is because in Paul's day, merchants would take flawed pots and they would fill the problem areas, the cracks, with wax. And you could take a pot in the daylight and look up through it and you could see the cracks where they had been filled with wax. That sincerity means really without any hypocrisy, without any wax covering the flaws. Without anything hiding that, just here it is, in the light of the gospel, in the light of Jesus Christ, shining his light on your life, are you that kind of sincere before God, proving those things that will bring the most value? I hope so. You know, many times I've gone to someone's house and I've asked them, should I take my shoes off? You see, I'm trying to approve with them and their home what would be excellent for them What what do they want in their home? I personally don't like taking my shoes off. But I will if I'm in someone's house and that's what they want. Yeah, please take your shoes off. Okay. I'll be I'll take my shoes off. When we prove things that are excellent before God, that's what we're doing. God, what do you want? You're my Savior. You're the creator. Then I want you to see there's in verse number 11 a cornucopia. enjoyed. A cornucopia of righteousness enjoyed. Ten is a canny excellence. Verse number 11, a cornucopia of righteousness enjoyed. Verse number he says, being filled with the fruits of righteousness. Which are by Jesus Christ into the glory and the praise of God. It is God's will, and it is the prayer of Paul that the saints of Philippi be fruitful. We're supposed to be fruitful. And when we are living our life as God wants us to, Then fruit is the result. Fruit is the result This is the fruitfulness of righteousness. What is the fruitfulness of righteousness? Well there's several things the Bible tells us about fruit. You say we're supposed to bear fruit. What does that mean, Pastor Caleb? Well I know some of you have a knowledge of these things. but some might not. What does it mean for us to bear fruit? Well, let me give you a couple things. First of all, the fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. Proverbs 1130 We're supposed to bear fruit and winning souls, reaching people for Christ, telling them about the gospel is fruitful As of Sunday night, a large majority of the church, and I hope most all of the church is praying at least one minute a day for God to give us fruit before the end of the month, that God will allow us to see somebody sick Praying one minute a day to lead us to the right person, to open the hearts of those that we minister to, to give boldness to those that are our church family that have the truth and we need to share it. Asking God to allow us to see fruit, to see somebody saved before the end of the month. There's the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5, 22 and 23. It's all one fruit as we're walking in the Spirit. These different things will be evident in our life. We're not going to take time to look there. You can look at them on your own. You say, I want to have fruit in my life. Well Be a soul winner. You want to have fruit in your life? Well, have the fruit of the Spirit by walking in the Spirit day by day in your life. There is a fruit of holiness. Romans 6 22 says, But now being made free from sin and becoming servants to God, you have your fruit unto holiness, and the end, everlasting life. There is fruit of holiness. As you are living how God wants you to live, you're bringing forth fruits, you're bringing forth that fruit of holiness in your life, and it's honoring to God and points people to Christ. Then, beloved, there is a fruit of good works. Colossians 1, verse number 10, says that ye might walk worthy of the Lord into all pleasing, being fruitful in every Good work. Being fruitful in every work. So there's there's fruit that you're bringing when you're doing things for Christ. However small it might be, a small job or task here at the church. All the way to whatever somebody might look at and say, this is the most important thing. Everything from just picking up a piece of trash off the floor to make sure God's house looks good. Through every part of the ministry, working can't wait till we get the choir back up and going singing in the choir, singing specials, playing the pianos, working in the nursery, working in Sunday school. Those are all good works and they're fruit that you're bringing forth in your life. And that honors God. And it's the fruit that we're supposed to be fruitful. And it it's enjoyed. We get to enjoy it. I want you to understand, beloved. the source of this fruit. And this verse here, he says, which are by what? Which are by what? What does it say? Jesus Christ. Which are by Jesus Christ. The source of this fruit is from Jesus. Philippians chapter 3 and verse number 9. says, and being found in him, we having not having mine own righteousness. which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. That righteousness is from God, from Jesus Christ. And it's not just religious activity. We have enough religious activity in the world and in churches. It's not just religious activity. Let me ask you if I was to take a stick of dynamite and find this down here, they wouldn't like it much, but these neighbors down at the end of the road on on the right side of Cuba where that had that big open field. And they have a lot of times they burn fires out there. They got that big pile of dirt there. What if I took a stick of dynamite and lit it off in the middle of that field and it exploded? And oh! That was awesome. Man, a big explosion. That was neat. There's dust flying everywhere. That was amazing. There was a lot of activity But what if I took that stick of dynamite and placed it in a strategically drilled hole in the side of a granite hill? And broke off a large slab of granite that could be cut and shaped into countertops. Same explosion, different results. That's what happens when we minister in and through the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not just a bunch of activity. It's not just a bunch of fanfare. It's not just religious work. It's meaningful. life-changing, impactful work that God uses for his honor and glory. Yes, Paul was thankful for the church, but he prayed for them. He prayed for them that these three things would be evident, that their love would abound. in knowledge and judgment, that they would approve those things that are excellent, of utmost value, and that because of that their life would be filled with the fruit of righteousness. And I hope and pray for Hunt Valley Baptist Church that we have these things evident in our lives, that we are doing this. And if we are, we will get to enjoy that fruitfulness, that bountifulness of Christ using us