Nehemiah chapter number 12 and verse 43 will be our text verse. In Nehemiah chapter 8, verse number 10, the Bible says, the joy of the Lord is your strength. And uh we need to remember that uh Christians, as Christians, we ought to have joy. We ought to have joy in our heart, joy in our life and and And I know that there's hardship and there's trials and there's days that are hard, yet we should still have joy. There should still be joy present. And uh it it's important for the believer to to have joy. In Nehemiah chapter twelve and verse number forty-three, our text verse for tonight, he says, also that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced. For God hath made them rejoice with great joy. The wives also, and the children rejoiced, so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off. Everyone wants joy. Everyone would like to have joy. This world, of course, looks for it in all the wrong places They desire and they long for joy and they they look for this what they would describe as happiness and that's what they long for, but looking for it in so many different situations and life circumstances and things. But the Nehemiah the book of Nehemiah here shows us the true path to joy. It's not found in a life of ease or even in the fulfillment of our dreams, but in obedience. I would like to speak to you for a couple of minutes tonight on our journey to joy. We see here this celebration of joy in chapter 12, verse number 43. I mean, how many times in one verse is the word joy or rejoicing or joyful mentioned? Over and over again. He says everybody's involved in this joy. It's a joy that's present and can be heard afar off. Yet if we were, and I would like you to turn in your Bibles Back to chapter number one. If you would just turn back to chapter number one. We're going to kind of get back to the beginning, and we're looking at the journey to joy that's found here in the book of Nehemiah. Now in the class I'm teaching on Tuesday nights I had an assignment for them to listen to Brother Ron Ralph preached a message entitled The Journey to Joy. And uh I would encourage you to it's on Sermon Audio. You can go and listen to it and I know you'll be blessed and challenged by it. Um and uh would be kind of uh would would go along with this although uh I don't know if I happen to say something that was from him, this is not his message or even his outline or any part of it really. Uh but Because I listened to it last week in preparation for the lesson that I was teaching the young people, uh I may inadvertently repeat repeat something he said and not give him credit. I'm not trying to do that on purpose Ron Ralph's a great, great preacher of the Word of God, very challenging. I would encourage you to listen to any of his messages for sure. But the title is from him. The journey of joy. That that I took from uh brother Ron Ralph and uh it's seen here in this book. We see in ver chapter one As the book opens, verse number four, look at it, we see here, and it came to pass when I heard these words that I sat down and wept. And mourned certain days and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven. We see here in chapter number one that the book opens and Nehemiah is driven to tears. He's overcome with a burden and he's brokenhearted over the situation that has come upon his people really Because of judgment, because of the judgment of God, and he understands that and he knows that they are currently under judgment, and that's why they're facing this position, the place that he's in, and So what I want to address is how do we get from this place where we're broken and undone and we uh are weeping with sorrow in our heart? There's mourning. And yet we see at the end of the book, we get to chapter number twelve, one chapter from the conclusion, and we see that there's great rejoicing. Well, how do we get from this place of brokenness to a place of rejoicing? That's what we want to look at tonight. And first of all, I want you to see that it begins with a confession of sin. It begins with a confession of sin in Nehemiah chapter 1, verses 6 through 8. We see here that he says, Let thine ear now be attentive, and thy eyes open, that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant, which I pray before thee now day and night. For the children of Israel, thy servant, and confess the sins of the children of Israel which we have sinned against thee Both I and my father's house have sinned. We have dealt very corruptly against thee, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the judgments which thou commandest thy servant Moses Remember, I beseech thee, the word that thou commandest thy servant Moses, saying, If ye transgress, I will scatter ye abroad among the nations. He understands that they are under the judgment of God and that the reason that they've been scattered abroad, the reason that they are no longer there in Jerusalem is because of their sin and he is crying out in confession, acknowledging that fact. We've got to come to the place, if we're ever going to get to the place where there's great joy, where there's great rejoicing, it begins with a understanding and an acknowledgement of where we are presently And the fact that we do stand guilty before a thrice holy God for mercy and the acknowledgement of the sin of the people and of himself. And he asked for forgiveness. He understands that he had transgressed the law. Beloved, that's what sin is. A transgression of God's law. You know, we live today far too content to establish our own level of righteousness. Christianity today wants to define their their own spirituality and their own righteousness and and and want to pretend or act like everything's okay when it's far from okay. What would God say? What is God's standard of perfection? What is God's standard of sin? Where is it that I've transgressed the law and the acknowledgement of God? You know, with the tender heart that Nehemiah has, I mean, you see him here broken. He's crying. What I'm saying is, I don't think Nehemiah was necessarily a prodigal son. I don't think he was on the run from God. He had a tender heart. I think if we put it in today's vernacular, he probably was a pretty faithful church member. He probably had devotions He probably walked with God. He probably, you know, in today's realm you would say, well, you know, he was a good guy. He loved God. He was tender-hearted, tender-hearted enough to be broken over the sins of the people and the condition of Israel. I would say he probably would have been classified or considered a pretty good church member, and yet he comes to the place where he says, man, I've sinned. I've sinned. What a blessing on Sunday night to be able to observe the Lord's table together as a church. And I commented on it then and just since then I've continued to ponder and I've been so grateful for for the loving patience of our Heavenly Father and how we can come to Him and confess our sin and He He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. I don't ever have to be guilty of partaking of the Lord's table unworthily because at any time I can come and confess my sin and he'll forgive us. That's an amazing truth. And we tend to couch things in our understanding and from our knowledge and our lack of patience and our lack of forgiveness. We look at God and we wonder how He could forgive us one more time. How can he forgive us again? I mean, I know I wouldn't forgive somebody if they did that over and over and over, like I've done to God, to my Redeemer, my Savior. Why why would he forgive me again? Yet he has promised us, and his promises are sure. Nehemiah relies on that promise. He knows that God is faithful, he understands it. He says there in verse number nine, in verse number chapter one, verse number nine, he says, But if ye turn unto me and keep my commandments, he's talking to the Lord about what God had promised them. He said, I remember you promised me if we transgress you're going to scatter us. But you also promised if you turn unto me and keep my commandments and do them. Though they were of you cast out into the uttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from thence and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen He says, Lord, I I just remember this is what you told Moses. You promised. You said, if we would re repent, you would bring us back together. To that place where you've chosen to set your name, Jerusalem. And Lord, I'm believing you for that promise. Do you believe the promise of God that He'll forgive? He'll forgive you of that sin. We, you know, sin, beloved, always steals joy. But confession always stirs joy up. Confession brings us back. It begins that process by which we can be restored into a right relationship and re-beloved regardless of what's happening in our life When there's nothing between us and the Savior, there's joy inside. When you know you have that peace, when you know you have that that direct line of communication to your Heavenly Father. You have joy. Even in the face of hardship, even in the face of trial, because you know that he's a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, and you know he's there walking with you in the midst of that trial. You know that his ear is tuned to you as you call out to him in your hour of need, and you have that joy and peace in your heart because of it. We see a confession of sin, but secondly, we see the path to joy, the journey to joy is a courageous act. We're not going to read all this, but chapters 2 through 7, you guys know the story, and we've been talking about it some. But look just to chapter 2. The courageous act begins in chapter 2. Just look at verse number 4 and 5. He says here. Then the king said unto me, For what dost thou make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven. And here again you see Nehemiah going to the Lord in prayer, even in just a quick moment when he needed God's wisdom. And he said unto the king, if it pleased the king, If thou servant hath found favor in thy sight, and thou wouldest send me unto Judah, unto the cities of my fathers' sepulchres, that I may build it. You know the story how he was really in fear of coming before the king with sorrow on his face, knowing that that was detrimental to people's health. you know, could cost him his life and yet he's so broken over this and the king recognizes it and says, Well, what do you need? What what can I do for you? How how can I help you? And and Neumite thinks, Well here goes you know, I I'm putting it all out there just trusting God and he asked him, Lord, you know, hey King, if it be okay with you, could I go? And rebuild the city of my fathers. And could you give me a letter? Could you help me get there and provide some of the means in which I could do it? And you know, of course, he travels and the king does provide him. possessions and uh gives him a letter of recommendation and he goes to rebuild and he gets there and he takes a a survey of the city and sees what all needs to be done and and he's not overwhelmed. He's not broken down. He looks at what needs to be done and he's got a burden and a call in his heart. I just heard that today about another uh church being planted in Laurel, Maryland, not far from us, and a young man and his wife are going to plant a church and and uh what an amazing call that is on a young man and and their family to go and to try and get a church started and planted and We'll we'll try and get a hold of him and get him out here. But you look at it and you say, Man, there's so much to do. And he didn't get overwhelmed. He he cast a vision before the people and says, Look, this is what God's called God's hands on me. God told me to do this And I think we need to get it done. And the people recognized it and they got behind him and they they began to build the wall. That courageous act. And and are you going to be courageous and do what God said? Being faithful to church, following the Lord, being a witness, they attempted to do great things for God. You know what, let me just remind you that when you attempt to do something great for God, you're gonna have some grim you're gonna have some enemies. Regardless of what that is, you're gonna have some enemies. I know I've talked numerous times to people and they they were shocked because they thought their family would be excited about them doing this thing for God. They thought their family would be thrilled that they were going to church. They thought that everybody was going to love the idea, and they found that people didn't care for the idea. You're gonna have some enemies. We see in our text here that through we're not gonna take time to read all of it, but you guys know the story, Sam Ballot and Tobiah come and They begin to attack them and try and stop the work from moving forward. They tried to sat sidetrack them, you know, hey, come on down, let's meet together. Let's just, you know, Satan's okay If you don't Satan's Satan would love to take you out in a life of debauchery and sin and all of that, but what I'm saying is if he could just sidetrack you, that would be good enough. If he can just keep you busy doing things that maybe are okay but really aren't what God wants you to do, then he's one. And they tried to get Nehemiah and the leadership, come on down, let's meet together, let's go to the valley of Onoh, let's let's talk about this. And he says, I cannot come down. Why should I leave and let this great work of God suffer because of it? They they tried to slander them and and made funds, wrote letters to the to the king, and said, they're here to usurp your authority and all of that. They tried to slander them. They tried to actually slay them. They had set in plan a motion to kill them. And yet God protected them through that. I'm going to tell you the enemy is going to do all he can to keep you from being victorious. You know, the pressure that's on you. Hudson Taylor, Hudson Taylor said this. It doesn't matter how much pressure you have in your life, as long as you're sure as you make sure the pressure doesn't get between you and God. If you'll keep the pressure where it's not between you and God, then it doesn't matter how great the pressure is because all that will do is push you closer to God. As long as you don't let it get between you and God, then whatever pressure comes, whatever attack the enemy sends, whatever problems arise in life. As long as there's nothing between you and God, all that all those things will do is just push you into a better relationship with God. Just get you closer to Him. They even, if you remember the story, they lost faith for a little bit. You remember they got discouraged in chapter four, verses ten through twelve. was gone, it was decayed. They because there was much rubbish. There was lots to do. They were they were a little bit burdened about it. Have you ever been Overcome by how much needed to be done Excuse me. Just a little bit. Like you just look at it's like there's so much to do. I don't even know where to start. You feel like that with a wedding with all that responsibilities that are coming up and everything that's got to be accomplished and oh we've got this and this and this and I've got to do this and that and there's so many things and you get overwhelmed. and and the pressures can get to be too much. They got that way as well. What I'm saying is sometimes that happens, but it doesn't have to steal your joy. They're still on the path to joy. They're still heading that way because they responded to God and were strengthened to continue the work They saw the project completed, you know, in chapter number six, but you know what? Even that did not bring them to a point of joy and satisfaction. Projects completed are nice. You know I'm project oriented and driven by the completion of goals and that kind of thing for sure, and there is some satisfaction in that. Yes, there was some celebration. Yes, there was some time of of of hey victory was announced and let's praise and worship God for what's been done. But the true celebration of joy doesn't come yet. Why? Because there's some things that needed to be done first. And we see thirdly here a committed promise in chapters eight through ten. In chapter 8, look with me in verse number 1. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man entering into the street that was before the water gate. And they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. Look down at verse number 3. And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate in the morning until midday. Before the men and the women and those that could understand, and the ears of all the people, were attentive unto the book of the law. They return to the Word. They had a committed promise here in chapters 8 through 10. got back to the Word of God. They returned to studying and listening to and focusing on the Word of God. I hope that uh you have a returning to the Word of God. Have you started memorizing Scripture again? Have you started studying a book of the Bible again? Have you got back to learning some more about the Word? The Word of God is the Message for us today, and we need to have a relationship with the Word of God and get to know the Word of God and study the Word of God for what it is, the Word of God. We know in chapter eight, verse number eight, he tells us that that word of God that they read it distinctly. He gave the sense of it. He caused them to understand it. Wanted to know more about it. They called for it. Only they returned to the Word of God, but in chapter number nine, they remembered God's faithfulness. They thought about how good God was. You remember from going through this and some of this is is review, but They they pondered in in verses six through thirty-one. We're not going to take the time to read all those, but they they remembered uh they just kind of went through their mind and began to remember all that God had done for them This is vitally important, Christian. If we're going to have the joy of the Lord in our heart, we cannot fail to remember what God has already done. They remembered God's power and how he freed them from Egypt, and they remembered his promises that carried them and the protection that he gave them as they were in the wilderness and how he guided them, how he his presence was with them in the midst of the wilderness and all of its trials and all the the troubles how he provided for them his provision in the wilderness of manna and feeding them and water from the rock and how God did this for them over and over again. They remembered his patience, his patience with them, in the face of their rebellion, in the face of their continual complaining, in the face of all of their their corruption. They they just pondered and thought about the patience of God through it all. You can read those verses chapter 9, 6 through 31, as they review those things one after the other and remember how God did this for them. They literally went through a list and listed the things. Of the blessings and the goodness of God. Look in chapter nine and verse number thirty-eighth. Chapter nine and verse number thirty-eight. He says here, and because of all of this We make a sure covenant and write it, and our princes, Levites, and priests, seal unto it. Because of all of this They're saying because of all that God had done, because of everything that we just went through, because of all of that, we have to make this covenant, we have to make uh a promise and so they renewed their commitments in chapter number ten uh where we see them j just renew a commitment everybody signed it they put their name down on the dotted line and said, boy, we're gonna follow God. The world behind me the cross before me, no turning back, no turning back. If you want to be on a path to joy and have true joy in your life, It begins with a confession of sin. It begins with a courageous act to take up your cross and follow Jesus and do what God wants you to do. And a committed promise and say, listen, I'm gonna follow God, come what may, this world can attack, and troubles may come, and trials may hit me. from every side, but I'm committed to following the Lord. Listen, Satan has taken out far too many Christians today. They're giving up. They're quitting on God. They're leaving the church. Their families are falling away and we're losing far too many. Where is the commitment to just stay in there? Everybody deals with discouragement. Everybody deals with somebody wasn't kind to them or somebody mistreated them or somebody attacked them or somebody slandered them. Everybody deals with that. We look at other people's lives sometimes and we think, ma'am, they've got it so easy. People that haven't been in this church for the last few years would look maybe like at a family at Brother Lee and they see him standing there at the foyer and and welcoming, greeting everybody and saying, Hey, where's your smile today? And and they look at him and think, well, it's easy for him to smile. They don't have any problems. I mean they don't know the the the journey that they've walked the last few years and what God has brought them through and they look at them and they may say, Oh well if I had his life I could I could smile like that too. What I'm saying is you They don't know what he's been through, what their family has been through, what God has carried them through. And many times people look at other people like that and they think, well, I have an excuse because my life is not easy. Nobody's life is easy. Everybody's carrying burdens. Everybody, Satan is the enemy of us all, and he's trying to take us all out. We just need to be committed. So you sign me up. Put my name down. I can't help but be committed when I think about all that God has done. This last week I was talking to somebody I don't know who it was or where we were. I know I was walking towards the suburban. I literally cannot remember who I was talking to, but I said, Well you're oh no, I don't know. Thought it might have been at the wedding over at Star's. I think I might have been talking to Pastor Chris over there I don't remember for sure. So anyways, they were telling me about some challenges they were facing and I said, Well, here's your choices. Either quit or you keep moving forward. I just decided I'm not gonna quit. So your options are to keep I mean I know it's hard, but you just say, you know what, we're just gonna keep moving forward. We're just gonna trust God and and keep taking the steps because Quentin's not an option. Just be committed The way you get to experience the joy. You know, I I look at Our twentieth anniversary as a church, this huge victory, a declaration of the goodness of God and his blessings and and And just that kind of excitement and the thrill about what all that God did there and and uh you look back at that highlight. But you know, every week's not that type of celebration. Every week's not the big day. Every week's not the excitement and all the fun and exciting and boy this is awesome. Let's go to church and see what God. I mean every week's not that way But the only way you get to the 20th anniversary and you experience that joy is being faithful for the 20 years leading up to it. And I don't know where God will have us come our 30th anniversary. We're gonna have some ups and downs between now and then. We're gonna have some challenges. But we're also going to see some great victories. And those that have been faithful and stayed and carried on through it, we get to that 30th anniversary, we'll will stand together and rejoice at the goodness of God. We'll get to be in awe of what God has done. But we're going to need to be committed. We see in Chapter 10 here in verse number 30 that they uh committed their families to God. And that we would not give our daughters unto the people of the land nor take their daughters for our sons. They said, listen, we're we're committing. To follow God. We're going to give our families to God. They committed to give their time to God. Verse number 31. And if the people of the land bring ware or any vitals on the Sabbath day to sell it, that we would not buy it off of them on the Sabbath or on the holy day and that we would leave the seventh year and the exaction of ev of every debt. They're saying we're going to observe the Sabbath, the Sabbath sabbatical year, we're going to observe the Sabbath on on a day because this is what God wants. We're not going to be involved in these things. We're going to do this for God. We're going to give our time to God. And we see they dip they committed their money to God. Verses 32 through 39, we see them sacrificing for the Lord. We're not going to take time to read that. But they renewed their commitment. How do we get to the celebration that we see in chapter twelve, the celebration of joy? It takes a confession of sin, a courageous act It takes a committed promise. And then we get to experience the celebration of joy. Listen, beloved, the importance of joy. It can't be overstated. Joy in the Christian life is so important. There are far too many dead churches. Stephen and I were talking and just we need churches with life where the Spirit of God is moving and working in people's hearts. Where we see God's hand changing lives and where people are excited about being in the Lord's house. We need to come to church with some anticipation of excitement of seeing what God's going to do. I know sometimes duty is what gets you here. And praise the Lord for that. You're not alone. Sometimes duty is what gets me here. Because it's what we're supposed to do. Beloved, if it's duty that's getting you there every week, it's not going to keep going forever. You got to get stirred again. You got to get on fire again. You need revival in your heart so that you're coming to church with an anticipation of what God's going to do. Looking for God to do a work in your life. We need to sing and make a joyful noise unto the Lord. The German philosopher Nietzsche said. If Christians expect me to believe in their Redeemer, they're going to have to look a little bit more redeemed I mean, he's a well-known antagonistic and against Christianity altogether. And he says, you know what, if Christians want me to believe in their Redeemer, they're going to have to look a little more redeemed. Beloved, we ought to have the joy of the Lord. The joy of the Lord, it speaks to the world, and we ought to have this in our heart and in our lives. I know every personality is different. There's some people that are very bubbly and overflowing, and there's some people that are more quiet and reserved. But we all ought to have joy. We all ought to have a smile on our face and the joy of the Lord coming through our lives. We know that joy is not the same as happiness which is contended upon our happy needs, but joy is present because of what God has done in our lives. Look here in chapter 12 at verse number 30 and see what's necessary for joy to be present in our heart. We're getting to the point. Verse number forty what was it, forty-three was our text? We're not quite there, but look at what he has what they begin with here in verse number thirty. And the priests and the Levites purified themselves. and purified the people and the gates and the wall. Let me just tell you that holiness always precedes happiness. The impact of joy is seen here as we see that this in verse number 43, it was heard afar off. When we have the true joy of the Lord, it impacts the world. They see it in our lives. They're impacted by it. Their lives are changed. Joy, beloved, is contagious. I was listening to a message this week by Dr. Larry Brown. You know, shut the door, that guy Shut the door, shut the door. I was listening to a message by him and he got up to preach and he's like stand up. You know this is what he does, right? Stand up, stand up for Jesus, he soldiers of the cross You know, oh oh boy, I'm excited to be in the Lord's house tonight. I'm so thrilled I'm like a a calf looking at a new gate. Boy, I'm just thrilled. Well I couldn't be any more excited. I mean I'm seventy-eight years older. Whatever he said, I don't know how old he is But he's like and I I I'm more excited today than I was the day I got saved. Why? Because God is good and he he just I mean in just a few minutes to listen to him. I was excited. Like man, amen. Praise the Lord. Joyce contagious If we would have joy, it would impact the world. It would impact others around us. Now I'm not Larry Brown and I I I'm not can't can't be that person. So our our personalities are different, but we should still have joy. Amen. I want you to see something that's necessary. Look in verse number 27. They dedicated the walls. Now at the dedication of the walls of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites out of their places to bring them to Jerusalem to keep Keep the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgiving and singing, with symbols sultry and with harps. Let me tell you, beloved, that thanksgiving is an outward expression of inward joy. It can't be helped. When you have the joy of the Lord, when you've gone back and you've pondered and remembered and thought about all that God has done for you, you cannot help but be thankful You cannot help but express that gratitude and that joy is going to come out and the acknowledgement of what God has done and it's going to spread to other people. You're going to communicate that to others. Thanksgiving is a is a fundamental and extremely important character trait for the believer. Loved, we often fail to be thankful because we're too full. Have you ever worked all day out in the heat? There's many hours. You didn't really have anything to drink and you're like man I need something to drink but you couldn't you couldn't quit. You had to keep on going and you know finally you got to the place where you could take a break or you got to or somebody brought you a drink and and I mean it might have been water We know it wasn't coffee. But who knows what it might have been but they brought you something to drink and and you took a drink and it was like Oh wow, that was so good. Why? Because you didn't have it. Because you had gone without it for a while. Fullness leads to forgetfulness. And you understand, beloved, we are so blessed in this country that we've come to expect The blessings of God on a normal basis, so much so that we have ceased to be thankful for them. I mean, let me just ask you. The last time you stood in your hot shower, when's the last time you stopped and said, Man, thank you, Lord? Thank you that I have hot water to take a shower tonight. I mean we expect it and when it's not hot Somebody's getting in trouble. Some kid took too long of a shower and there's no hot water, right? Like who took all the hot water? I mean we we we've come to expect it something so simple as just being able to turn the hot hot water on or to get cold. Filtered water out of the fridge. You know how many people in the world would love to have a drink of just pure clean water? Let alone cold and and and filtered out of a fridge. We just walk by and get a drink and don't think anything of it We we our our kitchens are full. Beloved, I mean there's enough food in my house to to you could all come over That's what brother uh Ron Ralph would say. We could feed everybody with the food out of any one of our houses just about. We're so blessed. But we we've come to expect it. We're no longer thankful for it. The little things that God does for us every day. You don't really realize how thankful you should be even for your just the health that you have to be able to get out of bed and to be able to function and go do things until you go through some things like some of our f church family have gone through. And we'll be praying for here in a few minutes. Miss Trudy, who's here on Sunday morning but couldn't come Sunday night because she was too weak. Who's going through, you know, just the treatment is is is oftentimes as bad as the illness Well you y you're thankful for the ability just to take a deep breath. Without pain when you're going through that. What I'm saying is that we we've been so blessed we we lose the ability to just be thankful. And joy is an express or thankfulness is expression of a heart of joy. It's not going to be there unless we realize and acknowledge that we have sight we didn't secure. We have abilities that we didn't acquire. We have freedom that we didn't have to fight for. We have hearing that we did not harness. We've got blessings that we didn't beg for. We've got strength that we didn't have to sweat to achieve We've got an eternity that we certainly didn't earn. We take these things for granted continually. I read many years ago a story about a king who had a large group of followers. You know everybody wants to be around the king. He had lots of people in his uh what do they call the people that are around him, the you know, his advisors and his court, yeah, his court. And he would throw these these elaborate feast And all these people in his court would come and partake of the feast and they would eat and and be merry and they would enjoy all of this stuff at the king's expense and they would come in and they would eat and enjoy it all over and over and over again. The king was so troubled about it, he thought, Well I'm gonna I'm gonna see how they respond and he went ahead and o offered another feast for everybody to come, but he had it planned where there would be a vagabond off the street would come into the feast. And the Vagabond was supposed to come in and sit down at different tables and and and eat, and he told the guards to leave him alone and let him come through and And he had a spot right next to the king where the Vagabond was going to make his way up and he was going to sit next to the king actually and get to eat some of the king's Right from the king's table. And then he was going to go and partake of the dessert and and and get his complete fill and and then leave At the conclusion of the night, people were saying their goodbyes and uh the evening was ending and and he heard the conversations among those people of the king's court and they they couldn't believe it and I mean they were indignant how this man off of the street, this this bum, this vagabond would come in and Get to partake of all of this stuff, and not a one of them heard that Vagabond say thank you. Not a one of them heard that Vagabond uh acknowledge the king in any way, and the king called them all back Brought them into there and he says, week after week after week, you all sit at my table and you experience what you had tonight and you express no gratitude. You express no thankfulness, and yet you stand in judgment and indignant about the one who came in one time when you over and over and over and over again Are blessed by being in my presence. And you don't acknowledge it at all. And beloved, I wonder how many times we as God's people Are guilty of that. But God has so richly blessed us, given us so much And we partake and partake and partake and forget to be thankful. Our journey to joy, the joy of the Christian life, that's going to have an impact around the world that we get into. There's that kind of joy that comes from a heart of gratitude, from thankfulness, that the world will see. You may be broken, you may have experienced brokenness, but you can have the celebration of joy. That's found in chapter twelve. You follow this pattern seen in the book of Nehemiah. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?