Well, we'll uh get into the Word of God here. We are in chapter four uh of the book of Philippians. Uh tonight we're going to look at the grit of the Christian. The grit of the Christian And uh, you know, that's just uh we need some Christians today with some uh you know just some intestinal fortitude, some strength to just stand in in a wicked day and and to do what God wants us to do. And uh everything around us would would have us uh lower the bar, uh change the standard, remove and well get away from those old paths that uh the Lord uh had uh instructed us in. And uh the things that we learned and let all that go and uh just adopt and adapt and go with the flow of of modern Christianity and modern thought and and And uh it just it just goes downhill from there. It gets worse and worse. And we need Christians that that have some grit and that are willing to stand. for God. And uh so we see that admonition given to us in verse number one of the book of Philippians. We're going to look tonight at the first three verses. If you're there in Philippians chapter 4, follow along as we read the first three verses here. Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved and longed for. My joy and crown stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. I beseech Judith and beseech Syndeci that they be of the same mind in the Lord And I entreat thee also, true Yoke Fellow, help those women which labored with me in the gospel And Clement also, and with other my fellow laborers whose names are in the book of life. Ask God to help me as we walk through this tonight. Lord, we come to you right now and I ask you, Lord, that you'd give me clarity of thought and liberty to speak. Lord, we thank you for your love for us. We thank you, Lord, that uh we have the privilege to gather here. We thank you for this building. that we get to meet in and that, Lord, the air conditioners are functioning and and we can gather here and in a comfortable atmosphere, Lord, and our minds can focus for a few minutes on the Word of God. Lord, I know some of our family is out traveling, some on vacation. Lord, Gus and Laura at home recovering. Lord, we pray that you would be with them tonight. Uh Lord, I pray that uh you would give strength to them and re recovery and and I would progress uh As expected, Lord, Lord, I pray you'd be with Brian and his family, Lord, in preparation for the funeral on Saturday And Lord, I ask you tonight, as we just turn our mind towards the Word of God here for a few minutes, that you would speak to our hearts. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, well we see here the grit of the Christian. The grit of the Christian. Sometimes you just gotta keep on going. You just gotta plug away at it. Whether you want to or not, or whether it's going the way it should or not, or you know, sometimes uh you just got to keep on pushing. And uh that's what we're gonna do tonight. We're gonna keep pushing through and Hopefully the Lord will take something and use it. But uh it takes some grit to do that. It takes something that uh I think by and large in today's world and society young people for sure aren't aren't getting. They aren't grabbing a hold of that. Uh they there's something that they're somehow they're getting up through those uh adolescent and teen years and and getting into the workforce And they don't have any grip. They don't got any stick-to-itedness. There's nothing there that would cause them to hold fast, uh, to stand fast, as Paul says here in verse number one. Therefore My brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown stand fast in the Lord Stand fast in the Lord. And we need some Christians that will stand fast. So in verse number one, we see first of all that that is given to us the admonition to stand fast. And we need to stand fast today. The things that we've learned, listen, don't let those go by the wayside. I know it's not extremely popular today to stand by the King James Bible. I was shocked the other day. We're driving down 83 on the way uh up to York and uh there was a car and on the car it had a bumper sticker and the bumper sticker s said If it ain't King James, it ain't God's word. And I thought, wow, I wanted to follow the car and just say thank you. You know what I mean It's just there's not very many people today that stand on the Word of God. They just, oh, whatever, or there's enough of the Word of God, or it's close enough, or it's okay Um but there's things that we've learned that we've been taught we were just talking in the four year about the old fashioned hymns and how disappointed we are of this songbook that's got nine hundred songs in it How is it missing some of those good old-time hymns that we grew up on, that we knew for all these years, and and those old truths, you know, it I I say it here jokingly, but I'm not joking. This is the church the way it used to be. And that's what I want to try and keep at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I don't want us to end up with a light show and I enjoy technology. And I enjoy embracing that. So it's something I have to kind of watch even even myself and guard myself against that we don't uh inadvertently go too far because sometimes my mind starts thinking and And I was like, well we could do this or we could do this and that would be nice. But listen, you don't need all those things to meet with God. Well we don't need an experience in church. We need an experience with God. And that happens because we get in the Word of God and the Spirit of God is speaking to us. And that's what we need today. We see here first of all in verse number one he says Paul what I said called Paul's delight He delighted in them. He said, My brethren, my dearly beloved, my longed for, my joy and crown. These were his sons and daughters in the faith. They were his joy. They were his crown. I'll tell you what, there's no greater delight than to be able to be used to lead somebody to Christ. Amen, Tim? That's exciting to be used to change somebody's eternal destiny. And you take that joy a little further I mean what kind of satisfaction and joy did it bring to us uh Alicia who who was it the young man that came to Bible school a few years ago, got saved uh at Bible school and then hm? Miles, the young man he was working at Chick-fil-A. So he got saved in Bible school. We never saw him again, but then she saw him at Chick-fil-A and found out he's going into the ministry. I mean, wow, how uh this is amazing. He hasn't been here, but all this time that influence we were able to have, and that's exciting. You think, wow, we got to be a part of that And there's no greater joy for a believer when you get to be used in God to lead somebody to Christ. And then you get to see them begin to grow and begin to follow after God and begin to hunger and thirst for the things of Christ, you're looking at that and you think, man, They they want God more than me. And they're they're more excited about the things of Jesus than I am. And and it starts to convict your heart. Like I've got I've got a little cold and I've got a little casual. Boy, I need to Persevere in this some more, and you get around somebody like that, a new Christian, and they encourage you. But Paul says, Hey, these are my joy. He he delighted in them. He wanted to see them follow after God. He tells a man. I love you. I long for you to be successful as Christians. And they were his crown. A testament to his ministry. A great honor for him to have been part of their salvation and maybe instrumental in helping in the process of sanctification where God grows a Christian into the likeness of the Son. Paul saying, Man, that's been such a joy for me. You might think of it like this, like a child who, you know, uh sometimes you'll see A child and you say, man, that child brings honor to their family. That child is a is a is a crown jewel in that home. And Paul was saying, you guys, you're you're a crown to me. You're you're a jewel to me. But then he gives him some direction. He says, listen, stand fast. Stand fast. Why why should they stand fast? Do you see that first word there? the chapter division, which we know we're added for our organizational purposes, but that first word there is therefore. So there is something, there's a purpose, there's a reason. He says, because of this, you need to stand fast. Because why? Well, back up a little bit. Look at the end there, and you recall as we studied this at the close of the last lesson, but he says in verse number 20 and 21, for our conversation is in heaven. From whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, that it be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things to himself. Therefore, stand fast. He's saying, because your citizenship is not here on earth, because this is not your home, because you are in fact a citizen of heaven. Because your heavenly Father is going to come one day and subdue all things unto himself. One day we'll be home in glory. And until then we've got to stand fast. Stand fast in the Lord, that is in the power of his strength. No Christian is able to do it in their own strength. It's God's power and God's strength that makes it possible. The real problem for so many is the complacency and the casual Christianity today causes them to be unwilling to stand for anything. But do you know, beloved, you're either gonna invest your life in something or you're gonna waste it on nothing. You're gonna invest your life in something or you're gonna waste it on nothing. I was talking to somebody and I don't remember who it was. Shocking, I know. But they were telling me, you know, you know how we get accused of Well, Christianity is just a crutch for you. And he said, you know what? If you mean by that that Christianity, that my faith in Christ, that this is what I lean on, This is where I get my strength. This is how I make it through my days? Doesn't bother me that you say that. This is true. It is. It's where I get my strength. This is how I get through my days. And you know what? It's okay with me if you think that. What are you leaning on? I mean I would rather invest my life and my time and my energy in something of eternal value and purpose than waste it on that which is meaningless. And if we get to the end of our days, and I this is not the case, but let's say it was the case that we reach the end of our days and all of our effort in in Christianity was found out to be useless and we just ended up in the grave and it was done and it was over. I've often said it, I've still had an amazing life. And it's been worth it all. And God has been so good to me and blessed me beyond measure. I'll take a happy home and children that love me and a good relationship Over what this world offers, over the mess and the turmoil that people are dealing with day in and day out, I'll take it. We stand fast because this world is not our home. Stand fast is a military term. Let's hold the line. Stand in the gap. Hold fast the things of God. We know that we're soldiers of the cross. 1 Corinthians 16, verse 13 says, Watch ye, stand fast in the face, quit ye like men, be strong. We need men today. This world doesn't like men. They like to portray the man. You watch any television show, any program, even commercials. They portray the man as a bumbling idiot, a self-serving individual. Somebody who can't dress himself without his mom or his wife. I resent that. A man should be a loving leader. All right. Amen. One who does right even when it's hard, because it's right to do. He has the strength to stand in the face of adversity, and he has the wisdom to do so with love. And at the right time. A man. We need men that will stand. We see secondly he tells us not only to stand fast, but he tells us to stand together. Stand together. And verse number two there. He names these two ladies. And he says, There's a concern that I have uh because there's something that's come in between them. They're no longer of the same mind. He his desire for them, he says, I beseech Jodius, I beseech Syndechy, I beseech them. He says, I I implore them, I plead with them that they be of the same mind. Paul even in the next verse entreats the also. He asks somebody to help them. When somebody helped him, his desire is that this these two Christians would get along. That they would be able to come back to being of one mind. He performs a little bit of d discipline here. He kind of calls them on the carpet, as it were, and says there's an issue here when two Christians aren't getting along. There's a matter of division that needs to be dealt with. Can you imagine the church gathers to hear Paul's letter? Everybody's there. We're all excited to hear what Paul has to say to the church. And Paul has been, you know, loving and kind and admonishing and encouraging the church. He says, man, as they're reading along, you know, you can see them reading along. Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, and longed for, my joy and crown, and everybody's like, amen We're his joy. We're his crown. Oh man, isn't it good? Stand fast. Amen, Paul. We need to stand fast. Then he reads, he goes on and says, I beseech Yudis and I beseech Sinteki that they be in the He named them. Front of everybody. What? There's a problem. These two ladies had been used of God in the church for some time, but now they're being used of the devil. There's uh something about this that uh hits me as I ponder and think about it is that Just because we have been greatly used in the past doesn't mean we can't be the problem today. Whether that be from the pastor all the way down to the one sweeping the parking lot. We all can get sideways. We all the Satan can get in and cause a problem with any of us And sometimes people look and they say, Oh man, you know, this guy he was a deacon or or this guy he was you know, this in the church and boy I mean, if anybody's spiritual it's them Yeah. We can all here these two ladies were the problem when at one time when one time they were the solution. Anybody can be that way. Sometimes it's the dumbest little things. Can even be something like a simple miscommunication that causes a problem. And we get so bent out of shape over it. We get eaten mad and hurt and and well I just ain't going to that church anymore. Last Sunday morning there was a miscommunication here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And I had somebody sit with me right before the service and they told me this happened to this happened this morning right here at this church. And I almost got in my car and drove away and never came back. He said I was ready to leave and the Holy Spirit says you need to just let them go. Go in and hear what you ha what God has for you. here this morning. I praise God he yielded to if he wouldn't have yielded he would have took that little miscommunication and he would have never been in church again We need to be careful how we communicate. But also, Christian, you need to stop wearing your feelings on your sleeves. We can be as delicate and as as tender and as kind in presenting something to you as possible, and you still take it wrong. You need to stop wearing your feelings on your sleeves. We need to be able I mean Paul just named it and said it like it was, hey We need to be able to take it and take some encouragement, take some admonition, take some reproof if that's what it is, but let's let's just serve God together. Simple miscommunication. In an old country church they were voting about getting a new chandelier. One guy stood up and he says, It makes no sense for us that this church be buying a chandelier. There's nobody here that even spell that word. I guarantee you there's nobody here that could even play it. Besides, what we need is some fancy lighting in this place It's just a misunderstanding. Sometimes we could bend out of shape and it it's like that's exactly what I was saying. Oh. And then you feel bad that you got mad and you don't want to just admit that you were wrong that you got mad, and so then it gets worse, right? Like well I can't really just say, oh, I I misunderstood and I'm sorry. I mean that's too difficult. And so so we have to just harbor that anger for a few days and and and try and figure out a way to justify it, you know. It's all Satan. Right. Just trying to cause problems. You know, it's interesting that these two ladies are are mentioned here. Paul declares them as ladies that labored with him together in the Lord. These ladies were laboring together with him, and Paul valued them. I want you to know that throughout the New Testament and even from the New Testament till today, And many times it is the ladies who are laboring for the Lord. Ladies, your your input is valuable. Your ministry for God is valuable. I think it's because guys are so hard headed and you know they don't they don't respond to the Holy Spirit and and And God's trying to get their attention. The ladies are healing hearing the still small voice and they're yielding and they're responding to that. And God stirs your heart and that tender heart is saying, Lord, I want to please you. And many times the ladies are are, as far as spirituality, there they're leaps and and bounds ahead of us men. All through the scriptures you see Paul says is concerning the Macedonian churches in Thessalonica, he said, of the chief women, not a few. Concerning the ladies in Berea, he says, many of them believed also the Greek women, honorable in rank, not a few. In connection with this church here in the city of Philippi, he says, we spake to the women that were gathered together there. These ladies, many times, the ladies are all for having a Bible study and the guys are like, no, let's go shooting. We need to have we need to, you know What I'm saying, ladies, is that at Hunt Valley Baptist Church we work hard to try and instill leadership in the men, and we want them to serve in leadership positions. And you shouldn't begrudge that. You should value and appreciate that. You should be glad that there's men that are stepping up and doing their their job and the responsibilities of leading, that there's men in the church. That it's not just the ladies. God has used and will use the ladies continually. But we need men that'll step up and stand in the gap. Too often we we plead for the men to respond and the ladies are saying, I'm willing. So when God touches the heart of a man and he responds, ladies encourage him. Encourage them Don't don't hold your man back from serving God if he's willing to to do it. He tells Paul tells him that they're to be of the same mind. I'm not going to go back and to reteach this. We've looked at this in chapter two that that same mind they're to have is the mind of Christ. They're to have unity and friendship and fellowship. Beloved, as citizens of another city A city not made with hands. Don't you think we should set aside our disagreements? We should realize, beloved, that we are in a hostile and foreign land. The only friend we have may be our brothers or sisters in Christ. I mean if we would literally picture ourselves, let's go back and say we're we're behind the iron curtain. We're US citizens and we're behind the iron curtain and it's me and uh Brother Turner. And we're the only two US citizens there. We gotta look out for each other. We're in a hostile land. We're in a place that that if they find out they would love to, we we don't even have to go back to that date. We could just say right now, let's put us in Afghanistan Let's put us in Al Qaeda territory and uh we're the only ones, Christians. We we need to stand together. We're in a hostile land. Well, as citizens of heaven, w this world's not our home. And the world does not love and appreciate Christianity. And it's getting more and more vocal about uh standing against it. And I think as days progress, things are gonna get even worse. Well I'll tell you what, we're gonna need some brothers and sisters to stand with us to be there and help us. And understanding that picture that he draws for them, he says, therefore, stand. Therefore, stand together. Because for now that might be your only friend because you're in a hostile place. In verse number three, he says, stand up for one another. He says, I entreat thee also, true yoke fellow, help these women which labored with me in the gospel. He said, well somebody help them. They have an issue. It needs to be dealt with, but is there anybody in the church that cares enough to help them? To help them solve this. These ladies are valuable. They labored together with me in the gospel. Could somebody help them? Would there be some fellow laborers, some people whose name is written in the in the Lamb's Book of Life? In studying this, I I read and I want to do some more research on this. Maybe some of you Bible scholars have studied this in the past, but I I came across uh uh an article about the fact that in Jewish communities they would have a running ca running list of the names of the people in that community. At a birth they would record their name, and at death their name would be scratched off. But Jesus has put our name into the book of life that's never going to be removed. Because we've been given eternal life. And our names are recorded in that. And that picture, uh, as I read about that, which he's talking about here as your names are written in the book of life, tying that into something that uh people in a Jewish community would understand. I want to do a little more studying on that and see what else things I could learn about it and what the Lord might lead me to do, but we need to stand for one another. Stand up. Help these ladies fix this problem. Praise God for the peacemakers. Hebrews 12, verses 14 and 15 says, Follow peace with all men, and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. Looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up, troubling you, and thereby many be defiled. We need peacemakers. Lord knows we've got enough antagonists. And we need some peacemakers. You know, that situation on Sunday in in a matter of just a few minutes, I was able to say, listen, uh I know this individual. And I know that they were not being derogatory or negative to you in any way. They certainly would never have done anything to offend you on purpose. And uh they were just trying to to help and and encourage you and um listen, I'll tell you what to w You think you could just let that go. Understanding that probably you misinterpreted it a little bit, or they could have said it maybe a little different, but could you give some grace that maybe they're not as skillful with their tongue as they should be. I mean 'cause I mean we are, right? We're skillful, right? I mean and after a few minutes of talking, he's like, yeah, you know, I I understand. I understand. Just helping to diffuse that situation. I could have said, you're right, I can't believe he said that to you. That wasn't right. He shouldn't nobody should communicate like that. Then that man would have walked out of here still carrying that. Right. You know, you many times with how you handle something that comes up, you could defuse the situation. You could you could pursue peace. You could stand up for one another. There's great power when God's people stand together. You know, whenever you're in a boat and you find out it's rocking, if you look around you'll find out someone's not rowing. Usually it's the one that's not rowing that's involved in rocking the ship. So one key principle with regards to this idea, he says you're a yoke fellow, you know what a yoke is. You know the principle and the idea is that we're we're yoked up together. We're we're we're pulling the same direction. I think it was in Deuteronomy that uh it was a law given to the Jews, but they were it you said, Thou shalt not uh And I'm paraphrasing here, but pull or yoke together a uh an ass and a donkey or those are the same things. Uh uh Does anybody know what passage I'm talking about? Well, trust me, it's in Deuteronomy. Um that you weren't supposed to put two different kinds of animals together. Do you know what it was? A bull, a bull and a donkey. It's because they're different sizes. Because they pull at different rates. Because they they're they they don't go they don't travel at the same speed. Well we're yoke fellows. We're supposed to be pulling together, serving together. We're supposed to be accomplishing the same thing, having the same mind and going the same direction. We've got to have the the same walk, Christian. Standing up for our fellow laborers. He says, uh, bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. You see, we're supposed to help carry one another's burdens. We're supposed to stand up for one another. It's a sad day when two Christians can get together and tear down another brother or sister in Christ. Because we're supposed to stand be standing up for each other. Here, these ladies were called out for their division. Sometimes we might need to be called out for something. But Paul also praises them for their service. And what I want you to understand, Christian, is we are not defined by one thing. We are not defined by one thing. And we've got to be very careful that we don't do that to another brother or sister in Christ. You can't say about these ladies. Maybe they reached a point and they they they got that resolved and they got back into serving and yoked up together, going the same direction And if it's like a typical church, everybody else would be the church will be like, oh, those ladies always cause problems. Paul Paul even wrote about it. Yeah. They they those ladies they they're stirring up the division of the church, you know That old principle of Jesus said uh a prophet's without honor in his own country. Sometimes in a church we learn enough about each other. We find out Brother Anthony likes green. We say, man, how can he be spiritual and he likes green, you know? That's that can't can't be good. And you know, sometimes especially these young people, they grow up in the church, they're around here all the time, and as a church we learn about some of the stupid things they do. Because kids foolishness is bound in the heart of a child and they do dumb things. And we look at them and we say, Oh, there'll never be anything for God. We put them in that place and we keep them from being what God could do with them because we're just saying, oh, we're defining them by that one circumstance that one situation. And you gotta be careful, even another brother or sister in Christ, maybe Brother Ayler said something to you. three or four years ago and you're like, well, Brother Erler's just a mean guy. He's just so mean, you know. Because of how he communicated that one time. We're not defined by one circumstance. These ladies, they did have something that needed to be dealt with And Paul dealt with it. And then they moved on because they were laborers together. And if we're going to continue for any length of time to serve God together, there's going to be times that Don is going to do something that you don't appreciate. But we're laborers together. And as a general rule, he's a pretty decent guy. So so you can forgive him and say, you know what? I maybe he was tired that day or whatever. He you don't you don't Say Don's a terrible guy because of this one circumstance. Just like you would like that measure of grace or mercy or forgiveness extended to you, we need to extend that to one another. So as we close tonight, I want to ask, are you standing fast in the things that you have learned? In this day, when every sound doctrine is under attack, I hope tonight that God's encouraged you just to continue to stand. Don't let Satan take from you the ground that God has won. Do you need to stand together? You realize maybe tonight that you're part of a heavenly kingdom. And we can't afford to be fighting with our brothers or sisters in Christ. Life is too short. Heaven is real, and the enemy is at hand Can you serve together and bear one another's burdens? Do you need to stand up for someone else? Stand up for another brother or sister in Christ. Help them be restored to the faith Realizing they're not defined by one thing. God can do great things for them.