And so ultimately we're dealing with the idea that there is this constant battle uh between God who is the creator of man and ultimately man sinned and fell into sin and went away from God and lost his relationship with God because of Satan. Satan's plan is to keep men from God. And so you have that constant battle. And uh so the world, the flesh, and the devil are fighting against man, and ultimately the loss of man's soul. Now again, these lessons were prepared and put together by Pastor Townsley, and he has given me liberty to use them for our Sunday school here and thought they would be very advantageous and uh we appreciate his work on putting these lessons together And we went through this last week, so we just recapping there. You should be uh let's just catch up there, top of page number 31. We talked about the intellectual likeness. We talked about the moral likeness. The idea that God desire is that all men might be what? Saved. God wants all men to be saved. 1 Timothy 2. 4. There's no getting around that verse that God wants all men to be saved. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But Satan's desire is to hinder all men from being saved. How does he do this? He blinds men to salvation using our own selves. Our mind, our emotions, and our will. We dealt with that last week. Then we got into initially there talking about How does he do that? Well, first of all, he blinds the mind. We're going to deal with each of these categories, the mind, the emotions, and the will. Satan influenced the mind of believers. through false teaching. First of all, the influence of sin, uh ignorance of the gospel, no understanding of God. is the first one there on the top of page number two number uh thirty-two there. No understanding of God. Satan's plan is to blind the minds of men, to give them no under keep them ignorant of the gospel any way he can Just keep people ignorant of the gospel. He tries to do that, and he'll do it through many different means, which we're going to continue to talk about as we get down through this lesson here. Through men loving the world. They have no time for God. Men love the world. It's amazing how people do not have time for God. People are so busy. I mean you could find a guy who doesn't have a job and he's retired and and living by himself but he has no time for God. Somehow his time is all eaten up. How is that You know, this is not just for we're talking about the loss of man's soul and ultimately going to get to the conclusion of this message where we talk about how is a man saved, and that is the heart of this lesson, but you know what? Satan does that to Christians too. Even though you're saved and on your way to heaven, you know, Satan likes to make us believe that our we have no time. We have no time. But you know the fact of the matter is, is you have time for what you want to have time for. You know, you get somebody that is uh retired and and is not working a job and for some reason he cannot find time. to even come now I know I'm preaching to the choir here. I mean you guys are fanatics. You're in Sunday school. This is way above and beyond, right? This is you you found time for Sunday school? What in the world? Uh how did you do that? So I understand that, but you know how Satan works He'll take somebody that literally, I mean you pick some young man who doesn't even have a job yet. He's 16, 17, 18 years old, not even working a job, living at home, and he doesn't have time to go to church. Doesn't have time let alone walking with God, let alone taking time to study and read your Bible every day and have a relationship with God So Satan would do this even to believers who are on their way to heaven, try and blind us to the fact and make us think our time is all eaten up and we just don't have time for this. But we do have time for what is our priority, what is important to us, and we need to put a renewed importance on our relationship with God. And keep a right uh priority there. Living in the flesh, no place for God. So there's your number three there, living in the flesh. Often we're so full of the world that there is no room for God. You know, Satan's plans. Um have you ever thought, boy, I would like to have something to eat, except you're really not hungry? And you go look in the fridge and uh it's like nothing looks good. Right? Doesn't matter you're like man no that doesn't look good, that doesn't look good. And the worst is is like Mary hates it when I go shopping when I'm hungry Because the cart just gets like full uh I mean that just come with everything. You know, Mary doesn't buy anything as it's on sale and I don't care whether it's on sale or not, I just buy what I want, right? So she's like, What did you spend that on that? You know, that's like double what I normally can get it for. I said, sorry, it looked really good to me. Uh, you know, and so I really appreciate her uh watching the nickels and dimes. That way I can spend them. Amen. Uh but living in the flesh, no place for God, and often we're so full of something else that we don't have time for God. That's the problem. You know, we we've got that. So then we see the influence of Satan. Satan's primary goal is to get men to worship him rather than the true and living God. You know, we we are worshiping Satan when we put Satan's plan in pattern into practice instead of God's plan. I know as Christians we wouldn't think about it as a pattern, a way of, oh, I'm not worshiping Satan. But when we're following Satan's plan instead of following God's plan, we are. We're putting what Satan would want in front of what God would want. So we gotta put God first there. And he he influences, the influence of Satan is seen in several ways. First, the influence of false religion. We talked about this last week. That passage of scripture there in Matthew chapter 7 talking about the the the narrow gate and and the wide gate, the two ways that are there, and how uh many are deceived thereby. We get down to verse number 21 in Matthew chapter 17. He says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my father. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and have cast out devils in thy name, and doth many wonderful works, and then I will profess to them I n I never knew you, depart from me, you were ye workers of iniquity. You see, there's several things there that are very important He says he's seeing their he's saying, hey, didn't we cast out devils in thy name? Didn't we do things in thy name? You know, there's a many false religions that I'm not saying that nothing ever happens They have things that take place. There's things that happen. He says, hey, we did this in thy name. But do they know the true and living God? Are they following the Bible? There are many false religions, and there's some basic things here that are mentioned. He mentions baptismal regeneration. We talked about that last week. Those that believe they are saved through the washing of the water. instead of the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Without the shed blood of Jesus Christ, without the shed blood of Christ, there is no remission of sin. It is putting our faith and trust in Jesus Christ and what He did for us on the cross and that alone. If you never get baptized, you're still forgiven, you're still saved, you're on your way to heaven. Baptism is a step of obedience. There is no grace that's administered through the water. There's nothing that happens besides you obeying the Lord in believers' baptism. Believer's baptism. You already are a believer when you get baptized. And so we talked about baptismal regeneration. We talked about infant baptism, those that uh ascribe to either pedo baptism or some people call it even christening. Uh what they believe is that their baby is somehow now safe. That if something happened, their baby would be in heaven because This water was poured on their head. This water was sprinkled on their body. Or they were even some some practice even immersion. They have a little bowl and they'll they'll take the baby and put the baby down into a bowl and they'll immerse it. But it's It's pedopaptism, it's infant baptism, which is not seen in the Bible, it's not practiced in the Bible. Nowhere is it taught by Jesus Christ. Uh it was actually a uh Roman Emperor, I believe, that baby was gonna die, and he was concerned for the soul of his baby, and so he called the Catholic priest and says, We need to sure be assure that my baby is safe And so they said, oh well, we'll baptize him. And so the idea of infant baptism was introduced and been practiced and followed by many, many different faiths. We looked last week briefly. at the uh timeline, historical timeline, and I want to reiterate that as Baptist uh we are not uh Protestants, the Baptists did not come out of the Catholic Church at any time in history, but you look through other religions, many, many different Protestant faiths, and they they say they're Protestants. That's they understand that they because they protested the Catholic Church at some time, which is what a Protestant is. They they protested the Catholic Church and came out of the Catholic Church and many of them came out at different times for different reasons. And sometimes uh they came out of a church that came out of the Catholic Church. You know, you you have a group that came out first and then uh following down the timeline a little further then another group came off of them or off of them uh and uh continually so as Baptists were Biblicist We believe the Bime Baptist because I believe that the Baptists adhere as close to the Word of God as we can If the Baptists by and large removed themselves and to have the name Baptist meant something else, then I wouldn't be opposed to not having Baptist. There are a lot of Bible churches out there that are very Baptistic in their doctrine. And it's a Bible church. Hey, I'm a Biblicist. And I believe that by and large the Baptists follow the Bible, and so that's why we're Baptist. But I'm not saved and on my way to heaven because I'm a Baptist. That has nothing to do with it. It's putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ and in him alone that saves my soul and I I became a Baptist or have been a Baptist because I believe that we're following the Bible. Are we perfect? No, certainly not. You know, there's a lot of Baptist churches that are more Catholic in their doctrine than some Bible churches. They need to take Baptists off their name because they're not following what Baptists traditionally have followed. And so, you know, in our missionary, Brother Hoffmeister. uh in Trinidad, he has to be very careful about using the term Baptist in uh Trinidad because historically There is an entire group of people that have called themselves Baptists. We're talking about over the last 150 years And and I don't remember what he called them, um, but they actually are are very mystical in their beliefs. And they practice uh voodoo. And uh they come from that type of background. And so if you say Baptist in Trinidad and right away, people think, oh, you're part of this group. that uh practices uh voodoo and believes in the black arts and all of these things. And so he although he's Baptist in his practice Uh in in Trinidad he can't just use that. He can't just put it out like that because people the association is not right. People don't know there what what he believes. And so he has to be careful with that. So that's just Hopefully help you understand that. Then uh we we left off there last week and I apologize, I'm trying to move quick because we've got a lot of ground to cover. We're going to see cults. How do you identify false religions? I think we didn't give you this last week. Its origin is traced to a person rather than to scriptures. Its origin is traced to a person rather than rather to scriptures. Hebrews 12 2, write this down next to that. Hebrews 12 2, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Jesus Christ is the author and the finisher of our faith. Amen He is the beginning and the end. He is the one that we follow. The word of God is what we follow. But if you look to a cult, you can go back, whoever they are, whatever cult you want to look at, and you can find their origin goes back to a man. Who is buried somewhere, who who died, who decided uh, well, this is what I want to practice, and I'm gonna I'm gonna get this, whether he says he got a revelation from God or whether God dropped books in his lap or whether uh he had a vision or whatever it might be, he says, okay, here's what we're gonna do. This is the founding of this religion, and it goes back to that man. Does that make sense? So I feel like I'm I'm cranking and and some of you guys are putting your minds in in neutral here. We're we're pushing along and and flying, but I I want you to get it, it is important. False prophecy comes from a false prophet. Do you know what the Bible test is for a false prophet? Anybody? I'll slow down here for a second. What's the Bible test for a false prophet? If what they say come to pass. Now, where does the Bible put the standard for whether they're false or a true prophet? One false prophecy. That's what the Bible says. If one thing they say does not come to pass, they are a false prophet. And you can look at sometimes, you know, a a clock, it doesn't work as right twice a day. Okay? And sometimes people look at these false prophets, and it's mind-boggling to me how they get these followings, these radio preachers and people out there that have over and over again Prophesied 100% false, and people say, oh yeah, but he was right about this one thing. Well maybe he was, but that's not the standard that the Bible gives for whether he's a false prophet or not. The Bible says if he prophesies one thing that doesn't come to pass, he's a false prophet. And he should be marked as such. You should not be listening to them. If they have one thing that's the Bible standard, that's not my standard, that's not Hunt Valley Baptist Church's standard or a Baptist standard, that's what God said If he has one thing that's not that didn't come to pass, he's a false prophet. So we see here false prophets uh prophecy comes from false prophets. No other religion teaches the same doctrine. They're secretarian in that the the idea that you must be part of their church and follow their creed in order to get to heaven or be forgiven or or to achieve whatever they call you know, paradise or whatever their beliefs are. Okay? Now I believe Baptists at adhere as close to the Bible as we can. But I just told you a couple minutes ago, you do not have to be Baptist to be on your way to heaven. I believe there are many Catholics Who have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and Him alone and never have grown enough or seen the Bible or learned the truths stuff that you're learning right now? And and because the Satan has kept them ignorant of those things, they can still know Jesus Christ as their Savior. But not be Baptist but still go to heaven. You don't have to be Baptist to go to heaven. I tell people when I'm out knocking doors or talking to people, I say, hey, we got we got a great church. The best pastor in the world. No, I don't I'm just kidding. I don't tell him that. I say we got a great church. We love Hunt Valley Baptist Church. But you know what our church can't take anybody to heaven. It's Jesus Christ who does that, Jesus Christ and Him alone. And so what I'm saying is as a Baptist, we're not sectarian in our belief. We do not believe that you have to be baptised in order to know Jesus Christ, in order to be forgiven of your sin. Now I believe as you grow in the Lord and as you follow the Bible, that ultimately I think you'll come to what we would call baptistic beliefs. I believe that's going to lead you into that if you're true and honest before God and with the Word of God you're going to come into the place where you start to believe and practice those things that line up with historical Baptist beliefs. And there's a lot of Baptists today that are falling away from those things. Sadly. But that's that's the facts. Um so they have bad fruit. We know the Bible tells us there, Matthew 7, 15 through 20. We're not going to read it, but that that by their fruit ye shall know them, so they have bad food. Now many false cults base their religion on false prophecy. But we know that Jesus Christ is the author and the finisher of our faith, and it's not on a man's false prophecy. Okay. Church tradition, they look to church tradition, the scribes, the Pharisees, and Jewish Jewish leaders. weighed a lot on church tradition. So if you read the creeds or uh the commands of a group or a church or an organization or a cult, and and you'll find that they'll say, we believe that the Bible is the Word of God. And we adhere to and follow the scriptures as well as church tradition You see, a lot of times the problem with some of these false prophets or false teachers, it is not even what they say, it's what they don't say. It's what they're not willing to say. It's what they won't address in the Word of God. But these church traditions, um They uh say and do not. Uh they place heavy religious burdens on their followers. They place heavy religious burdens on their followers. They wear religious garments to attract attention Um you know just it's all about this religious garb, this big makeup, this this thing that somehow attributes a level of solemnity and uh uh an era of uh holiness. And it's it's you have to build up these outward things. You know, for many, many years the Catholic Church didn't want people to have the the Bibles were all kept in Latin. Because people couldn't read Latin. And we're going to get to it in a minute, talking about mysticism, the mystery of the unknown, and there's an attraction that people have naturally to that. And so with that, you could put the papacy, the leaders up here, and the laity, the followers of the church, down here. And these people just didn't quite understand. They didn't have the capacity or the wherewithal. But we believe in the priesthood of the believer. Each and every one of us have the ability to go to God. individually. I don't have any more authority with God or any more ability to know and understand this Bible than any of you here in this room. We're all uh the child of God and can learn and study the Word of God, and God wants to meet and speak with you just like He wants to meet and speak with me. That's what we're supposed to be doing. And many times in these cults, they keep that separation so that they can lead astray. Then uh they seek after recognition. They seek after recognition. Are we all together? Alright, so we're we're we're doing good. Then we see um you know instead of pointing to Christ, they they try and point to men. Um What what did Paul say? He must increase. I must decrease. It's not about the individual, it's not about the man, it's not about this leader. It's about Jesus Christ. It's about pointing people to Him. Any Person that's trying to lead God's flock should be doing all he can to deflect and point to Christ. To deflect any recognition, any praise, any admiration. It's not about me. It's not about uh you know, it's all about him. Right. And he's the one that makes a difference. And we want to follow and worship the Savior, not a man. They mislead others concerning salvation. They mislead others concerning salvation because that's how they gain control. That's how they have authority by misleading others. Other religious traditions, you know, such as don't eat meat. Give things up for Lent, put you know these these types of different things, avoid certain foods. I mean if you're gonna fast for certain things or you're going to say, hey, I I really enjoy this. I'm going to give this up to concentrate. You can do that, and the Bible teaches fasting and uh for a period of time to focus on spiritual things and and this is good. But it's not required as a matter of grace or as part of your religion. Religious leaders remaining celibate, another tradition. There was the idea or the aspect that uh you did not need well The idea is there's a level of holiness that is attained by remaining celibate that cannot be maintained otherwise. And as a requirement of becoming a priest in the Catholic Church for many, many years, men had to commit, at least publicly, to remaining celibate. And they said, well, the reason is because we've reached a level of spirituality, a level of closeness to God. that we don't need that worldly connection. We don't need that that human interaction. This is one of the worst things that ever happened to the Catholic Church. You guys know down through history what's happened, and that's just the stuff that's been then that's been broadcast because of it. Because it's not normal, it's not natural. Can a man take fire in his bosom and not be moved be burned? The Bible is very clear about that. Now Paul says, you know, maybe God's plan is for you to remain single. There's the possibility. There are some that God by design says, listen, I'm going to have you be single. This is what I've called you to, because where I'm taking you You're not going to be able to have a wife or you're not going to be able to have a husband to do this. So it's my plan for your life that you're going to remain this way. But that's not everybody. And there's no more level of holiness attained because I'm not less holy because I got married. And that's the idea that they have in that teaching of remaining celibate, is there's a level of holiness attained because you do that, and that's just not biblical. Okay? There's the idea of these lists several things here, religious pilgrimages, uh, you know, physical self-affliction, the lighting of candles, uh prayers for the dead, uh giving up something for Lent, uh confessing to man. You know, I'm so glad that you don't confess to me. I have enough of my own problems to deal with and to take to the Lord that uh I just I'm glad that you get to go to God yourself. And that I don't have to confess to you or to anybody else. We get to go directly to God, and we praise God for that. So then there's the idea of humanism. This is a system of thought that rejects religious beliefs and centers on human values, capacities, and needs. this humanism that is taught and proliferated. Uh humanists tend to be very aggressive. They tend to, it's not the idea of just live and let live, but they want to remove, uh actively remove all inference towards religion or to God. uh which you see very evident in our society today, uh by the removing of the Bible and prayer from from public schools and removing of the Ten Commandments from public buildings and the the humanists they want it's not just a matter of, oh well you're welcome to believe what you want to believe and I'm going to believe what I want to believe No, they're very actively, progressively pushing against anything that talks about or would reference faith. And so we see here the idea of the spirit, the soul, and the body referenced there again in the diagram, that these three aspects of our life are impacted by And I don't have time to to reteach on those aspects of the trichotomy of man, but we see he's listed here several areas that our spirit, our body, and our soul are affected. First of all is mysticism. Mysticism is seeking God through intuition or sudden insight rather than through rational thought. Mysticism. People just love the mysterious They love the unknown. I mean who doesn't like a good magic trick? Right? I mean a mad it's just something is awesome about them like how did you do that? Now we know it's a trick. We know it's a sleight of hand or a gadget of some kind that allows it to trick our mind and see that this take place. Yet the mysterious the unknown. And with the mysterious of the unknown comes in inside of false religion comes the ability to lead men astray And people believe that people have power and ability. And so our spirit is affected by this mysticism. uh the idea of relativism, the concepts such as right and wrong, good and bad, true and false, are not absolute but change from culture to culture. That what's right is right and what's wrong is wrong is is frowned against. They would want to say, well, it's all relative. What might be wrong for us here in our culture Is okay in another culture in another place. Well, just because that culture has established that it's acceptable there, is it acceptable to God? Okay, in PNG, there was a lot of uh tribes that ate anybody that was not part of their tribe. That was culturally acceptable. Is it right? No, it's not it's not right. We're not we're not supposed to do that, but people in the world today uh would like to influence you to believe that well listen who are you to to put your culture on somebody else is not culture It's right and wrong. And sometimes missionaries gotta be we have a missionary here this morning and he's gonna talk to us. We do need to be careful when we go to a foreign country that we're not putting American culture on them because it's not about American culture. It's about Christianity. It's about Jesus Christ. They need a relationship with God and what's right because it's right in the Bible. You know, there are some places, uh even some of our missionaries, Brother Taylor could probably tell me who, uh, just recently were talking about how many people in their culture were not married. It's just culturally it was acceptable just to live together. So he had to go into the Bible and begin to teach in the church and say, hey, this is not acceptable according to God. To live this way is to live in fornication. You can't do that. You cannot have this type of relationship outside of the bounds of marriage. God is the one that established the home, not culture. And so he began to teach that, and then they had a whole bunch of weddings, as all these people in the church started to learn the truth. So did he give them American culture, the American family? No. He gave them Bible. God is the one that established the home and showed us what it was. So he taught them that and they learned and they said, hey, we want to follow the Bible. And so many people in the church, these couples, you know, said, hey, we want to get married. And they had one wedding after the next for a period of time. That's what it is. Then materialism. Next to relativism there, where you write Colossians 2, verse number 8, that's beware lest any man spoil you through the philosophies and vain deceit after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. Colossians 2. 8. Then materialism Uh this is devotion to material wealth and possession. This is American culture for sure. Just the the poss the pursuit of possessions over anything else But we know, 1 John right down next to this, 1 John 2. 15, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, love the Father is not in him Our soul is affected by several things, and he begins to teach that. That's secular secularism. That is the rejection of religion or its exclusion from any philosophical or moral system that's just oh we just need to be completely secular secular in nature our society uh especially American society is really really pushing this Oh, we just need this is secular. We can't combine anything that has to do with faith. This is secular. This is faith. You can't put faith over here But you understand faith impacts every part of your life. And it's supposed to. Intellectualism intellectualism overemphasized an overemphasis on the intellectual process or the pursuit of it. Very, you know Ever learning and never coming to the knowledge of truth, the Bible says. That's people in pursuit of knowledge for the sake of self-glorification. instead of as a tool to further uh something, to be used, uh, to accomplish something, it's the pursuit of knowledge for knowledge's sake. Uh emotionalism A tendency to be easily swayed by emotions and rely upon these feelings to determine facts. How many of you realize our emotions change a lot? They're up and down. And so we've got to be very careful with that. I I need to move on so that we get at least to the conclusion here. The the body is affected by several things. Hedonism That is self-indulgent devotion to pleasure, sensuality, uh happiness is the way of life. This, you know, the old uh hippie movement. uh from bygone days, but that idea and philosophy is still prevalent in the world. Pragmatism. You need to watch out for pragmatism. Okay? This is the decisions are evaluated in terms of how it works. and its consequences as the standard for action and thought. Pragmatism. I want you to understand there are many churches today that the entirety of their program is dictated by pragmatism. By what works. We had somebody come to church here, and if you come to come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church from a church of like faith in our area, then I'll call your pastor. And I'll say, hey, I just want you to know so-and-so visited here. Uh you know, if somebody drops in one time and I don't see them again, I don't call their pastor. But if somebody comes two or three times, the church of like faith, I'll call and say, hey Just want you to know they visited. Uh and you know we're not out trying to steal people from other churches. So you know a church of like faith is teaching the word of God that people are doing doing right. Uh, you know, we won't I'll give that pastor the opportunity to try and minister to his sheep, somebody from his flock. And uh anyway, somebody came here, had been here three or four weeks, and I called the pastor and uh He said, well, Caleb, um, you know what? I'm too much of a pragmatist for that person. Uh I I think they'll probably do better at your church You know, uh we're just gonna do what works. I mean he told me this on the phone. He said we're gonna do what works and and they don't like that so they might fit. Do you understand, beloved? We don't do what works, we do what's right. That's what we're supposed to do. If you teach a Sunday school class, or sing in the choir, or sing specials in the church, or play instruments, we should do so for an audience of one. Jesus Christ, to bring honor and glory to Him. I'm a human being, and I feel pressure You know what? I love it. Sometimes you guys come up and you're like, Pastor, that was a great message. Boy, it really spoke my heart. It makes me feel good. That's so nice. Thank you. I'm glad that God used it. But you know, other times people come up to me and they'll say, I don't like what you said. I don't agree with that. I think you're wrong. I don't think that should be talked about in church. I don't think that's the place for Pastor shouldn't you use the pulpit to talk about those things. I've had people talk to me like that. Do you understand I'm human that I feel pressure? And so for me And just say, okay, do I want to preach what? Yeah, I want to preach what people like. I want to preach what makes people happy. But ultimately in who am I going to answer to? I'm going to answer to God. So it's a conclusion of a message. Now listen. We're almost done. I'm human. And this man makes mistakes And I don't have a problem acknowledging that. And sometimes when I preach I might get in the flesh. I might preach something just because I'm irritated. You say, Pastor, you would never do that. I'm human. And there's been times when I was talked to by somebody and I had to look at them and I had to say, you're right. I did wrong I need to apologize. There's times that I stood in this pulpit after I came back in here on a Sunday night and I said, I need to let the church know tonight. This morning I was out of line Because I was preaching what I wanted to preach and not what God was telling me to preach. So I make mistakes But I want you to understand you ought to pray and beg God for a pastor that's not just preaching what you want to hear. He's preaching the whole council of God That's what we're supposed to be doing. That's what the pastor is supposed to be doing. And every pastor feels that pressure. But we're not supposed to be pragmatists. We don't just do Oh yeah, this let's go this way. Whatever the wind, however everybody in the church feels about it. Now there's things We we could take a general, hey, what do you guys want to do today? Anyone want to play a softball game? Who wants to play softball? Alright, let's play softball, you know. I mean that's that's different. We're talking about the direction of the church and about the things here of God. We should be doing so for an audience of one. Paganism. Okay? These things, praying to statues, mother and son worship, worship of nature, ancestral worship. We don't have time to teach on any of that stuff. The emotions, making emotional experiences synonymous with the truth. Okay, the influence of traumatic events. We've got to be very, very careful with this. The influence of traumatic events. Do you know just because God saved you from a car wreck doesn't mean he saved your soul from hell. Many times if you ask somebody how how did you get saved? Oh well I was driving the car and and and somebody came right out in front of me and I slammed on my brakes and I said, Lord, save me And he saved you from the car wreck. But that is not coming to the knowledge of the fact that you are a sinner, bound for hell, in need of a savior, and putting your faith and trust in Christ to forgive you of that sin. Many people look to their traumatic events, and what we're talking about here is how does Satan blind people to coming to the knowledge of the truth? How does Satan keep people from getting saved? Okay, he uses these events like this in people's lives. God was merciful to you. God, yes, God saved you from the car wreck or God saved you from that that you know on your you were in the hospital and you were sick and the doctor said you probably weren't gonna pull through and you said God if you if you'll get me through this I'll follow you the rest of my life. Okay, God got you through that. What he did is he had mercy on you and allowed you to come through that. So that you would have opportunity to put your faith and trust in Christ. But that salvation is not You know, there's many times as a young man that I thought, boy, I want to I'm gonna I want to get married. Oh man, I want to get married, I want to have a family. And and and you know maybe I had a dream about it But I didn't wake up married. There's people who have dream about what God did and oh I will I had this vision And I saw this light at the end of my bed. I mean I was talking to a guy one time in a prison, we had a prison ministry in Kansas, and he was talking about he, the first night he was put in jail. He said they closed the door, door slammed, a big dramatic, you know, he told this whole story. He said I laid down in the bed and there was a s a cot next to me. across the the cell there and there was nobody in that bed but then they turned the lights out and I looked over and all of a sudden there was a shape of a man in that bed. And then that man began to glow. And he he rose up in between the two cots and just hovered there. And I said, I believe, I believe. And that was his salvation experience. You know, men would much rather believe in something like that than to believe in the written word of God. And that's how Satan blinds men from becoming saved. Because he uses these traumatic experiences. This is vital. This is so important. And I don't have time to really dive into this and give you full, complete understanding. I've got Pages or notes and notes here that I don't even have time to get to, but the influence of hypocrites, you know, the influence of hypocrites, reaction to false Christianity, many, many hypocrites have cost many men his soul. You've heard it. I ain't going to church. There's too many hypocrites there. You know, because people see false religion, false faith, and they say, that's not what I want, and then they don't do it. Emotional experiences. Speaking in tongues, dreams, visions, etc. We touched on that a little bit. Offered by the words of others. I'm sorry, offended by words of others. I can't read Driven by anger or envy, he says, uh fear of family or friends. I'm going to give you this last one here, verse uh number three, here's the will Uh so again we're talking about those three areas. He he he influenced our mind. That was kind of a long one. He influences the emotions and he influences the will, all these things to try and keep men from coming to the knowledge of the truth. And he influences the will through several ways. One is good works. Um, you know, and we're not going to turn to these passages, but I would encourage you to do so. Uh but good works. Boy, men love love men love their good works. But for by grace do you say through faith, but not of yourselves, is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Okay, that's the Bible. It doesn't get any clearer than that. It's not of works. We know what's amazing though is many times people who are earning their way to heaven have a far greater dedication and commitment to God and consistency in their faith. than people who have been forgiven and are on their way to heaven? You see, we've been forgiven, we're on our way to heaven, we know that, and we say, oh well, I'm already forgiven, so it doesn't matter. But we really ought to be more committed than the one who's trying to earn his way. He never even knows if he's earned if he's if he's done enough If he's ever made it. But this is how Satan blinds men, gets them to get their their good works. Human reasoning Self-justification and stubbornness. Now this next section here is just one page long, and I'm not going to get into it today because we need to really talk about this in light of this whole aspect that we've talked about here, about how does Satan blind men So how does somebody get saved? Well, show the profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul. So how does somebody come to the knowledge of the truth? We're going to talk about that next Sunday in a concise One lesson that'll be available online that you can point people to, that you can use. You'll have these notes. You can talk to people about salvation, about how they get saved understanding how Satan has blinded people. Listen, somebody tells me there, I ask people, how did you get saved? And they say something like, well, I've just always had a passion for God. That's great. That's not salvation. We want to talk about how does somebody get saved? And I hope that it's a help to you if not just for here but to be able to help others. We're going to get into that next week