It was four a. m. The temperature was below freezing, and we were walking buffeted by the wind. Guided only by the little headlamp that we had on our heads. I remember the shadows of the trail. Being so deep that it seemed as though the lamp on our forehead, even the brightest one among us, couldn't penetrate into the darkness. We walked along, striving to be sure of our footing. We hiked and climbed for a couple of hours, watching each step and looking for sufficient handholds It was imperceptible at first, but sometime after 6 a. m. , you began to feel the warmth of the sun and Where it was total darkness, there was some light. Where we were at a place where with our headlamps shining full brightness, you could see just a couple of feet in front of you. Now, with even just the break of day, you could literally see for miles across the valley to another mountain peak. With the confidence that was given to us by this light that seemed to expose every crack and crevice of the mountainside We climbed with new fervor. We picked up our pace and we made our scheduled 10 a. m. summit time of the Grand Tetons. Beloved, without that light, we surely would have been lost in the Tetons. Like somebody else we know This evening I want to speak to you for a few minutes about the disease of darkness. The disease of darkness that permeates society. I think we understand tonight that This darkness that permeates our society, this darkness that is literally in dwells in the heart of every single human being ever born. It is something that is so prevalent in our world today, it seems as though at times we would be overrun with it. So dark do the days look sometimes So dark does the outlook of tomorrow look. We are overcome with this darkness. Darkness not only permeates society, but in society darkness is promoted. For beloved, it it is darkness that sells the movies. It is it is it is low, the more dark it is, the more wickedness it pertains, the the more vile it portrays something, the more of a of a box office hit it is. Darkness is what sells the news. That's what makes up the news. This darkness that's in our world Of course, you understand tonight that I'm talking about far more than just the lack of light. Although, when looked at from a spiritual vantage point, you come to the same conclusion, and that is that darkness exists in the absence of light. We see a description here in John chapter three of what I would call the the or what the Bible describes as darkness. We see in John chapter 3, verses 19 through 21. He says, And this is the condemnation that light is come into the world. And men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light. Neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest. That they are wrought in God. For a few minutes this evening, if you would stick with me, I want to talk to you about this disease of darkness and our responsibility concerning it. Would you pray and ask God to speak to our hearts? Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you, God, that you would open up the scriptures. That you would take the scales off of our eyes, that you would reveal light to us tonight. That, Lord, our responsibility concerning this darkness that is on every hand around us today. So prevalent and promoted it is, it's wearisome for the heart of the believer. And yet, God, we're called to minister. In this dark world, I pray, God, that you would give us something from your word tonight that would speak to each and every Heart, challenge us this evening, encourage us, motivate us to go and do something about this situation that is ever more prevalent. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. First of all, this evening I want you to see darkness described. I am going to be looking at a lot of different passages of scripture tonight and not going to take time to Turn to all of them. I've got a lot of ground to cover. Many of the verses you'll be very familiar with. But we see darkness described really in these verses, the idea that men love darkness. Why do they love darkness? Because their deeds This is what we're talking about when we're talking about darkness. It is that propensity of man to be involved in sin. The propensity that we have, the desire that would take somebody and and and Cause them to do that which is wrong, that which is immoral, that which is against the law of God. The basic definition that you find in justwebster. com. I mean you don't even have to go to Webster's 1828, but just Webster's. com, obviously the number one definition is a part partial or total absence of light. And let me just say that The reason the world is so hostile to the church is because the light reveals the evil deeds. But the second definition just found I mean it's not even a religious dictionary by any means, it's just dictionary. com. The second definition is wickedness or evil Number two, wickedness or evil, as we see darkness describe, the basic definition is the evilness of men We know, beloved, Ephesians chapter 6, verse number 12 says, For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of what? Darkness. The rulers of darkness. This is where the battle lies, believer. It is a disease, a basic disease that lies in the heart of every man. It is there. It's very clear in the Word of God. The Word of God is very clear concerning those that abide in darkness. It describes them in different ways, but one way describes them as those that are blind. They literally cannot see. You know darkness brings blindness. I don't know how many of you have ever had the privilege of entering uh some of the caves that they have around the country. I've been in Carlsbad Caverns. But some of those caves like that, you ever had a privilege any of you to go into a cave to have them around the country, different places? I mean you think it's dark outside when you go outside and you can see the stars. That's not darkness. You go into a cave and you go down there and they turn those lights off and it is so dark. I mean you can look and you're trying to see your hand. And you can't see your hand right there. It is so dark. I think it's in the book of Job that it describes darkness as so thick that it can be felt. Sometimes don't you feel the darkness of this world? Don't you just feel it coming in on you? Don't you feel that pressure? Darkness, beloved, brings blindness. It brings you to a place where you cannot see. And we would have surely fallen to our death on that early cold August morning in 2005 when we were climbing the Grand Tetons, had we not had some light. Because darkness makes you blind. You can't see. Beloved, this world is full of people that are blind. They're blind. They're blind to the direction that they're headed. They're blind to the the immorality they're propagating. They're blind to the sin that is so prevalent in their life, they're they're blind to all of it. And we look at it sometimes and we shake our heads and and and we raise our hands and we say, how can the world be so filthy? How can it be so wrong? How could they possibly call that which is good evil and call that which is evil good and think it's acceptable. Surely they don't in their mind really believe that But you hear them with their conviction testifying to the fact that it's okay. And you think, what in the world? Beloved, they're blind. I'm talking about a bill that's before the Maryland legislators right now, literally in the next couple of weeks. Bill 669, known as the Pregnant Persons Freedom Act of 2022. This bill will not only Make it legal to kill your baby twenty-eight days after birth, but it will remove the penalty of negligence To a parent who determines they don't want their child and they could leave their child out in the cold and it could freeze to death. Not only if their child dies inside of 28 days, Not only can they not be prosecuted for murder, if they're arrested, they have a right to sue the police department for compensation. You look at a bill like this and you say, how in the world? Why w how could this even get to a place where this goes before our Senate and and they're going to actually vote on this? Why is this even a discussion? Because beloved, when you remove the law, when you remove the foundation, the truth that is unchanging, there's no end. It can just continue to go. Where do we decide life begins? Why 28 days? Why not make it up to a year? You can decide if you really like him or not. Maybe his personality doesn't fit with you and you just want to kill him Why not? It's no different than at twenty-eight days or twenty-eight days after inception. Because life begins at conception. But you look at the world, and you know I could give you example after example of example of the darkness, but I want you to understand, as was said this morning by Brother Hardeker, he's not mad at them for not knowing. He's mad at the church for not going because they're blinded. They don't see. They literally cannot because their eyes have been blinded by Satan Beloved, the Word of God, clearly, God has given us a division. The very first place that you see darkness described is in Genesis. You know that he says that God created the heaven and the earth, and the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep. But God saw the darkness, and you know that he came, and he separated Darkness and light. And from that time until today, there has been a division. There's been a demarcation line. There's been a dividing line. There's no union between light and darkness. They do not fit or exist in the same place. From the very beginning of time, it's been God's plan that light would not exist in darkness. He has given us that division. The fact of the matter is, is at the rising of the sun, every single day, the darkness of night retreats. And beloved, just as God separated night from day, he has called men out of the darkness of this world into his light. God has always separated his people from darkness. You can go into the uh the book of Exodus and when God's people were fleeing from the Egyptians and God put up a cloud. And the cloud brought darkness to the Egyptians, but that same cloud brought light to God's people God, from the beginning of time till today, it's been God's plan that this world does exist in darkness, but God's people have been called out of darkness. 1 Peter 2 verse number 9 says, But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of Darkness. Into his marvelous light. I praise God tonight that I've been called out of darkness I praise God tonight that I have enough lights that I can see the truth of the Word of God and I've been exposed to it and I understand the basic moral principles and responsibilities of men, not because of who I am or because I'm special or I I in some way uh merited any more favor than anybody else, but because of God who called me out of darkness into his marvelous light. Are you thankful tonight you've been called out of darkness that you have the light for beloved in our room in our town, in our county, in our State, country, world, there are men and women everywhere who still lie in darkness. And they need somebody to tell them how God called them out of darkness and shined the light of the gospel into their heart and life. In John 8:12, he says, Then spake Jesus unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness. But shall have the light of life. It's God's plan, beloved. That his people were called out of darkness. No longer walk therein. We've been delivered. Because we've been delivered, I want you to see that darkness is discouraged. Our participation in darkness in any I I think maybe I could say it's there's a declaration given to us in Ephesians 5, verse number 8 says, For ye were sometimes darkness But now are ye light in the Lord, walk as children of light. He says, Hey, at one time you were in darkness, at one time you didn't know any better, at one time your eyes were blinded, but now you can see. So don't stop walking like you're still in darkness. Stop walking like you don't know the truth. You're supposed to be walking as children of light. There's a time when we walked in darkness, but now we're to walk in light You know, this morning Pastor Derek told a joke in Sunday school about ministering and reaching those in our community, and we need to go and reach all of those people. That have convertibles in their driveway. And most of us sat there, including myself, like, okay And he had to give a little bit of explanation. He said, You want to reach those that are convertible. And then all of us that were in the dark Came into the light. Amen. We all of a sudden under Oh that's what he was saying. It didn't make sense for a minute. My poor son Andrew is often i in in that group. Maybe he comes by it naturally from his mother. I mean from me. But you guys know she's the quick one. There's nobody here that you know you know she's the quick one. There's no I'm not talking tonight about people that are in the dark. In that situation. You see, God has given us the light. We have the truth The light of the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ has shown into our heart, and He's called us out of darkness. And you know better, so we're not supposed to be continuing to walk in darkness. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 11, he says, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. In 1 John 1, verse number 6, he says, if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie I think it's pretty clear, beloved, in the scriptures, that there is a command given to us that we've been called out of darkness, we're to stop walking therein. Amen. We're not to be living in darkness or acting like we don't know. Could I ask you this evening, who do you enjoy having fellowship with? He says here, have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. And the last few days have been such a joy. Such a great time with God's family and getting around and just fellowshipping with one another, each different opportunity, just just just fellowshipping You know, I don't stress about stuff like the snow and whatever. I look at stuff like that and say, you know what, God knows. God knows. Maybe God knows his people needed a break this morning. Okay. We'll we'll be all right. God knows, but but but man, the time together's been fun. Is that the kind of fellowship you enjoy, or do you fellow do you enjoy the fellowship of darkness? Getting getting into this world, getting into society, getting into what the world has to offer. I know, beloved, that if you're a child of God, He will convict you If you have enough light in your soul that when you get around darkness, you're going to be miserable. Because the two don't mix He's given us a declaration, and it's a it's a basic doctrine. We understand that. Now that you have the ability to be light for those around you, we in our s we're supposed to be doing it. Jesus is the light of the world. But he's given us that light so that we can shine that light into this world. Matthew 5. 16, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. How do you let your light shine? Good works. Now, of course, I'm glad that we don't we don't do good works to get to heaven. Amen. We know that we've already been called out of darkness and we we can see and we know that that it was for by grace he is saved through faith and it it is it's Jesus Christ and his sacrifice, and that is all. But because of that, out of a heart of gratitude, the Bible says the love of Christ constraineth me It motivates me, it pulls me, it moves me to do something. And what do I do? Some good works. And the good works you do is how you let your light shine, beloved. Every act of kindness that you portray is shining your light. Every expression of love You give is shining your light. Every truth that you tell is shining your light. When you share truth, you're sharing light. You have a family member or friend that's headed down the wrong path. And you say, listen, I love you, and I don't want you to end up hurt. I don't want to end up in a bad way. And so listen, this is out of concern, but the truth is this. And you're giving them light. Every deed of generosity is shining your light. Every display of joy. You're letting your light shine to someone around you. Have you ever had somebody look at you for even the smallest little thing? They look at you and say, Man, you just made my day You know, sometimes for you it was something so small, so little, but they're just like, wow, thank you. That just made my day I mean that makes your day too, doesn't it? It makes you feel good. But you're giving light. Beloved, when you let God rule in your life, it will radiate a vibrance that lights up the world around you. When God is ruling in your life, your life will radiate a vibrance that men will see it. I ask you tonight. Does your life have a vibrance about it? Does your life radiate the joy of Jesus Christ? You see, this is where mission starts. When we make a difference right here in our town. When we make a difference right here in our community or with our family. When those around us See our life that radiates the light of Jesus Christ. I didn't ask if you were saved or if you knew the Lord was your savior. I asked if is your light shining? Right. I think about it. I'm not going to go that way. We're going to. We know it's God's plan for us to let our light shine. Do men see your good works? Do men see your light? Does your life radiate that? Don't you see, beloved, lastly this evening, darkness delivered? It's God's plan to deliver men from darkness. That's what God wants to do. That's why Jesus came. There's a basic delivery, and the delivery is Jesus Christ. Amen. Any of you older folks ever had the privilege of coming into contact with cod liver oil? Oh, some not so old. Some of you have been tortured with that Cod liver oil was used as a folk remedy to treat rickets prior to 1789 until 1921 when they found out sunlight would cure rickets. There is today an entire field of medical study called phototherapy in which they use light. To cure many, many diseases. The list of dise I was gonna give you some of them, but after about the fourth medical journal I read, it just I was getting tired and uh uh I figured this is just gonna weigh you down. But there's so many things that they treat with different spectrums of light. They've learned how to treat. It's it's light kills the disease. But what I want you to know is that the disease of darkness that plagues the heart of man is only killed with one light, and that is the light of Jesus Christ. For he said, I am the light of the world. What a privilege to be able to share that light Men and women everywhere have no hope of being cured of this disease of darkness that plagues them, that blinds them, except with the light of Jesus Christ. And we can give it to them. God would have all men delivered from this darkness. It's our job to take Christ to them. John the Baptist was given this job. In Luke chapter 1, verse number 79, he was told to give light to them that sit in darkness. I think that's a pretty good description of what we're supposed to do. Give light to them that sit in darkness. And beloved, you can curse the darkness, you can scream about how bad it is, you can talk about how vile and wicked the world is and how hard it is, or you can do something about it. You can carry the light of Jesus Christ. You can let your light as a Christian shine into this dark world. The goal is like those in Acts 26, verse 18. says to open their eyes and turn them from darkness to light. What a privilege to be able to do that. To be able to, with God's message, bring people out of darkness to light. Oh man. Your testimony, your life radiating, the joy of Jesus Christ that men around you see. Christ in you. We know that we're to put off the works of darkness But not not only do we put off the works of darkness, but we're to put on the armor of what? You know? Armor of light. And when you put off the works of darkness and you put on that armor of light and you go out into a dark world, it shines. You don't have to stand on a corner and preach. Praise God for those that do. And I'm not talking about lifestyle evangelism. I believe our our responsibility as Christians is twofold. It's our testimony, but we're also supposed to testify. We're also supposed to speak. But when you have put on the armor of light, it shines into this world. And men see it I recall someone stating the question: if your life was put on trial tonight for being a Christian, would there be enough evidence to convict you? Surely not for anybody in here, but I believe sadly for many Christians today, the evidence of their Christianity is purely circumstantial. Circumstantial evidence is indirect evidence that does not, on its face, prove the fact. Their testimony is so weak, so on the edge, just barely there. Maybe they're a Christian. We're gonna have to do some research, we're gonna have to check. I have to dig a little bit deeper. But what about you tonight? You and I are to be the light that carries the light of Christ into this room. World. Beloved, ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. You know what? Just as light in darkness draws bugs, The Christians whose light is radiating the light of Jesus Christ will draw the souls of men. I'm asking you tonight, does your life radiate that? The light of Jesus Christ? Where you literally draw the souls of men To the light. That's what we're supposed to do. I can't help but remember to think about Robert Lewis. Robert, there's a story of a 12-year-old boy who was in his second-story window looking outside. His governess came into the room. He said, Robert, what are you doing staring out into that darkness? And Robert said, I'm watching a man poke holes in the darkness. She walked over to the window to see what in the world he was talking about, and she looked down and there was the night watchman walking down the street, lighting the lanterns. One after another, as he walked down the road. Beloved, that's our job. We do live in a dark world, but it is our responsibility To poke holes in the darkness