Um there is uh in your booklet uh the uh sessions on page twenty-five as far as your notes, and uh I will have uh kind of a structured little outline to give you here today. A couple things to um Just to say, um, you know, uh some places I go they call me T. H. Moore, and I I know our church members go, what's that? Okay. And I and I'll say, here's the explanation, and and guys do that just because that's it's my fault. When I first uh started to pastor and put out tracts, when when I was born, my mother is from France, and uh uh Pastor Nickelbach, you can understand it, she was going to give me the French version of Terry Something like T H I E R I don't know what it was, but something like that. And my dad was from Tennessee and uh he said, No, he can't go through life, you know, with that. People will not know how to you know, say it or spell it, whatever. And so she decided to go with the American way, Terry, but she gave me an I instead of a Y. T E R R I. So yeah. Almost all my life uh growing up it's like where is she? Where is she? When the you know, in the classrooms and all that. And uh when I was in high school my dad wanted me to go out for the golf team and I and I did and uh When I got to the very first practice, uh, they said, We have something that's happened for the first time in the history of the school And I'm sitting yeah, you know where it's going, right? They said, We have uh we have a girl going out to the golf team and I'm thinking, Wow and I'm looking around Yeah, Terry Moore. I said that's me, that's me. So anyway, I didn't want people to think that it was a woman preacher at the church if I just did Terry if I who's that? So I either put on the tracks Terry Howard Moore or just T. H. Moore, just because And so some people have seen that and they they think that that's what I I call myself. I don't. But that's okay. I'm not I'm not against that. Um it's it's fine, it's all it's all right, it's all good. So anyway, uh That's just the explanation for that. I was also telling uh Pastor Bitrell that um I'm grateful to God, you know, my wife and I, and of course my daughter, Sir Justine, and my son-in-law And uh I know she'll make me cry when I start talking and it's okay. But uh I'm grateful for what God has done in our lives. Um you know, we are first generation Christians. And uh we fought some battles, you know, trying to take a stand for God and and all that. And we're grateful for what the Lord has done, and that He would even allow us to be here And to be a part of this and a pastor and uh it's just wonderful. Um we have three, just a couple things. Um I think I have some time here Uh we have three kids and uh of course Justine's one of our daughters there married to Pastor Nickelbacher and uh has seven uh kids. And so we have thirteen grandkids. We have a son in uh Panama City, Florida Florida in the military, and a daughter uh in Arkansas married and uh they raise chickens so they do chicken farming for uh Tyson and um And so yeah, we're just we're just glad to be able to serve God. Been at Capitol Baptist Church now, we're starting eighteen years. Pastor where Pastor Combs is now. Before that, pastored in Oxford. And uh before that I was on staff at a Bible college and um of course I got saved as a and as an adult. We our kids were already born, and so They lived through I don't know how much of that stuff you remember, but uh they lived through some of the changes we made. It's pretty pretty big ones. You know, they started to learn the Bible and say, well, we're gonna do it this way And uh, you know, our family members were not in love with that stuff, you know. They wanted us with them on Sundays and like the picnics and the birthday parties and All those things. So um, you know, it was uh we don't we look back and we do not regret a thing. I don't think we do, uh the decisions we made uh because we believe that they were the things the Lord wanted us to do. And so that's kind of a little bit about uh about me and my wife here's Debbie. I guess I should have said that, huh? Here she is then. And she's been my my my partner uh through this whole journey. And uh an encouragement, certainly. And um we're grateful. She had the attitude, if the Lord if you know the Lord's calling you and the Lord's leading you, then I'm with you, you know. And that's a great wife wife to have. All right, well let's go ahead and open our Bibles to uh James chapter three. And I know our church people must say, this passage again? I was doing I was doing a series, wisdom from above before out of this passage, so don't get nervous about that. But uh if you want a title for the uh session here, um the title is the most damaging thing in the Christian home. The most damaging thing in the Christian home. Notice James 3. 13. Who is a wise man? And endued with knowledge among you, let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. For envying and strife is there is confusion and every evil work. So notice he's talking about w earthly what they call earthly wisdom. Which is really not wisdom at all. It's the wisdom of this world that God says in 1 Corinthians 3 is foolishness with God. So there's some ideas that this world has about life, and the product of that is what we find There in verse uh 15 and 16, confusion. That's where it leads. But notice the contrast in verse 17. But the wisdom that is from above, this is God's wisdom. is first pure, then pe uh peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of the right of righteousness is sowed in peace of them that make peace. Preach a little bit here on the subject that we find in verse 17, and I'll mention that here in a moment. Uh I if you notice I do have brown shoes on today. So when he started talking about that I wanted to kinda curl my feet under. And uh uh Uh it's funny 'cause I typically preach in black shoes. I just do. I'm kind of that type of regiment in my thoughts. But uh I said I'm only gonna bring one pair of shoes to today this weekend. So I'm gonna wear the this will go with both things. So but I'm not gonna depend on the shoes, I'm gonna depend on the Lord. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your goodness Lord, help me as I give forth your word today. Lord, these are dear people, and we've all come here because we recognize we need help. We need your help. We cannot do this without you. We're in a world that is so contrary to the Word of God, a culture that has gone awry And I pray, Lord, as I give just this thought here today, that you'd bless it and use it for your glory, and help us to be honest with ourselves, honest with you, and honest with our spouses. Fill me with your spirit as I teach and give the lesson and preach. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Christian lady gave this testimony. She said, My husband and I were saved in 2009. We quickly learned how to put on a good Christian happy face for our church family and others. When behind the scenes we were struggling terribly with our past. Our lusts, and our spiritual and emotional immaturity. Through our time and counseling, we learned how to have a real, personal, and passionate relationship with God Six years later, we continue to thrive in our marriage and in our relationship with God, and our children are growing in the Lord with a fervent desire to love Him and serve Him passionately. Whereas once we were living on the fringes of Christianity as outsiders looking in, now our Christian lives are for real. We no longer put on a happy face and play the part of good Christians. We actually have real Christ-like joy that comes from submitting to God. And to one another. It's funny when I had this subject, I was listening to uh Dr. Petrell in there, and I thought he kept saying, be real, be real, be real. And that's really what this is about. You know, I believe all of us understand that the home is a vital institution. It is. It's a God-ordained institution, vitally important. And you've heard this before. As goes the home, so goes the church And as goes the church, so goes the nation. Now think that through for a moment here. We can look and complain at our nation, can't we? But it has to go back to our homes because our homes affect our churches and our churches affect the nation. And so we understand that our home, when what happens in our homes, is vitally important, very important. And a Christian home is more than just a home where safe people live. It is a home where the Christian life is truly being lived out. So you may say, well, we're all safe, so we have a Christian home. That's not necessarily true. It's only when the people in that home are striving to live out the Christian life. And we are this is a tough statement for me to swallow too, I'm gonna say in a second But we're no better Christians than we are in our home. How are you in your home? Not how are you today, not how are you on Sunday, not how am I on Sunday or whatever, how I portray in the pulpit. How am I in the real place of my life And that is in my home. And so I want to preach again on the subject the most damaging thing In a Christian home, if you were to ask people what do you think is the most damaging thing in the home, we'd get all kinds of answers. I'd give you all kinds of answers, and the list would be long It might start with a cell phone. Uh it might go forward to the internet or we could say social media or the television. We could talk about worldly video games and worldly music and worldly friends and all those sorts of things. And there's no doubt that those things are and can be harmful to our homes. They absolutely are. What I'd like to speak about this morning is really the one thing, in my opinion, that does the most harm To a Christian home. And that is what we find in verse 17. Notice we read, but the wisdom that is from above is first pure than peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, notice this last phrase, and without Hypocrisy. Hypocrisy. You see you can get rid of all those things I just mentioned and more a few moments ago, the cell phone and the internet and social media, and I'm not necessarily telling you to do that. Might be a good idea though. But you can get rid of all those things, and if you don't get rid of this thing we're talking about today, your children will not turn out the way they ought to be, and your marriage will never be what it ought to be if we don't rid our lives of Hypocrisy. Hypocrisy. It is no doubt the most damaging thing, and all of us have at least a little bit of it in us, don't we? But we have to rid our lives of it. So let's talk about this subject this morning. Number one, I want you to consider the definition of hypocrisy. I think we know what it is, but please bear with me as I make some statements here. We find the word hypocrisy and its forms Forty verses in 40 verses in the Bible. And uh the definition of the Greek word, it's interesting because it's almost a transliteration. The Greek word is hypocrites, right? Hypocrisy, is this. It's an actor under an assumed character. I'll say that again. An actor under an assumed character. It was the word that was used in Greek and Roman, in the Greek and Roman days, for those stage actors. Those people that would get on the stage and what they would do is they would put large masks over their face and they would use devices to alter their voices because they were trying to conceal who they really were. They were playing somebody And anybody know who the real person was because they're portraying an actor. And of course, we understand that the word became metaphorically used to describe someone who pretends to be someone they're not I'm acting like someone, but that's not really me. When we try to conceal who we really are by acting one way in front of certain people and then acting a completely different way around other people. That's what a hypocrite is. That's the definition. We know the Lord Jesus Christ, boy, in a scathing sermon in Matthew chapter 23 to the Pharisees. Boy, over and over again, he called them out for their hypocrisy. As a matter of fact, he did it eight times in that That one sermon. Oh hypocrites. Verse fourteen Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye devour listen to what he says here, for ye devour widows' houses and for a pretense Make long prayer, therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation. In other words, they were pretending to care for the widows Oh, we love you. And making long prayers uh uh for them, but their underlying goal was to confiscate their possessions. They wanted what they had when they died or whatever. Verse 25 of the same chapter. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For ye may clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess Goes on in verse twenty seven, woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye are like unto whited supplicers, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones and of all uncleanness. What he's saying here is they the Pharisees, the scribes and Pharisees, worked very, very hard on their outward appearance. What they wear, how they portrayed themselves, the things that they said. But their goal was to cover up what was going on. inside of their hearts. They were hypocrites. You know, I found that uh that uh most people who kind of go over the top, if you will, to appear a certain way publicly are often the ones who are covering what they really are privately. Seems to be the case. It's interesting, another Bible word for the word hypocrite, if you look at it in the Old Testament you find it, is the word dissembler. It's an interesting word. When I preached through the book of Jeremiah, came across that again and again. The word dissembler means this, someone who conceals who they really are. They kind of veil things from other people's sight. They live a secret life. You'll find that in the book of Psalms, 26 and verse 4 I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers. That's what that word means. As I mentioned a moment ago in Jeremiah. It's interesting when uh Jeremiah had come to the people And uh the people want to know, do we go into uh go to Egypt, run to them for help, or do you want us to stay here? Uh they came as dissemblers to Jeremiah, that's how he put it in Jeremiah 42, 20, for ye dissembled in your heart when ye sent me unto the Lord your God, saying, Pray for us unto the Lord our God, and according to unto all that the Lord our God shall say Uh so declare unto us, we will do it. So they were saying, Jeremiah, uh you go see what the Lord wants us to do, and when you come back and tell us we're gonna do it Well Jeremiah did that. When he came back and told them, they didn't listen anyway. And Jeremiah is saying, you dissembled in your heart. You see, that's what hypocrisy is. And the Lord wants all of us to get every bit of it out of our lives. 1 Peter 2:1, wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies And all evil spirits we're to take that when we see it in our lives, something that's not matching up, we should get rid of it So that is number one, the definition of hypocrisy. Number two, let's consider the display of hypocrisy. Okay, we see what it is. What does it look like? Well, I think we know what it looks like, but I'm here speaking this morning, so we're going to talk about that. And so hypocrisy can be displayed in three different ways, all right? Number one, it can be displayed in our Actions. Interactions. In other words, if there are things that you would never do or even mention doing at church But you have no problem doing it at home. That's hypocrisy. And we're guilty of it. If uh if you'd be embarrassed in a a setting like this To name the places you go, or the movies you watch, or the music that you listen to, or uh uh w uh and and you're living one way here and another way there, uh, but you're putting on that front, uh that that is no doubt. Uh hypocrisy. Things that are right at church should be right at home. Things that are wrong at church should be wrong at home. Things that are wrong to do here should be wrong to Do everywhere That's the way we're supposed to live. We're not supposed to dissemble or be a hypocrite. Uh you see, uh uh the way you treat people, the way you conduct business The way that you speak, the way that your honesty, your integrity, and your kindness should be the same for all of us, no matter where we go. No matter who we are around. And so the hypocrisy can easily be displayed in our actions. But also, number two, can be displayed in our speech and how we talk. If you say things in your home that you would never say the church That's hypocrisy. Nobody has no problem with it. We all messed up. I get it. I'm not talking about that. I'm saying you've set up this double life. Right. You're living this way here and you you know it's wrong, but the i i and it's wr you say it's right here. And you can control it by the way, because when when you're a church or in a setting like this, hey you looking fine, you're doing well. But when you get home it's like you're a different person. How is your speech? Is there something that you would never say in the presence of a godly Christi that you'd say at home? If that's the case, then again we're we're guilty. And we can talk very spiritual at church, can't we? Praise the Lord. We know all the cliches and all the you know, all the words we're supposed to say. A and then uh and then if you're you're like that at church and then going home, it's a totally different situation. Maybe using minced word or God forbid even using swear words at home. That's hypocrisy. That's what it is. How about this? If you speak, we're talking about speech here. If you speak well about someone in one place and the and around certain people, but then when you're out of their presence or in certain other areas, you criticize them, you put them down, or you talk bad about them, then that that's hypocrisy That that's what it is. By the way, let me throw this out there. how you speak about your church around your children. Be careful how you speak around the preacher, about the preacher around your children as well. Uh with if it if the Christian school, if that's the case, be be be careful how you speak in your home about that and about the decisions that were made at church. If you're nodding your head at church and then going home, I don't want the preacher did that But that sermon really was terrible today, and I don't think you should have done that. Understand you are damaging your children, and that is no doubt hypocrisy, and it's so very terrible. Uh be careful. You know, one of the things we did, and and of course my daughter's heared about Truth. We did this Sunday night on purpose we did this every Sunday night after the service. You know how I know what you do, but we would of course we'd have the back Baptist Sunday, right? You get up, you go to Sunday school and and church, and then you eat a big meal, then you take a nap, and then you go to you go to Sunday night, and then you have a snack afterwards, and that's Sunday, right? How many are kind of like that? Pretty similar, right? That's kind of the Baptist Sunday, right? When we used to get home Sunday night, what we would do is we would have what's called blessings. And we wanted to, as we're snacking around the table, we said, okay, let's go around and everybody give us one blessing of today. Something that happened good. Because you know how it is. When you work in the ministry and you do there's always bad stuff that happens. The bus broke down. We had problems with the bus kid over here. The Sunday school teacher didn't show up and we had to do this and that. We go on. And so what we did was let's talk about the good things because there's way more good things than there are bad things. And so we had blessings there, and that was a reason to get our mind thinking the right way. But my point is this Be careful if you're talking like something so wonderful over here and then so bad over here. Again, that's hypocrisy in your speech. There's a third area, and that is this hypocrisy in our attitudes. We could display it in our attitudes. Again, same idea, what I just mentioned a moment ago, when we act agreeable with someone. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. And we nod and we act like we're on the same page And then we go home and we express our disagreement, that is hypocrisy. By the way, uh before you say amen to something in the church service Please realize what you're saying amen to. In other words, don't say amen to something that your children know that you are guilty of Don't say amen to something you know that you're not you're not practicing. Uh you know every b every Christian ought to tithe. Amen, amen. Well the people that count the money know you don't tithe, okay? And you're amening them. Everybody should be outside. Soul winning on Saturday. Amen. Amen. Then you're not even there on Saturday. I'm just saying that's hypocrisy. It's displaying a double life. You you're appearing in a crowd to be something and you're saying amen, so everybody thinks that's what you are. But in reality you're not. And so just save your amen for something else. But anyway, um so again, these are ways that hypocrisy is displayed So that's the display of hypocrisy. So we have the definition of hypocrisy, the display. And then thirdly is this the damage of hypocrisy My wife before I came up, she said this yesterday to me. She said, You're gonna be funny today. I said, I'm not gonna be funny today, I said I'm probably gonna be a little mean today, but I'm not trying to be mean, but because but this is a very, very important subject Even even in its smallest if it's a little bit in your life. You see what what what uh what hypocrites do is what people that live a a life of hypocrisy, and that's kind of what I'm talking about here today, is they set up a double life. That's what they do. It's as if they they they live in two worlds. Okay, there's one world where they act a certain way, and another world where they act a different way. They have a w they have their church world and then they have their home world. They have their church world and then they have their work world. They have their church world and they have their business world, if you And uh I heard a preacher say this once, I thought it was very good. He said uh most Christians want to attend a fundamental Baptist church but have a new evangelical home. And boy that pierced my heart. We want a fundamental Baptist church. But what's our home like? Would it be a fundamental Baptist home? But hypocrisy, they a person that lives that kind of double life, what they do is they do everything in their power to keep those two worlds separate That that's what they had to do. And kind of unknown to each other. And again, I mentioned this earlier. They'll often go over the top in one world. So people would never think it's possible that that other world exists. No way. And their hope Is that those two worlds don't collide and they don't bleed into one another. But the truth of the matter is they do. They always do. You ever been in a church service and uh Somebody that's maybe, who knows, you thought was strong member and you know and all that, and their cell phone goes off and their ring tone is like some rock and roll song. And you're like Two things they can do. They can either grab it real quick or look to the person next to them and go. I I was I was in a pastor's college one time years ago And uh Dr. Sexton, Past Pastor Clarence Sexton had given a bunch of old preachers in there and he said before the thing, he said, look, make sure your cell phones are off. We're recording this, this is going on online and everything. And so I'm sitting about midway on this side. And uh I was sitting next to the guy who led me to the Lord and Pastor Berg was sitting next to me. Well I turned my cell phone off. He didn't turn his off, okay? I didn't know that of course. So they're recording, just start into the session, all of a sudden his cell phone goes off, right? And and Pastor Sexton saw it. He he had this look and it's coming my our way 'cause he knew where it was coming from. And uh Pastor Bird he did that very thing. Instead of going like this, he went She looked at me. Everybody looked at me. Thank you for throwing me under the bus. But my point is this, our God has a way of revealing our hypocrisy. He does He loves us. And he wants us to get it right. And so what does he do? He he he makes it so those two worlds collide. And he puts us in a place where that's revealed. Sometimes it's revealed by by just a statement of our our children, you know You go out and I remember our kids were little I I give out tracks, of course we we should all the time to people and you know that'd be time to I forget to give a track and one of my kids would say, Why didn't you give them a track? Yeah, yeah. Well you're up in the pulpit, right, saying, give out tracts to people, do this, why aren't you giving you that that sort of thing? But uh understand something. Your kids see when we are living a life of hypocrisy. They're sitting in the services with you where they hear the same things you hear and they go home and they see what you're living And when it doesn't match and you're not addressing it, you're not even saying, listen, I'm struggling with this area and I'm asking God to help me. Boy, that would do a world of wonders if you did that. Instead of saying, What? What? What are you talking about? You know? As if that's normal. And uh God will make it ha you know, it's funny, I know Brother John is as you'd say sometimes when when I was uh soul winning f at first before I was called in the ministry Uh many of you know my testimony, I got saved uh out of the casinos. I was I worked in Atlantic City for years. Okay, and uh so and then when we started going to soul winning, right, you you knock on a door, right? And it's somebody you work with Right? And they're like, what are you doing here? You know? So this is what I'm saying here. You know, if you're not living the Christian life, then God's gonna make sure that we come face to face with those two worlds. Now the Bible the Bible is very clear that hypocrisy does super, super great damage. Let me show you. Proverbs 11, 9. An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbor, but through knowledge shall the just be delivered. So let's consider a few ways, and we're going to wrap this up here a little bit, that hypocrisy causes great damage. What does this thing do? We define what it is, we saw how we how it comes out in our lives. What damage does it does it do? I hear here I think three or four things. Number one is this, it produces rebellion in your children. It actually does. When your child sees you living a double life, one way at church, another way at home, playing the game, in their mind not getting caught And they're not able to do anything about it. Matter of fact, if they say anything about it, you're gonna get angry at them. And so what does that do? It produces in them anger. and frustration and confusion and results in rebellion. So you want to produce a rebel Just continue to live a double life and act like nothing's wrong. Okay? Again, I'm not saying we don't all struggle and there's things we gotta deal with, but when you're you s you're set up that way that this is how I live here and this is how I live there, uh then understand what that's doing to your children. Number two, it does this. It produces disrespect and distrust. I've seen this so many times. Because a child that grows up in a home filled with hypocrisy, they're going to think everybody's a hypocrite. Nobody's genuine. We all play this game. And so again, it's producing that that distrust uh and disrespect. They think everybody's living a double life, everybody has some secrets, no one is genuine, no one is real, and that no one can be respected or trusted. And so there's going to come a day when you're going to need or your child's going to need the pastor of the church. And if you sown things in the mind that nobody's real, he's just like we live a double life, everybody lives a double life, uh he will lose his ability to help you with them If you do that again, uh Sunday school teachers won't be respected because in their mind they'll think everybody lives a double life. That's what hypocrisy produces It produces rebellion, it produces disrespect and distrust. And then there's a third thing, and that is it. It ruins your testimony. Perhaps one of the biggest uh hypocrites in the Bible was Lot. You could argue differently, but I believe so. Of course, Abraham's nephew. He was a Jew. He he knew the Bible. He did. He was with Abraham, Abram at the time. And but we know what he did. Everybody in this room, I know the crowd I'm I'm preaching to here. He lived the life of a hypocrite, right? He he he looked towards Sodom, then he dwelt in Sodom, and then he sat in the gate in Sodom, and he was living this double life. And do you remember what happened when the Lord was warning him that judgment is coming and lot went to his family and tried to get him out of there. Do you remember what what the Bible says? I'll read it to you. I know you remember it. Genesis nineteen, fourteen. And Lot went out and spake unto his sons in law, which married his daughter, and said, Up, get you out of this place for the Lord will destroy this city, but he seemed as one that mocked under his sons-in-laws. They didn't believe him. Who are you? Tell me that You you you you're all a part of what's going on here. You see, you you uh the hypocrite thinks that they've hidden things from people, but they haven't. People see it. People they might not say anything, but but but but but they know it and then the ones you're trying to reach Make an influence in their lives when they know what you are. Your words are going to be as sounding brass and tinkling cymbal. They're going to fall to the ground and mean nothing That's the effect hypocrisy has. And then lastly, number four, is this. It ruins your relationship with God. That's a no-brainer, isn't it? I think God knows. Tus. He knows. He sees when we if we set up this double life. He He sees through us the Psalm 139, we can talk about that. He knows our uprising and our downstanding. He knows the words of our time before they even come out. He knows what's going on in our mind. He knows what's going on behind the closed doors. And again, uh Isaiah nine seventeen Therefore the Lord shall have no joy in their young man, neither shall have mercy on their fatherless and widows, for everyone is an hypocrite and an evildoer, and every mouth speaketh folly For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still. You want your kids to turn out for the Lord? I do. I want my grandkids to turn out for the Lord Do you want to have a good marriage? A marriage that pleases the Lord? Well, there's a lot to that, but part of it is this. Don't lead a double life. Yes, like I said, we all need help. But don't act like Wow Rum. Why? Why? What are you talking about here? Deal with whatever it is you got to deal with. Get your heart right with God and and submit to the word of God because you may think that you got a nice little game set up and that you got everybody fooled and you may have a lot of people fool. But God's not fooled And he's not going to bless our marriages. He's not going to bless our children if we're living the life of hypocrisy. We're really only fooling ourselves We really are. Listen, this is the most damaging thing in the Krishna. I've seen families that have been faithful Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, special meetings and all that that I knew were living a double life, and guess what? Their case didn't turn out for God. Because it wasn't real. I'll just restate what has been stated again and again this week. And I guess this is kind of a theme that God wanted for this week. And that is this. Let's just be real. Just be real. We all need help. We all need God. We all have a little bit of hypocrisy in us, but let's get rid of it. Let's be genuine no matter who we're in front of, no matter where we are. Let's not talk a talk and not walk to walk. Let's be Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your goodness. Thank you for the things that we've been listening to today. And the importance of living a life, as you said in James chapter 3 and verse 17, without hypocrisy, for that is wisdom from above. It's your wisdom when we rid our lives of it. And Lord, I pray that we would examine our hearts and our lives and ask ourselves and that you would reveal to us areas in our lives That we are living as hypocrites, that we're saying one thing, doing another, knowing what we're supposed to do, but acting in a different way, in a in a way that it doesn't bother us God, I pray you'd help us. And we know, Lord, that if we get this taken care of in our lives, that that's how we secure your blessings, no doubt And we ask your help now. May every marriage here, every home represented here, be a genuine home. May we be real. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.