We'll look at that. Now you can turn in your Bibles to Colossians chapter number one. Colossians chapter number one. And we have been considering the mysteries of God, looking at the different mysteries That are found in the Word of God. Everybody likes a mystery, right? We we enjoy mysteries. We like to uh look at them and evaluate them, but I think the deciding factor or the reason that we enjoy mysteries is we enjoy solving them. We like to find the solution. We like to have the answer. We like to find what it is that uh caused this mystery. And I don't know if it's still on. I'm sure many of you remember. Years ago there was a program on called Unsolved Mysteries. And they would talk about these scenarios and they would give you all of the information surrounding it and all of the things leading up to it and they would just talk about how uh this is something that might have to remain I mean they give you all these uh definitions and and look at possibilities, but uh there was an unsolved mystery, and that kind of left people hanging because we like to find the solution. Well, we've been studying the mysteries that are found in the Word of God, given to us by God, and we know that mysteries in the Bible were mysteries. Because they were things that were hidden in the Old Testament for a period of time, and then they're now revealed. And it was a mystery to the believers. And to us to to understand and see what God was doing. But he did give us some explanation of it. So we are not left in the dark. It is a mystery, but we should have some Now occasionally we in our finite minds not might not be able to understand at all and to comprehend it, but of course we want to believe and trust it in regardless of what that is. is. So tonight's mystery that we're looking at, it truly is a mystery when we consider or think about how can Christ be in you? In our text, Colossians chapter 1, verse number 26 and verse number 27, he says, even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations, But now is made manifest to his saints. So there's the definition of a biblical mystery. Something that was hid for a period of time, but is now made manifest to the saints. Verse number 27. He says, to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. The mystery is that Christ is in you, that He is our hope of glory. Christ in you. And you think about that and say, you know How can Christ be in somebody else? How can Christ come and be in you? And and that idea is mysterious in itself, and how does that happen? And uh of course in today's world there's all kinds of shows and programs that that talk about uh the occult and the uh you know the possession of people with different types of things, whether that be a demonic possession or an alien possession that uh these shows that portray that type of stuff. The exciting thing for for Christians is that once you're saved, you know that Christ is in you. And you cannot be demon-possessed. You see, because the devil cannot occupy the same place that Christ is in. Now we can go through uh demonic oppression that is from the outside where the devil and his demons come and they attack you from the outside and sometimes their attack is so strong You're just under the weight and the oppressiveness of demonic uh oppression on your life. You can go over over that, but you can't be demon-possessed. Because Christ is in you. Praise the Lord for that. Christ is in you. And this is a mystery. How do you explain it? How do you understand it? What does it mean for Christians to know this fact that Christ is in us? And what do we do with that information? I mean, what is it all about for us as believers? There's several things with regards to this idea of the union of the divine nature with our sinful nature. God coming in us at the moment of salvation where Christ comes into our hearts, where we receive Him as part of us. We become part of Christ in his body, Corinthians 12 tells us. There's several things about this mystery I want to tell you. First of all, it's personal. It's personal In our text here he says, to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glories of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in You. It's personal to every believer. It's Christ in you. Individually. Praise God. We personally have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Christ is in you. It's not something that's out there and there is this God that we know of and he's in the realm of the universe or that He's around and it's it's okay. And someday if we're really good, we might get to meet him or might get to ask something of him. Praise God, we have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Christ in you. He is with you. It's personal to each and every individual believer that trusts the Lord. Christ talked about it himself In John 17, verse number 23, he says, I in them, and thou in me, that they be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that thou hast sent me And hast loved them, and that thou hast loved me. He says, I in them, and thou in me. He was talking to the Father. Christ Himself says, I am in them. Again, we're going to see, I'm going to give you a lot of scripture tonight that reiterates this fact, this mystery, that Christ is in us. He becomes in comes to live and to dwell in our hearts as believers. It's a personal indwelling for every individual. Paul talked about it. Turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 6. 2 Corinthians chapter number 6. Just want to uh make sure that you're engaged and And last week I had a bunch of people look up verses. We were a little bit more intimate setting in the fellowship hall because the kids were in here practicing. So I don't know if I'll have individual people look them up or read them. We've got a lot of scripture to cover, but I do want you to turn your Bibles and see some of them. 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verse number 16. He says, And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. And God has said, I will dwell in them. And walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Amen. God says he's going to be in them. God is with you. It's personal. You know the ex that Jesus is with us. And you know, we can't uh have anything to do with idols because Jesus is with us. We shouldn't be bowing down to idols and looking at external things and praising those types of things because Jesus is in us. What fellowship hath light with darkness? What fellowship has Christ with Belial? None. If you turn the lights on, the darkness goes away. If you turn the lights off, darkness comes back. Jesus comes to dwell in you, and Satan had to go away. We shouldn't be going back to that and looking back at those things. You know, Mary and I several times when we were on our trip, it was just her we were her and I were at a place and we could get one one thing to drink And drinks weren't uh uh you know, not like here where you have a plethora of options and decide whatever you want. You want that with ice, without ice, you know, you want it diet, you want it sweet, you want it with sweet and low, you want sugar, you know. I mean here we got all kinds of options. There it's like you can get one thing. Well, you know, I don't like coffee. I just don't I mean, I don't care how much sugar you put in it, it still tastes like coffee to me, and I don't like coffee. So you know the nice thing, Mary, they'll say, Would you like a coffee? And she knew that we were gonna have to share the drink. And so she would say, No, no, we don't we don't want coffee. Because I don't I just I just can't drink the stuff. So she would be nice if she'd say, Hey, no, let's get something else. And Now Mountain Dew wasn't an option over there, so we couldn't get Mountain Dew, but she doesn't like Mountain Dew. She just she just she would go thirsty before she drank Mountain Dew, you know, she just doesn't like Mountain Dew. Some of you are agreeing with her and I one day you'll understand. When we get to heaven you'll have perfect knowledge, amen. But but uh you know the the thing is is when we're in a place like that I would say no let's not get Mountain Dew. So we would get something that we both would like. I want to do this for you. Because I want her to be able to enjoy it. So we would get something that we could both drink and that we both would enjoy. As believers, Christ is in us, and everywhere we go, and everything that we do, we understand that He's a partaker of that as well. We need to realize that and say, listen, I can't subject Christ to a cup of coffee. He wouldn't like that. I'm just kidding, I'm not preaching against coffee. Nothing wrong with nothing wrong with coffee. But whatever it is, you understand what I'm saying? That Christ is in us. He's with us all the time. And thereby, what he says here is that, hey, you're the temple of the living God. We can't have anything to do with idols. He partakes of everything we partake of. We got to be careful. It's personal. The new man is Christ formed in you. In Galatians 2, verse number 20, he says, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. Right? Christ liveth in me. Amen. You know the exciting thing is is the the the call to live and to be a Christian. It's a high calling. And we look at that and we say, Man, Pastor Caleb, I just can't do it. You don't have to. It's Christ liveth in you. Nevertheless, not I, but Christ that liveth in me. It's Christ is dwelling in you, and you've seen it in your lives. If you've been around Christianity very long at all, you've seen how Christ came and dwelt in the heart of a sinner, and God transformed their life God took somebody who was a drunkard and had no responsibility and couldn't hold down a job and changed his life. Somebody that was dishonest and would lie and cheat and steal to get gain, and God changed their life and they became as honest as Ablinken. God changed us. And here's the thing, Christian. We look at that and say, look what God can do, the power. Just on Sunday. Oh, my mind just went blank. One of the gentlemen that comes into Sunday school, uh Dr. Keller, he he was telling me a testimony of somebody that got a copy of a New Testament and how he began to read that and he got saved. And it transformed his life. And he took it home, but he didn't want to show it to his family. He was hiding it in his pocket. And his family found it. And they said, What are you going to do? And it transformed their life. But you see these stories I don't ask you, has God transformed your life? Christ is living in you. You can get victory over that sin in your life. Christ can give uh the drunkard victory over the drink and and the a and uh the the liar and the cheat and Uh victory over lying and cheating or the man who can't control his temper, victory over his temper. But what is it in your life that you say, oh, I just can't do it It's not supposed to be you. It's supposed to be Christ in you. This is the mystery that Christ is in us And we don't live in an in and unto ourselves, but through the power that Christ is in us. It's a choice that we make at the moment of salvation to let Him come and to be in our hearts. A familiar verse, Revelation chapter 3, verse number 20. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in to him and will sup with him. He with me. At the moment of salvation, Jesus standing at the door and knocking, and when we call out to him and say, Yes, Lord, I realize I'm a sinner. Would you forgive me of that sin? Would you come into my heart? He comes in and indwells us, the indwelling of God at the moment of salvation. He indwells us in and through the power of the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians 3, verse number 16. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? Now I'm not going to teach on the triune God and that we believe in God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, and how they're all three and they're all all three individuals, but they're all three one. We understand that and we believe that to be the case. When God the Holy Spirit comes to dwell in us, he is all God. He's the person of the Godhead in God the Holy Spirit coming to dwell in our hearts. In 1 Corinthians 6, verse number 19, what know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and you are not your own? The Holy Ghost, which is in you. At the moment of salvation, Jesus Christ comes in the person of the Holy Spirit and it dwells every single believer. It's personal. God, He's in you. Amen? If you're saved, He's in you. Not only is it personal, but it's precious. Using the biblical word for it, it's a precious Press this thing. First Peter chapter 2, verse 6 and 7. Why don't you turn there? 1 Peter 2, verses 6 and 7, so you can see it. I know I'm reading them uh quick and sometimes uh When you don't see it yourself, it doesn't sink in. First Peter 2, 6 and 7 says, wherefore also It is contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone, elect precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be Be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe He is precious, but unto them which Be disobedient, the stone which the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made, the head of the corner. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious. God dwelling in us. We have His Holy Spirit helping us to live and to be what He would want us to be. It is what gives us the power to be a Christian. We don't have to do it ourselves. In 2 Corinthians 4, verse 7 through 10, he says, but we have this treasure. In earthen vessels. The treasure that we have in earthen vessels is that Jesus Christ is dwelling in us. Just as if I had uh uh a box and I put something of great value inside that, there's an earthen vessel that I've put treasure inside. Well, we are the earthen vessel, and the treasure is God who comes to dwell in us. It's a precious thing. And this earthen vessel that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. And then he goes on in that familiar verses of, We're troubled on every side, yet not distressed, we're perplexed, but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed. Always bearing in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest In our body. The life of Jesus would be made manifest in our body. That's exactly what Brother Taylor was talking about in the testimony of those uh people there in the prison who Began to get saved and study the Word of God, and God began to change them from the inside out. And in their controlled environment, the guard could see that Christ was being manifested in them. And they said, hey, there's something different about them. What is it? And after some inspection and some evaluation, he found out that these people were people that are studying the Word of God. And he said, I want it. Because Christ was being manifest. As believers, that's what we should be doing. Letting Christ be manifest in us. He's dwelling in us. It's also exciting because not only is it pr uh personal and precious, but it's permanent. It's permanent. As I just studied this out, I just uh once again was floored with the idea I don't understand why somebody would want to try and find a reason to lose your salvation. I don't know why they would try and search for that or look for it. I mean they they dig through scriptures and try and find places that see this proves you can lose your salvation. There's so many places it's so clear that we are uh given the Holy Spirit permanently. Look, look, there's several verses I want to give you. One of them is very familiar, Matthew 28, 20. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always. Even unto the end of the world. He is with us always. Even unto the end of the world. All the way to the end of the world He's going to be with you. And he's not talking about being with you like in a general sense of you know he's with you like we might tell somebody, hey, my thoughts are with you. When you're outside freezing and they're in California and they're like, hey, we're thinking about you, but I am enjoying the sunshine. That's not how Jesus is with us. Jesus is with you always, even unto the end of the world, wherever you're at, wherever you go, and whatever you're enduring, Jesus is with you personally. Wherever you're going, permanently, Christ said he would give us a comforter that would abide with us forever. John 14, verse number six. He says, And I will pray the Father And he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. John 14, 16. He's going to abide with you forever. Once the comforter comes, in the presence of the Holy Spirit, in the person of the Holy Spirit, to indwell your heart, he is with you forever. Even to the end of the world. He's promised that he would never leave us nor forsake us. In Hebrews 13, verse number 5, let your conversation be without covetousness. And be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. I'll never leave thee, nor forsake thee. He is with you all the time. In 2 John 1, 2, he says, For the truth's sake which dwelleth in us, and he shall be with us forever. Again and again and again and again, the scripture tells us the Holy Spirit came, he dwelt in you, and he's with you forever. We are permanently Sealed. Sealed. There's two scripture references that say that. We're sealed unto the day of redemption. Ephesians 4, verse number 30. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Sealed till the end. And in and also in 2 Corinthians 1. 22, who also hath sealed us and given us the earnest Of the spirit in our hearts. You know, uh the earnest, this this is getting into or dealing with our our last point. Um so I'm gonna wait and save it But we're it's permanent, amen? It's permanent. Now, as believers, because Jesus is in us, it's a powerful indwelling as well. It's a powerful indwelling. You see, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you In Acts 1. 8. You're going to receive power. The Holy Spirit comes into your life and gives you power to do what you cannot or would not do by yourself. And be not drunk When you're drunk, you do things you wouldn't normally do. Either a really shy and bashful guy will be really outgoing. Somebody that's outgoing might be really, really mellow and shy and bashful when he's drunk. You're you're a different person when you're drunk. Well you can, through the power of the Spirit of God, be a different person. You say, Pastor Caleb, I just can't be a witness. With this power of Spirit of God, you can. Pastor Caleb, I just can't stop doing this. With the power of Spirit of God, you can. Because you can do things you wouldn't do on your own or in your own strength because you have a powerful indwelling of the Spirit of God. And there's so much here that We could give you, again, talking about the Spirit of God in our lives, he gives us power to learn of Christ. Power to learn of Christ. In John 14, 26, but the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things And bring all things to your remembrance, what's for our said unto you. Hey, he's going to teach us. Do you know that this the Bible doesn't make sense to those that do not have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them? They read the Word of God and it's it's it's all Greek to them. It's all Hebrew. Yeah, the Bible says it's foolishness unto them. They look at it and they say it doesn't make sense. Why do you guys agree? Because the Holy Spirit's not teaching them Learn it to allowing them to learn about Christ. We're learning about Christ. We learn how to be low. He said, take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I I am meek and lowly of heart. You know that's not natural for men to be low? It's natural for men to prop themselves up. It's natural for men to be puffed up and full of pride and to think more highly of themselves than they ought to think But Jesus Christ, who was the King of Kings, made himself of no reputation and became obedient even unto death. He Came to earth as a man for you and I. Humbled himself. And that's what we learn when we learn about Christ. We learn how to be humble. Amen. We learn how to know him, Philippians 3:10, that I may know him in the power of his resurrection. We learn how to grow, 2 Peter 3, verse number 18, but grow in grace in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Christ. We're to learn about Jesus and how to grow in grace. It gives us a power to love. The power to love. In Romans 5, verse number 5. He says Hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost Which is given unto us. The love of God is shed in our hearts by the Holy Ghost that's given unto us. You know, to love one another like God loves is not natural. To overlook the offenses that will come, to love even the unlovable We're supposed to love the Savior and love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. Amen. We're also supposed to love the sinner. Somebody help me. What's the verse? Love them, uh love your enemies, and do good to them with despite despitefully use you. You know what I'm talking about, right? You're supposed to love your enemies, isn't that in the Bible? Love your love your enemies. You're supposed to love the sinner. And you're also supposed to love the saint Love your brethren. We get the power to do that like Christ would want us to because of the Holy Spirit that's in us. To me that's exciting. I get the power to love like I'm supposed to love with Jesus Christ It's a promise, it's a promissory indwelling as well. And this is a verse that I gave. you a few minutes ago, uh I said we're getting into our last point, but to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of his mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Our hope, the hope of glory. It's an assurance. Hope is an assurance. It's a certain certainty. It's waiting. It's an expectation. Then in Romans 8. 19, for the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the Son of God. Our earnest expectation that one day he's going to break the eastern sky. That one day we're going to be caught up together in the air. One day we have a promise, because he dwells in us, that we'll be in glory one day. Listen, we're saved from the awful pit of hell. That in itself is a miraculous thing because Christ indwells in us. Us. We're saved from the penalty of sin, but one day we're going to be saved from the presence of sin and taken on up into heaven. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. It's a promissory indwelling that because he's in us, we one day will be with him. Amen. That is the mystery of the indwelling of Jesus Christ in the world. Every believer that has trusted him. A lot of doctrine and teaching on this idea of Christ in you. And I hope you wrote down some of the scriptures and you have those because that's what'll remind you. as we continue on. Let me close our our time in the Word of God here with it with some prayer and then we'll have Pastor Gus come and take our prayer request and continue. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to look into your word and to think and to contemplate on this magnificent truth, the mystery of Christ in us. Us, our hope of glory. Lord, we thank you for it. And I pray, God, that uh you would help us to realize the truths that are presented clearly in the Word of God for us, that this indwelling is personal, it's precious. It's powerful, Lord. It's promissory. Lord, we thank you for these things. Lord, we ask you to go with us as we go our separate ways here in a little while, Lord. We ask you to give us strength. That the love of Christ and the life of Christ might be manifest in us. For truly He dwells in us, Lord, I pray the world and the people around us would see him In us. And we'll thank you for it. We ask in Jesus' blessed name. Amen.