A Psalm of David Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land And verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. This psalm, as we were told from the get-go here, is written by David. This was written in his latter years. This was written in a time of his life when David had lived long enough. to know a thing or two. You know, sometimes the young people feel like they know it all. But the older you get, the more you know you didn't know. You know, and you start to learn. But there is a point in life where you've reached you've reached the level, you've lived long enough, you've you've gone through some things, you have some life experience and you have some wisdom that you You could give to the younger generation if they would just listen. Amen. This is what David is saying here. You see, he had known great success and great failure. He had known the joy of victory and the pain of loss. He had watched the wicked prosper and the righteous suffer. He had been a king and he had been a fugitive. He knew the love of family, and he knew how it felt to be hated by his family. He had spent his life walking with God to the point that he was said of God himself that David was a man after God's own heart. David. And it is from this deep well of life experience that he draws out for us some wisdom that we can apply to our lives. Thinking about when we reach that point, that age, where we've reached the end of our days, we'll be able to look back with great joy. satisfaction and fulfillment for a life well lived. He gives us this wisdom And this morning, I want to share with you a message entitled, The Desire of Your Heart. The Desire of your heart. Let's pray. Lord, I ask you this morning that you'd give me liberty to preach, you'd give me clarity of thought, that you would uh allow me and my personality to step aside and allow the power and the work of the Spirit of God to work through His Word and this Message for your people this morning. Lord, there are some things in this message that are very encouraging, but there's some that are very challenging. And I pray, God, that you would take what each and every heart needs. that you would apply these principles to their lives and Lord, each would adapt and apply individually, Lord, what they what you have for them. Lord, we'll praise you for it, for the time that we get this morning to look into your word and be drawn into your presence and be spoken to and challenged in this way And Lord, we ask this all in Jesus' blessed name. Amen. The desire of your heart. You know, we all have different desires This is something that is universal and that everybody has some desire. It doesn't matter how old you get You still have some desires. You may be 95 years old, but you still have some desires. Now, maybe your desires are a little less ambitious When you were younger, you may be you wanted to conquer the world. Now you just want to get out of bed and not be in pain. You just just wish you could get up and not have a backache. Amen, brother uh Abeda. Yeah, he just wants to get up and not be in pain. Just wants to get through the day and uh have enough energy to finish it out. And maybe the ambition or the desire is not what it once was, but everybody has desires And those things that motivate you or the desires that you have might be different from the person next to you or the person in front of you or behind you. But we all have desires. Some of you desire a nice car. You know, I I enjoy nice vehicles. One guy said that, man, I I have driven my car for years and years and never had a wreck And his friend said, Man, I've driven a wreck for years and never had a car. You know, I I enjoy a nice car. Some people they're not car people. They don't they can could care less. It doesn't really matter. As long as it gets from point A to point B, that's fine. But I mean I like a nice car. I I don't know. Some of you enjoy crafts. You would just I mean you could spend a whole day in a craft show Not me. I mean about ten minutes in there, I would be bored. I would be done with crafts. Like, okay, what else is there? You know, a few years ago, a couple of other men in the church here, we went down to the uh woodworkers convention at the fairground. Oh, that was awesome. Yeah, I mean I spent hours in there walking around looking at all those tools, you know, checking them. I mean you talk about a wish list, you know, I mean you're just going through there and checking out this tool and that tool and looking at I mean I enjoy a good tool. I I it's just something that I that I like, a desire that that I have. But what I'm driving at today is Something a little deeper than maybe some hobbies that we have or some things that we enjoy. I'm talking about the desires of your heart that control your actions. Well I suppose that really every desire controls our action to some extent. Yesterday I went for lunch. I went to three restaurants before I decided where I wanted to eat. I I pulled in and I'm like, nah, I don't want to eat here Uh no, I don't want to eat here. I mean uh w I was looking for what do you feel like? What do you want what do you desire? So I guess uh to some level even something as simple as that, like what are you gonna eat for lunch, is is driven by the desires that you have. As Christians, our desires should be directed by God. Those desires we have as Christians that bring us closer to God or cause us to desire to fulfill His will in our life. For many Christians are like David was here. I've spoken to many young Christians or sometimes Christians that are growing in their faith and and they've kind of looked at the Christian life like David was looking at here in verse number one where he says, fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. You see, they're looking at the life of the world and and all that's out there and all that the world has to offer, and they kind of look at that with a little bit of anticipation, a little bit of of excitement, and they look and say, Man, those guys are having all the fun. Those guys are enjoying life. Those guys are are look at the good times and the good days that they're having. And And it just seems like if if I'm actually going to be a Christian or or live the Christian life, then I've got to give up all that. I hope this morning to change your mindset, the idea that you have behind that, oh, I have to give up all that. I've literally heard men say as I've talked to them about choosing Christ, as talk to them about the fact that they can be forgiven of their sin. They can be forgiven of their sin. They can know that they're on their way to heaven. When they die, they'll spend eternity with Jesus instead of an eternity in hell. They can know the forgiveness of God. And I've literally had them tell me, I can't do it. Because I don't want to give up this or this or this or this. What they're saying is that their desire for those things Are stronger than their desire to be forgiven. Those are what they feel are most important in their life. But what they don't understand is the truth of this verse. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thy heart. And I hope to open this up to you this morning and bless you with some thoughts that I have long since pondered in my life. There is no question that the world has pleasure to offer. There's no question about that. The Bible says very clearly that there is pleasure in sin for a season. There is enjoyment to be had. There is fun to experience. There is things in the world that as you look at it, you think, man, that just looks like so much fun. It looks like it would be so enjoyable to just carefree and throw caution to the wind and just go, you know, sow my wild oats and have a great time. Wouldn't that be enjoyable? The Bible also says that sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. So although there is pleasure in sin for a season, there's a warning, there's a caution given to us. that it's gonna bring forth death. And I want you to understand this morning, beloved, that the Christian life is not as many have portrayed it as this boring existence. where you can never have any fun, where you can never enjoy yourself, where you can never fulfill your desires. It's not a life where you just decided and and surrendered yourself to live a life of sullen depression and and discouragement and hardship because I just decided I'm gonna serve God. So I gotta just suffer through it all. That's not the Christian life. Although some have incorrectly portrayed it that way, that's not, beloved, what the Christian life is The Christian life is one that is well lived, where you do get the desires of your heart. When you love God and follow Him, God wants you to have the desires of your heart. Matthew 7, verse number 11 says, If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? You see, God wants you to have the desires that you have in your heart. God wants you to have that. Just like what you know with my kids. I've got five children and man I want them to have the things that they want. I want them to enjoy themselves. I want them to enjoy life. I want them to be able to get the things that they want. I mean, if there's any me way I could do it, I want to do it for them And God says, if you, as a human, in your heart have that desire for your children just to do whatever you can for them, don't you think God would have that desire for you? God does have that desire for you, and God wants you to have your desire fulfilled. I don't really have points this morning, but if I was to give you something I want you to understand first is that God will reward your desire if it's right. God will reward your desire if it's right. I mean consider the story of blind Barmaeus. Can I read for you that story for those who might not be familiar with it? If you'd like to look at it, it's in Max, in Mark chapter 10, verse 46 through 52. He says, And then they came to Jericho. And as he went out into Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highwayside begging. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And many charged him that he should hold his peace, but he cried the more, a great deal, thou son of David, have mercy on me. So Brian Bartimaeus is there and he's heard about Jesus and the power Jesus has to heal and to give sight to the blind and and he has faith that Jesus could do that for him. And so blind Barnabas calls out and he says, Lord Lord, just like our theme birds, call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Lime Barmea says, Lord, have mercy on me. And everybody around him says, Babe. Shhh! Be quiet. You're just a a beggar on the street here. Jesus doesn't want to talk to you. Jesus doesn't want to help. Be quiet Everybody's telling him and and he says, you're not going to shut me up. And he cries the more, Lord, have mercy. I mean he couldn't chase him down. He didn't know where he was in the crowd. He just said, I got to reach him somehow, and the only way I got is my voice. And Blind Barmaeus calls out to him and says, Lord, have mercy on me And Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise, he calleth thee. And he, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. And Jesus answered, and he said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. I mean, blind Barnabas, that's not a very spiritual request. That's a little bit selfish. You just want to see. You just want to see. I mean, don't you have something more spiritual to ask for? But Jesus says, Hey, thy faith has made thee whole. Blind Barnamaeus was given his sight. What I want you to understand this morning is God wants to fulfill and give you the desires of your heart. Those things that you desire or want most, God wants to supply and give those to you. I think about Hannah in the scriptures who wanted a child And she was burdened about getting a child. And she went to the house of God and knelt down and prayed and begged God, Lord, please give me a child. And the prophet thought she was drunk. Because she was so out of control. She was weeping and crying and begging God to give her a child. He he accused her of being drunk. She they had a discussion. Of course, he understood that she wasn't, but that her heart was broken over this. And he says, God's answered your prayer. And God gave her a child. We could walk through the pages of scripture and one story after another and see those whom God provided for and gave them the desires of their heart. What I want you to understand, Christians, is that God will reward you with the desires of your heart that are right. I think about Jacob. And he wrestled with the Spirit. He wrestled with him and wrestled with him and wrestled with him. And he and the Spirit said, Hey. It's almost the break of day. Would you let me go? And Jacob says, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. You see, God wants to bless you, Christian. God wants to meet your need. God wants to provide for you. God wants to reward you with the desires that you have in your heart. I look around the room here and I I've talked to many of you about different things going on in your lives and I I know the ambition. Just this morning somebody was talking to me about, man, they're looking for the time when their family can buy a house That's just a temporal thing. It's just a thing here on earth. God wants to give that to you. I don't doubt that That at all, that God would love to bless you and your family with that, or whatever is going on in your life, and there's nothing wrong with that ambition or desire. I want you to know God wants you to have those things. There's nothing wrong with that. Christianity is not a life where you give up on all your desires and everything that you wanted and determined to just live a life of disappointment. No fun, no excitement, no satisfaction. That's not Christian life at all. So some may ask, well what if I have a desire that's not right? Uh what do I do with those desires? You see, here's the clincher. We've covered all this thus far, and you're like, man, Pastor Caleb, you're right. That's exciting. He wants to give me. But you know, it's never really been a des My question has never been about the desires I have that are right. My question is about the desires I have that are wrong. And do I have to give those up? And that's what many people say I'm not willing to give up. I don't want to give that desire up Would you read that verse with me again? Look at it. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thy heart. Beloved, what I want you to understand is not so much giving up as it is if you just delight yourself in God. He will give you the desire of your heart. So first of all, we looked at the idea that God would reward those desires that are right. What I want you to understand is God will revise the desires you have that are wrong. And it's not a matter of, oh man, I gotta give this up No, God changes your heart's desire. That's right. You're not giving up anything. You don't want that anymore. You don't desire that anymore. You have a different desire because God will revise the desire that you have in your heart. I'm not in church this morning, beloved, because I have to be. I'm not in church this morning because I'm a Christian and that's what's expected of me. I'm not in church this morning because I I I believe in God and I think that if I didn't go to church, God would strike me with with lightning. And say, I'm not I'm not here out of fear. I'm here because it's where I want to be. I look forward to church. I look forward to being in God's house. I look forward to being with God's family. The desire was changed. God revises that desire in you. One telltale sign, beloved, that you are saved is that you start to have new desires. New desires are in your heart. Look down in verse number 37 of this chapter. Verse number 37, you see the action of a believer here. What happens to somebody who is saved? Somebody who loves God, who's trying to delight themselves in the Lord, we see here chapter 37, verse 27. I think I told you the wrong verse. Verse 27. He says there depart from evil and do good and dwell forevermore. This is what happens. This is the result of salvation. This is what's going to take place in your life. You're going to depart from evil, you're going to do good, and you're going to dwell forevermore. Why I look at this as an emphatic uh statement is because you and I have no power over that last one, the dwell forevermore. We're going to dwell forevermore with him in heaven. And that's we we can't do anything about that. We can't But then there's two other things that are there that we look at and say, well, we do have some power over. But what I'm saying is that as a result of salvation You're gonna depart from evil, you're gonna do good, you're gonna one day, praise God, dwell with him forevermore. That's what's gonna happen. You depart from evil. As Christians, we are departing from evil. God has saved you. Now He wants to sanctify you. But more than that, you want to be sanctified. That sanctification is the process where we begin where we're made into the image of God, and that's what you want, that's what you desire. Some people look at it and say, Oh, what have I got to give up to be a Christian? You don't got to give up anything. Just delight yourself in God, and God will change your desires. He'll make you what you want, what He wants Think about Paul. We talked about him in Sunday school today and what a fitting example he went from persecuting, sacrificing, doing all he could to stop the church. That's what he wanted. That was his desire. He wanted to stop Christians, right? He got saved, and he was the number one promoter of Christ Christians. Excuse me, just lost my cough drop. Preached so hard my cough drop flew out, amen. He was a promoter of Christians. That's what happens. I mean, how many of you have had somebody, you got saved later in life, and somebody looked at you and they said, You were the last person I would have ever thought wanted to go to church. Oh man, you are you were going to church? Really? You're in God's house? I would have never thought. Hey There's been a great, great change, change since I was born. There's been a great, great change, change since I was born. There's been a great great change change since And there's been a great change since I was born again. That's the Christian life. And what I want you to understand, beloved, is some people get so bogged down and burdened and worried about what they're going to have to give up for Jesus. Oh, I don't know if I can give that up for Jesus. Don't worry about what you've got to give up. Just delight yourself in God, and God will give you the desires that are in line with him and you won't be giving up anything for Jesus. You'll let it go because you don't want it. You'll walk away from it because you didn't desire it. I remember talking to a Christian here in the church this morning And he was talking to me. We were looking out over this thing and there was a bar down there and the the it was the big party was going on and all the music was so loud and he was telling me, he says, I can't believe that I Used to think that was fun. He says I just I stand here looking at it and it boggles my mind that I I mean that I at one day wanted to be in there. And now he's boggled with the thought that he could possibly want have ever wanted that. It's different for me. I've never been in a bar. I've never been in a nightclub. I don't know anything about that environment. Now I have been in a casino once. I had to go get my wife out of there. No. Just kidding. My wife and I inadvertently went into a casino. We were in a in a mall down in uh Niagara Falls. And we're in a mall and we said, hey, where's a really good place to eat? And they said, oh, down the other end of this mall here, they named this place. I didn't know what it was. So we went and they had an entrance into the casino from the mall and it went right into the restaurant. So we went in, sat down, we ate this buffet that was unbelievable. I mean awesome and it was cheap. Then we were leaving and found out we were in a casino. I'm like, oh my goodness. Pastor Caleb leaving the casino. Well we didn't win anything, so God says, therefore if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. Man That's what it is. God will change your desires. Christian, please don't look at it and think about it like, oh, do I gotta give up everything? that has ever been fun to me. No. You don't have to give up anything. You just delight yourself in God and let God give give you the desires He wants I read a story of a student that was in Moody Bible Institute. He had a job driving a bus on the south side of Chicago. One day he was driving this bus and a gang of young hoodlums got on the bus. These these boys, ruffians. And they refused to pay. Of course this seminary student, there's really not much he could do about it, and all these guys said, no, we're not paying. So they rode the bus however far they wanted to and then got off. The next day they did the same thing. And this seminary student was just, this is wrong and this is not these boys need to pay and there's nothing he could do about it. This happened for several days in a row. They're just using the bus to go wherever they want to go But one day, they're on the bus. The seminary student was driving down the road and he saw an officer at a corner So he pulled the bus over, stopped, called the officer on the bus, and said, these boys have been riding this bus every day for the last how many days, and they refuse to pay. And the officer made him pay. The ju the the seminary student sat back in their chair and said, I got them. And he took off driving down the road, but when they got around the corner, those boys beat the living daylights out of him. And they took not only the money that they gave, but all the rest of the money out of the till. So the seminary student, he pressed charges. The boys were arrested. The seminary student went to court that day and he saw the boys that beat him and he pointed at them. He said, yep, that's them. That's him. That's him. They beat me. They stole the money. The judge passed sentence, pronounced the prison time that the boys were going to have to do While the judge was reading the sentence, God broke the heart of that seminary student and saw those young boys for the lost souls that they were and that they needed Jesus Christ. The seminary student stood up and he said, Judge. Would you allow me to serve their sentence? The judge was flabbergasted. What? The boys were shocked. Huh? And he looked at him and said, I want you to know I have already forgiven you And what's more important is you need Jesus. The judge wouldn't grant his request, the boys went to prison. The boy, the seminary student, visited them almost every day during their sentence. and was able to lead many of them to Christ. But what I want you to understand is that his heart, the desire of his heart changed You see, first he wanted justice. First he wanted his his ten pounds of flesh. He wanted them boys to have to pay. Yeah, this is right. They're getting what they deserve. And then God changed his heart, changed his desire. He no longer wanted to see them get justice. He wanted them to experience the forgiveness of God. That's what God does in your heart. He changes your desire. He changes what it is that you want. I'm not saying, Christian, that God is going to make you do things that you don't want to do. What I'm saying is God will give you the desire of your heart. And if your desire is not lining up with him, when we just delight ourselves in the Lord, He will give you the right desire. So you'll get to do what it is that you want to do. I don't know To me, that's a powerful thought. It's just amazing to me thinking about how God changes our desire. You see, this boy, the seminary student, he became like Paul, who although the Jewish leaders had persecuted him, imprisoned him, and beaten him, Paul said, My heart's desire in prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. That's what Paul wanted. I've told you before how I had a plan for my life. How I had a desire, what I wanted to do. I wanted to be rich. I wanted to be filthy rich. Now, I still wanted to be a Christian. I wanted to love God. And there's nothing wrong with having money. I mean, J. C. Penny gave 90% of what he made to God. I said, Lord, I'll do that. I'll give 90% of what you give me to you. Do you make me filthy rich like JC Benny? Amen. I wanted to be rich. I wanted to have, I mean I had these visions, this desire, and I went to college and I went to Bible college. You say you went to Bible college to be rich? No, you see, I had an underlying desire to please God first. I wanted to be a Christian. I wanted to love God. I wanted to do what God wanted me to do. And if He would allow me, I wanted to be rich. I wanted to just make a lot of money. That's what I wanted to do, man. And there's nothing sinful in that, you know So I said, Lord, it's not a sinful desire. I want to honor you with the money that you give me. I want to bless. You know how many missionaries I can support? Amen. You know how I could further the work of God? If that's what you have for me, I'm I'm ready, Lord. This is what I want to do. God bless I I had that desire as a young man. And I went to Bible college and Through my years in Bible college I I experienced some success. I I had my own business and at one point had sixteen people working for me and we we were able to see some some success, made made good money, but during those years God changed that desire to where that drive for financial wealth was not primary. The drive to invest in people's lives became primary. To be used of God to win souls to Christ, to minute minister to people. And beloved, I stand before you today as a pastor not having given up that desire for money God changed my desire. And I stand before you today as a pastor doing what I do because this is what I wanted to do more than anything else in the world. life. You see, when you delight yourself in the Lord, he will give you the desire of your heart