I'm a little bit like this, so so getting a broader uh understanding there before I I narrow it down and actually say what I think about myself. Um but as far as some principles that we can use to discover what our spiritual gift is, uh first of all is to search the scripture. Search the scripture. Before you can discover your spiritual gift, you need to learn what they are, how they're described and how they are revealed in Scripture. Now that's the purpose of this study. We're studying the Bible. We're searching the scriptures. What does God say about these gifts? How are they described? Who are some people that had these gifts? And what does that look like in a person's life? So we can understand the biblical background to the different gifts. When we know what the Bible says about the gifts, that gives us a better understanding of what they are, so we can say, well, that that sounds like something that I might have an ability in that God has given me. So search the scripture Secondly, is to supplicate the Spirit. God was the one that gave you your gift. God chose your gift for you. He wants you to use your gift And he obviously knows what it is. So you want to learn what your gift is, just talk to the Lord about it. He's got a better idea than you do. He's got a better idea than I do. You talk to the Lord and And he can help direct you in that. The Holy Spirit, one of his jobs, is to guide us into all truth. And one of the truths revealed in the Word of God is about spiritual gifts, so the Lord can direct us in that way. Number three, I'd encourage you to serve the Savior. Serve the Savior. Your gift has been given to you for you to use in service at a local church. Being involved in the church, serving the church, serving God, serving others, that's where what you have a gift for. And as you use your gift in service in a ministry, it's going to start to come to the forefront what you're strengths are what some of your weaknesses are, your tendencies of how you best serve one another. So serve the Savior. Your gift will begin to manifest itself. Evaluate your service and see how you handle different tasks. Say, well, how did I do that? I had this come up in class and how did I handle that? This happened at the church and what was my response? Kind of evaluate your service that way Consider things that are done around the ministry and ask yourself what you would have done in that situation. Not critically like, ah, I wouldn't have done it that way. That's not what we're looking to do. But look and say, okay, this happened If I would have been the one that had to make the decision, how would I have handled that situation? And that can kind of give you an idea of, okay, well, this is how I respond to these needs within the church. So serving uh serving around the church. Also, number four is to see your strengths. As you begin to discover your spiritual gifts, start paying attention to how you can use that in your ministry so you use your gift on purpose. This is my gift. This is my ability God's given me. This is my ministry. How do I use my gift in my ministry to make my ministry better, to serve a little bit more, to serve more people and do it and handle it better? God didn't give you a gift just for you to have it, he gave it to you to use it. So learn your gifts, know your strengths, know your weaknesses, know your tendencies, and see how you can use your gift to serve God and to serve others. Consider what you do and consider how how you can do it better by using your gifts. So some principles there of discovering and implementing your spiritual gift. As we continue through this through the study here, I know So that's what many are eager to find out. Well, what's my gift and how do I start to use it? So those are some principles for you. As I've done over the last couple of weeks, I'd like to give you another example of the different gifts at play within a hypothetical situation within the church. And so I'd like to consider today, for the illustration's sake, putting together a new ministry. If we were starting a new ministry at the church and putting that together and we had the opportunity to start this ministry with with all the gifts at play, uh what would that look like? So I was thinking about this, one of the most recent ministries we started was the security team. Brother Joe was in charge of that. So in our situation today, we're going to give Brother Joe seven people for the security team. And each of them has a different gift. And he's going to say, well, what's the best place to use this gift in the security ministry? So the security team would do very well to have each of these gifts involved. In fact, at our church, all the gifts are involved in the security team because Brother Joe told us we're all part of security. With all the gifts in the church and everybody in the church on security, well then I guess we have all the gifts on the security team. But narrowing it down a little bit, uh, to just seven people at work in the ministry, what would it what would it look like? One of the first Johns he's going to give out are the front line of security, which would be our greeters, people that are welcoming people to church. And if he had the option of these seven gifts to use them, he'd probably stick the gift of prophecy and the gift of mercy there right at the front door to great to greet people. Gift of prophecy is there to confront issues, to confront problems. The gift of mercy is there to console the people that were confronted wrongly. Or just to welcome visitors that would be there. These two people up there, one just caring about people and one caring about keeping things uh keeping things safe and protected. So the gift of prophecy, the gift of ministry to be people I would stick out front to welcome new visitors as they come in. Then we would see that he would probably assign um When it comes to making up the security plans, the handbooks, the guidelines, the protocols, he'd give that out to the gift of teaching. They're going to really enjoy doing all the studying and writing and teaching the security. security team and training them how how to do things and handle protocol and everything that comes along with that role. Now someone needs to be here early, someone needs to be here late to open and close the building to make sure everything is put away and is made ready for next week and that'd be a perfect job to give away to someone. with the gift of ministry. As our church grows, so should our security team, so the gift of exhortation would be put in charge of recruitment and training Bringing new people in and bringing them along and helping a helping a young person that would be joining the team to to grow up and and do better in that. The gift of ruling would be given the responsibility of putting together the schedules, checking to make sure everyone was where they needed to be, when they needed to be there, and had everything that they needed And someone with the gift of giving would be put in charge of asset acquisition. They would shop around, find the best quality and best price of the radios and all of the necessary items for the security team So different different gifts at at work and at at play in these different uh opportunities of service, just in a security team like that, you can see how the different different roles fulfill different tasks uh in a different way and that all works together to have a have a great unified unit, which is what we as a church are supposed to be, in unity. My brethren we'll hold how blessed it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. So today so far or in our series we've looked at the gifts of prophecy, the gifts of ministry, the gifts of teaching. Today we're going to be looking into the gift of So let's look at the Bible here in Romans chapter 12, verse number 8. This is where this gift is brought up. It says, Or he that exhorteth on exhortation. He that giveth giveth unto it with simplicity, he that ruleth with diligence, he that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. So just the first part of that verse, he that exhorteth on exhortation. Let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer this morning. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word. Lord, I pray that you would help me as I teach today to clearly communicate the thoughts that are presented here. Lord, that we as a church would be challenge to consider what our gift is and how we can use it. Lord in the ministry that you've given us, Lord, that we can all work together, not see uh each other as conflicting or just doing things in ways that we don't like, Lord, but as complementing one another. That we could get work together to do the work you've called us to do. Thank you for those who you've given the gift of exhortation, Lord, as we see that throughout uh the lesson today and see it at work in our ministry. Lord, it's just a blessing these people are uh to be involved in the life lives of others, to see them grow for you. Lord, we ask again that you bless the time together around your word and ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So as we look at the gift of exhortation, we're going to begin with defining the idea, the gift defined what does it look like in the Bible. Now, first of all, exhortation broadly in the Bible does show up quite often. Uh it it is an admonition. We'll look at it a little bit at the end of the lesson today, given to all believers to exhort one another. We see this word come up, exhort, exhortation, exhorteth as is seen in our verse here or passage today. So this word is seen throughout the Bible. Now with prophecy and teaching and ministry, the three gifts we've looked at so far, those all fit into the category of administration. uh as well as the category of gifts. Those three are the only that only three of the gifts that do this. The rest of the gifts are broader ideas in the Bible, but not necessarily a position with in the church that would be described such as teaching or prophecy or ministry. So they are not administrations or operations. They are, however, responsibilities. something that we all have a responsibility to do. It is a responsibility for all believers, but just like it is with teaching, it's a responsibility that is specifically given to preachers. Preachers are given the responsibility of exhortation. We see this So exhortation is something that is given specifically to preachers, but it's also we'll see later in the lesson So this idea shows up a lot in the Word of God, but here in Romans chapter 12 it is defined or described as one of the seven spiritual gifts. that have been given to the church. So this is exhortation given to individuals. Those with exhortation, the gift of exhortation, will be focused on struggling Christians and are willing to invest themselves in others to see them grow. So we get this idea of exhortation in the Bible, and we go on to the actual definition of this word. This word exhorteth or exhortation means to come alongside of, to join up with somebody, to come and come next to somebody. It is the word paraclete. Does anybody know what other word it has to do with paraclete? It's the word describing the Holy Spirit. When he comes alongside of us, when Jesus says, I'll send you a comforter. That's the paraclete, someone to come alongside of you. So that is this word, this word exhortation. The picture it gives is someone joining themselves to another in order to give them strength. I was talking to one of the young people uh on Thursday night and they were talking about how they had hurt their hurt their leg that week and had trouble getting around school. They said they were limping on the hallway or scooting around trying to get I said, Well didn't you have A friend that could come up next to you and you could put your arm around them and that you could lean on them, somebody to come alongside of you. That's this idea. One person is struggling, somebody comes alongside of them to lend them their strength, to give their strength to the one who is weak And that is this idea of exhortation to come alongside of. Some confusion that may come with exhortation, uh at least when it comes to the gifts here, there's some confusion regarding the gift of exhortation, the gift of mercy. These two get get overlap a lot and they get confused a little bit. So just try to break it up simply here today, obviously as we go through the lesson, we're going to get more detail and then when we get to the gift of mercy We'll go in more detail there, but exhortation is basically the idea of working with someone to help them take the next step. The gift of mercy is someone who's emotionally involved in the burdens and blessings of others. So there's the idea of the compassion and the empathy seen there in the gift of mercy, and the joining together to help somebody who's struggling is with the idea of exhortation. As I said, there's a lot of overlap between the two, but they are distinct gifts. So that's the gift defined. We're going to go on now to the gift described. How does this gift describe for us here in the book of Romans? The first description we have is the one that was given to us for the gift of mercy as our ministry as well as the gift of teaching, and that is the let us wait. If you look back in Romans chapter 12, verse number 7. It says, Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering, or teaching, he that teacheth on teaching, so the let us wait is assumed there between the on teacheth on teaching, or he that exhorteth again, let us wait on exhortation. So that let us wait is assumed there for those three gifts as the first admonition that Paul gives to the people with the gift of exhortation. So we're not going to take a long time to go over that because we have the last two weeks talked about this idea of waiting. But just for sake of review, this idea of waiting first is an admonition to faithfulness. He's calling on people to be in your place. Be where you're supposed to be when you're supposed to be there, and you'll have an opportunity to use your gift. Wait for that opportunity. Be where you're supposed to be. Be faithful. Be in church. Every service, every time the doors are open. Be at church, you can be there. So when somebody comes along that has a need, you'll be there to meet that need. So it's an admonition to faithfulness. It's also an admonition to readiness. Be ready. The idea of waiting is an attendance. Somebody who's standing there ready to do their job. And so this idea of exhortation, you need to be ready, you need to be paying attention, you need to be watching other people to see, wait a minute. They look like something's bothering them. Can I go talk to them about that? Paying attention to those around you, ready to be involved in somebody else's life, ready to come alongside of those around you. And it's also an admonition to willingness. You need to be willing to go. Not only ready, not only in your place, but also be willing to be involved. When somebody comes in like Oh man, I don't feel like talking to them today. That's not being willing to be using your gift. Those with the gift of exhortation are often called upon to great sacrifice of time and emotional investment If you're going to partner somebody who is struggling, you're partnering together with them in exhortation for the long term, that you're going to come alongside and say, I'm going to help this person grow. And that's a lot of personal investment. Much more so than the person that is gift of prophecy going to just come confront somebody and say, hey, you shouldn't have done that. They can kind of wash their hands and move on. But the gift of exhortation is saying, I'm gonna I'm gonna join myself to this person to help meet this need, whatever it is and help help them grow. So there's there's sacrifice asked of those with the gift of exhortation. And Paul says, are you willing? Are you willing to wait for that opportunity to meet somebody's needs that way? So we have this idea of faithfulness, readiness, and willingness But he also, when you read the verse, he says, or he that exhorteth on exhortation. He uses two words here. Both are translated with the root word exhort, and they are very closely related, but they do have slightly different meanings. The exhorteth is the word that we have discussed that means to call alongside of. It also means to call near, to call out and say, hey, come over here. Come sit with me. Uh that's this calling near. So that's he says that people that have the gift of calling people to their side, he says you wait on your exhortation This exhortation focuses on the comfort, the solace, the empathy that they give to somebody that is in need. So it's focusing on what they do to the person after they come to them. So he says there, when you when you're somebody who calls people to your side, wait for that opportunity to give that comfort to someone. It's really an idea of Have wisdom when you do this, the appropriate time to do something along this line. He encourages those who are inclined to interject themselves in the lives of others to wait on the right time. to give that comfort. Someone with the gift of exhortation wants to be involved with people and they're they're excited about, hey, there's somebody struggling, let me go see if I can help them. He says, well wait, wait for the right time. Wait for the appropriate timing. Some examples of that. Someone's first Sunday is probably not the time to sign them up for a daily Bible study at your house. Alright? That's not the that you should wait on that. Have that opportunity When someone's loved ones just passed away, the funeral is probably not the time to set up a lunch date to check on them. Just have some wisdom as you as you personally invest in the lives of others. So that's this idea of waiting. And we jump down to verse number Verse number 12, we've seen that 9 through 15 relate back to the gifts that he's been discussing. Verse number 12 is the gift that are the verse that relates back to this idea of exhortation. He says they're rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayers. So three admonitions, three three things he tells the person with the gift of the exhortation to do. The first of these is rejoicing in hope. This is a fun expression here. Rejoicing in hope, this really literally means to be cheerful in your expectations. The word hope in the Bible is to expect something. So he says, rejoicing in expectations, rejoicing in hope is to be cheerful in your expectations. Those with the gift of exhortation will often have a very positive outlook on the potential of others, especially when they first begin to minister to them. To someone with a gift of exploitation, every visitor that comes to the door could be the next Charles Spurgeon. They are excited about new people, about young Christians, about people that are growing. They have a very positive outlook, very excited about the potential that is in a person's life. It is a blessing to have people in the church who see this potential in others. So he's telling people this gift is stay positive and continue to expect the best from people. Expect the best. Look for that potential. Be excited about that potential. Be excited about what people can do. Every growing Christian needs somebody needs people that are cheering them on. There are enough uh there are enough people already pouring cold water on their progress, they don't need to get that at church as well. An example that I could give of this I want to see work with the teens at our church. I want to see every teen in our church grow up to serve the Lord, stay faithful to God, be involved in ministry for the rest of their lives. That's my goal. That's my expect not just my goal, that's my expectation I expect it from you guys that you're going to be faithful to God. You've been given much, and of whom much is given, much will be required. And so that's my expectation for you, and I'm cheerful about that expectation. Now someone could come along and say, well, you know, according to statistics, 70% of them won't be in church in five years. Well, I don't care about statistics, I care about our kids. And so we want to have that expectation, that cheerfulness, rejoicing in hope. Those with we need people with the gift of uh of exhortation to see every believer this way. When a new person visits the church, we can some people could say, well, let's see if they come back. Or somebody could say, look at that opportunity to bring somebody closer to the Lord. So be cheerful in your expectations. So rejoicing in hope. But notice he follows rejoicing in hope with be patient. in tribulation. Although that is the expectation, hey, look at all the potential is there, not everybody's going to turn out to be the next Charles Spurgeon that comes to the door. So he's he's not curtailing their their their excitement about somebody, but he's warning them, cautioning them like Hey, when this happens, people are gonna gonna let you down, you're not gonna meet your expectations. You be patient. You you endure that. You stay faithful regardless of of how long it takes somebody to grow if they're not growing as fast as you as you would like them to or something like that. Be patient in tribulation. This word patient means to stay under the load, and tribulation means pressure. When the pressure comes on, when things get difficult, being patient means to stay under that load. When you start to invest in others, they are going to let you down. Don't let their shortcomings cause you to abandon them. At some point, some people will no longer accept help. And at some point, people need to be able to stand on their own. But between these two extremes Stay faithful under the pressure. Stay faithful when things get difficult. Stay involved in the relationship. As long as they're willing to accept help Even when they mess up, even when they f fall short. Lots of times that I've done some work with the person one-on-one and and we've got this goal and we've been doing these things and then they come to talk about it in a week or two weeks and I didn't do it. Like, well, let's do it this week. If you still want to meet, if you still want to talk, if you still want help, I'll still be here. I'll still help you. And so this is the gift of exhortation. You stay faithful to them even when things get difficult. Be patient in tribulation. And the last admonition he gives in verse number 12 is to continue instant in prayer. Continuing instant in prayer. You as the exhorter, you can't change anybody. I can't change anybody. Only God can change people. God uses us in people's lives, but God's the one that does the changing. So if I want to see that that cheerful expectation come to fruition in someone's life, I need to be on my knees. I need to be continually in prayer for that individual. Not just out there all on my own that I can do this, I can help him, I can strengthen him. No, no. God can do it. And I want to point them to God and I want God to help them and I want to be continuing in prayer. God changes people. We just get to be involved in the process. If you want to see people being changed, you need to be allowing God to change you. You have to keep your relationship fresh with the Lord and pray for those whom you are helping. Notice this idea here of continuing an instant in prayer. This kind of relates to First Thessalonians where he tells us to pray without ceasing. That we need our relationship with God to be such that at any moment we can Can come to him in prayer. We don't have to come and say, oh God, it's me again. I know it's been a while. No, we want to have our relationship fresh with God, and then we'll be in a situation where we'll be able to help somebody else. We've got to stay right with God ourselves. So the exhortation given to those with the gift of exhortation is to be joyful and cheerful. Rejoice in your expectation. Rejoice in that hope. Be patient when they don't meet those expectations. But pray for them. Pray for the people that you're working with. That's the gift here discussed that's given by given by Paul here, not the discussion. I misspoke my point. The description given by Paul here in Romans chapter 12 for the gift of exhortation. Now we're going to get to the depiction. Where do we see this gift come come out in the Bible? Take your Bible to Matthew chapter 11 real quick. Matthew chapter 11, we're going to look at our primary example of all the gifts, and that is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is our primary example of all the gifts. Now remember our definition, that this idea of exhortation is to call someone who's struggling alongside of you. Keep that in mind as we read this invitation that Jesus makes here in Matthew chapter 11, verses 28 through 30. Says there, come unto me. Call alongside. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, someone who's struggling, call them alongside of you. He says, I will give you rest. And remember, the idea of exhortation is to join up with somebody, to share, share the load that they're carrying. And notice what he says, take my yoke upon you That's literally sharing a load. You're going to yoke up with Jesus, you're going to share the load, your load with him, his load with you, and learn of me. For I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls, for my burden is e for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. So the the greatest example of one who is willing to come alongside someone who's struggling and will be patient with them every time that they fail and will work on you as long as you let them work on you is Jesus Christ. He's invited every one of us. When we have a burden, we have a need, we have a struggle, come alongside of Him. He'll give us his strength. He'll carry our load. He'll give us the burden that we can carry. His burden is light. And we he'll meet our needs. He'll be there with us It's the exact call that Jesus is making this passage, the call to come one to call someone to your side to help them grow. He tells them, come to me, yoke up with me, learn of me, find rest in me. Find strength in me. This is the gift of exhortation. Someone who's giving their strength to someone who is struggling, partners up with them, comes alongside of them. So Jesus is our great example of the our depiction of the gift of exhortation. Another great example we have in the Bible, we won't take a lot of time to discuss him, is the man Barnabas. If you remember several a month or two ago when Alec was here, he taught a lesson on Barnabas called the son of consolation. He was Barnabas the exhorter. He is the guy that comes alongside of people that are struggling You see, that was his nickname. His gift was so evident in his life and he used it so well that everybody around him said, hey, he's the guy that does exhortation. You want you got somebody struggling, go see go see Barnabas. He's gonna he's gonna help him out. So Barnabas was known for his gift here of exhortation You really see his work in the life of Mark after Paul was done with him. You know, there Paul and Barnabas were getting ready to make a missionary journey, and Barnabas said, hey, let's bring Mark along. And Paul says, no. That guy left us in the middle of it last time. And I'm done with him. Want to know what Paul's gift was? Gift of prophecy. Said I don't want anything to do with that guy. He messed up. I'm done with him. Just tell him he was wrong and when he gets right, we'll take him along with us. And Marnus said, no, no, no. Let's bring him along. Let's help him out. And so Paul and Marnus actually end up splitting ways Barnabas takes Mark with him and goes on a journey and travels with him and works with him. This young young man, he calls and said, Hey, you come with me and I'm going to help you out. And then later we see Paul write and he says that he wants Mark because he's profitable for the ministry. So something happened to Mark during that time that he spent with Barnabas and that made him profitable, where Paul could say, hey Now I'm ready to work with that guy. He he's grown up enough that I can work with them and it took somebody to say, let me call him to my side Let me let me work with this guy. Let me help him out. He's struggling. He needs some of my strength and end up ending up serving the Lord. Now it was up to Paul, Mark would have never ended up in the ministry. But because there was somebody who said, you know what, I can give of myself to invest in them, they can grow. You know, that was the whole reason Paul was in the ministry. Because when Paul was coming to the disciples, they didn't want to have anything to do with him. He had been persecuting them. And who went and found Paul? Barnabas. Barnard said, Hey, this guy's struggling and he needs somebody right now, so why don't you come with me, Paul? Come alongside of me and I'll bring you in to the disciples. And it was somebody who could say, hey, I see somebody struggling. They need some strength that they don't have. Let me invest myself in them. There's great risk of investing yourself in somebody else. If but if Paul was taking it, Barnabas would have been killed. But Barmer said, I don't care. I'm going to go help this person who's struggling. He came alongside of him and he helped him out. He's the guy had the gift there of exhortation. So we won't go through much more. If you want to learn more about Barnabas, go on sermon audio. You can listen to the lesson that was taught on Barnabas that he was this one who gives exhortation, who encourages, who strengthens those that need it. So the gift depicted here. This brings us to the point on the gift discussed. What does this gift look like at play in the church? We have a great example of it in Barnabas. Lots of ways that we can see how this gift is used. And remember this portion of portion of the lesson is is Given by experience, mine and others of seeing this gift at work in people's lives, things that I've read, looking at these people in the Bible, this isn't a list given to us in the Bible that people have gifts of exhortation, they act this way, this way, this way. These are general principles Just as a reminder there. But a basic idea of someone with the gift of exhortation, those with this gift, they will evidence a desire to compassionately bring along struggling Christians through personal investment. They want to bring along struggling Christians, personally invest in them to see them grow to the next level. They're very excited, especially about new people visiting the church, very excited about new converts. And they want to be the one to join up with them and see them take that next step. That's someone with the gift of exhortation. Some positive characteristics that we see with those with the gift of exhortation. These people will have a strong desire to disciple young believers through words and actions of encouragement. They will be good at speaking the truth in love. Prophecy is good at speaking the truth. Exhortation is good at speaking the truth in love. They'll be patient with others and they'll always be encouraging them to get back up when they fall down. Very, very much seeing the best in people Seeing the potential that is there. Some uh some potentially negative characteristics that may come up. Those with this gift may misupply scripture or soften a condemnation of sin in order to help someone who's struggling. Um they say, well, I know that they did this that was wrong and and this should be the response, but but I I've been working with them and and maybe they didn't mean it and and they'll kind of excuse or cover sin um because of their their personal investment in there So that would be a tendency just because of this strong desire they have to help those that are struggling. They can also view people as projects and discard them when they're done helping them, like, okay, you did this, I don't need to do anything with you, I'm gonna go talk to him now. And kind of just completely leave the like wait a minute, that guy that used to sit with me every Sunday, he's just gone today because he's talking to that guy now. So they can move on to people after the project side is done of things. So some some potential that's there with those, not everybody that has this act that way, but when you're acting out your gift in the flesh, this is a way that it can take place. And then some cautions or just some general things to understand about this gift. The first three gifts that we've discussed, that would be prophecy and ministry and teaching, those are generally more task-oriented. The last three, which is giving and le uh ruling and mercy, those are kind of more people-oriented. And then expectation is kind of here in the middle. It does good with both. It works with people, but it also can see people as projects. So it balances that too in in both ways. It has a more balanced focus. They focus on people with the goal of seeing a task accomplished in their life. But really the caution here for those with the GitHub or exhortation, when you're building a relationship like this with someone else, you're becoming very personally involved with them in their life. So first the obvious is this needs to be ta handled very carefully with members of the opposite sex. Men and women shouldn't be having this close relationship of of developing, calling alongside of giving your strength to the other one when you're not married That should be something that is obvious there. It needs to be woman on woman, man on man, or couple to an individual. If the woman on and woman doesn't work out or man-on-man doesn't work out, couple to the individual to help see them grow and to be strengthened. So that is one caution there. The other caution comes out of this, that when you're this personally invested, you're opening yourself up, but you're becoming very vulnerable to someone who's a growing Christian. And this presents a great opportunity to be hurt deeply. The people you help the most will often be the ones that hurt you the most. When you open your heart this way, so understand that. That when you go into this, there's potential that it can not not work out well and you can be hurt. But don't let the hurt keep you from helping people. That's where he says, be patient in tribulation. When they don't meet your expectation, you just keep on going. And you do this by keeping your relationship with God right, being continuing instant in prayer. So there is a caution there that you open yourself up to someone and you have an opportunity to be hurt. We get to this idea of the gift developed. How do we do better? This is my gift, the gift of exhortation. How do I grow in it? How do I do it a little bit better? We can see the relationship aspect of the gift of exhortation. Two pictures that are given to us for this gift is the idea of a mother and of a father. Again, it's a very close relationship that you build with somebody, and it kind of shows two different aspects. This is in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. Verse three, they say, For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile. It goes on until you get to verse seven. It says, But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse chereth her cherish cherisheth her children. So this is the picture of a mother who provides that nutrients, that sustenance to help that infant maintain their life. And so the picture of an exhorter is someone who comes along as a brand new baby Christian. They just need somebody to give them the sincere milk of the word, that they may grow thereby. Somebody who's involved in just taking tenderly, gingerly, carefully. But he goes on from that description in verse eleven and talks about exhortation as a father. Now a father has a different role. He's not doing too much with the infant and supplying the infant's need. But he's more involved in the teaching and training as they grow older. We see this in 1 Thessalonians 2, verse 11. And ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father doeth his children. So a father involved in the teaching and the training, yes, coming alongside that infant, brand new, baby Christian, just needs to be carefully handled and and and brought up for Lord. But then as they grow, they need someone to come along as a father and say, okay, well now you need to start doing this. You need to start making your bed. And brushing your teeth and combing your hair and and switching to spiritual, reading your Bible every day and being at church and coming on Sunday nights and being involved in ministry and what are you doing for soul winning and J doing the training and the and the and the bringing up um in that stage. It refers to the training stage as a father p uh provides age-appropriate instruction challenges for the children. So this gift is used in relationships. Secondly, this gift requires patience. We read this verse already when it comes to pastors giving exhortation, but he brings out something in there in 2 Timothy 4. 2, he tells them to exhort with all long suffering. Exhort with all long suffering. Exhortation is going to require patience. You're working with somebody and it's a long-term commitment that I'm going to help this person grow. And that word long-suffering, I teach this to the juniors, some of these big words in the Bible that we they sound unfamiliar to us. They become easier to understand when you switch them around Instead of long suffering, it means to suffer for a long time. That's what long suffering is, just to be willing to suffer for a long time. It's going to take patience to see someone develop. This makes me think of our internship program Um I think Brother John mentioned it last week. I don't know if he he's here, I'll talk about him. Oh he's outside. Yeah, Brother John mentioned it last week how how we as the church suffered for a long time to see him grow up as an intern. I'm just getting there. But working with the interns work with the interns uh at our church. Actually when I present our ministry to interns when I go to uh the colleges to talk about it, I say what we're trying to do is is commit to you like Barnabas did to Mark And we want to see you as a college student who has these rough edges and and inexperience and stuff, and you come work with us and we knock some of them rough edges off and by the end of the ministry hopefully or some are hopefully are a little bit more profitable So, but but that puts up with some suffering on our part. They're not always easy to work with because we're dealing with all those rough edges sometimes. But there's patience involved if you're going to work with people. And so being willing to partner with somebody is going to take patience It also requires doctrine. Titus 1 verse 9 says, Hold fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convince the gainsayers. Sound doctrine. When you're going to be discipling someone, you need to make sure you know your Bible well. Because when you partner with somebody and you train them, what they learn from you is going to be very hard for somebody to change their mind later on if they learn something wrong Because the pastor that's up there preaching didn't come over to my house and didn't have dinner with me and didn't do this and this and this with me. Um so so he said this, but this person said this. So I'm going with the person that personally invested with me So when you're discipling someone, you need to make sure you're in the Bible and you're teaching them right. So there's a warning there, a caution regarding the doctrine that's involved. Lastly, this morning, we have the gift desired. As with all the gifts, this is a gift given to individuals within the church. But it's also a responsibility that we all have. So even though it may not be my gift, it is still something that I should be doing as a believer. We see this first of all in Hebrews chapter ten, verse number 25. This verse is very often used to encourage faithful church attendance, and that's what it's talking about. Not forsaking the assembling ourselves together as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another. He says, you need to be at church. Why? Because you need to be encouraging other believers. You need to be partnering with people who are weaker than you and help to strengthen them. While you're at church. So part of the reason you need to be at church is so that you can exhort other believers. That's a call that's given to all of us, all of us to be involved in this process of exhortation. We should be interested in the spiritual growth of our brothers and sisters in Christ. Another example of how we're all to be involved in exhortation comes from Romans 15, verse number 1. We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Question: Are you a strong Christian? Are you a strong Christian? If you've been saved for any length of time, you should be. We talked about last week with the verse from Hebrews where Paul said, At time came when you should have been teachers, but I had to give you again the basics. Because you've been saved for a while. You should be a strong Christian by now. But you haven't grown that way. So if you've been saved for a length of time, you should be a strong Christian. So if you're a strong Christian, God tells you, bear the infirmities of the weak. Come alongside someone who's weaker than you and help them become strong. Help them grow. What young believer are you spiritually supporting? Who's leaning on you? We should all be involved in this process of exhortation. And then Galatians chapter 6, verses 1 and 2, it says, Brethren, if a man, this is talking to the whole church, brethren, if a man be overtaken in fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. Considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. When we see people struggling, we have a responsibility to help them. It is the law of Christ to bear one another's burdens. We do not condone or accept sin, but we help those who are struggling. Bear you one of those burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. When you come to church, you have a responsibility to exhort. You have a responsibility to find someone who is weak and let them lean on you. And you have a responsibility to bear one of those burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. Remember the law of Christ. To the new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another. Love, the love of God that comes out in these gifts as we as a church minister through our gift to other believers.