You know, every week, not every week, there's a lot of weeks that I'm preparing and I think boy this is gonna be a short message. We're gonna be out of here early. Then I keep studying. It gets longer and longer. I'm like, okay, I gotta quit. This is this is getting too long. And uh That happened again this week. I I and initially I thought, well this will be short and sweet, we'll be done and everybody get to go to lunch and uh just as the Lord kept speaking to me and exposing subscription. It grew and developed uh more and more. So we do have a lot of scripture we're going to look at today. I'd like you to turn to two passages of scripture. We're going to use these two kind of in conjunction. We'll be going back and forth between them a little bit. First of all, turn to 1 Kings chapter number 18. First Kings chapter number 18. You're going to want to Put your finger there, put a marker there, do something to uh save that spot. In first Kings chapter 18 we have the story of Hezekiah. Uh and the the under the siege of the Assyrians and what takes place there as they come and try and uh Rabshakhi the general of the Assyrian army uh basically He says he's going to destroy them and they have no hope. And we see what God does through Hezekiah. Then I want you to turn to Jeremiah chapter number 17. Jeremiah chapter number 17. Save your spot in Kings. We're going to be back there shortly. But turn to Jeremiah chapter 17. This is where I began my study. And in Jeremiah 17, we have a contrast between two individuals. One whose life is full of hardship. One whose life is barren, dry, empty, without purpose, and one whose life is full and fruitful and has meaning What is the difference between these two? We see it in chapter 17, verse 7 and 8. This is our text verse for the message this morning on the power. Of trust. In Jeremiah 17, 7 and 8. The Bible says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, and whose hope the Lord is. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth out her roots by the river. He shall not see when the heath cometh. But her leaf shall be green and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit. The power of trust. If you pray with me and ask God to lead us through this, there's kind of a I'm hoping I can draw these two passages together effectively and communicate the thought. Let's just ask the Lord to bless as we go through this this morning. Lord, we come, we bow humbly before you. Lord, I ask you to use your word in the hearts of these, your people. I understand completely. Or it's not an outline that makes a difference in somebody's life. It is the Word of God. I pray, Lord, you would allow the Word of God to be opened up. To be applied to the hearts of your people, that Lord, we would see the importance of truly trusting you in our day-to-day lives. Lord, we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Beloved, I don't know if you've noticed throughout the service today, but every song that we sang had its underlying thoughts. Of trusting God, of building your house on the rock, because He is trustworthy, of putting your emphasis and focus on those things and only trusting him and not other things. Well, can I tell you there's great potential in proper trust. When you put your trust in the right place, there is great potential. He says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord. We know that the word blessed means happy. Happy is the man. Boy, there are so many who long to and would love to be happy in this life. They feel like That's all they really want is to be happy, but they're looking for that happiness in so many other places, and they haven't come to the place where they trust in God. Is your confidence in the Savior this morning? I hope you know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that He is your Lord and Savior, that you have put your faith and trust in Him for your eternal destiny, that your sins are forgiven and you're on your way to heaven. Amen? Now that's just the beginning. There is a difference, beloved, between trusting Him for your eternity and trusting Him for your daily bread. There for some reason it seems as though many of us have come to the place where we have submitted to and acknowledged the fact that we cannot earn our way to heaven. We could never attain that on our own, and so therefore we certainly put our trust in Christ for that. And yet in areas of our life where we feel that we are sufficient, that we can, we put our trust in ourselves. And yet God encourages us and exhorts us here, the power of trusting in Him. If you would know joy, if you would be blessed of God, you've got to put your trust on Him, relying on Him, trusting Him. Could I say it like this? Rest in him. Jesus says, Come unto me ye that ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. If you find yourself in a place where you cannot rest because your anxiety is too great, could I exhort you, could I encourage you to learn to trust in Him? Find the place that you can lay your head on your pillow at night. Why? Because you know that God is in control and that you're trusting in Him and that He has the answer. He knows the way and he's leading you in your life and the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord and you are trusting in him Beloved, that consistency in our life, that stability in our life comes from being connected to the source You know, resting, and I think about that aspect or idea of resting in him. How many of you have ever been out in a body of water? Without a life jacket. Now I'm not talking about a swimming pool that you can push yourself and you'll be to the side. I'm talking about in the ocean or in a lake or somewhere, a large body of water, and you didn't have a life jacket on. Many of you. You're out there swimming, and maybe there's a boat in proximity or there's somebody around, but you know, when you're out there in that large body of water, and the bottom is who knows how far down, there is no resting You're you're there and and you you you have to continue to to wade or to paddle or to swim or do something. I mean it it's uh just to try and rest in those waves or these things. But When you strap on a light vest, when you're connected to that vest, you can just relax. I mean you can lean back and float and you're looking up at the sky and you might not even realize that you're two miles from shore. You know, you don't even notice. You're just you're just resting. Why? Because the life jacket has you. That's the kind of the picture that we should have in uh in the arms of Jesus Christ, where we Learn, regardless of the storm that's around us, regardless of the struggle that we may be facing or the burden that we may be carrying, we've learned how to trust in Jesus. Rest in him. Be connected to the source. We see there in verse number 8. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters. that spreadeth her roots out by the river. Beloved, when you're connected to the source, you have that nourishing power, that strength that is present all the time. When the heat of the of the summer comes, when the drought of the season comes, you're not affected by that because you're connected to the source our trees there that we planted on the property. They're in the hundred-year floodplain. And it's amazing how well they grow. Those trees that we planted in 2015, I mean some of them are 30 foot tall already. I mean why how do how do they grow so much? Well it's because they're in the floodplain. Every time it rains that water goes down to that area of the property and if you if if you drive out in that area of the property uh it gets mushy One day years ago before we planted the trees, uh Shawan Road was all backed up and traffic was stopped and and you know you couldn't go anywhere. And I this is all the way back when I had my sienna. That's how long ago it was, okay, the Toyota Sienna. And uh I'm like, well, I'm home. So I just turned and I just drove across the yard. Now good thing that my Satiana had four-wheel drive because I like to put that thing down on its frame. I mean I as soon as I pulled off into the yard it sunk. And that whole edge of the yard is wet and mushy all the time and I made two ruts, you know, probably fifty foot long until I got out of that marshy area. Why? 'Cause that's where all the water is. And we had to fix the yard. We we did that, don't worry. It's all it's all done many years ago. But it's mushy. When you're connected to the source, when that water is there, beloved, the storms of life, they don't affect you. The drought, the seasons like that. Why? Because you have stability. He says you're going to bring forth fruit even in the midst of the drought. When the pressures of life are upon you, you're okay. I want you to turn to the book of Hezekiah now. I'm sorry, Hezekiah Kings, 2 Kings chapter 18, where we see the story of Hezekiah as he is reigning. Now in the book of 2 Kings, this chapter is the only place where you see the word trust in the whole book. But it appears five times in this one chapter. I'm just going to point them out to you. If you like to write in your Bible, you can note these. We're going to come back and talk about them. But in chapter verse number five, he says, He trusteth. Now that's number six because it's it's another form, but he trusteth. In verse number um twenty-one, I'm sorry, twenty, he says, now sayest But they are vain words. I have counseled and strength for the war. Now whom dost thou trust? Trust is found there. In verse number 21. Towards the end of 21, Egypt unto all that trusteth on him. We're going to talk about these verses in a second. Verse number 22. He says, But if ye say unto me, we trust In the Lord our God. So in verse 22, in verse number 24, the middle of the verse there, he says, Am I going too fast? Oh, you're in 2 Kings, I'm sorry. Now we gotta do it all over again because you guys are in the wrong way. You're supposed to be in 2 Kings. You guys are trying to figure that out, and I'm giving you all these for nothing. Alright. Speak up. I heard the mumbling, but just speak up. Alright, so you're in 2 Kings chapter number 18. Alright, so we see the word trust in verse number uh trusted in verse number 5. We see trust in verse number 20, verse number 21, verse number 22, verse number 24, and in verse number 30. So we have here a very powerful story about the practical reality of trusting God in the midst of war. In the midst of the battle. First of all, I want you to notice that Hezekiah, he was a king, but he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. I just want you to know who we're talking about. We see in verse number three. We're talking about Hezekiah, he became king, and he's ruling there in Judah, and it says, and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that David his father did. He removed the high places and break the images and cut down the groves and break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made, for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it. And he called it Nestrah, and he trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah. Now Judah had many kings that did right That did good, that did, that did well. But the Bible notes here that there's none that trusted the way Hezekiah trusted God. We see in verse number six, for he claimed to the Lord. and departed not from following him. So we see his walk of righteousness in verse number three that he had a righteous walk. He followed God. And the fact of the matter is, is is when you trust God, you're going to be obedient to God. You're going to follow God and do what God wants you to do. And then we see his resolute worship that he was determined to clave. He says he stuck with God. He held on to him and he wasn't going to let him go in the midst of this great uh hardship and trial that was upon them. He trusted God, so he obeyed God. Beloved, trust is going to manifest itself in faithful obedience. When you truly trust God, you're going to faithfully follow God. That's what we see here, that he claved to the Lord. He trusted God in verse number five, and he claimed to God. You're going to follow him even in the face of hardship. I want to point out to you the pain of misplaced trust. The pain of misplaced trust. You can stay here in Kings. We're going to look at this further in just a second. King Hezekiah, this godly king, this king that did right. Uh the Assyrian army comes and Rabshaiki is the one who's in charge of the Assyrian army. And Rabshaky comes to him and basically If if you read through the story and the history here, you'll see that the Assyrian army went into Israel and conquered city after city, and they've gone through uh basically the promised land there and they've taken control. They We get to chapter nineteen, you're gonna see that God kills a hundred and eighty-five thousand of the Assyrian army. That's how big of an army that's sitting outside Jerusalem right now. We're not talking about a few people. This is a massive, great army, and Rab Shaky's the leader of it. And Rabshaky comes to them, and note what he says to them in verse number 20 and 21. He asked of them, who are you trusting in? Look at verse number 20. So we're going to read 21 and 22, chapter 18 of 2 Kings. He says, Now behold. Thou trustest upon the staff of this brood reed. Even upon Egypt. Now, beloved, in the Word of God, you tell me, what is Egypt a picture of? The world. Egypt's a picture of the world, always the world. That's without question, a picture of the world. So here's what he's asking. He's saying, are you going to trust Egypt? Are you going to trust the world? Are you going to trust, you think you're okay? You think you're going to win this battle because Egypt's down here and maybe they're going to come to your defense? Rabshake looks at him and says this. He says, On which of a man lean, it will go into his hand and pierce it. He says if you lean on Egypt, it's gonna pierce you through. It's like it's if you had a rod and and it had a sharp end on it and and you lean on that for strength. I mean The you know, crutches have a small soft pad on the top for a reason, because you're gonna lean on it. But he says, boy, trusting in Egypt, trusting in the world, is like getting a sharp point on a stick and then leaning on it It's going to pierce you through. Beloved, the pain of mistrust is illustrated here very clearly. So is Pharaoh, the middle of verse number 21 there, so is Pharaoh, king of Egypt, unto all that trust on him Verse number 22, but if ye say unto me, we trust in the Lord our God And then notice what he says here, is not that he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah had taken away, and has said unto Judah and Jerusalem, ye shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem. Beloved, what he's saying is he says, uh Hezekiah when he came in, you remember he took down, he tore down all the other altars? And he says, you're going to worship before this altar. Why? Because there is only one God. And we're going to worship and honor and glorify the one God. And he says, the one that Hezekiah pointed to? The one that he said you guys should worship at that altar? Do you remember that one? Are you saying you're going to trust in him? Is that what you're saying? Beloved, he's asking the question, who are you trusting in? Are you going to trust in the God that Hezekiah appointed you to, or are you going to trust in Egypt? Where's your trust today, beloved? Rab Shaki asked the question, and you are going to be asked the question. Jeremiah says it like this: if you have your finger there, turn back to chapter 7, Jeremiah 17, verses 5 through 6. The pain of misplaced trust. He says, thus saith the Lord. I mean, you see, in contrast, you remember initially, he says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, in verse number 7. But we back up to verse number six, and he says, Thus saith the Lord, cursed be the man that trusteth in, what's the next word? Man. And maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the Lord. For he shall be like the heat in the desert, and shall not see when good cometh. But shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness, in the salt land, and not inhabited He says, even he says, even when good things come, you're gonna miss them because your trust is in the wrong place. The pain of misplaced trust in the middle of a storm or even when things are going good, beloved, you're going to miss the bountiful blessing that God has for you. It's going to be like trusting in Egypt and you're going to be pierced through. That is the pain of misplaced trust. Can I ask you, are you trusting in man today? Or are you trusting in God? Are you trusting in the world? Are you trusting in your 401k? Are you Trusting in the job or the position that you have. How many of you understand that you could lose that position in in in a month? I mean it doesn't matter if you've been there for for twenty years. It doesn't make a difference today. In today's world it could be it could be the fact of the matter is they want to get rid of you because you've been there twenty years and you're too expensive. They want to bring in the young kids, the kids that they don't have to provide the 401k for or the healthcare program or whatever. And they they they let these people go that have been working twenty or thirty or more years at one place. What I'm saying is where is your trust Are you completely undone and lost because uh life has taken a turn or is your trust in God and it's okay? I'm not too worried because God's in control. God was in control when I had a job and God's in control when I don't have a job. You know, many don't want to we we look at it and say, well, of course I know we're not supposed to trust. I mean Pastor, we understand you can't trust man today. I mean that's the world we live in. We we understand that. But what about yourself? You see, that takes it to another level. Look at chapter 17, verse number 10. This is where we see this very powerful verse here, right in the middle of this, he says, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? He's saying you cannot let the arm of the flesh, yourself, even yourself, you can't even know your own heart. Who is it you're trusting in? Are you trusting yourself? Are you a self-made man and you pulled yourself up by your bootstraps and everything you've accomplished you've done? Or are you trusting in God? What happens, beloved, when you get the call and all of your health is gone? It can happen in a week. It seems like everything's okay, like you were fine. I mean you just went for a checkup. And found out you have a heart problem. You just went for a checkup and found out you you have a lesion on your lung. You just stopped by the doctor for a few minutes and now you now boy life has changed that quick. Where's your trust? Look where trusting in the wrong thing leads you. I think it's verse number five. He says, Thus saith the Lord, Cursed be the man that trusteth in man and maketh flesh his arm. And whose heart departeth from the Lord. Departeth from the Lord. When we trusting in man, when we're leaning on ourselves, can I tell you that it pulls you away from God? It pulls you to a dry and barren place. He describes and he states to us and gives to us the truth that, hey, When you're away from God, you're in a bad place And the sad reality is many times, it's many years before we are like the prodigal, and the Bible says the prodigal came to himself. And he realized his condition and where he was at, and how bad things had gotten, and how empty and meaningless his life was. And he said, man, I need to get back to the Father. That's where trusting itself leads. Can I tell you there's no satisfaction in it? There's no spiritual vitality in it. When I lived in El Paso, we had tumbleweeds. Lots of tumbleweeds. Sometimes if you have a windstorm, the tumbleweeds would blow up to the house and get caught in the corner of the fence or get caught by the corner of the house in the fence. And and we would have tumbleweeds that would reach up to that soffit right there Just piles of tumbleweeds. You know they're all completely dead. There's no life in them. You'll see them blowing across the road or blowing across the desert, and there's a lot of movement. But there's no life in it. And there's no substance to it. They're so empty. I mean you want to see something burn up quick? A pile of tumbleweeds like that? Boy, they light quick and they're gone. It's like flash paper almost. They burn up so fast and they just they're gone. Emptiness of a life without Christ. But can I tell you that in our text in here, Hezekiah, we see the proof of his trust. Do you know your trust? You know, we say we may say that we trust God, but that's going to be tested. And the proof of whether you trust God, you know the old saying, the proof's in the pudding, the proof of whether you trust God is going to be what do you do, how do you respond in the day of battle? Where do you turn in your hour of need? King Hezekiah Rabshaky comes to him and King Hezekiah sends out some people to meet him. Look in verse number 19 in 2 Kings chapter 18, verse number 19. And Rabsheki said unto them, Speak ye now to Hezekiah, so these representatives that Hezekiah sent out, Rabsheki, the leader of the Assyrian army, this large massive group. He says, Speak now unto Hezekiah. Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this whom thou trustest? Thou sayest. But they are vain words. I have counsel and strength for the war. Now on whom dost thou trust, thou that rebellest against me? He said, you want to rebel against the king? You want to rebel against the Assyrian army? We're here and we're going to take uh you can say that you trust God, but those are vain words. He said you can declare it, but you know what? It's not going to matter. What I'm saying, beloved, is that the hour of your test is going to come. It may be right now, it may be today, you may be in the midst of a battle, you may be in a place of turmoil, you may be in a place of trust and the test, but what I'm saying is who are you going to trust? In that test, who are you going to trust in that storm? The disciples went down to the bottom of the ship and woke up Jesus. Said, Carest thou not that we perish? They had Jesus in the boat. Did they think the boat was going down? With Jesus in there? He rebukes them and says, Oh ye of little faith. Then he stands on the bow and he tells the wind to cease and the waves to be calm. They are able to see firsthand the power of the one whom they should have been trusting in. Who are you trusting in in the midst of the storm? In the day of battle? Beloved, trusting in the wrong thing, we've seen the pain that comes from misplaced trust and we've seen the potential of proper trust, but in the day of battle, who are you going to trust in? Recently I had somebody come to me and say, you know, Pastor Caleb, what's going on? Why is this happening to me? Am I in sin? Am I doing wrong? Am I messing up? Why am I facing this trial? Why am I having this heartache? Why am I carrying this burden? Why am I going through this? Beloved, introspection is good and you should evaluate your condition and see where you're at and say, okay, Lord, is there something I'm supposed to learn here? But the fact of the matter is, is you might be in a place like Job where God wanted to get the glory and and he allowed something to come into your life, not because you're in sin, not because you've done anything wrong. But because God has a purpose and a plan and the question is is are you going to trust him? Are you going to trust him even though you don't see light at the end of the tunnel, even though that things seem bleak Do you realize that he's in control? And in the hour of the storm, are you going to turn to him and trust him in the midst of it? Beloved, my admonition to you this morning and my encouragement to you today is that you trust God. Boy, we look around at the world and things seem to be such tumultuous days and we have the the war in Iran and the the the the battle over there in in Israel and you got the y Ukraine and you got uh wars all over the world and other places and you got major uh earthquakes and floods and so many natural disasters and we just look and say boy things are so bad the economy's going crazy Gas prices are out of control and but uh talk about making ends meet. The end ran out a long time ago. You're just trying to live. And things look so bad, in the midst of how bad they are, I'm exhorting and encouraging you this morning to trust him. To trust him. Come to the place where no matter how bad things get in the world, you can trust God. He's still on the throne. He's still in control. He directs in the affairs of men. And beloved, you may not know what tomorrow holds, but you know who holds tomorrow. Amen. And that's what we've got to come to the place, and I try to encourage you this morning that in the day of battle you're going to be tested. What's going to prove whether you trust God or not is how you respond How you respond in a day of battle. Listen, you might be like Job and done nothing wrong, but God desires you to go through something. I can't explain, beloved, why the Barker family Would be missionaries on the foreign field and serving God and looks like everything's going well and their four-year-old boy gets a tumor that's wrapped around uh his optic nerve and in his spine and Why in the world this four-year-old would have to go through such a heartbreaking thing and they're out there serving God and they gotta come back and and deal with all of this. I I can't explain it I can't explain, beloved, why uh Miss Trudy, a dear sister uh in in our family, our church family here, who's loving God and serving God and trying to praise God everywhere she goes. wouldn't have a lesion on her lung that would find out she's gonna have to go through treatments and why she's gotta carry that battle. And I don't know, I can't explain why bad things happen to good people And any pastor that gets up and says he has the answer is delusional. We don't know, but what we do is we come to the place where we say, I can't explain it all, but I've learned that in the midst of it I can trust him. He is trustworthy. And that's what we've got to do, beloved, when you get that call from the doctor, when you get dis you get laid off from your job, when you find out the check isn't what it's supposed to be and Ends aren't gonna meet this week. Boy, when the money runs out a long time before the month runs out. I remember back, I think it was in twenty nineteen, when I met with the men over in the basement of the house over here, and we had a little get together and I fed him and I said, Listen guys, we've got to do something. There's a problem. We've looked over the finances for the last couple years of the church, and uh we can see how God has miraculously met the need in several places, but beloved, we're in trouble We've seen how the finances over the last few years has has gone this direction and the expenses have gone this direction because we were in the middle of the court case at that time. We had a bill in excess of eight hundred thousand dollars For our court case. I said, boy, we don't know what we're gonna do with that bill, but that bill is all by itself. I mean we don't even know what to do with that bill, but I'm telling you, we're talking about paying the life bill We've got to do something, men. We need to pray. We need to decrease our expenses, but we need to increase uh we need to increase uh our income. We're going to do what we can, and I remember Brother Crane looking up at me, and he looked at me and said, Pastor, if we do what we can do, God will do the rest. And beloved, what we're saying in the midst of that time, I was saying, men, yes, uh, we've got a problem we need to take care of here, but in the midst of it, we need to trust God. We need to focus on God. We need to listen to God and praise the Lord that I can stand up here today and and we have a problem. We have money in the bank that we're not sure what to do with That was a joke. We do have money in the bank, hallelujah. Uh but there are plans. We're we're thrilled about what God's doing in our church and we're thankful that we're in a position today that God miraculously came on the scene and allowed us to win that court case and paid off that uh that bill which in at that time was over nine hundred thousand by the time that God paid it. And and God has blessed the church and we're at a place right now where things are stable and we can look at it and say, boy, we're in a good place, wonderful spirit in the church. And And we're all excited, boy, the bills are paid and there's money in the bank, hallelujah. But even in the good times we've got to trust him. We've got to realize he's the one that's done it and we need to rely on him and put our trust in him, not in the fact that there's some money in the bank. Not in the fact that we seem like things are okay, beloved, because that can all change tomorrow. We've got to remember to trust Him. Beloved, can I tell you that the devil's going to attack? The devil's going to try and pull you away, even from those who would try and point you to Christ. Look in verse number twenty-nine in 2 Kings chapter 18. Rab Shaky is attacking Hezekiah here. Why? Because Hezekiah was pointing people to God. Hezekiah was saying, Trust God. Look what he says here. Thus saith the king. Let not Hezekiah deceive you, for he shall not be able to deliver you out of his hand. Neither let Hezekiah make you trust, what does it say? In the Lord. Rab Shaky's coming on the scene. He says, listen. We've got 185,000, we've got 200,000. I don't know what Hezekiah is telling you people, but you're done. You have no hope. There is no way you're getting out of this. You better stop listening to Hezekiah and here's what I'm telling you is that there's going to be people, they may be some family, they may be some friends, and they're going to come to you and they're going to say, you need to stop listening to that preacher. You need to stop going to that church. You need to stop following that old book. You you need to just do you you need listen that is outdated and it doesn't make any sense. You need to do this. And they're going to give you modern philosophy or modern ideas, ideas. Rab Shaky was saying, you got any hope? Uh you need to don't listen to Hezekiah. The enemy's going to come and test your faith. It's going to test whether you're truly trusting or not. He says there in verse number 30, neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord, saying, The Lord will surely deliver us. And this city shall not be delivered unto the hand of the king of Assyria. Hearken not unto Hezekiah, for thus saith the king of Assyria. He's saying, Don't listen to him. Listen, you're gonna have people come and try and get you away from what you need to be focusing on Even in the midst of the battle. But I want you to see his response. We've got to move into chapter number 19 to see his response. And here's the thing, your your your faith and trusting God in the time of battle is going to be proven by your response Just like it was here, and I want you to see this in these first couple of verses, how does Hezekiah respond in the face of this insurmountable challenge? Verse number one. And it came to pass when King Hezekiah heard it, that he rent his clothes, he covered himself with sackcloths, and he went where? Into the house of the Lord. I don't know why, beloved. So many people they get into a battle, they get into a challenge, they're having trouble in their marriage. They're having struggles at work. They're having problems with their housing. Whatever it is. And the first thing they do is they quit going to church. When church is what you need the most during that hour. You stand up when the sun's shining and say, Yeah, we trust God, but when the battle comes, you're nowhere to be seen. His response in the day of battle was, Boy, I need something. I need God, so here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna go to the house of God. I'm going to get around God's people. I'm going to be encouraged. I'm going to be challenged. I'm going to be strengthened. I'm going to get where God is. We see he went to the house of the Lord. Look at verse number two. We see here that he sent El Kayim, which is over the household of Shibna and the scribe, and the elders of the priests covered with sackcloth. To Isaiah the prophet. So he sent Occaim to the prophet. Listen, the prophet in this time was how they got a hold of God. It's how they heard from God. He went to the man of God. He went to somebody that could get a hold of God. I tell you, you're you're who you're trusting is going to be evident in the hour of battle. Do you go to some friend who doesn't know the Lord? Do you go to some family member that has no connection with God? Or do you go to a friend or to a brother or to somebody in this house right here or to the man of God who's the church, the leader of the church, do you go to somebody that can get a hold of God for you? Somebody that that can get on their knees and get a hold of God and pray for your need. That's what he said. Boy guys, listen, we've got a we've got a need here. And it things look bad, but you know what? We're gonna trust God. I want you guys to go down to the prophet and get him going to God for us. This is one of the reasons that you need to share with the church family what you're going through. Now I know we like to be private people and we like to our business is our business and we don't like anybody knowing about it, but you know there's something about having the people of God pray for you in your hour of need. Go into God for you. So we see not only did he go to the house of God, did he go to the man of God, but I want you to see as well, look at verse number 15. And Hezekiah, what does it say, prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord, God of Israel, which dwelleth between the cherubims, Thou art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. Thou hast made heaven and earth. He went and he said, God, you're in control. And he bowed humbly before God. The test of who you're trusting is going to be revealed in how you respond in the day of battle. Who are you gonna go to? Are you gonna go to the house of God? Are you gonna go to the man of God? Are you gonna go to God yourself in prayer? We're not going to take time to read it, but you'll see that ultimately he is rewarded for his proper trust. That the battle is given to him. The Assyrian army went to bed one night. And those that woke up found a hundred and eighty-five thousand of their brethren died in their sleep. A hundred and eighty-five thousand of them were gone. And I think they decided Wow. We thought we had this, but I guess their God is in control. Let me just throw this out here for our nation. It says on our money in God we trust. And one of the reasons that God has blessed this country is not because we have a superior military. I love the superior military isn't gonna matter a hill of beans if you wake up or I guess you don't wake up then do you? You wake up dead tired, but not dead. But if those that are around you wake up and find you dead, what I'm saying, beloved, that some of the reasons that we've won some insurmountable bat battles over over the our past history is because God did that. Because our trust was in the right place. We going into battle and we think, well, we've got superior tanks or we've got more firepower. That doesn't matter where the hill of beans, if God says, Yeah, you're not winning this We need to have our trust in the right place, and that goes for our country, but it also goes for you and I. You look at it and say, man, this cancer battle is way beyond what these doctors say. That doesn't matter. The doctors aren't in control. God's in control. And that battle can be won with God if our trust is in the right place. They say your job's over. You're gonna leave and you think man this is a terrible economy. There's no chance I'm gonna get another job. Listen, where's your trust? God's in control and God can give you a better job. He is able. I'm just my encouragement this morning is in the midst of this tumultuous day where the world seems so upside down and so many problems I just want to exhort and encourage you today to put your trust in God because that's where the power lies. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Who are you trusting in today? There's a contrast in Jeremiah between two people, one who lives a cursed, dry, empty, meaningless life, and one who lives a blessed, stable, and fruitful life. The difference is who they're trusting in. Who are you trusting in today? Not just for salvation. I hope you put your faith and trust in Christ alone for your salvation. But what about when you get up tomorrow morning? What about when the phone call comes? What about when that storm hits? Are you ready to trust him? As the pianist plays, if God spoke to you. You do a god, what you do? Are you trusting him? Are you relying on him in the hour of battle