So in Matthew chapter twenty, uh let's start by reading this is the parable of the laborers in the vineyard. And uh know many of you are familiar with this parable very clearly, but let's start by just reading this. This is the first Sixteen verses of this chapter that this parable is contained in. He says, For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder, which went out early in the morning to hire laborers into his vineyard. And when he had agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. And he went out about the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace And he said unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way And he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise. And about the eleventh hour he went out and from others and found others standing idle. and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right that shall ye receive. So when Eve was come, the Lord of the vineyard saith unto his steward, Call the laborers and give them their hire. beginning from the last unto the first. And when they came that were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny. But when the first came they supposed that they should have received more, and they likewise received every man a penny. And when they had received it, they murmured against the good men of the house. saying, These least have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and the heat of the day But he answered one of them and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong. Did not thou agree with me for a penny? Take that thine is, and go thy way. I will give unto this last, even as unto thee Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Is thine eye evil because I am good? So the last shall be first, and the first last, for many be called, but few are chosen. So we need to, of course, look at this inside of context. If you back up to the last phrase, uh last verse of chapter number 19, we find a familiar phrase that we just read. In verse number 30, he says, but many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first. So this parable is sandwiched in between these two phrases Now, Jesus gave Peter this phrase, and it needed a little bit more expounding. When Jesus said this, the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. Uh, you know, that is a conundrum. That's uh how in the world is that possible? I mean if you cross the line first, you're first Right? Uh if you cross the line last, I mean unless they cross the line at exactly the same time. Then they could say, well, the first was last and the last is first and it's up for debate. But I mean that doesn't make sense. So Jesus wanted to expound on that a little bit, and that's what prompted the teaching of this parable. But one man has called this parable a day on the job in the kingdom of God. A day on the job in the kingdom of God. And that's what we have here. These men came and they worked a day, and the kingdom of God is like unto, in this parable that he's given us. And uh so if we're looking at this in context, we have to start taking some steps backwards to see where this starts. What is it that prompts this. uh teaching. What is it that motivates this parable? And as we go backwards, we uh to gain in in the all of the context We see that Jesus gives him this in verse number 30, but what is it that prompted or motivated this statement as we go backwards? You see, the conclusion that Jesus brought here, that he gave to us, is a reply to the question that Peter asked. Peter asked the question a little bit earlier. He says. Let me move forward here in our uh Peter in verse number twenty-seven, back in nineteen verse number twenty-seven, Peter says, Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have said unto him I'm sorry, said Behold, we have forsaken all and followed thee. What shall we have therefore? So Jesus is answering Peter's question by teaching this But what is it that prompted Peter's question? We've got to go back a little bit further. Peter's question came as a result of Jesus talking about the rich man. and how hard it was for a rich man to get to heaven. And we're familiar with that passage of scripture about how it's easier for a a camel to go through the eye of a needle than there is it is for a rich man to go to heaven And that discussion was prompted by the fact that a rich young ruler came to Jesus So that's where we need to go back to to kind of see the course of events that led up to the parable we're being taught. So First of all, and your notes here, the first thing you see is the request of the rich young ruler. Looking at it in context, that starts in chapter 19, verse number 16. Chapter 19, verse number 16. So we're gaining the context of what it is we're looking at here. In 19, verse number 16, he says, and he laid his hands on them, sorry uh and behold, one came and said unto him, Good master, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life? So this rich man came to him and said What good thing must I do that I could have eternal life? He was was requesting of Jesus what what should he do? Lackeye. Look down in verse number 20. He says, the young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up. What lack I yet? And that's because those couple of verses in between there. You know, they Jesus brought up the law and he was talking about the law and he's listing off some of the Ten Commandments that we re that we quoted a few minutes ago And then this rich man was able to say, all this I've done since my youth. So what lack I yet? I think it's neat to note that this rich man, who was obviously very wealthy, but also very religious. Still lacked something. And he knew it in his heart. He knew that he was lacking something That's why he came to Jesus and he says, What lack I? He felt the need or the emptiness or the void that was present and was desiring to know what is it that I lack. I obey all these commandments. I do all these things. I'm financially blessed. I'm stable. I have everything I could want, but I'm lacking something. It's neat for me to see that no matter how religious somebody is, without the relationship with Jesus Christ, they're going to be lacking And they'll know it in their heart. They will feel that void that can only be filled by Jesus Christ. Jesus brought the law here. He tells him, sell what you have and give to the poor and follow me. Now we know that for by grace are you saved. Jesus was not promoting works here. Jesus did not bring the law into this discussion to say that the law saves. No, he brought the law to show the man he needed to be saved. That is the duty of the law, according to Romans chapter 3. The law is what showed man they needed to be saved, and this man, having obeyed the law all of his days, knew the law. So Jesus was trying to get him to think. And Jesus pointed out a few of them, but he didn't give him all of them. in the list there, if you read through the list. He didn't give them all of them. This man said, oh, I've done all those from my youth up. But Jesus knowing where this man's fault lie He says, Well, I'll tell you what, why don't you take everything you have and give it to the poor? And the rich man is like, oh Sorry, I can't do that. Jesus knew that number ten was going to get the rich man. Thou shalt not covet. And uh the rich man said, I can't I can't obey that one. And so he went away sad He didn't have to go away sad, but he went away sad because he did not have the uh want to give up that which he coveted Then you see the revelation to the disciples in verse number 23. So the rich man request of Jesus some things, then Jesus teaching the disciples here in verse number 20, he says, Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. And again I say unto you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. So Jesus is teaching them about the uh hard task for a rich man to surrender all. And rely on Jesus Christ. And that hasn't changed from that day till today. It is a hard task for them to surrender and give all to Jesus Christ. Jesus is persuading them and talking to them about who and how hard it is for this rich man to trust the Lord. But He goes on, he says, when his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved? You see, according to Deuteronomy, God had promised his people that if you do, if you obey me, I'll bless you. And if you don't obey me, I'll curse you This is something Jewish people were very familiar with. And they associated a person of wealth with a person who was being obedient They were being blessed of God. It was God's direct way of working with His people. And so they would look at somebody like this as wealthy. As being somebody that's obeying the law, that's doing what God wants, and so on, and they're saying, if a rich man can't be saved, then who can be saved? But Jesus beheld them and saith unto them, verse number 26, with man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. And that verse that we hear a lot just by itself, uh, you know, we hear that with God all things are possible, with man it's impossible, with God all things are possible. God was teaching that in context of this rich man being drawn to Jesus Christ and giving his his life over to him, saying, hey, with man this is impossible. With God, all things are possible. So anybody can come to Christ and be drawn to Christ if they're willing to give up their sin or whatever it is they're holding on to. Then you have the reaction of Peter in verse number 27, the reaction of Peter. That's number three in your notes there, the reaction of Peter. He said, We've forsaken all. So look at verse number 27. Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all, and follow thee. What shall we have therefore? So we're getting the context, we're getting the picture of what's taking place. We're going to get to the parable in a minute here, but understand here, Peter starts to think, oh, hey Jesus told the rich man, you gotta go sell what you have and give it to the poor and then follow me. And uh then he goes away sad. Peter starts to think, oh, we did that. We forsook everything. We gave up at all to follow you, Lord. So what are we going to get? What are we going to get? And Jesus in verse number 30 replies to Peter, talking to him about his motives and about his question. Saying, hey, don't get too big for your britches. Don't think too highly of yourself. Those that are first might be last. And those that are last might be first. It's not a matter of who did this or did that or came first or came last. He's replying to him. Unlike the rich man, Peter and the disciples had given it up all had given it all and followed Christ. Peter was wanting to know: if a rich man can barely make it to heaven, I mean only with the help of God, Because he said, with God all things are possible. If a rich man can barely make it to heaven, only help it with God, what more will those receive who had given up all to follow Christ? We don't know what Peter's motives were here. They may have been pure. They may have been just a matter of un of trying to understand. Um, but there is the implication there that Peter's motives were a uh many Bible scholars look at it as a uh mercenary type motive, as in um, hey, what am I gonna get for serving you? Uh I'm out for the highest bidder. I'm a I'm gonna serve whoever's gonna benefit me the most. And that kind of a motive is not correct. Then you have the reply of Christ in verse number 28 through 30. And Jesus said unto And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me in the regeneration, when the sons of man shall sit on the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones. judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And every one that hath forsaken house, and brethren, or sister, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life. But many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first. He says, hey, everyone that did this is going to receive blessing. You're going to receive a hundredfold A hundredfold what you gave up, even here on earth. And you're going to get everlasting life. You're going to get both of those. But The first shall be last, and the last shall be first. And realizing that that comment motivated a little bit more or brought about the need for more explanation, he goes into the parable that we have here today. And in Jesus' reply, uh all the disciples are going to be rewarded. We understand that. Um They're going to be rewarded a hundredfold here and with everlasting life. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. It's neat to see that In in Jesus' work, things happen after we do them. He says, you know, he doesn't show and reveal to us what we're going to get. Like Peter was asking, what are we going to get? We don't know that. Jesus just said, Hey, you'll be rewarded a hundredfold. And in the work of the Lord, uh, you know, you've got to go down to go up. You've got to humble yourself and God will lift you up. You've got to be born again to see the kingdom of God. That comes first. If you lose your life, for Christ's sake, you'll gain it. When the sacrifice is made, then compensation is seen. He said, anybody that's done these things, anybody that's forgiven all, forsaken all, and done all this. uh they're going to be rewarded. So that that is seen. Jesus had just finished talking to them and about this rich young ruler and gives this statement about this man. The first is going to be last and the last shall be first. And that motivated the dis the discussion of this particular parable. So we see the characters here. The characters in this parable Uh very quickly we'll run down through these. There's the householder. He went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. The householder went out to do that. The first group we hired in the morning agreed They agreed to labor for a penny. They sat down and said, well, we're going to get hired for this much. Okay, we'll work for a penny for the day, which was a fair uh compensation for a day's wage. The householder throughout the day found people standing idle and offered them a job. Verses 3 and verses 6. He went out and he found people standing idle. And he offered them a job. The householder hil hired several at different times throughout the day, early morning, third hour, sixth hour, ninth hour, and eleventh hour. When the last four groups that he hired were simply told them Whatsoever is right, I will give you. Verses 4 and verse number 7. The first group, you see this context starting to take shape. You see, Peter said. Hey, we've forsaken all and we're following you. What are we going to get? The first group that Jesus talked about, they said, oh yeah, we'll come and work for you. What are we going to get? That spirit is coming out right there. What are we going to get? So they agreed, okay, you're gonna get a penny. They agreed to that But the remainder of the people that came and worked for that day, they he said, hey, if you'll come and work, I'll just give you what's right. And they said, okay, we're just glad to have a job. We're just glad to be here. Hey, wonderful. And they went to go work Not seeking for the compensation, not trying to nail it down, not trying to put it under contract, just trusting the landowner to compensate that which was correct When uh even when Eve was come, he gave them their hire, each man received a penny. We know that. The first murmured uh against the the householder um because they felt felt that they should get more. Um, you know, one way of looking at this is when when you expect something You see, they they had at the beginning of the day had agreed to have or get a penny. But Jesus, for whatever reason, started with those that came in the 11th hour. And he gave them a penny. And you can see them like in their mind thinking, Oh, these guys worked one hour and they got a penny. That means we're gonna get twelve pennies. They started to think that, even though that they had been first When they actually got the penny they agreed to, they felt like they had lost. Didn't didn't they? They felt like they had lost because they didn't get what they had expected or had wanted or desired And so sometimes when you set forth expectations, when they don't come through, you're going to feel like you lose regardless. And Jesus concluded that parable with the same statement that he did the others. So the truth of this parable, what is the truth? God gives us the truth, the actual interpretation, before and after. So the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. It could be stated like this, many that are first in the amount of work shall be last in reward. And many that are last in amount of work shall be first in reward. And this is not because of the amount of work, because we are not rewarded. There's a lot of balances here, but you've got to it's accounted under a steward that a man be found faithful. God wants faithful stewards. And it is not the length of my labor or the arduousness of my task. Harry might have a harder task than I, or an easier task than I But if we are faithful in the task that God has given us, we will be rewarded for that. And sometimes people who in their mind think somebody else is going to be first because of what they're doing. You know, there's a lot of dear old saints of God in churches that in some in the humans mind they think they they're not doing anything. But they're prayer warriors for God. They're being faithful to the task that God wants for them to do. And I think when we get to glory in our minds People thought, you know, there'll be people there and they're like, that person was a member at Hunt Valley? I don't even I I don't remember them. And yet they are gonna be first in the line of rewards When some other people who were busy, busy, busy, busy are going to be last, because it's not about the recognition of men or what we think, it's about what God wants us to do. and accomplishing the task in his vineyard that he wants for us. So in our mind, our perception might be, oh, that person's going to be first, or I want to be first. But it's a matter of motives. It's a matter of spirit and attitude in the heart and how we're looking at that. The reward is not the quantity of work done or the amount of sacrifice made, but the spirit in which it was done. The laborers who made no bargain, they just were glad to serve. relied on the faithfulness and the honor and the liberality of the landowner. And in the end, they were benefited most. Peter's question here is like the first laborer, as I described. What am I going to get? What are we going to set down and work for? Those who are not careful will be serving and doing much labor. But they do so with the wrong motives or the wrong attitudes, and therein they lose the reward that they had. I may be doing a whole bunch of labor, and in my heart, it's because I want to be seen of men. In my heart, I want men to praise me and think, wow, look at how he's doing, look at what he's doing. You know what? The reward I could have received, but because of my wrong motives, I've got my reward. My reward was somebody said, Oh, good job, Pastor Caleb. Wow, you're so good at that. Wow, look at you. I've earned my reward and I've given up the reward the Master wanted to give me, that he would like to have given me, but I I sought for a different reward and I got it here instead of there. And that's where uh in our mind's eye some people that might in our three think, oh, they're going to be first. Their motives, their attitude, their spirit was wrong. Those that said, hey, we're just willing to serve. They came out the best in the end. An example of this is Nebuchadnezzar in the scriptures. He had been raised up as a king. He was the king of all the land, the known world at the time. And then God is the one who lifts up and puts down. But Nebuchadnezzar felt he was in control. And he was going to do this. And he was full of pride. And God brought him down to the point. He was the first in the kingdom. Where did God make him? The last in the kingdom. He was on the ground, living like an animal. Very true picture, even in this life, about what God can do. The first shall be last. And the last shall be first. And the crux of this teaching is the heart, the spirit behind what it is we're doing. And you see that in Peter's question. He had been serving all, but all of a sudden there was kind of a spirit, he kind of saw maybe a benefit there, like, oh, well, we've forsaken all. Lord, what are we going to get? And so Jesus was pointing out to him that you may think you're going to be first Or you may think somebody else should have been first, but they're going to be last. We've got to watch the spirit of that. So the translation of the parable. We've got a couple of minutes. Let me give you the translation of the parable, and then we'll get into the um Teaching of the parable. Now much of the translation as far as interpretation I've given you, but uh in the parable I've given you clearly here who represents what? The householder is God. He's the one that's uh in control. The laborers in the vineyard are Christians. Christians that are supposed to be working. The vineyard is the world. We're supposed to be out working in the world. The idol servants are inactive believers, those that aren't pursuing or serving or working. The penny is the reward that God gives to his servants. The day of work is the shortness of time that we have left. The call to work is for all who are willing to come. The time to work is in all ages. And I've given you a description there. Many believe that the times of work can apply to many different things. But uh can the general consensus is the time to work is that do down through the ages, some in the early morning, this is the apostles, at the very beginning, they were called to work to do this task. The apostles went out. They were called early in the morning. On the third hour, the the first and the second century believers, Christians, that uh we're working in the third hour. Still others at the sixth and the ninth hour in verses five I'm sorry, verse five is the re reformers, and then the eleventh hour is us in the 20th century believers. This is broken out through the ages. And there are Christians all the way back in the beginning of time. The apostles, you know what? When we get to heaven, I'm going to sit at the marriage supper, maybe right next to Paul. But we're both going to be there. We're both going to be sitting at the table. We're both going to be in the presence of the king. And both going to be, hey, the first shall be last and the last shall be first. When you look at it through the ages and not an hourly time, then it helps to put that in perspective. It's Christians that had gone on before that were already doing the job, and these Christians here, and we don't know, but we know that God is going to do what's right. The reward, whether it be for those in the first age or those today in the age that we are in, God's going to reward what is right to all of us. This also can be applied to a believer at different times in his life. I believe the interpretation I've given you is closer to the text, but some people believe like a Christian, somebody that comes when they're really young. They came as a little child and they've got all of their days to serve the Lord, or somebody who comes like the thief on the cross in the eleventh hour. Either way, they're both going to be in heaven. Either way, they're both going to be at the marriage supper. They're both going to be rewarded. for what they've done for the Lord. So we're they're both going to get there. Um the end of the day is when God will reward his servants. in the interpretation. Now the teaching of the parable, there's a lot there that uh can be applied. There's many applications to this parable we'll have to get into those next week.