He just follow along, I guess let me begin by reading it and then I'm gonna point out some things to you. He says, God be merciful unto us and bless us. And cause his face to shine upon us, Sila, that thy way may be known upon the earth, thy saving, health among all nations Let the people praise thee, O God, let all the people praise Thee. O let the nation be glad and sing for joy, for thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nation upon the earth. Sheelah. Let the people praise thee, O God, let all the people praise Thee. Then shall the earth yield her increase, and God, even our own God, shall bless us God shall bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. I'd like to point out just some things that are that that jump out in this text. We see verses 3 and 5 are basically a direct quote of one another. It is a repeat. There is the admonition and the call for praise. Let the people praise thee, O God. Let the people praise Thee. Verse number five. Let the people praise Thee, O God. Let the people praise Thee. This is kind of gives us a division of this very short psalm. We see some key words in verse 2 and verse number 6, the verse 2 before this admonition, and verse 6 following the admonition. He says that. That word, that, points to a reason. There's a reason that the people should be praising him There's a reason that God's mercy has shined upon us and he has blessed us and God has allowed his face to shine upon us. Why? Verse 2, that Thy way be made known upon the earth, and thy saving health among all nations. And then in verse number six, the key word that jumps out is then. So in two, that points to a reason, and then that points to a result. Then shall the earth yield her increase. And God, even our God, shall bless us. Two very simple thoughts here As we consider the accomplishment of praise. You know, beloved, there are times in life that it's much harder to praise than in others. When you're in the valley. Sometimes it's it's hard to lift your voice in praise when you're in the valley. But Christians should have as a pattern of life, as a habit, Praising God. The model prayer for all believers starts our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. That is praising God, giving us the example of every prayer that we pray should begin with a measure of praise, with a recognition of who God is. What he's done. I grew up in Independent Fundamental Baptist Church and the fundamentalism that I grew up in Sad to say that there seemed to be uh uh what I would call hero worship. Uh I was in very good churches, but we would see evangelists, we would have men come through. We would have these great speakers that preached at conferences and these men would tell stories and It seems as though they were the hero of every story they told. And that stirred in my heart. I remember as a young man sitting in service. And my thought, my ambition, my goal for life was not, man, I want to be like Jesus. My thought, my goal as a young man is, I want to be like him. And it kind of, maybe inadvertently, I don't know that these men intended that result, but I think because of they they were the hero of their own stories over and over again, it kind of built a a hero worship. And we saw churches all over the country that were built around a personality where it was all about that man that was leading that church. I read a quote very recently that was a challenge to me, and it said, My advice to young preachers is never tell a story that you are the hero of. And I know of recent, I've used myself as an illustration several times. And I want to apologize to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Because I do not want to be the hero of the story. I want God to be the hero. I don't want to point the young people or the new believers or anybody else to Pastor Caleb Buttrell I want to point them to Jesus. What happens is we steal the glory that should be God's. He says in verse number two that thy way may be known upon the earth. Thy saving health among all nations. You see, I think about Hezekiah, whom God blessed. God gave him fifteen more years. God did great things for him. But in 2 Chronicles chapter 32, verse number 23, he says, And many brought gifts unto the Lord to Jerusalem and presented to Hezekiah, king of Judah. So that he was magnified in the sight of all nations from thenceforth. Hezekiah was greatly blessed of God, but the result of God having blessed Hezekiah is that Hezekiah was magnified. And I don't believe that was the intention that God had. I think that we need to be very careful as God's face shines upon us as God blesses you and I, we've got to be careful not to say, stand up and say, boy, look at me. Look at how good I have it, or look at how successful I am, or look at how profitable I am. We need to point and deflect that praise and let all honor and glory go to God. We have forgotten that we are not the cause, we are but the recipient of God's grace. So the first accomplishment of praise, and there's but two that I see in this text, the first accomplishment is that it puts the glory where it should be. As we praise God, we are deflecting and putting off that and expressing our gratitude and showing our thanks and acknowledging the fact that it came from God. If you have the capacity to pay your bills, praise God. Proverbs 10, verse number 22 says, the blessing of the Lord maketh rich. It is the blessing of God that gives us that capacity or means. You have the privilege of leading somebody to the Lord, praise God. You get to be a witness to others. Praise God. Beloved, we should look for and long and maybe even pray for the blessing of God on our life. God wants to bless us. But we need to remember from whence the blessing came and not steal his glory. You have a good home? Praise God. It's not because you're such an amazing father or such a wonderful, skilled mother. It's the blessings of God. You have kids that love you and honor you, praise God. Lord knows it's not because you or I or all that and a bag of chips, it's because we have a great God. The Bible says very clearly, except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it. It's not up to us. I remember when we had very young children, especially one or two. I thought I was a pretty good dad. Thought I'm a pretty good dad. I'm doing a good job. Then we had number three. And uh that was too much. It is not because of who he is. Church, you're ruining my message. It's because there was three. When there was two, there's one for her and one for me. We can kind of tag team it, you know, is one for each of us and you know, grab him and grab her, let's head to the car. Uh but when there's three, it's like, okay, what do I do with this one? How how do we how do we now ever and all uh they're all at different stages Each of the kids all dealing with different things, and now there's three, and then there's four, and then there's five, and you throw up your hands and say, God, I can't do it. Any blessing we have is because we serve a great God. So we see the accomplishment of praise is that it puts the glory where it should be. Secondly, we see That praise brings more blessing. Note with me there in verse number six Well, let's just start in verse number 5, that repeat of verse 3. He says, Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise thee. Then Then, so he says, Hey, praise thee. Let all the people praise thee. Then, then what? What's going to happen when the people praise? Then shall the earth yield her increase. And God, even our own God, shall bless us. You see, beloved, when we deflect the God God's glory that we were initially stealing when we point it back to Him and we acknowledge that that blessing has come from Him and we say, God, God did this and we're praising God. God is getting the honor and glory, and he says, Hey, I like that. I'm going to continue to bless that person. So praise, an accomplishment of praise, is it begets more blessing. I wonder, beloved, tonight, how many of the blessings of God have we missed because we failed to praise him? God could have and would have desired to bless us even more, but we stole his glory and he held back that blessing. You see, the fact of the matter is, as many times we've become accustomed to God's goodness, we take so much for granted, our fullness has led to forgetfulness. The goodness of God that we experience each and every day. By way of example, many times we're not thankful for the things that our mates do for us. Why? Because we've come to expect them. Because that she's been doing that for a long time. You know, parent or kids, they just think it's just mom's job to get the laundry done and to cook the food and have it ready to go. And they just take it for granted. Oh that's oh yeah that's what mom does. Mom mom makes the food and and i it has happened so much there's an expectation that that should be there when really that is a blessing. And here's the thing in our life, God blesses us over and over and over and over again, but his blessing that is so abundant in our lives, we get so used to it that we don't even see. That as a blessing anymore. That is every day. That is just average. That's just, I mean, God has to go above and beyond and do something really special for me to acknowledge that He did something. You know, thankfulness is a sign of maturity. When kids are young, they need to be told, what do you say? What do you say? Teaching them to express gratitude and thankfulness. But the more you the older you get, the more you realize it. Sometimes much older. Sometimes it's not until you're 20 or 30 or maybe even 40 before you realize all that mom and dad did. And you call back home and say, hey, just in case I haven't said it. Man, I'm thankful. You know, I've given many of the little toddler kids rides on my computer bag. Now you gotta be here pretty late because this only happens when I'm carrying my bag out of my office at the end of the night. But uh the littlest kids When they're hanging out and we're around here and I have my computer bag, you know, I'll set 'em down on there and it's got wheels on it, so I'll drive them around, you know, roll them down the hallway, go over all the bumps in the hallway, you know, and then come in the auditorium. And we go around. I mean it started with Pastor Derek's boys when they were so small they couldn't get on the bag themselves. And uh right now it's James. He's he's the one who sees me coming with my bag and he he he's looking for it. But you know, those boys at the very beginning, they were very hesitant. They weren't quite sure, but they get on that and they start start rolling around and then that smile comes and they're like, wow, like, oh yeah, that's fun. And they wouldn't they know as they as they get used to it, I would come up the stairs And and they were too l small to get on the bag, but they would come over and they would back up to the bag. They'd back up to the bag. They did this like that. They're like, oh and and they're like uh you know, their parents are like, oh, you think Pastor's gonna give you a ride I mean they just expected it because I was coming through with my laptop bag, that they're gonna get a ride. Sometimes God's done so much for us on such a regular basis, we just expect it We just think that that's the way things should be. Do we think that God owes us blessings? His blessing starts when we get out of bed in the morning. I shook Brian Nazarenko's hand this morning. I said, How are you doing today? He says, Well I checked and my name wasn't in the obituary, so I'm doing pretty good. Said, Amen, Brian. I said, that is certainly a good thing. God's blessing starts and we have the strength to get out of the bed get out of bed in the morning. If you have Sight to see you can praise God. If you have legs and can walk, you can praise God. If you can take a deep breath and and get air in your lungs you can praise God. If you can have the ability to think and and to comprehend and to be able to process information, you can Praise God. If you have the ability to love and have been loved, you can praise God. If you know joy and the thrill of joy and you become Experience and can feel pain, you can praise God. If you've been able to learn and adapt and to grow, you can praise God for His blessings on your life You can praise him for the sunshine that shines many days, and even the rain that waters the grass and the flowers. You can praise him for the family and friends that you have as part of your life. You can praise him for the warmth of a summer day and uh even the beauty of a snow-covered field. You can praise him for the blue sky that we get to experience and the blue birds that we get to hear sing. You can praise him for the good food you get to enjoy. Beds you get to lay in at night. You can praise him for a job to meet the needs of your family and the ability and strength to even work You can praise him for a mom and a dad that love you and care for you. You can praise him for children that you get to love and cherish and train and raise up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. You can praise him. You have a home and a place to live. The list could go on and on and on, but there's so many things each and every day that we experience from the moment that we open our eyes until the moment we lay our head down at night to rest. And we've gotten so accustomed to the blessings of God that we fail to see it. We fail to see how good God has been. But, oh dear beloved, let all the people praise thee. Then, then God will bless. I'll tell you what, if there was no other motivation that you have to praise God than that, The accomplishment of praise is that God will bless you some more. I enjoy the blessings of God. How about you? You know, Brother Joe and his little side business around the church here, you know. His the eggs, you know. He's standing out there last week in the parking lot and exchanging some money with somebody and of course I I walk up and I'm like, I want to get in on this. Where do where's the which way is this going? You know, and Joe's like, oh no, Pastor Fadas exchanging money Uh and that doesn't bother me at all. If he can be a blessing to people and they can get good uh eggs for cheap, amen. I'm happy for him. Um and I was going something with that. I'm sure it was very profound, but now my mind has left me There's something about trying to get in on that and wanting to get in on the blessings of God. And the way you do it is praise Him. Praise Him. And if we would praise him, the more we praise him, the more he'll bless us. Because we're giving him the honor and glory. We're pointing people to him. All the earth gets to see The salvation of the Lord. And that's honor and glory that goes to him, and we have the privilege of pointing people that way. And then God says, if you do it, I'll bless you some more. I'll bless you some more. What an accomplishment of praise. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?