Well, we're going to look at the book of Ruth. We are in Ruth, chapter number four, uh, tonight, getting into chapter number four, bringing the book of Ruth uh to a conclusion here by the end of the year. And that's kind of uh just I didn't know where we would end up or how long it was going to take. We just kind of go in verse by verse. So we're in chapter number four. We saw here in the book of Ruth this study Uh just put it on the pulpit and I'll just stay behind the pulpit. Uh so that it's gonna be too distracting if this thing keeps turning on and off. Um as much as I like to move, I would rather the microphone work. So I was preaching in uh Trinidad And uh they only they they didn't have a lapel mic. They just had a handheld and they said, Well can you use a handheld? I said, It's a microphone, sure. But I preached with that one time and I very distracting for me to be holding the mic the whole time because I use my hands and I talk with my hands and I I gotta hold the mic right there and man by the end of that service I said, I can't do that. I we gotta find another way 'cause I need my hands free to talk. I mean it messes with my ability to think when I can't move my hands, you know. So we had to adjust for the other services Uh but just it it's what you're used to, how you're used to doing it. But we're not gonna read uh the book of Ruth uh ahead of time here because we're gonna walk through it verse by verse, but just to remember this That the truth of this book is so powerful that it has such a strong picture of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, and how he redeems us and the process through which There's so many uh applications to uh soteriology or the doctrine of salvation uh that it's just endless through the entirety of the book. It's such a powerful truth that the Jews will read this book in its entirety every year before the Feast of Pentecost Which is a commemoration of the uh gift of the law that God gave to his people. As we opened up this book, we saw in chapter number one Ruth returning with Naomi. Uh she was returning back to Naomi's homeland and then we see Ruth out in the fields reaping and God blessing her by reaping. Then in chapter three we really took some time to talk about the idea of resting in Christ and what we receive as we rest in Christ and really finding that place of rest in our Lord and Savior. And in chapter number four we see the reward. We see her rewarded uh for her faith and for following the Lord. There is uh her her di her display of faith is constantly seen through this entire book as she trusted Boaz long before she was ever redeemed They're again kind of a picture of the Old Testament and the New Testament. You know the believers in the Old Testament were saved the same way the believers in the New Testament were saved. The believers from the Old Testament were saved by belief in the shed blood of Jesus Christ. They had it pictured by the sacrifices in which they did to observe and to follow God's plan, but it was all representation of, representative of Christ who would come, who would be the Lamb, whose blood would be shed for the entire world. And so their belief in the Old Testament was looking forward to the cross, and as they put their faith and trust in that They believed in the shed blood of Jesus Christ that hadn't been shed yet. In the New Testament, we look back to the cross and put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, who shed his blood for us, uh, in remembrance of that. Well, here in this story of the book of Ruth, in the very beginning, we see her begin to have faith and to begin to trust long before the redemption was provided. The redemption did not come until chapter four. We're here almost to the end of the book, and this is when she's actually redeemed. So you have that picture of the Old Testament. who they believed in faith expecting that it would come and she exercising her faith through the beginning chapters here believed and then it came before the redemption actually was provided. So there's just so many areas in which that application is seen. We left off in chapter number three uh really kind of what would be called a cliffhanger. We were left in suspense as we considered and thought about What's gonna happen now? Ruth posed the question. She says, would you, you know, would you marry me? Would you be my kinsman redeemer? And Boaz says, yes, I'll do it, and she leaves and goes home and tells Naomi all that happened. And Naomi says, Okay, just sit and wait. Just sit and wait and see what happens. Let's let's find out what's going to take place And so you're kind of there on the edge of your seat, waiting, okay, well what's going to take place? And we open in chapter number four and we see the beginning of the place of resolution. In chapter number four, verse number one. Then went Boaz up to the gate. And sat him down there, and behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by, unto whom he said, Ho, such a one, turn aside, sit down here And he turned aside and he sat down. We see first of all the Redeemer's initiative. The kinsman redeemer here, Boaz, his initiative. He went to the place to try and find the solution. He was the one that endeavored to bring about this uh redemption of Ruth. Can I tell you that Jesus Christ put forth the effort? He is the one that redeemed us and he uh came and was made in the likeness of men. He came to where we were and he Redeem. He's the one that had the initiative for you and I. He found us. He chased after us. He came for us. We see his initiative here as he went. Something that he wanted, that he was desirous of, and he wanted to make to seek it out. He wasn't going to let hardship or inconvenience get in the way. Boaz arrives there at the gate. The gate is a place of activity in every Israelite city. This of course being Bethlehem. Bethlehem is the place where the Where this story takes place, but the gate is where I'm sorry, this microphone just is distracting me like crazy. It's taking my mind and messing me up. Is it just me or is it getting louder and quieter and louder and quieter? Uh so we have the the guys upstairs believe it's one of the amps. One of the amps is bad. So we're gonna have to work on that over the next couple days. We've got to get that fixed before Sunday But it's really messing with my train of thought. Hard for me to uh focus through that. But we see here that uh Boaz arrives in the gate, the city gates is a place, obviously in the in the towns where Official things take place. It is the gathering place. It is the place where they conduct business. It is the place of exchange. People are coming into the city, people leaving the city. Ex excavations have shown uh this to be pretty consistent through the cities of that time period that they were built pretty tightly together. There wasn't a lot of room in the cities like large open meeting places. There wasn't uh places where that type of stuff could uh take place, but in the city gate was very normal for that to be the exchange of information, that to be the place where really almost like court was held, uh leaders would come there and gather. Some of the city's uh gates had actually raised platforms and pillars and things where they could uh in a very official capacity uh you know help solve the problems of the people of the city and resolve issues between you know conflicts regarding land and property and other things that arose, they would hear those matters in the city gates. Uh it was used by King and Commoner alike, the the the area for exchange of goods and services and and information. In 1 Kings chapter 22 and verse number 10, the Bible says the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, sat each one on his throne. having put on their robes in the place in the entrance of the gate of Samaria. So these kings, both King Jehoshaphat and the king of Judah Both sat in the gates and heard matters that was normal for them to do. In Jeremiah 38, verse number seven says, Now when uh Abimelech the Ethiopian, one of the eunuchs which was in the king's house heard that they had put Jeremiah in a dungeon, the king sat in the gate of Benjamin. The king sat in the gate. The place. So it was used by king and commoner alike. And so Here we have Boaz goes to the place of business, goes to the place where the exchange of information was to take place, where you could get a hold of somebody where legal matters could be heard And you remember the story of Absalom when Absalom was uh wanting to steal the hearts of the people? Do you remember that story where he was going to steal the hearts of the people from the king? The Bible tells us that he went to the gates and he stood there and he heard the people and he said, Tell me the matters of your heart. Tell me your problems. And he kind of said, Well, I I'm here listening to you, but where is the king? Again, that happened in the gates, in the city gates. So this is where Boaz gathered himself, and there's many other examples through the scriptures. But an amazing thing happens here. The nearer Kinsman, the kinsman who was a closer relative than Boaz, the Bible says, Behold, the near kinsman comes by. Uh listen, behold that implication, the idea here that this was not a coincidence This was not a, oh, amazing, uh, look what happened, beloved. It was the providential hand of God. The providential hand of God that brought this nearer kinsman to the place where they could sit down, talk about, and look at the possibility of him fulfilling his role to redeem Ruth. God was at work. And I just want to say to you tonight: is God at work in your life? Do you see and recognize the hand of God? Psalms tells us to behold the work of God. That we are to behold the work of God in our lives. If you don't see the work of God in your life, I would say it's very likely you're not close enough to Him. The work of God. God is working in our lives, and He does many things miraculous in our lives, and it's our responsibility, and yea, our privilege. To behold the work of God, to see what God is doing in our life, see those things that are miraculous. Many people would like to discredit the work of God. Many people would like to say it's coincidence. Oh, it's just chance that that happened But, beloved, don't let them undermine your faith. Don't let them steal from you, not just from you, but the next generation, the lessons that they need to learn as they see God working. As they see God opening doors, as they see God answering prayers, as they see God leading in your life, what a miraculous thing that here at this moment, when Boaz was there and ready to talk to him, that God brought this person by. Listen, God will bring things to a solution for you. God will bring the needed answers for you if you are willing to watch and see God work. It's not just coincidence. I ask you, beloved, was it a coincidence that adds George Mueller Was on the floor praying for God to provide food for all the children in the orphanage there They were sitting at their tables with their plates in front of them and their silverware in front of them but no food on the tables? Was it a coincidence that the milkman broke down with his vehicle, with his cart right out in front of the of the orphanage? And had all that milk that he had that was going to go bad, they had nothing they could do with it, so they hauled it in and gave it to the kids? Was it a coincidence that in the middle of the night that same day uh the baker rose up at two a. m. And he could not sleep and he just decided to start baking bread, and he baked bread all morning and then had all this bread b baked and said, Well what am I going to do with that? And he decided, well, I'll just go and give it to the orphanage. No, it's not a coincidence. It is God working. And we need to recognize and see God working in our lives, and what a privilege that is, what a joy that is to see God do miraculous things for us. Not only do we see his initiative, but we see his integrity, beloved. His integrity. You see, he did not bypass the law to get what he wanted. Again, we have here an amazing picture of Christ. Christ did not bypass the law. Christ said, Don't think not that I came to destroy the law and the prophets, but I came to fulfill the law. You see, Jesus Christ met every requirement of the law to be the Redeemer. And uh Bo Boaz here didn't try and finagle things, didn't try and work things out to his favor. He went here and he went to the public place. And we'll see as we read this next verse here that he called ten witnesses. Want you guys to come. And witness this exchange. We want to be sure and handle this all in a proper, upright, and honorable way. So we see his integrity. You know, good men are men of integrity. Listen, we we need men of integrity. We need women of integrity, Christians, people that function in the realm of integrity and just do right because it's right to do, not whether you're going to get caught, not whether somebody's going to recognize you for it or pat you on the back for it, but just doing right because it's right to do. We see in verse number 2, he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit ye down here, and they sat down. Now, we're just doing some teaching as we're going verse by verse through this, explaining some different things, but beloved, ten men is a notable number throughout the scriptures. It was expected that ten men would gather and you needed ten men to be these guys are leaving for practice, uh, but you needed ten men in order to hold uh any type of legal discussion. That you needed those ten witnesses, almost like being a jury, you know, being judged by twelve of your peers. It was necessary to have ten. Ten men were required for the Sanhedrin to meet. It ten men were required to have a synagogue. All through the scriptures there there there was this consistency of ten men, and so Boaz says, hey, let's get ten men together. It's possible that ten men would be representative of a quorum or a group that could decide a matter. And so he had these ten men come and act as witnesses. You see, he realized uh well what Bo Boaz was trying to do is make sure that he handled everything correctly. That he wasn't just working it out for his good, that he wasn't just being underhanded or dishonest in any way. He was conducting his business in the right way as a man of integrity. We see secondly here verses three and four, five, six, we see in this next group of verses here the proposal of the redemption. Boaz giving the explanation. You see, he sits down with this near kinsman, which we don't know what his name is. The scripture does not give us his name. They just we know he's a relative that's closer than Boaz Don't know why we don't have his name, but we don't. He says in verse number three, And he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of the country of Moab, selleth a parcel of land Which was our brother Elimelex. And I thought to advertise thee. Now that word advertise there is different from our idea of advertise. We think about advertisers like to spread abroad, to get the word out to everybody. But here it's much more calm, it's just the idea of making known. Uh almost even the idea of communicating directly one-on-one, just telling somebody something Make giving him the information. And so he says to him here, I thought to advertise thee or to make thee known of, saying, Buy it before the inhabitants, or before the elders of my people. If thou wilt redeem it Redeem it. But if thou wilt not redeem it, then tell me that I may know, for there is none to redeem it besides thee, and I am after thee And we see here him giving him the explanation. Now, I know most of us here know what that word redeem means literally just to buy back. And he says, hey, if you will buy back the land, then go ahead and do it. You buy it back. But if you won't buy it back, then I'm next in line. I I have the option. But I just need to know what what you want to do. We just want to understand that. Now, land, we know, was an inheritance of the Lord. It was given to the families, and it really was supposed to remain in the families. If a family, for one reason or another, fell upon hard times and had to sell their land, maybe to pay debt or to put food on the table, they had to sell a portion of land. And in the year of Jubilee, that land was to go back to the original owners so that it could be kept in the family as an inheritance given to them by God. It might be well to even consider this more like a lease. Like maybe a limlex sold the rights to his property as he went into Moab, said, I'm going to be gone anyway. You guys can use this. And they would get the rights to whatever benefit the land provided, whatever profit they made off of the harvest on the land, that kind of stuff they would get until the year of Jubilee when it would go back to the original owners until that time. So that's what they were buying the rights for. Kyle and Franz DeLich in the commentary in the Old Testament. Described it like this. The law relating let me just gonna read you a paragraph here, the law relating to the inheritance of the land of property of the Israelites, the one who died childless did not determine the time when such a possession should be passed to the relative of the deceased. Whether immediately or after the death of the owner, not until after the death of the widow who was left behind. No doubt the latter was the rule established by custom, so that the widow remained in possession of the property as long as she lived For that length of time, she had the right to sell the property in case of need. Such the sale of a field was not an actual transfer of title But simply the sale of the yearly produce until the year of Jubilee. The field of the deceased Elimelech would, strictly speaking, have belonged to his sons And after their death to their son's widow, Ruth. So describing here, just legally binding what would have happened following the law and God's plan. Ultimately, it would have belonged to Ruth at this time. She would have had the privilege to sell this land or whatever, because it would have gone back to them during the year of Jubilee. So he explains that to him, and then the kinsman makes his intentions clear in the very last part of that verse, number four, there. He says, And he said, I will redeem it. Bo Boaz probably was crushed. Boaz just all I mean he's explaining that and he just oh no, that's not what I wanted to hear. I was hoping you were more interested like telling somebody, you know, there's a car available for half price. But you're hoping they don't want it 'cause you want it, you know, like they you could get this really, really cheap. Uh y and then all of a sudden he wants it. Oh okay, well you go ahead. I mean I can imagine Boaz just being crushed here, hit him like a ton of bricks to hear that he was going to do it. But Boaz decides to make it clear all that the man is signing up for. Now there are some who present this from the aspect of Boaz kinda kept the the real blow till the last. Boaz like almost like he was conniving or arranging this this way but I don't believe that to be the case. Boaz is a type in a picture of Christ all the way through the story, and I don't think it would be very fitting to say he was somehow trying to maneuver this conversation to gain benefit. I believe he was just making it clear what this kinsman redeemer was signing up for as he goes on, we see in verse number five. Boaz explains the implications here. He says, Then said Boaz, What day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi? Thou must buy it also of Ruth, the Moabitus, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance. So he describes here the responsibility that, listen, you not only are going to get the field, but you're going to get Naomi, and you're going to get Ruth. And as Ruth is still of Marian Age, per the law you are supposed to marry And provide children for her so that her children will grow up and receive the inheritance of the property to keep that property and the name of Elimelech and his family alive. And he presents that all to him. The kinsman He's not very excited about that. Now he decides. We see in verse number six. And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself. Lest I mar my own inheritance. Redeem thou my right to thyself, for I cannot redeem it. This man has been on occasion, actually quite frequently, and Even myself, if I look back through the history of times, maybe I've preached on this text for different reasons. But uh on the surface you look at it and and this man has been thrown under the bus because the idea of, well He wanted the land and the benefit, but he didn't want the responsibility. When he found out he was going to have to have some responsibilities, well, he decided, no, I didn't want it. But that's not what the scripture says here. It doesn't say he didn't want it. There is something here that hindered him from being able to do it. He says, I cannot do this. We don't know exactly what it was, but I don't believe that it necessarily warrants this man being thrown under the bus and saying, well, obviously he just didn't he didn't want to bother with Ruth and Naomi No, that's not the case, he says, and the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar my own inheritance. Redeem thou my right to thyself, for I cannot redeem it. We don't know exactly what it was. It could have been something as simple as He could not afford. He could afford to buy the property or to buy back that property, but he couldn't afford to uh pay for A wife? A mother-in-law? A child coming? It could have been something as simple as that. It could have been the idea that understanding that Ruth ultimately would have sons And they would receive the land in the end. So from him looking at it and saying, well, if I'm going to buy this, I'm only going to be able to buy it for a short time because ultimately it's going to go back to the family. That would put me in a hard place. It's going to mar my inheritance. It may put my inheritance at risk from being able to give to my family because I'm not actually going to own that. I'm only gonna own it for a little while and then it's gonna go to Ruth and her children because that's what the law says. I'm supposed to provide this for her. One commentator said it may very well have been he knew he couldn't have kids. And the law required that he marry and provide her children. And he couldn't do that. So we're not real exactly clear what uh the restriction was, but he said, listen, I can't do it. There was something there that hindered him. He said, it's gonna mar my inheritance. It's going to limit me or my ability, so he said, I'm not going to do it. And he makes it very clear. He says it twice. He says, I cannot redeem it. And then again at the end of verse number six, I cannot redeem it. So he says, take it to thyself. Then we see the pledge of reliability beginning in verse number seven There's a former illustration given. He says, Now this was the manner in former time in Israel. So it was something that happened. This is how they used to do it. So the kind of explaining here this imagery that used to take place quite often, this former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning changing. For to confirm all things, a man plucked off his shoe and gave it to his neighbor, and this was a testimony in Israel Verse number eight, therefore the kinsman said to Boaz, Buy it for thee. So he drew off his shoe. But he gives the illustration. He says, this is what happened. And if you go back, I believe it's to the book of Deuteronomy, there was a practice if the kinsman could not do it, he was to take off of his shoe, and actually the woman would spit on him because he did not redeem her like the law had said to do. So that imagery was something that maybe had fallen by the wayside that they didn't do as much anymore, but it was known because this nearer kinsman took off his shoe. And and fulfilled that picket picture for him, not just for him, but for all of the witnesses that were watching, saying, Hey, I'm giving you my shoe. I'm showing that you need to I I'm not gonna do this. You're gonna you're gonna assume the responsibility The picture of the shoe being removed is several things that are pertinent to that. One is because land is what you walk upon. That land, that was an inheritance, is measured out with paces In Deuteronomy 11, 24, the Bible says, Every place upon where the sole of thy feet shall tread shall be yours So he said, this is your land where your feet walk. And so the picture is the willingness to give them the boundaries or to give them the right to your land. To say, here, here's my shoe. I'm giving you the right to this land. I'm giving you the approval to walk on this land, to to take possession of this land. So he tells them that. Boaz is willing to pay the price. Boaz is willing to assume the responsibility. Gladly, we see in verses 9 and 10. And Boaz said unto the elders and to all the people, Ye are witnesses this day that I have brought all that was Elimelechs and all that was Chileon's to uh Melan's and the hand of Naomi. Moreover, Ruth the Moabitis, the wife of Melon, have I purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance That the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren, and from the gate of his place, your witnesses this day. So he declares unto them, listen, I'm going to do this. I've paid the price. I'm willing to assume the responsibility. I've purchased Ruth, not like a slave. But as he redeemed the property, understanding he also is assuming the responsibility of the care and the provision for Ruth and Naomi Realizing that, he gladly assumes it. And he says, not only am I going to assume it, but I'm going to plan for the future generations. I'm going to plan that she would have children, and that his name would be spoken in the gates, that his name would be carried on. I'm going to fulfill this requirement of the law. We see verses 11-12, the praise of the residents. And all the people that were in the gate, and the elders said, We are witnesses. The Lord make the woman that is come unto thine house like Rachel and like Leah, which too did build the house of Israel. And do thou worthily in Ephrata, and be famous in Bethlehem, and let thy house be like the house of Ferez, whom Tamar bare unto Judah, of the seed which was Which the Lord shall give thee of this young woman. The people here identify themselves as the witnesses, and they say we're the witnesses, and we witness to everything that just took place. And then they declare some blessings upon them. They said, boy, we we pray that you'll be fruitful and multiply, like Leah and Rachel, which were the founders of the children of Israel We pray you'll have great great fruitfulness and great blessing. We pray that you'll experience God's blessing and goodness on your home, like that of Perez. Who was a strong and prosperous? They asked that they be famous. Unusual request, but He says, boy, we want you to be famous. You know, I don't know how more famous you could be than to be in the line of Christ. And to be the beginning of opening that window, providing the opportunity for Christ to come through the lineage of David there and to be born ultimately in Bethlehem as we celebrate Christ's birth here in a couple weeks. We bring this to a conclusion tonight, beloved. We see here truly a story that kind of is one of those happily ever after stories. It's a story that begins with heartache and and brokenness and bitterness and then concludes with The girl or the guy, you know, getting everything that they wanted. I mean Hallmark couldn't write a better story. But this is not a Hallmark story, it's a true story. And what it is, it's the reality of what happens when somebody comes to the Redeemer Somebody whose life is broken, who find themselves bound by the chains of sin Can be freed through Jesus Christ. Jesus heals the brokenhearted and he frees the bound. And literally takes lives that that have no hope, that look at life and say, what is it all for? And why are we here? And and this is this is too much, I can't bear it And gives you hope and joy. That's the result of following Christ, of doing as Christ desires And I wonder tonight if you're here and you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, if you're living a life bound by burden and broken, how don't you know that Christ heals Come to Him, let Him heal you. You're a Christian, you're here, you know that you've been healed, you know Jesus Christ has forgiven you of your sin. Let me ask you, are you seeing God work in your life? Are you seeing his providential hand and guiding you through different steps and providing for your home and and leading you? Listen, so I think some of the one of the reasons that we often get discouraged is because we fail to see the hand of God. But often it's because we're not looking. Because we're really not paying attention. God is still there and his hand is not shortened that he cannot help. He's helping. He wants to help. I just wonder if we see it. But you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. The pianist is going to come and play an invitation here and have a moment to just talk to the Lord.