Uh we have been studying the book of Galatians. We're in chapter number four. In chapter four thus far, we've seen a precious adoption. We've seen a powerful appeal. The passionate apostle who uh just showed his heart in the last study we did and just shared how how much he loved these people and was willing to do whatever he could to help them to further their walk with God and to encourage them and to be all that God wanted them to be. And this evening we're gonna clean We're going to conclude with a perfect allegory. A perfect allegory. Now we're not going to read these verses because of the sake of time. I keep thinking as I'm studying these, one of these nights We're going to get done real early, but uh we the the verse is just it it keeps growing. So it is what it is. I've got a lot to cover to get through here tonight. But Paul certainly has not left the reader to wonder, to to ponder, or to try and figure out what his topic of discussion is for the churches of Galatia. Those who had come to Christ or at least had professed faith in Christ. started to be swayed. They started to listen to the teaching of the Judaizers and although you know maybe it was because uh their desire to to believe, you know, they they wholeheartedly believed Paul's message of the gospel. They believed that and and trusted Christ and maybe being young in the faith and not grounded really yet. They they heard, oh, here's something else we're supposed to do and so they started being swayed and thinking, well We want to do everything we have to do. We want to please the Lord, and I I certainly appreciate and and just love the the fervor and the fire of a new believer. One that just says, hey, that's what God said. Let's do it. Whatever it is, that's what we need to do. They just uh they aren't questioning everything. They aren't they just seeing, well this is what the book says. Let's do it. And that's the way we all ought to be. The book says it. We ought to do it. And and the thing is, though, is they started listening to some false teachers. And so they were being swayed and pulled aside by this false doctrine that uh even some of the Galatians were submitting to the ritual of circumcision as a method to try and secure or keep their salvation, saying, well, I I've got to follow the Jewish law. And Paul was very clear in His argument uh with them and defending uh his doctrinal appeal that he gave them continually uh with love and concern, he shares with them these truths and he defines and defends his position. Yet here God gives Paul some real wisdom, some real insight, you know the the the You know, sometimes there's more than one way to skin a cat and and sometimes uh somebody said any way to skin a cat's a good way, but uh Sometimes what I'm saying is we could be careful we've got to be careful because especially when we're dealing with maybe an adverse audience or somebody that uh is not fully persuaded in the direction that we might be saying, hey, this is what the Bible says. We got to be careful because you can come across in uh very harsh or in the wrong w way and it's not going to help. Uh, you know, you can be sarcastic and and make fun and and that that's not going to help. So we've got to be careful to present the arguments in a in a logical and systematic way. And Paul did that, but then here God gives him some great wisdom. To be able to go back to what these people were going to, the Old Testament, and say, here, let's look at the Old Testament and let me show you how we are saved by justification, uh by we're justified by faith. in in faith alone, in Jesus Christ. And so he goes back to the Old Testament count here. So we see the historical account in verses 21 and 23, the historical account basically he just says, here let me tell you about this. with first of all a blunt presentation. So in verse number 21, where we begin tonight, he says, Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law. Do ye not hear the law? He he has a blunt uh just gets right into it with them. He he just says, hey, tell me. He he doesn't leave it up for debate or for question. He says, listen, those of you that want to uh be under the law, do you even really know what the law says? He says, well look, do you hear the law? Or basically he's saying, could you hear what I'm going to tell you about the law? I'm going to show you. Let's look at the law, he says. And could I remind you tonight what the law was written for? In 1 Timothy chapter 1, verses 9 through 11, he says, knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man. But for the lawless and the disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers and for of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers for whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for man-stealers, for liars, for perjured persons. And if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God which is committed to my trust. He says, Hey, the law was given for these things. Do you remember what the law was for? And can you imagine Paul just pondering or wondering why in the world would anybody give up their liberty to go back to the law? I mean Paul, who was a Hebrew among Hebrews, Paul who spent his days, day after day after day, striving to keep the hundred and six hundred and thirteen laws that the Jewish nations had, and you've got to keep all these in order to be secure or to be right with God. And Paul having committed his life to keeping those, and then one day he heard the glorious news that Jesus Christ died for the sins of men, and that all we have to do to receive That righteousness that Paul had labored so hard to have was to believe on Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. And righteousness is imputed unto you. And Paul is, he says, why would anybody go back to that? Why would anybody go back to try and earn their righteousness when righteousness is granted to us freely by Jesus Christ? He says, Have you heard the law? Do you know what the law says? Why would you want to go back to that? And then he gives him a biblical proclamation. We see here in verses 22 and 23, he begins. He says, For it is written For it is written. He's going back to the scripture. He's saying, hey, the word of God is the final authority. The law of God is written in heaven. Listen, heaven and earth will pass away, but God's word is not going to pass away. This needs to be our final rule for faith and practice. The Word of God needs to be what sets the standard. The Word of God is what we live by and we allow it to guide our lives. He said, It is written. He's going to answer for them the question, who were the true sons of Abraham? He says, for it is written, Abraham had two sons. You know, we sing that Father Abraham had many sons, many sons had Father Abraham, I am one of them, and so were you. But you see, these the Judaizers would say, Well, we're we are of our father Abraham. But you see, there's a contrast there between what we're singing about and what they were saying. Because they were of their father Abraham in the flesh. We're of our father Abraham by the Spirit, which is going to be defined for us as he gets through this. We're going to see that picture that he's drawing for them. He says Paul uh Paul says Abraham had two sons, one by Hagar, a bondwoman. That is a slave, and one by Sarah, a free woman. He says, For it is written that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondwoman, the other by a free woman, which we know was Hagar and Sarah. Verse he says, listen, you guys know the story, you guys know the law. God had promised Abraham a son through whom a great nation was going to come. And I think it's amazing that we have just concluded, just finished looking at this in Sunday school. And so this is something very familiar. I don't have to take time to teach on all on all of this and re-establish that for us because we've just gone through that. but understanding that God had promised them a son, and ten years had passed, and no son had come, and so Sarai, whose n whose name was changed to Sarah later, but at that point her name was Sarai, she says, Hey, uh well I'm getting old, time's getting past. Uh why don't you take my handmaid, Hagar? And and God will give us a son that way. You know, beloved That this was a legal and legitimate we means by which a man may have an error in that day. But just because something was legal does not make it morally right. Just because something's legal does not make it acceptable to God. And God is the authority, not our society and not what's acceptable in society. And we've got to look at the Word of God and know what God says is acceptable and what is not acceptable. It's not our preferences. It's not how we feel about it. It's not what's being promoted on television or what's acceptable in society. It is what the Word of God says You guys know I could chase them rabbits there, but we I've got a lot to cover. So we got this time, uh Ishmael, of course, we know, was born from Hagar. This was a worldly means, a fleshly means to try and solve or bring an answer to a spiritual problem. We see that in verse number 23. He says, but he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh. But he of the free woman was born by promise. You see, servitude is what established the relationship between Abraham and Hagar You see, Hagar did not have a say in this relationship, in this situation. She was told by her handmaid to go in unto her husband. And provide him an heir. Servitude is what established this relationship, but love is what established the relationship between Abraham and Sarah. There is the therein lies the greatest difference. Ishmael was born after the flesh. Now that is not to say just from a physical standpoint or because it was a fleshly act. by which a child was produced. No, it what he what he what what he's saying there is that he was born after the flesh, that is a non-supernatural means. Obviously You do what they did, children come. So he's saying it's just a natural way. It was just after the flesh And it was not what God had planned, except when you look at Sarah, we see that she was a free woman. Love is what established their relationship, and their child was by promise. Okay, you could say another word for that would be faith. They had faith. They believed. This child was brought about by supernatural means. God did that on purpose. He waited until the time when they were both past childbearing years. So nobody could say it was something they did It was a miraculous thing, a supernatural thing, in contrast to the natural thing in which Ishmael was produced. So God is the one that did this. It was a complete work of God. So Paul is asking them, Do you hear the law? Do you hear what God is saying? Do you remember the story? He says, then let me teach you something from it. So he gives to them a helpful allegory in verses 24 to 27. An allegory is a pictorial look at a defined truth. The allegory itself does not present any new arguments. The allegory itself illustrates the argument that has previously been stated. With that in mind, Paul, of course, has already sufficiently defended his position and stated the fact of the matter that were justified by faith alone in Jesus Christ. He stated that very clearly. But he says, let's look at this allegory. Let's see what we can learn from this story that you guys know so well about Abraham and Sarah and Hagar. First of all, we see there was a bondage period in verse number 24. He says, which things are an allegory? For these are the two covenants, the one from Mount Sinai, which gingereth to bondage, which is Agar For this Agar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem, which now is, and is in bondage with her children. So let's break these verses down a little bit. He says, Paul says, Do you remember Hagar? Now Hagar there is a different spelling, but that's the Hebrew uh And so that's who she's talk who he's talking about. But Hagar was a bond woman. This bond woman represents the law, verses 24 and 25. The law, we know, the law came from Mount Sinai He says, here is Agar, which is representative of the law, which came from Mount Sinai, which is notable that it was from that area. From which all of the descendants of Hagar and Esau would come, that Arab nations He says here the law gendereth itself. That means leads to, lends itself to bondage. He said the law leads to bondage. And he says, so what he's stating here is that all those who are now in bondage to the law are subject to Jerusalem. We see in verse number 12 here, 25. He says, for this agar is Mount Sinai. in Arabia and answereth to Jerusalem, which now is. This is important because it's going to talk about another Jerusalem in just a minute. But he says, hey, there's a Jerusalem that now is. Jerusalem was the center of the religious sex. It was the center, the place that all Jewish people would love to ultimately get. Even now those who do not uh believe in Jesus Christ as the Messiah Love to go to Jerusalem and they go to that wailing wall and and if you've ever been there they they've got the the wall just covered, covered, just every nook and cranny's got prayers stuck into the wall and and hoping that somehow their prayers will be answered if they're if they're there and they spend hours and hours before that wall. Jerusalem was the center of the religious group that is bound by the law. He says, the Jerusalem that now is, all those that want to follow the law, answereth to the Jerusalem that now is, saying, hey, You gotta, this is the Jerusalem's the authority for all this. Jerusalem's where everybody's looking to, and you all are in bondage to that Jerusalem. The law came from Mount Sinai. The law came first, and then came grace. Just like Ishmael came first, and then came grace, then came Isaac So he's drawing some parallels for them to for them to be able to see see. And he states all those that are now in bondage under the law are subject to Jerusalem, which now is that holy city. So we see that Bondage period, then he has a blessed period, verses 26 and 27. He says, but Jerusalem, which is above, is free. So here he's referencing the other Jerusalem, the Jerusalem that will be, the Jerusalem from heaven. But Jerusalem, which is above, is free, which is the mother of us all. For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren, that bearest not. Break forth and cry, thou that travailest not, for the desolate hath many more children than she which hath an husband. So we see here he's addressing or talking about Sarah, that free woman who represents grace, the Jerusalem that is above. Heaven is where men are free, contrasted with the Jerusalem, the tear on earth, this mother who bore the son of promise. Sarah, who bore Isaac, the son of promise, by faith. Here is the picture. Here's how it happened. Here's how it transpired. This free woman represents the new covenant of grace and the joy that comes through it. You see, Sarah's lifeless womb was given life by faith. In verse number 27, if you make notes in your Bible, you might want to write in a margin of your Bible, Isaiah 54, 1, because verse number 27. He is quoting Isaiah 54. 1. I'm gonna you look at 27 and see it's not a word for word, but it's very close, and I'll read for you Isaiah 54. He says, Sing, O baron Thou that didst not bear. Break forth unto singing, and cry aloud, Thou didst not travail with child, for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the Lord. Saying God brings forth a child and there is great rejoicing. I mean any child brings rejoicing. People lose their mind when there's a new infant. Uh, you know, people just get all excited about a new baby, just I don't know what it is so pleasant, yeah. Well Greg understands, but I I don't know. Uh but the people just obey me. It's like wow, new life and you're so excited. But then you take that and I know my own sister prayed for a child for twelve years Twelve years married and and all she ever wanted was a child and you're talking about somebody who's heartbroken, longing for a child, and trying to be submitted to God and say, okay, God, this is your will and this is what you have for me and and but after twelve years God gave them their first natural-born child. And the joy of that, that that joy of having been barren for so long and looking for that and having that attained, what a joy that brings. So he's saying, listen, everyone that knows the great work of God And what he does to bring forth life. The joy that accompanies that life. He says the birth of these new Gentiles is a miraculous thing. It's believers that have come to Christ not out of some natural-born right or out of some obligation because of bondage But because of love, that relationship that is established and based on love, Isaac was the son of promise that God said would come. In Romans chapter 4, verses 19 through 21, he says, and being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead. When he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promises of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God. And being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able to perform. You see, they had faith. It was not anything they did. They were long past the time of their life when it was something that they could possibly do. And yet still believing, having faith, what God said he would do, and God said he would bring it, he would deliver it to them. And so they believed. And so we see in verses 28 through 31 a hopeful application for them. He says in verse number 28, there's a better promise. He says, now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise. He says, now we, Paul declares them to be brethren. We. He concludes himself and them together in this, these brethren, all who come to Christ are brethren. All who come to Christ by faith, they are brethren, and they are indeed children of the promise. So when we sing Father Abraham had many sons, and I am one of them, and so are you, what we're saying is that we have been granted into the family by faith because like Isaac was a son of promise and they had faith and believed that God would do it, so we have faith and believe in what God will do. Children came by the miraculous work of God, not by a work of flesh. Listen to John 1, verse number 13. He says, which we bore not of blood. Nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. He says, which were born, you know, everybody that has been born again. is not born of the flesh. It's not something we've done. Not one of us have ever, in any portion or means, earned our way to heaven. But it's something that God did. We've been born again of God. Understand, beloved, every salvation performed is a great work of grace. Every salvation is a miraculous thing. You know, there's a time when I was younger that it seemed very popular in our kind of churches to glamorize uh these people that had come to Christ from a world of sin. And we would have sometimes men come through and They would preach in chapel and they would talk about, they would give their testimony, and they were applauded and and and you know Just amazing because boy they went out into the world and and they did all this wickedness and they lived a life of sin and they destroyed their life, but God saved them and forgave them and everybody was excited about it. And I sat there as a young man thinking, boy, I wish I could have a testimony. like that. Boy, look at everybody. Everybody loves that testimony. Everybody's excited about that. Because he went out into the world and praise God that he can save the uttermost. And it doesn't matter how far you've gone, God is there, but you know what? It's just as much of a miracle that God saves the child who's been in church every Sunday of his life and didn't go out into the world. And to me, that is a greater testimony and worthy of more praise that God protected them from that world The flesh and the devil, and allowed them to come to the saving knowledge of Christ and kept them pure from that filth. That to me is a greater miracle and worthy of more praise. But everyone that comes to Christ is a work of God. We're saved by promise. You know, we're we're kept by that promise. Sometimes people that doubt their salvation is because they don't really understand the promise of God Realizing that it's not anything that we can do. On our best day, we're not worthy of God's salvation. It's all Him and not us. And those that don't completely understand that yet or haven't grasped that, they don't feel saved. They don't feel worthy of it, but we'll never be worthy of it. We have to understand that it's the promise of God. It's his word. We are saved through promise and we're kept through his promise. He says there's a much better promise. We, brethren, as Isaac was, just like Isaac was, are children of promise. So he's drawing for them a picture of the difference between Ishmael, who was a work of the flesh, and Isaac, who was a promise of God. And he's trying to get them to see the difference. Then he says, there is a bitter persecution in verse number 29. He says, but as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him. That was born after the Spirit, even so it is now. Paul is explaining to them that, listen, since the beginning there's been persecution. That Ishmael that came first developed and maintained and had a relationship with Abraham, but then when God saw fit to bring along his brother Isaac, there was jealousy there There was contempt there, there was a problem, and contention rose up in the home. In Genesis 21, verses 8 and 9, it says, and a child grew and he was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast that same day with Isaac was weaned, and Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, which he had borne unto Abraham mocking. She saw him there mocking, and this, you know, the story where Sarah ultimately says, get them out of here. Send them away. We don't want them to be here. We don't want him to be an heir with us Beloved, I want you to know that struggle is still active today between the descendants of Ishmael as well as Esau, but those descendants That live in that part of the world are still to this day in contention with the descendants of Isaac. That is still present, and it says it here in the Word of God. Even so it is now. He said there was contention back then and there's contention now because of the difference. Let me just say, friend, works of the flesh will always come back to haunt you. It's still haunting them. Works of the flesh will always come back to haunt you. That's why it's so vitally important that we live in the spirit. Not only was this picture of persecution one that was prevalent in their life and evident in between these two brothers and between these two races of people now. But it is also part of the spiritual life. All those that come to the Father through faith, He says, you're going to have contention. He says, but as then, he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit. There's going to be a problem with those who want to live after the flesh or earn their way to heaven, and between those who are yielded and submitted to the grace of God. The Bible tells us in Timothy 3. 12, yea, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. That something is prevalent. It's part of life. And he gives them a biblical practice in verse number 30 and 31. He says, nevertheless, what saith the Scripture? Again, going back to the Word of God. He says, What saith the Scripture? He says, Cast out the bondwoman and her son, for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the free woman. He is using here the pretty much exact words that were said by Sarah back in Genesis 21:10. If you want to mark that in the edge of your Bible there, you'll know exactly where it was that Sarah said that. She said that in 2110. Listen, cast them out. Put her away. I do not want her. She's not con this bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the free woman. He's clearly saying that those who try to inherit by the flesh will not inherit. It's not going to happen. They will be rejected. Thank God, beloved, that we're not children of that which one day will be rejected. We're children of the promise Here he brings the whole argument to a conclusion. So then, brethren, we are not children of the bondwoman, but of the free. That's who we are. So why would we try and go back to be children of the bond woman? We're not. We're children of the free woman, and so that's who we want to stay, and we want to remain. As we bring this to a conclusion, let me give you a couple of concluding thoughts. First of all, there is, here in the Word of God, and there always has been only two covenants. But I'm saying for all of time there's only been two ways. Men, whatever religion they want to tack onto their name, there's really only two ways. There are those that are trying to earn their way. And those whom are trusting by faith in the way that was paid for by Jesus Christ. Those are the only two ways. You can dress it up and call it whatever you want, but that's the two options. A lot of them have a lot of different names they put on the front of them, a lot of different denominations, a lot of different religions or practices, or people that wouldn't even claim any religion, yet uh they're still trying to earn their way. And there's those that are resting in the way that was paid for as the free. The heart of the matter is a matter of the heart. You see, there's nothing wrong with standards. There's we know that God wants and expects us to live holy lives. He said, Be ye holy, amen. So how do you reconcile that with this where we live in grace, where we have liberty to do whatever we want to do? Well, listen. If we would truly follow the first and the greatest commandment, if we truly would follow that Then we could, and we do have liberty to do whatever your heart wants to do Because your heart will only want to do that which pleases him. Because you're to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. That is the first and the greatest commandment And if we truly loved him above all else, again, a relationship established and built on love, not a relationship established or built on the law or on servitude. It is love that established this relationship. And if we truly loved him, then we would have the liberty to do whatever our heart desires. Why? Because our heart would desire to only do that which pleases him Because of our love for him was so great Let me give you an example and bring this to a conclusion. We know that here in America There's a law, several laws, against child neglect. You see, I had to look what the what these are But you have brought a child into the world, you are supposed to be responsible for them. So they have laws on the books here. In fact, the law states that for abandonment with the intent to return. You know, if you leave your kid at Walmart plan to pick him up on Tuesday Abandonment with the intent to return, you can get up to two years in jail. Abandonment without the intent to return is up to ten years in jail. And reckless endangerment of a child is up to 20 years in jail. You see, here's the thing, beloved. When I was a new father. The reason that uh I didn't take my child down to Walmart and leave him in a shopping cart and plan to come back and get him on Tuesday was because there was a law on the books. That said, you can't do that. So obviously I'm not going to do that. The reason that I didn't use Andrew as a weight for the front of the rotor tiller. Andrew was a chubby child. The reason I didn't do that is because there was a law I could get 20 years in jail for reckless endangerment of a child. Right? No. You see, the law never entered my mind. I never in my life thought about the law. That is not what caused me to do what I did as a parent. It's because the love that I had for my children would not allow me to leave my child in a Walmart and plan to come back later and get them. It wouldn't allow me to put my child in a place where they would be needlessly endangered. Because there was love there. And that is the relationship that Paul is trying to define for them, a relationship that we have with God as sons of promise, a relationship Established by love because love is always a stronger motivator than law. He says, Why would you want to go back and live under the law when we have the privilege of living under love?