Uh uh a man is um when he is uh drawn away and enticed of his own lust That is just a desire, it's a passion. It could be uh a desire for money, it could be a desire for p power, could be a desire for for recognition. uh you know that can be a driving force and that becomes so important ab above ab above all else that they're willing to and and you think there's a lot of that that ties into the to today's TikTok culture where people have to get so many clicks and they want to achieve a level of recognition and so many likes and and thumbs ups and all that on the on these different videos and you'll see they'll do crazier and crazier things this last week. I had the privilege of uh helping a guy uh butcher a full cow uh from you know Out in the field we brought it into the barn, we butchered a whole cow, and that was quite the process. It was a lot of work, hours and hours of working Um but we we processed this meat down and we gave it to a whole bunch of different families. I mean he did, I just helped him do it, you know. Um but In the process I knew I was going to be doing this and so I wanted to learn more about it, so I started watching some YouTube videos and uh one guy was butchering a cow and you know they have a whole bunch of stomachs, right? And they opened the cow and and th the these stomachs came out and then he opened a stomach and he talked about how uh the aborigines or uh some other you know, Eskimo cultures or whatever that they would eat the food out of that first stomach because it was not very it's not very processed at that point. It's almost like fresh food. And uh so he ate it. Yeah, he took food out of this cow's stomach and and ate it. And then the guy's son, who is videoing, says, Dad, you are way too desperate for clicks, okay? And that's the thing, is today p people do almost anything to try and get some more clicks and and and ultimately you'll see people do things that cost others their lives or they end up in the hospital themselves. All why? Because they want recognition. You know, it can become that great driving force for them, fantasizing things about lessful things and allowing emotions to control your thoughts. And so we saw the process here. We looked at this last week, how footholds become strongholds, strongholds become strangleholds in our lives and there's some descriptions about those things, some unforgiveness. That's just a foothold. It's an unforgiveness in your heart. And then that unforgiveness becomes bitterness. And that bitterness becomes a stronghold. Now it's a stronghold in your life. And then left undone, it becomes a stranglehold and begins to hurt you. And the Bible says thereby many are defiled. There's some other things there about these uh bad habits and addictions and how they're formed and they create in our lives and just showing you some different graphs and things to think think through those. Now thoughts become imaginations when. Thoughts become imaginations when uh you are not satisfied with the way God made you. Now is everybody caught up with me? I see people looking at your notes, so I just want to make sure. So the your page should look like this. You have these these diagrams right here, right below that, just thoughts become imaginations win. That's where that's where we are. To conclude last week's lessons, we just got this little section right here. So there's just a few blanks there. Your appearance Uh when you're not satisfied with the way God made you, so you have your appearance, your talent, your family, your circumstances. Things in your life that God made you and prepared you a certain way, and that's one of the big tricks or lies of Satan when he tries to tell you about how you're insufficient or not enough or uh that you you can't do it and you believe those those lies and that motivates you to do something else. Um but uh he says they're your talent Satan influences your life uh through different ways, uh whether it's through the occult, through rebellion, through unforgiveness or anger, uh through marriage infidelity. different ways in which Satan influences the life. Sin and the flesh control your life through covetousness, jealousy, sensual impurities, or general uh generalization of iniquities, just doing wrong. Iniquity is sin, of course, and personal hurts from family, friends, or acquaintances. Now, the key verse here in each of these sections, the key verse for dealing with or fighting these things, he gives us, and uh this is Ephesians 4, 26 and 27, be angry and sin not. Look Not the sun go down on your wrath, neither give place to the devil. That is the key principle there with regards to thinking about this, the lies of the devil, and how He gets in and he deceives so many people. Well, many times we give place to the devil. We we open that up and we've really the Bible says the prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. And we need to realize that. We need to know the possibility is there. And so we need to strive to try and see the evil and hide ourselves. To guard against it, to prepare, and don't give place to the devil. Don't open that up. Don't let Satan uh get a foothold in our life. That can become a stronghold. That can become a stranglehold. Okay, then there's some worksheets. There's a page of worksheets here. Begin today to start noticing the influence of the world, the flesh, and the devil in your life. And there's just some thoughts there for you to be able to to work through and say the world influences on my life how? How are these things influences the people, places, or things? Really think about your own life and think about how it's impacting you, the flesh. influences me by this. Uh I'm battling these carnal inward desires desires and here's what they are and and the devil influences on my life. Some thoughts, imaginations, or strongholds that I see taking place And so you can look at and go through those things. Now, we're going to turn the page and get into today's lesson. This is the loss of man's soul. Excuse me, we're going to look at that in just a moment. Uh that's what we're going to get into for today's lesson. I just didn't have quite enough time. to uh to conclude that last week uh to get you all of those answers. So we're gonna begin this morning, just have an opening word of prayer, ask the Lord to bless us. and uh sing a chorus or two and then get into today's lesson. Lord, we come to you now. We're grateful for your goodness to us. Thank you for Uh gathering all of these here for the Sunday school hour today, and I pray that today's lesson would uh stir our hearts and minds towards the things of God, and Lord, that you'd give us some insight. uh to battle against the world and the flesh and the devil. Lord, give us uh strength to overcome these things and uh thank you for these lessons and I pray that you would bless this time together in Jesus' name. Amen. We've got a lot to cover this morning anyway in the loss of man's soul. We're going to begin walking through this this morning. And again, these lessons were prepared and put together by Pastor Townsley from New England Baptist Bible College up in Connecticut And he passed them on to me and and said I could use them however I saw fit. I've had them for a couple of years, uh, but we've just now uh saw a window and opportunity and thought it might be a blessing to the church and so we're looking at these again. These were not prepared by me. We're just doing our best to utilize them and uh go walk through and teach these things. So we see the loss of man's soul. Uh Mark eight, thirty-six, for what shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world? and lose his own soul. What should it profit a man? This is the idea that's addressed here. What is it going to profit a man? I mean obviously this text is dealing with lost people, with those that don't know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, haven't been forgiven of their sin, they're not on their way to heaven. I mean if he If they gain the whole world, if they have all this world has to offer and die and end up in hell, what what did they actually get? Nothing. acquisition and attaining of all he can here in today's world, but it should be it looking ahead to the future And as we see in Matthew 6. 33, seek ye first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. So it's a matter of looking ahead, looking to the future. And so not just for those who are lost, but every Christian, every believer should look at and think about how is it that we can impact and affect others so that they might not lose their soul, that they would understand how important this is as well. And we see again the the tricks and the way in which Satan works to try and deceive men to keep them from being able to reach and uh Be sure that they don't lose their soul. So man was created in God's image. We understand that. that uh man out of all of God's creations, there's so many beautiful and amazing things that God created. Uh man was created in the image of God. In several different ways specifically, one is intellectual likeness. His intellectual likeness. Man was given the ability to think. to contemplate, to be conscious and aware of his existence. Those that are in the animal kingdom in today's world they're with the at the uh introduction of evolution into man's way of thinking, they they reduce men to the animal kingdom This is what evolution does. It turns all of us into animals, and we just happen to have progressed a little further along in the evolutionary chain, and therefore we have become a little bit more aware or conscious of our of ourselves, but when you reduce us all to the to the animal kingdom, it removes all responsibility to a God. It removes God out of the picture. And it changes the complete way in which you think about your responsibility as an individual. But God created us. And he created us in his image, giving us the ability, the capacity to think. In Colossians chapter 3, in verse number 10. He says, and having put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created us. in the knowledge after the image of him that created us. The ability to think and to process, to be aware of the the animal kingdom does not have that. And we are not to live like animals. You know, this this a lot of things that happen in the world today uh without if you remove the Bible and you remove God There is just the aspect of, well, this is just natural process. That's what they'll say. It's just a natural process. It's just a natural way of doing things. Yeah, but we can think. We're not to live like the animal kingdom. Yes, I know a dog in heat goes out and gets involved with every dog in the neighborhood that's available. But that's not the way men are to live. We know that very clearly. We're not part of the animal kingdom and we're not supposed to live that way Then we are also given a moral likeness, a moral likeness that God has given us the process not only to just think, but He has written the law of God on the hearts of men. Genesis reveals to us that man became a living soul. Genesis 2. 7. We know that God breathes into man the breath of life. Man becomes a living soul. The soul of men makes him distinct. from all animal life. This is God's design, God's plan. He has given men a soul. He did not give uh your dog or cat a soul That's what the Bible says. Now I know we love our pets, but we can only go with what the Bible says. And the Bible says that man was given a soul, and animals are not given a soul. We're not part of that. He has made man a step above that, a step different than that. Ephesians 4, 23 and 24, he says, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness. and true holiness. So God has given us the mind to think the aspect of the law of God was written. on the heart of man. We know that. God, every man and and boy ever uh born from the youngest child, uh every girl, uh God wrote on their heart. a a moral law. It's there. They have an aspect and knowledge and and yes their way of thinking is shaped in their culture and in who is instructing them as they begin to grow. But there is a knowledge, there's something on the heart of man you could go to the the deepest part of any jungle uh remote village and you'll find people that are trying to in some way they're trying to worship a god Why? Because there's something in their heart that says that there is a God, that there's somebody bigger than them, there's someone in control, there's someone that created all of this. Why? Because that's written on their heart. It's written on the heart of man. God has put it there. God created men. We know in Colossians chapter one and verse number sixteen. that God, uh all things were created by God and for God. So not only did God create man, we know that God created man, but they were created for God. Okay, this is something that we've got to keep in mind and remember that we were created for God, not the other way around. In today's consumer society, in today's uh you know, even the idea of church has become a uh a buffet of sorts. uh where people are looking for for the buffet that has the the particular desserts that they like and and the uh certain things that they want and and hey what is what can what can church do for me and what is the church going to provide me and what is what is God giving me and how is God meeting my needs And oh boy, and God does so much for us, and we praise him for it, and we're thankful, and that is for sure a truth. But we need to remember that we were created for him, not the other way around. You know the difference between dogs and cats. That idea, you know, uh of a dog that just loves his master and do anything for his master and And uh the dog thinks that he's there for his master. But a cat thinks the master was created for him. That the master is there to feed and pet and serve the cat. Well, sometimes as Christians, if we're not careful, we can get the wrong mentality about the Lord and and think that God is there to meet our needs. Now we know that you know he says that he'll meet our needs, that God is going to uh you know provide and and that He is going to enable and that he gives us strength and power and that his grace is sufficient. But we just need to be careful about how we're thinking about these things and realizing that we were created For God, not the other way around. We know that Satan seeks through deception to get men to worship him, just like he did with Eve in the Garden of Eden. Through the first sin, man was separated from God and in needed of being regenerated, saved, to be restored unto God. We see Ephesians chapter 2 and verses 1 and 2. We want to turn there in your Bibles, Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 and 2. So God, of course, desires For men to worship him. We were created for God, by God In Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 and 2 he says, And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince and the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. So he's saying there was a time when you were walking under the influence, the direction of the prince and the power of the air, under Satan. That is when men sinned, so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned because of Adam and Eve sinned. All men have sinned, and every boy and girl ever born was born a sinner under this judgment and the penalty of sin because of what Adam and Eve did. But uh Through Jesus Christ, that relationship can be restored and we can be brought into the presence of God and begin to worship Him. And God's desire is that all men might be saved. God's desire is that all men might be saved. 1 Timothy 2. 4. Who will have all men to be saved? And to come unto the knowledge of truth. So God's desire is that all men should be saved. I can't say that word without thinking of the of the commercial back in probably the eighties, uh I don't know, nineties, but the the all uh detergent. And you know, they they had the little kid on there and all, A L L, all, all little detergent. You know the the the clothes well clothes washing detergent. What is all? All and and all men. God wants all men to be saved. What does all mean? All means all God's desire. He's not willing that any should perish, but that what? All should come to repentance. I want you to know that I'm not a Calvinist. that I do not believe that there is a certain select number of predestined people that are going to get saved and there's nothing that you or I can do anything about it. that God has it planned and He's sovereign and He's just gonna win them and they don't have a choice in it. They're they're gonna be saved and and it doesn't matter what happens and And these are going to be lost, and it doesn't matter what happens. No, these two verses very clearly teaches that God desires that all men would be saved. Now, some men are going to reject him Some men are going to accept him, and it's our responsibility to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, to let them know about the love of Jesus Christ, that they might have the choice the option to at least uh choose Jesus Christ. That's our goal. And and I don't understand and can't explain exactly about Christ the ability for him or God to to know and at the same time not make it happen You know, again, there's things that are about God that are beyond my ability as a as a finite individual, uh, for him to to be able to know all of the past and know all the future and to not make things happen in in And man still has a free will. But because I know that somebody's going to do something does not mean that I ultimately made it happen. And so We know that God desires that all men might be saved. And at the same time, Satan desires to hinder all men from being saved. So these two are contrary one against the other. Satan is working every day, every hour, to blind men to the truth of salvation. And uh we talked about this some last week uh in that lesson about the lies of Satan and and how he blinds the minds of men. Uh he uses our mind, our will, and our emotions He hides the gospel. He tricks men uh in their mind that they'll think Man, I'm gonna lose all of this. If I get saved, I'm gonna lose uh all of this pleasure that I have, all this sin that I want to be a part of, and I'm not going to be able to continue doing that. And so I I'm not going to give in and and surrender to Christ and trust Him Because Satan wants to blind men to the truth of salvation. But we see that Christ shows what shall it profit a man if he should gain all that, but lose his own soul. There's always going to be something better until you stop believing the lies of Satan. Satan is going to try and show you always something better than choosing Christ, but we know that there are lies. Matthew 10. 28 there says, and fear not him which is uh which can kill the body. But are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. So then he goes into here several ways in which uh Satan begins to blind the hearts and minds of men, first of all, through the influence of sin. The giving the ignorance of the gospel is no understanding of God. Sometimes there is just a matter of ignorance of the gospel. There's no understanding of God and who God is. And more and more you'll find that even here in America. It was very rare to find that in America uh m many years ago. even in my childhood. But you go into the childhood of some of those that are a little bit older than me or into our parents youth And, you know, we came from a Christian heritage, a Christian nation. And part of that is, is, is people understood who God was People understood there was a creator that created the world, that we ultimately were responsible to him, and we had that foundation. But I know from being on missions trips to other countries, uh especially uh places uh like Thailand. um or even even Belize where uh there's been a a lot of false uh teaching You go to talk to somebody, and there's no concept of sin and wrong and of of who God is that God created the world. And so you have to start to begin to teach them. There is in their heart an understanding and a knowledge that that person is there, but who is it? And so you take the Bible and begin to show them that God, God created the world. Okay, they understand that. Okay, well, if God created everything and then sin entered the world. Sin. Oh, now okay, they understand they're sinners and and why that they're sinners. Oh, but there's a penalty for sin. Yep. And so you've got to teach them. It's it's the ignorance they just don't know. And Satan will do all he can to blind the hearts of men just to keep them ignorant of God and who God is. Then he uh gives them the love uh the to love the world. There's no time for God, just They don't want to give up the things of this world, no time for God. Living in the flesh, no place for God. It's amazing how Satan can cause people to continue to do the wickedness of this world, it so much of sin Has such dramatic negative effects on our lives You know, the beer commercials do not go down and shoot in high definition the guy who slept on Skid Row last night. Who woke up in his own vomit, having wet himself, who has no job Who can't live. He he lost his wife and he lost his business and he lost his family. You know, the beer commercial doesn't show that They show somebody out having a great time and a lot of fun and oh look at how good this is and boy you can you can enjoy this and and and you'll be popular and you'll be uh well liked and all of this. They they make it to be glamorous and it's amazing how Satan blinds people's minds to the destructiveness of sin. And you know as well as I we could take any part of sin, any aspect of sin that we look at in the world today and you follow it and we see That sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death and the destruction that it takes people to. And yet many times people just continue down that road. And you say, well, why would you do that? Well, because uh it's fun or because I enjoy it or this is this is what I want to do and and you know don't tell me it's wrong. Yeah, but you know where it's going to end up. You know the destructive nature of this. You'll have some guy involved in an illicit affair, and his friend will find out about it, and his friend will say, What are you doing? Have you lost your mind? You've got a beautiful wife and four kids. Why would you go do that? And and and he he just can't think, completely blinded to the destruction that it's gonna cause, the the hurt and the turmoil and and the the the complete loss, I mean all of that's gonna he's gonna end up facing and his friends trying to get him to understand. Why would you do that? Look at where look at the road you're headed down. But Satan blinds the minds. He blinds people to what sin's doing. The influence of Satan, Satan's primary goal is to get men to worship him rather than to worship the true and the living God. Satan always has desired that men would worship him. The influence of false religion In Matthew 7, 13 through 23, I'm going to read these verses to you. Enter ye in the straight gate for For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which uh go in thereat. Because straight is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. Beware of false prophets Which come to you in sheep's clothing. But inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire, wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have we not cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. There's the influence of false religion. Again, we're talking about Satan and how he blinds men to the truth. And one of Satan's biggest tools is the introduction of false religion, the exercise of false belief. Because if he can get men tied up in practicing a religion and never knowing a relationship with Jesus Christ, then they they are meeting that need that's in their heart. They're striving to be or to earn or to find their way to a better person or a better place or a better life and ultimately they're caught up in that and they're not looking to Jesus Christ, the author and the finisher of our faith. There's some listed here a few things about false religion, those that teach baptismal regeneration. Baptismal regeneration is the idea that salvation is attained through the baptismal waters. That somehow that getting put into the water is necessary either completely or in part for salvation to ultimately take place. And there are many different groups that teach this. It is false. It is not according to the scriptures. There is no teaching in the Word of God. uh that salvation in any way or any part comes by baptismal regeneration. Um Section 1215 of the Catechism of the Catholic Church states this, and I read this to you: the sacrament of baptism is also called the washing of regeneration. and the renewing of the Holy Spirit, for it signifies the actual bringing about the birth of water and the Spirit, without which no one can enter the kingdom of God. Okay, very clearly stating that without which no one can enter the kingdom of God. It is the regeneration that the baptismal waters are what bring about through the Spirit the the the act or the step of that baptism regeneration. But it's false. You can't trust in those waters It is a step of obedience. It is a picture. It is a picture of what's already taken place. And I would encourage anybody that hasn't been baptized to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. But it's called believers' baptism. Because you've already put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, because you already have believed on him and you know that you're forgiven and that you're on your way to heaven. Some those that teach that, of course. I read the the Catholic Church here. Now those of you that know, and this is not a lesson on on church history. Uh but if you understand correctly, you know that Baptists are not Protestants. I'm not a Protestant I never have been a Protestant. A Protestant is somebody that has come out of the Catholic Church. They separated. I'm not a Protestant. Baptist didn't come out of the Catholic Church And I've asked Gus to throw up for me here this is a pretty detailed uh image of church history to kind of show you this. But I want you to know that although there's been many different names from the beginning of time, there's been groups of people that have believed the Bible. and been followers of Jesus Christ, followers of the Word of God, and you can track those down through history. And you can see that the ultimately the Baptists who were the Anabaptists who were the Waldensians who were the, you know, a group of people all through history that just followed the Word of God. Okay, so I'm not a Protestant, but there are many groups out there that are Protestants that came out of the Catholic Church, and you go down through history and you can see where they are. And I apologize that this is so Uh so small. Is there any way you can blow that up, you think, Gus? Can you like maybe give it to us in sections or something? Um Yeah, not much better. And so on the top here, um just put it back into one line so everybody can see it all in one. Um On the top here, uh you have the track of what we would call Biblicist There are groups even today that they just, well, we're not a denomination, we just call ourselves biblicists. We're just, and I believe as Baptists, we're Biblicist first. We believe the Bible. That that should be our final uh authority for faith and practice is the Word of God. And uh you see through the top of here, you have the Christians, you have Anabaptist groups. different groups, the the Waldensians, and this this is this is just history. This is not this is not Bible. This is just, you can look this up in any encyclopedia. You can look this up in history books all over. This is just history for you here, these groups that ultimately are what we know today as Baptists. And these the the descriptions of all these different groups are way way too small to be able to see. But I don't have this in front of me here You have the foundation of the Catholic Church here. This is the Catholic Church, that green line And then it broke because there was a disagreement in the Catholic Church, and you have it broke off into what is now the Roman Catholic Church. That's this line down here. The Roman Catholic Church and the Greek Orthodox Church. And which also became the Russian Orthodox Church. So Greek and Russian Orthodox uh group up here. Okay, then down here off of the Roman Catholic Church, you you get down here and you'll start to see many other groups. You have the Church of England that that comes off of that. Off of the Church of England, you have the Methodists that came. You have right here, this yellow one is the Congregationalist Church or Congregational Group Uh right here you have the Lutherans with Luther, which uh you know he he separated. The problem with Luther is he did understand he saw the problems with the Catholic Church. But he did not want to separate from the church. He wanted to fix the church. But they didn't want any part of that. And so ultimately he had to separate. But he just didn't go far enough. He just didn't go far enough, but uh he separates you have the Lutherans right here, and then you have the Presbyterians, the Presbyterian groups right here. Off of the Presbyterian groups you have the Cumberland Church and I can't even read that. The disciples uh groups. And there's others that have broken off of these in in history in in down through history in different times. But the reason I wanted to show you that is because what happens is a lot of these groups that ultimately came from the Roman Catholic Church They held on to a lot of the teaching that they had initially from the Roman Catholic Church. They took some steps away. They corrected some things, but they also held on to some things That weren't biblically correct. Okay? And the reason so I'm showing you that because I'm listening, I'm going to give you here some other groups that teach baptismal regeneration, like the Orthodox Church And that includes the Greek Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, the church right down here next to our property. called them Greek Orthodox. He's like, oh no, no, no, we're not Greek Orthodox. We're just Orthodox. I said, okay. I didn't realize, oh yeah, there's a difference. And I said, okay. Um but they still hold on to many of the same types of teachings. So the Orthodox Church, uh the Lutherans Um Lutheran, let me read for you their from their own catechism. It states this Baptism works forgiveness of sins, delivers from death and the devil. And gives eternal salvation to all who believe this and to the words and the promise in which God declares it. Okay? baptism. They're they're attributing to the m baptism which many don't even practice immersion today, but whatever they would like to, whether they call it sprinkling or or uh they practice different all these churches practice different means of baptism, but the idea of baptism, baptismal regeneration is taught uh in the Orthodox Church, in the Lutheran Church. Another area of false teaching is that of infant baptism, also called pedobaptism, or some churches call it christening. Uh infant baptism is not taught in the Bible in any way. We know that children who are not of the age of, is it 10-15 already? How did that happen? Is it in uh Oh my goodness. We haven't even got into this lesson yet. How did that happen? What happened to our time? We're just getting s I'm so sorry. Uh I apologi well I don't know. I'll we gotta close. We got stuff we gotta do. There's people standing out there waiting to come in.