Amen. Well, why don't you turn your Bibles this morning to the book of Job? To the book of Job. Job chapter number one. Of course, no, that's just about right in the middle of the Bible there. If you get to Psalms, you turn back just a little bit. Um Job chapter number one. This is where we're going to begin, and then we're going to look further in the book to get the heart of the message, but I just kind of want to remind us of this story. I'm going to look at a different aspect of it than maybe what we've considered or thought about in times past. But uh We want to look in the book of Job here in chapter number one. Would you follow along as I read the beginning twelve verses that kind of summarize uh what is taking place here in this discussion between Satan and uh God. With regarding this man named Job. The Bible says in Job chapter number one, in verse number one, he says, There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. And that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil. And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance also was 7,000 sheep and 3,000 camel and 500 yoke of oxen and 500 sheasses and a very great household So that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East, and his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day, and sent and called for their sisters to eat and to drink with them. And it was so when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offering, according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord. And Satan came also among them. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth? A perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth not Job fear God for naught? Hast not thou made a hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thine hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. And only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord I want to speak to you this morning from the life of Job, paying special attention to verse number 10 there. The Bible says, Hast not thou made an hedge about him? Hast thou not made a hedge about him? I want to preach to you for a few minutes this morning on the hedge. Would you allow me to ask the Lord to lead in the service here as we begin? Lord, we come to you now and I submit to you an unworthy vessel and thankful for your goodness Lord, we pray this morning that you would speak to our hearts, that God, you would take the word And apply it to everybody here, each of us in our own lives and our own situations and what we might be dealing with, but Lord, you're aware and you know exactly what. And where we are. I pray, God, that you would do a work, that you would use your word in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So we're going to look at this, the hedge this morning. Satan comes and he declares to God the fact that Job has been blessed. that God had greatly increased his possessions and and multiplied his seed and and to the point where he was listed here as the greatest in the East. And he's saying, well obviously That's why Job is praising you. Obviously, that's why he's doing right, because look at what you've done for him. God was protecting him. Literally, the Bible says that he put a hedge of protection around him. I want you to understand this morning that God is the one that established the hedge. It wasn't something that uh he did himself. It wasn't something that Job could have established and he bought some insurance. and got ready and prepared and he hedged against his losses. No, there's nothing that Job could have done. God had divinely put a hedge about Job and protected him. He protected him from the onslaught of sinners and the attack of Satan himself. I want you to understand this morning, for somebody that's inside the hedge, it doesn't matter how malicious The attack or intent of the sinner is, they can't touch you if you're in the hedge. They can't touch you if you're in the hedge. They may have every kind of ill uh intent they may decide or want to do you harm, but they can't do it if you're in the hedge. It was a hedge that was set up and divinely strengthened. And if you're in the hedge this morning, Satan himself can't touch you. God set this hedge up. Not only did God set this up, but it was a great hedge. It was a hedge that protected more than just Job himself. If you, without going back and rereading it, you understand that not only Job was inside the hedge, but all of Job's family was inside the hedge. And all of Job's substance was inside the hedge. God was concerned and protecting all of those things. And I want you to know, beloved, this morning that if you are in the heads under the protection of God Himself, that sinner and Satan can't touch you. Job's hedge protected those that were around him, his ten kids. All that God had blessed him with. You know, young people Sometimes you look at and consider the hedge. You think about it as restrictive. And if you could in your mind's eye maybe envision a hedge along the edge of this just for illustration's sake and You know, sometimes kids they look at life and they everything always looks greener on the other side, right? They always want to they look over there and say, boy, I want to do that. I I I I would like to be involved in that and I w I want to go there and mom and dad are trying to keep you inside the hedge inside the hedge of protection and they're telling you in in no uncertain terms, listen, don't go do that. Don't get involved in that. Don't pursue that. Don't engage in that. That's not what you want to do. But as a child, you say, well, mom and dad are just old fuddy guddies and mom and dad are just boring and mom and dad don't know anything about modern society and Mom and Dad just don't understand. And so what you decide is you're going to go over here and you're going to do what you want to do because you are all that and a bag of chips. You know everything, right? So you're gonna come out here and you're just gonna do that. You can do that. But I want you to understand you're outside the hedge. You're opening yourself up to the attacks of Satan and sinners. You're putting yourself in great harm's way. By going outside the hedge. You see, Satan is the equal opportunity adversary. It doesn't matter you know who you are or or what your background is or or easy whether you go to church on Sunday morning or whether you carry a Bible or or you you know these things, you know, Satan goes after everybody. Satan went after Eve when the the world was perfect and tempted Eve. Satan went after Peter, who walked and talked with Christ and got him to deny Christ. Satan went after Christ himself. The living word. He's an equal opportunity adversary. And if you step outside the hedge of protection, then you are opening yourself up to the attacks of Satan. We know that 1 Peter 5 8 tells us, be sober and be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he what's that next word? May. It never even struck my mind until I was preparing for this message. That he made about now how many of you in school, you had a teacher that wasn't the English teacher, but she took it upon herself to correct your English And you said, can I go to the restroom? And she said, May you go to the restroom. It's not a answer, it's not the question is not can you, it the question is may you. Will I give you permission? And as I thought about this verse, I thought, here Satan, this roaring lion, goeth about seeking whom he, Lord, May I? God says nope. They're in the hedge. Oh Lord may I? Nope. They're in the hedge. No. Lord, may I? They stepped outside the hedge. Satan. There you go. What a powerful picture. of this hedge that God sets up. Now if you would take your Bibles and turn to Job chapter 29. I want you to see Job's own statements with regarding this hedge, regarding his life, and what it was like when he was living inside the hedge. In Job chapter twenty nine Verse number one. The Bible says, Moreover, Job continued his parable, and he said, Oh that I were in months past, as in the days when God preserved me. Now that word preserved there, according to Strong's Hebrew and Greek dictionary, literally means to hedge about. to hedge about. He says, oh, that things were like they were when I was inside the hedge. He says, man, I I remember the time when things were amazing. I mean a lot of times you think about your life and you you think, boy, remember when we had a car with air conditioning? Oh, wasn't that nice Remember when when we had a car that when you went outside and you turned the key, it actually turned on? That was amazing. You know, uh and you you you you think back to what the good old days were Yeah, well Warren Wordsby. I'm trying to remember who it was. Warren Wordsby used to say the good old days is a combination of uh bad memory and A good imagination. That's what the good old days are. We think back to those good old days, but I don't think that's the case here for Job. Job is looking back in ten times. In the next 10 verses, we see Job uses the word when. And he says here, he says, boy, I wish things were like they were back when I was in the hedge. And then look at verse number three here. He says, when his candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through darkness, he's saying, remember the time when God lighted the way, when God's Guided my path when even though there was darkness out, I had the light of God to walk through each and every day He says, as I walked in the days of my youth, he says, when the secret of God was upon my tabernacle, when the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were about me, when I washed my steps with butter and the and the rock poured out rivers of oil. He's saying, Man, remember back when I was so wealthy that I didn't even need water to wash my feet? I I could have just used butter I don't know why you would use butter, but that's what he's saying. He's saying, I was so rich. I had I had like like oil pouring out of the rocks. Oil just dumped out. It's like it's like everything I touched turned to gold. Remember those times he says? He says, man Verse number 7, When I went out to the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the street, the young men saw me and hid themselves, and the aged rose up and stood up He's talking about his position in society. He says, remember the time when everybody respected me? Instead of coming and telling me to curse God and die? He said, remember the time when I would walk through the streets and people, the young men would look, have you ever been around somebody really, really important? And and it's almost like I don't even know if I can even talk to them. I don't know if I should say anything to them. I mean I'm just glad to be in their presence, but you know Uh, you know, I mean Job was saying when I walked through the streets and the kids the kids would would go and say, Oh, oh, there's Job. Come on, there's Job, let's go. And and and aged men would stand. Out of respect. He says, Man, remember those days? Verse number eleven, he says, when the ear heard me, then it blessed me, and when the eyes saw me and it gave witness to me. What's the first word in verse number twelve? Because. Because. So what Job does here in the following part of this chapter is he describes for us Why God put a hedge about him. He says, I remember back when God preserved me, and this is what it was like, and God did this because And I want to give you the three things that I see in this passage here this morning about that hedge and how you and I can get the hedge or keep the hedge around us. He says here, first of all, verse number 12, he says, because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help He says, first of all, because I provided for others. He said, I delivered the poor that cried and the fatherless and Him that had none to help. What I'm saying is he took time to stop and invest and help other people. I don't know why this is so important to God, but I believe as you look through the scriptures that it is something that is very important. God believes that we shouldn't be so consumed with our own lives that we don't have any time for anybody else. Our own burdens shouldn't be so much that we never see the burden of somebody else. That we ought to be willing, like that good Samaritan, to see somebody in their hour of need. and pause our life for a few minutes and go across the street and provide aid and help to the one that's in need. We've got to be the kind of person that notices and sees the needs of others and responds to them. You know, when people are in need, the difference you can make is amazing. Last week the church won some stuff in an auction And we went down on Monday to get all the stuff from the auction and bring it back to the church here and uh we worked all day Monday and we weren't even halfway done. And Monday night, the help that I had said, good luck, Pastor. I've got work tomorrow. I can't come. And then the next guy said, I can't come. Next guy said, I can't come. And as of Monday evening, I was going back Tuesday morning by myself. And uh and and I was looking at this work and I'm saying, oh my goodness Lord help me. I mean I was heavy with the weight of getting this job done on Tuesday and had no help to accomplish it. And I began to call around to some of the people in the church, some of the men, and said, hey, is there any way you can come and help? And some people changed their schedules and some people said I can get there as soon as I can get off work. I can get off work at this time and I can be there and oh I can move my work around a little bit and uh I can be there at this time. And Even recruited the missionary that was here. Said, You're not doing anything tomorrow, right? Anyways, some guys came out and we got it all done. But you know, my heart was so full of gratitude to them because Twelve hours before, I had no hope of getting that done. There's no way I was gonna get it done. Pastor Derek was gone to youth camp. All the slaves I have living in my house, my children, we're all gone to youth camp. My kids were all gone. I had no help and I was like, what am I gonna do? Not only that, the company there, they were if I showed up on Tuesday by myself, they're gonna be like, what where's your help? How how are you gonna get this job done? What I'm saying is they they met the need when it was needed and they adjusted and made some changes and that's what we're supposed to do. But it mean it meant so much to me because I was in the place that I had to have it. And I think it would be beneficial for us, the Bible says that a brother is born for adversity. And instead of looking at times like that as a major inconvenience, we ought to look at them as opportunities, as an opportunity to help someone in their hour of need. What a difference we can make. Galatians 6, 10 says, As we therefore have opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them that are of the household of faith. If we have opportunity to do good to anybody for anybody, we ought to. But the Bible says especially those that are of the household of faith. We see there in this text that he helped those that were heartbroken. He said, I delivered the poor that cried. They cried. Their hearts were broken. He said, he helped those whose homes were broken. He said, I helped the fatherless, those whose homes were broken, and he helped those who had lost all their hope, the hopeless. These are situations we ought to look at and we ought to strive to meet the need if we can. The Bible tells us in Luke 6, 31 through 34, he says, and as ye would that men should do to you. Do ye also likewise. For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? For sinners also love them that love them. And if ye dee good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye? For sinners also do even the same. And if ye lend to them Whom ye have to hope to receive? Well thank ye for sinners also lend to sinners to receive much again. He's saying, you've got a higher calling And it's to minister and help those that can't do anything back. And that's where Job was. He said, I I helped those that were heartbroken. Those whose homes were broken, those who had lost all hope, those who had no means or capacity or way to help me or do anything for me personally. It wasn't about that. It was about helping them. And God puts a value on that. Such a value that God's going to be looking out for you when you take some time and look out for others. God looks out for you. You know it might cost you, but it's worth it. It's worth it. You've seen us open our home, Mary and I. We have a couple young men who are in our home right now. Uh one of these young men, Ian, he's been with us for about a month. His dad was talking to me last year sometime and was looking for a way to be an encouragement to Ian. to just Ian's at that stage where he's making some major decisions in his life. Gonna be a senior in high school, deciding some things and You know, his dad just said, I want to be encouragement to him. I wanna I wanna help him. I just wanna try and encourage him on the right path. And I said, Hey, why don't you send him down to our house for a month? If he's not ruined, a month at our house will do it for sure. Yeah, just send him on over. And uh I don't know why but his dad said, Yeah, that would be a good idea. I said, I was just joking. No. We we we said yeah, send him, we'll be glad to have 'em. And we opened our home and brought Ian in. He's been with us for a month. He goes home on Monday. And we were glad to have him. He doesn't understand yet what it's like to open your home and have somebody from outside your family staying with you for a month. There's no concept of what we did as a family for him. But we did it gladly because if we could be a little bit of encouragement to you if we in some way can just be a shot in the arm Just let you know there's other people that love you. Other people that are for you and want what's best for you. Then we'll be we'll be glad to do it. And he's going home on Monday back to his family, and hopefully we haven't damaged him too much. But it was our privilege. And you've seen us, if you've been here over the years, you've seen us Adopt a lot of young people just to try and impact and and and help them in their life. That's what God wants us to do. We can't be so caught up in our own lives that we don't have time for others. Matthew 7, verse number 12, says, Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. For this is a law. Whatever you would like somebody to do for you, do for someone else. This morning my wife uh had a flat tire. Got a call at nine o'clock. Says we have a flat tire on the car. What should we do? I say, well I'll come home and pick you up. It's nice that we only live three miles away. And uh so I was here at church already, so I was on my way home and I get I get home and she's like, Oh somebody from the church stopped by and they said, Do you want me to change that tire? I'll change the tire right now. You want me to want me to help what do you want me to do? And she's like, Oh Caleb's already on his way, you know, no problem. But you know, there's some people like that. They're just gonna do whatever needs done. They're gonna be a help to whoever needs it. And that's what we all should be. And God says, according to Job here, that if you do that, if you'll do unto others Those things which you would want to be done to you, he'll put you in a hedge. He'll protect you. This last week I read a story about a 17-year-old boy. That it just it was a news story that just happened just last week that uh he was on a pier and a young lady mistakenly pushed the gas instead of the brake and drove off the pier into the waters. Everybody got out their phones and was videoing, watching this car go under. And she's banging on the glass, calling for help. And the seventeen year old kid jumped in the waters, got the back door of the car open, got her out and saved her life. When they interviewed him, he said, I've always had a fear of of drowning or of being confined in a space like that, and I just could not imagine watching somebody lose their life that way. I I just had to do something. Well everybody else was videoing it. This kid chose to do something. That's what we're supposed to be doing. Can you see secondly here, look down at verse number 14? The Bible says that he put on righteousness. That he put on righteousness. Verse number 14, he says, I put on righteousness and it clothed me. My judgment was as a robe and a diagem. The fact of the matter is, is Job made a decision to be holy. He looked at his life and he looked at those things that would please God and he chose to do those. He ran everything in his life through the filter of does this honor and please God or does this not? And he chose to do what pleased God. You have to make that conscious choice. The Bible says, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. You've got to decide, make the choice to do right. You choose to do what you're going to do. You decide if you want to go live a life of sin. You choose if you're going to continue to be in that type of atmosphere, if you're going to continue to uh do drugs and and alcohol and and smoke and pursue the world's entertainments. You decide if you're going to show up for work late. You choose if you're going to pay your bills or just Sluff it off and not do that and not pay the bills that you owe. You choose if you're going to do that which honors God or if you're going to do that which doesn't It's a choice you make. He says here, I put on righteousness. He made a choice to do that which pleased God. His righteousness, beloved, it clothed him, he says. It was like a robe. It was something that people could see. But I'm saying it wasn't this mindset or idea today that, oh, I'm a Christian in my heart. Nobody knows it. Nobody would know it by the way I talk or act or look. But oh yes, I'm a Christian. No, he was clothed in righteousness. It was visible. Not that he stood over there saying, Oh, look at me. I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian. No, he lived in such a way that people looked at him and said, he's different. He is godly. I might not believe what he believes But I know he believes it. Because he's living it. Job chose to be righteous. The Bible tells us to let your light shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Our righteousness is something people should see. It should be a light that points people to Christ. Back in chapter number one, if you recall the beginning verses, for the sake of time, we're not going to go back and read it, but you remember there's a principle that's taught inadvertently, but you see it in chapter one, verses one, two, and three. Because chapter 1 tells us about Job. Verse 1 tells us about Job, who was a righteous man, who was upright, who was perfect, which means complete or mature. And and he has hewed evil. And then verse number two tells us about his sons, about his family. And then verse number three tells us about his substance and how God increased his substance And what I'm saying is there's a biblical principle there. The Bible says, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. There's a biblical principle there that as Christians, if we would seek to honor and please God and live righteous lives. God would bless. He would put you in a hedge. He would protect not just you, but those that are around you and those that you love and also those things that you have God has blessed and allowed you to acquire. I've seen it over and over again. And don't have time this morning to to dig into it and give illustrations, but I've seen where One guy has a car and it just keeps on running. Never breaks down. Just drives it forever. And somebody else has a car and it's breaking down every other week. Why? Well maybe one of them's living righteously and God's put them in the hedge and he's protected them and the other one's outside the hedge. And that roaring lion is devouring. I'd like you to see lastly this morning in verse number seventeen, we see That he prevented wickedness. In verse number 17 he says, And I break the jaws of the wicked. And plucked the spoil out of his teeth. Not only did he do that which was right, not only did he live a righteous life, but he stood against that which was wrong. It is our duty as Christians to stand against sin. What an amazing victory. I'm I am shocked that I get to see this in my lifetime. But to have Roe v. Wade overturned in my lifetime is a is a miracle. I never in my life thought that that would happen. Because you know maybe I just don't have enough faith, but I look at the world and the direction it's going, I think it's only gonna get worse. It can't get any better. Well that's pretty significant better. And maybe it was people with a little more faith than me that stood up and said, Hey, we've got to fight against this. We've got to try and stay the onslaught of sin, the tide of wickedness that's flooding this country. We've got to try and stand up against that. He per prevented wickedness. You know, as fathers, you and I, as fathers, we we just had Father's Day. It's our job to stand against wickedness. We talk about that hedge of protection, especially as a father, our desire is to protect our children. You want to know one of the most helpless moments of my life, the moment that I felt about the weakest and most helpless that I've ever felt? One day I was out loading up some wood with my son Andrew. We were on a church member's piece of property, and from across the road, a dog got loose. And his dog came across the road and he had that look. And I told Andrew, I said, get in the car. Now Andrew was much smaller than he is now. He he was pretty young, I don't know, maybe twelve years old or something. He was pretty small and I said, Get in the car! I yelled at him and I ran around towards that dog. That dog was coming and that dog can sense fear. And and I kicked that dog as hard as I could. And the dog did a whole full 360 in the air, but when it landed, it skidded and kept on going for Andrew. And it jumped and as Andrew was climbing into the van, the dog jumped and bit him right in the back. And I was livid. I was so furious. And in my mind, I was just like, I'm supposed to protect him. I'm supposed to stop this. How in the world did I let this happen? What else could have I done I should have stopped that dog from biting my son? Oh, I was so mad This dog that got loose and ran across the street and now what do we got to do? I don't know did this dog have any type of disease? Does he have rabies? We've got to go to the hospital. We've got to deal with all of this now But as a parent, as a father, I felt so helpless because I didn't protect him. But I wonder how many of us are failing to protect our children from the wickedness of this world because we're not standing up. We're not standing up, we're not standing against this sin, and we're letting it come into our homes through that television. We're letting it come into our homes through the internet We're providing it for our kids and giving it to them on a phone and saying, Here you go, just have it instead of protecting them. And they say, oh, I need a phone because all my friends have phones. You say, no, you don't, because I'm your father, and my job is to protect you from that wickedness. Our kids are getting in all getting involved in all kinds of filth and wickedness. And as fathers, we're failing to protect them. Job's family was protected because they were inside a hedge. That Job had established a hedge of righteousness. He said, other families might do that, but we're not going to do that. And the kids have the stories about what all the other kids are involved in and the games they're playing and the TikToks they're in they're they're participating in and the challenges that they're doing. And your kids might feel a little left out, but at least they're protected. We've got a stand Stand for righteousness. Stand against wickedness. There was a great general in a German army many, many, many years ago, von Zeeland. Was his name. He had fought and won 38 decisive battles for King and Country. He had come back and they were having a great celebration. Von Zeeland was a Christian. Here he is in this great celebration. And the king was leading. And they were involved in things that they shouldn't do. And the king began to talk and say things that Shouldn't be said. And von Zelen stood up in the midst of that great congregation. He said, King, With all the respect that I can offer, I ask that you hear me, for humbly I submit I gladly took my body into battle for you and have successfully won 38 victories for you and this country. But I will not stand here and allow you to mock and criticize the one who saved my soul. My savior. Do what you must to me, but I will not sit idly by. You put yourself in that shoe Standing up in a place like that, in a situation like that, the king reprimanded, bowed his head, and begged forgiveness. of his general. You don't know the outcome. Just like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo didn't know. They said, We're we're not gonna bow. Yeah. Our God can save us, but if not, we're still not going to bow. You might not know what's going to happen. But are you willing to stand? And here's what I want you to understand is that if you will provide for others, if you will put on righteousness, If you will prevent wickedness, God will put you in a hedge. And that roaring lion, he'll come by and he'll say, May I? God's gonna say, no, you can't touch him. Can't touch his kids. Can't touch his family. He's in the hedge.