Well, turn your Bibles to the book of Galatians to Galatians chapter number four. I do have a lot to cover this evening, so I'm not going to read these verses up front. We'll read them as we're going through We thus far in the book of Galatians have seen many, many lessons, but specifically here in chapter number four, we were able to see our precious adoption. The precious adoption that we have and what it means to be uh adopted into the family of God, you know, is more than just being brought into the family, but being given a position in the family as a full, complete heir with his son, Jesus Christ. And then we saw a powerful appeal in verses 8 through 11. uh that just uh great appeal of the apostle Paul. This evening the next group of verses that we've grouped together for our edification this tonight is going to be verses 12 through 20, where we see a passionate apostle. We see the Apostle Paul and his passion for uh these people, these believers, he was pleading with these saints at Galatia to come back to sound doctrine Not doctrine built on the slight of men and cunning craftiness whereby people lie in wait to deceive. That's that's that what they were being pulled away from. That's what was causing them to drift. But he calls them back to a doctrine of salvation by grace alone. He now, even more than ever, uh we could say uh begins to move with uh with a certain level of passion and and concern for them. Um he shows the heart of a pastor here when he's talking to them, as he's pleading with them. Uh you know, we need to be careful sometimes that we don't take somebody's passionate plea as an angry plea. And uh it i it can come across sometimes when somebody's passionate about something, uh, that they can look upset or they can be perceived as being angry or or mean, but no really they're just very passionate about what they they have to say. It's very uh important to them and so they're sharing it with a little bit of energy and if we aren't careful we'll mistake that for somebody being harsh or mean when that was not their implication at all. Here it is literally the love that Paul has that's on display that move that moves him to cry for the souls of men. Paul moves from a systematic presentation of theology to a passionate appeal to the backslidden believer here. And there's much that we can learn from this. We're going to walk through these verses tonight, beginning first of all, what we see is Paul's compassion for the drifting. in verses twelve through fourteen. Paul's compassion for the drifting. He says, first of all, in verse number 12, he says, Brethren, I beseech you, be as I am, for I am as ye are, ye have not injured me at all So there's several things that we see in this verse. First of all, his relationship with them. He makes note of that relationship that they have. He calls them brethren. And we would do well, beloved, to remember that Even somebody that's drifting, even somebody that is backsliding and maybe getting a little bit away from God, that they're still our brethren. We've got to be care very careful that we don't just write them off, that we don't just, you know, the fact of the matter is if somebody came through those back doors and they were struggling with sin. And they had uh some problems in their life and and they it was very evident we we as God's family, as a church family, would come around them and Try and help them and pray with them and exhort them and encourage them and they've come in and and we would work hard to uh make them feel like part of the family and and be an encouragement to them in their Christian walk, even though they had some baggage, even though they were dealing with some sin, those things didn't matter. Why? Because they just walked through the door. But sometimes What happens, beloved, is we'll have somebody that's been here for a while, and then we find out that they've got some sin in their life, and we're like, oh, we're done with them. We're going to write them off. We're going to stop spending time with them. We're going to stop praying for them. We're going to stop. You know, we get to the point where we kind of lose our patience. With people. And there there is a certain level of acts at uh level of expectation that's established because you know Paul says There's a time when, you know, I wish I could deal with you uh as men, as as grown people. There's a time you, you know, as a child, you're supposed to put away childish things and Uh when you become a man and he says, hey, I wanted to be able to give you meat, but I can't, I still got to give you milk. But he did give them milk. He says, you should have grown. But because you haven't, I'm still going to give you milk. I'm still going to minister to you. And that's where we see he recognizes, even though he's dealing with somebody that's drifting here He he calls him brother, he acknowledges that relationship. He doesn't rebuke them, he doesn't scold them, he doesn't tear them down, he doesn't uh you know, rip their heads off. He pleads with them in everything that makes them hu human. He puts his heart on display that they might be moved back towards Christ. So he says, Brethren, he says, I beseech you. So we see his request. He beseeches them. His request, he just, it's a passionate plea. He says, I beseech you. He says, I'm crying out to you. I'm begging you, could you please be as I am? Be as I am, Paul himself here is putting he's putting himself up as an example, a contrast for them. You see, Paul himself could be, there could really probably be no better contrast for the struggle that they were having than Paul. You see, because Paul was a Hebrew among Hebrews. He says, be as I am. And he says, here's the thing, is where I used to be, I was somebody that you're trying to be. I was bound by the law. There's probably very few people that could stand where Paul stood in his adherence to the law. And he says, listen, I left that. The bondage that the law had on me, I left that. And so he says, I'm beseeching you, please be as I am Don't go back to that. Realize that I have found freedom in Jesus Christ and I left the law. So he's trying to set himself up as an example. He says in Philippians chapter 3 in verses 4 through 9. He says, though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man think that he hath wherewith he might trust in the flesh, I more Circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as touching the law, a Pharisee, concerning zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count all things but lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ, and having and being found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law But that which is through faith in faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. He says, hey, this is Paul's testimony he gives us there. He said, this is I I was bound by the law, but I left that. Now I have righteousness that's not my own, not righteousness I gained by some adherence to some rule, but righteousness that was imputed unto me. that now is guided by the Holy One, Jesus Christ Himself. Lightfoot, uh that great Bible scholar, uh said Regarding Paul's statement here, he says, I became as a Gentile to you Gentiles. Now I ask you to throw off the Judaic bondage and be free, as I am now free So setting himself up as an example, he says, Be as I am. He assures them that he has taken no offense. Anything that they said and did, they attacked him, they ridiculed him, they questioned his motives. They said, you know, they did lots of things that maybe directly against Paul that he could have taken offense of, but he says here in verse number 12 that he says, ye have not injured me at all. But Paul is hurting, but the reason Paul is hurting is because they're drifting from the Lord. He's hurting for them because he sees the damage that's being done in their life And he begins to plead with them and call on them. And and some people, Christian, the problem is we're taking things too personal We're allowing people to injure us and be offended because of somebody that's drifting or walking away or all the time or energy or effort that we put in. We're taking it as a personal affront against us when, listen, it's not against us, it's against God It's against Jesus Christ. And Paul says, listen, you haven't injured me at all. My heart is broken for you, but it's because it's for you, not against me. He just communicates that to them and says, I want you to know that you haven't injured me at all. It was nothing personal to him Someone said that it is in thy power whether anyone shall vex or wrong thee. It is in thy power whether anyone shall vex or wrong thee. You decide that. You hear it a lot today. Man, they just did me wrong. They just did me dirty. It's in thy power whether anybody vexed thee or wronged thee. You decide that. And you say, I did decide. That's why I say they did me wrong. I know, but we've got to be careful about that. Be a little less quick to take personal offense. Somebody wrote this poem, The Noblest Worship of the Power Above. Is to extol and imitate his love. Not to forgive our enemies alone, but use our bounty that they might be one. It's not just a matter of, okay, I forgave my enemy, but going beyond that to win your enemy. That is an expression of the love of God. And isn't that what the Bible tells us to love your enemy? So here we see his relationship, his request, I beseech you, the be as I am. In verse number 13 and 14, we see his remembrance. He recalls several things to memory here. He says, ye know how through infirmity of the flesh I preach the gospel unto you at the first. He's going back and he's remembering his mind. He says, remember there was a time that I came to you and I preached the gospel? First of all, he recalls the infirmity that he had. Now Paul had an infirmity in his flesh, and some people believe that this might be his thorn in the flesh, that he prayed to be removed. several times. There's not a definite conclusion regarding that. It could have been his throne in the flesh that he was afflicted with all the time. It could have been something else, an ailment that came upon him specifically for the during this trip that affected him. But you'll notice it says there through. He says, You know how through infirmity of the flesh I preach the gospel unto you. So that Let's just know that this infirmity somehow had a direct impact on his imparting of the gospel. It could have had a direct impact because it's quite possible that Paul wasn't planning to stay there very long, and yet his infirmity m made him stay. He ended up, hey, I'm too sick to travel and now I'm gonna be here a couple weeks wasn't my plan, but now because I'm sick, I I I was able to stay two extra weeks and minister to you. How through the infirmity of the flesh, because I was forced to hang around, I preached the gospel to you. Or it could be that his infirmity somehow put them into contact. You know, I went to the hospital last night and uh got to meet a few people that I would not have met had Alyssa not needed some surgery. Uh, you know, uh so that it was through her infirmity that I was able to meet those people in the hospital. And so sometimes there's situations in your life, there's things that God brings into your life that he's directing you or putting you in a particular way. There's a providential planning. Sometimes you look at the problem and God has a plan And he's opening a door for you. He's making it possible for you to impact somebody's life. Paul says, hey, it was through the infirmity of the flesh that I met you. It was through the infirmity of the flesh that I was able to preach to you. Yes, it was a problem for me, but it's why you got saved. So we need to seize those opportunities, those providential appointments that God gives to us. He says through this, somehow, we don't know exactly what, but somehow this infirmity opened the door for him to be able to minister to them. So he recalls his infirmity. He recalls his investment. In verse number 13, he says there, he says, that I preach the gospel unto you. His investment was the time that he spent with them, the energy that he invested them. He was sick, but he still preached the gospel. He didn't feel good, but he still preached. He still shared the truth. He still gave the message. Beloved, that's why we're here. That's why we're here on earth. And this is not a message on soul-winning. I I Considered going that way and I took those things out of my notes, but listen, God providentially lines things up for us and puts us in the right place and sometimes because we're too busy or because we're not feeling up to it or because we're not in the mood, we don't seize those opportunities and share the gospel like we should. Paul said, I I invested in you while I was there. I took the time. He gave them the most valuable thing that he could give them, the love of Jesus Christ. He did it at the first. At the first. That means his first missions trip or the first time that he came through there that he saw them. He says, You remember back when I did this, I came by at the first. And he recalled the intimacy that they had, the friendship that was there in verse number 14. He says, and my temptation, which was in my flesh, yet despised not. He said, you ye despise not. He said, ye didn't despise it. You didn't, uh I had this infirmity, but you ye didn't uh that that word there really literally means to reject Taking it a step further, putting in the context of historical situations, the commentator said that it literally means to spit on. Despise not, but There was a practice in culture during that time when somebody was infected with something or somebody uh I think the example they used was with epilepsy or something like that, somebody that had a a despicable disease that people would spit down on the ground towards them saying, listen, don't come any closer than that. And he's saying, you didn't do that to me. You didn't reject me. Even though I had a despicable ailment, even though I had something that would cause you to be revolted, you didn't revolt. You still came unto me, nor rejected, he said. but received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus. Boy, I'll tell you what, uh you know, they received the His manner or his person because of the ailment might not have been very appealing, but his message was appealing. Why? Because it's a message from heaven. You know, an angel is a messenger from heaven. A messenger from God. That's what an angel is. And uh this, of course, recorded for us uh by the inspiration of God, Paul was an angel. He carried a message to them. And he says, You received me as an angel from God. Then we see in verse 15 through 18, we see Paul's comparison of their devotion. Paul's comparison of their devotion. There's a contrast drawn here. He compares their previous devotion with their current situation because of what's happening. First of all, we see the record in verse number 15. He says, Where is then the blessedness he spake of? That right there. Almost built the entire message off just that phrase. Where is then the blessedness that you speak of? We're going to look at that in just a second. He says, For I bear ye record So he's saying, here's the record. He says that if it had been possible, ye would have plucked out your own eyes. and given them to me. He says, I'm telling you, here's the record that I saw, the comparison of their devotion. He says, there was a time when you loved me so much. You would have plucked out one of your eyes. But he begins with the question. He says, hey, there's a loss of happiness. He says, where is the blessedness? What does it mean? Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly. What does blessed mean? Happy. Happiness. So where is the happiness? Where is the joy? Where is the excitement? Paul calls them to the carpet and says, hey, all your joy's gone. Your excitement's gone. All that thrill that you had is gone. Beloved, sometimes people come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church and they come through the doors. and they're excited about God. I mean their lives are being transformed. I mean it's as though for the first time they're seeing truth. For the first time, the scales are coming off and their eyes are being opened and they're just excited about what God is doing. I mean, their life has purpose and meaning And they're just it's like everything's in color where it used to be black and white. And you see that excitement and and and it's it's fun to be around. But if you aren't careful, what happens is people begin to drift a little bit They begin to sour a little bit. Somebody does something that they didn't really appreciate it. And Satan gets in and begins to gnaw them a little bit. And all of a sudden all that happiness and joy is gone. Paul says, hey, where is your happiness? Where is the joy? Where is all that excitement that you had? What happened to it? You know, it's amazing because it's always other people's fault. And the person that's a little bit disgruntled. The person that's a little bit offended, the person that's low no longer has the joy, you know, the excitement's gone. It's not their problem. The problem is always somebody else. It's always somebody else that did this or the pastor does that or the the That that music program, I could tell you what's wrong with that music program at that church and and boy they do this like this or they do that like that and there's it's always some other situation, it's always somebody else's problem, it's not our own problem What's amazing is the church is still going on. There's other people that are still being saved. There's other people that are still excited. But somehow you've lost your joy. And here let me ask you this. Who is it that's miserable? Who is it that's miserable? The guy that's lost his joy. Everybody else is excited about what God's doing, and they're completely oblivious to the fact that you're just so disgusted you can't stand it. You don't even know what to do, and everybody else is excited about God You know, uh Don opened up prayer uh in prayer tonight and he was praying. He said, Lord, help the message to be uplifting, and I thought, uh-oh. Tonight's message might not be so uplifting, Lord. Help me. It's going to be a little more d direct. But this is what's in the passage. This is what it's talking about. Paul, I mean it doesn't get any more direct than that. Paul says, Hey, what happened to your joy? Where's your joy? You let something come into your life. You let something uh disturb your life and somehow you've got a burr under your saddle and all your happiness is gone. Well listen, don't One old preacher said, listen, if the fur's getting rubbed the wrong direction, turn the cat around. Amen. That's all you gotta do. It's not really that hard You don't have to just be irritated because the fur's getting rubbed the wrong direction all the time. Just turn the cat around. Just fix the problem. What I'm saying is just get right with God Let him restore the joy of your salvation like the psalmist prayed in Psalms 51, restore unto me the joy of my salvation. You can have it again. You don't have to live in that particular place. This is dealing directly with Paul in context here. There's no question. He says, hey, where is your happiness? He says, for I bear you record that if it had been possible, ye would have plucked out your own eyes and given them to me. So not only was there a loss of happiness, but beloved, there was a loss of love. There was a loss of love. There was a time when they loved Pastor Caleb. There was a time when they came into church, and man, he could make no mistakes, and I've been telling them since the beginning that I'm gonna forget your name. I'm gonna forget your birthday. I'm gonna I'm gonna say something I shouldn't say. I'm just uh a man that that bought a nice suit and can make it look for decent, you know. I mean I I There's nothing special about the guy up here. He just loves God and tries to love people and they're thrilled with it all until something happens that's directly to them. And now all of a sudden that love is gone. He says, man, there was a time you loved me so much you would have plucked your eye out for me. Now this is in context here looking at the scriptures, if you know the story of Paul and his affirmity in the flesh, they believed that was very likely his eyesight. They described different diseases that they had and they didn't have any way to treat it, but the eyes would become swollen and they would ooze pus out of the eye socket and it was something that was very unappealing to look at. And so they believed that possibly this is what he's talking about here. They were saying, hey, you love me so much, if you could have given me one of your eyes and fixed my problem, then you would have been happy to do it. But something happened. You've lost the love. You don't love me like you once did And our love should be present in the family of God. It's certainly precious. But we see their response in verse number 16. He says, Am I therefore become your enemy because I tell you the truth? He he he said, wait a minute. There was a time when you would have given me your own eye. And now because I preached this book as straight as I know how. As clear as I can. I try not to color it up and water it down because I give you Because I preach the truth and hopefully preach the truth in love, but I preach the truth now. Where there once was love, there's hatred. You won't do anything. He's comparing that. He's comparing their devotion and how it has drifted Is it my become your enemy? Now the truth that he had given them was certainly not the truth from this letter. So we're not talking about the stuff in this letter, because this letter they would have been reading. He was talking about earlier communication. He had preached the truth unto them and somebody had came in and fouled that truth up or um contradicted that truth. But all that he had invested in them was gone. All the time that he had spent with their family, all the love that he had shown that family, all of the prayers that he had prayed for that family. All the teaching that he had given that strengthened the family and helped the family and guided the family for months and months or years and then all of a sudden All that's gone. Beloved, can I remind you that faithful are the wounds of a friend? We need to pray for a pastor that would preach the truth. Any any preachers just like you? You want you want people to like you. You don't want to on purpose make people mad. I mean there are there are some people some pastors that they're just jerks. There's not a nice way to say it. They're the kind that say, well, if you don't like it, just get out. You know, that's not how you love and leave people. Most pastors they don't want to be a jerk. They want people to like him, but we're called before God to preach the book. And we need to be in prayer for the man of God that he would have the courage to preach the word of God because it's for our benefit. Individually, when we hear the Word of God preached, when He preaches the truth, that's what helps us stay right with God and in tune with God. The love they had was now gone. And the reason he gives us in verse number 17, he says, boy, they zealously affected you. But not well. They, that's the Judaizers, the false teachers, they have an effect. They have an effect on you. He says, but the effect that they have is not a good effect. The effect they have is not is not helping you. Can I ask you tonight, is there somebody whispering in your ear? Is there somebody communicating with you in some way that's not helping you spiritually? And they're like, oh, they're just telling me the truth. Oh, they're just sharing me, sharing with me what's going on. Why are we so desirous to hear what's going on? You know, I'm a pastor and I have people call me about situations at other churches, and I stop them, I just say, hey I'm an independent Baptist, which means I have no affiliation or association. I'm not tied to them at all, which means I have nothing to do with that ministry, so I don't want to hear it And they're like, well, don't you want to know what No, I don't want to know. I got enough of my own problems to deal with. I do not need to be worrying about somebody else's problems. Besides, you're just going to tell me your perspective of it, and that's only one out of how many perspectives? Here's what I know from being in my church. There's as many perspectives as there are people in the room right now. And everybody has a little bit different perspective. And so there's no possible way I could get even a glimpse of what really happened. There's no way because I I just can't. And so I just tell them I don't want to hear it. But we we our flesh w enjoys it. And what I'm drifting off my off my message here, but is there somebody or something that's whispering in your ear that's not helping you spiritually? He says, boy, they were zealous affecting you, but not well. They aren't affecting you for good. You know if it's helping you spiritually. You might need to just say, you know what, this relationship, this friendship, or this communication is not strengthening me It's not taking me closer to God. It's not giving me a better relationship with the people in the house of God. Boy, I need to cut that off. I need to stop listening to that. It's amazing how we enjoy or how we befriend And listen to and agree with the backslidden Christian, the disgruntled, the disheartened. Take them to dinner. Instead of taking one of the deacons to dinner. Go spend time with with with them It's one thing if you're going to try and help them, but if you're trying to help them, you're not going to sit and listen to that. You're going to stop that and say, let me point you, you have a concern? You need to go to that person directly. I don't want to hear about it. I'm here to help you. I'm here to pray with you, to encouragement to you. I'm worried about you. Uh you know, you have you've been missing a lot of church or whatever recently, and I just want to help you. That's one thing, but you sit there, you gotta be careful Because it's not helping us. He says here, the reason is they affect you not well. He says, yea, they would exclude you. That ye might affect them. That ye might affect them. You see, they have selfish motives They have a goal. There is a reason that they're affecting you. There's a reason that they're coming to you, that they're communicating with you, that they're sharing with you these falsehoods. In Matthew 7. 15, he says, Beware of false prophets which come into you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are raven as wolves. In Romans 16, 18, he says, For they That are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by good words and fair speech deceive the hearts of the simple. You see, your your uh participation increases their zeal, it promotes them, it helps them, it encourages their ego They desired to exclude Paul. He's saying they're desirous to put a wedge between you and Paul. They're desirous to try and build some measure of separation between us so that they can influence you. But it's not helping you. I want you to know that they're doing it for personal gain in Titus 1 verses 10 and 11. Very applicable verses with regards to this, you might want to just note this in the margin of your Bible close to that, that they do this for personal gain here. We see, he says in Titus 1, 10 and 11. For they are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, especially they of the circumcision So he's saying here he's talking about the people, the Judaizers that were pulling the Galatians away, but he says, whose mouths must be stopped. Who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthly lucre sake. He says their goal. They have a goal. I remember when uh Brother Connor gave one of his testimonies here at the church and uh he very early, I don't know if it's was one of the discipleship testimonies or something he says, you know, I was waiting for it when I came through the door, like, where's the request for money? They're gonna be asking for money, you know. It's coming, you know And I don't remember what example, it maybe it was the devotional books that he's like, Ah yeah, see they want money and then he found out they were a dollar and he's like, Oh, okay. But uh you know that That that perception many times is is out there. Why? Because there are many people that their end goal really is just personal gain. Really is just uh wealth uh for filthy lucre sake. We know, of course, that shouldn't be the motivation for any preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He gives us in verse number 18 the remedy for the problem. He says, but it is good to be zealous. He says, it's good to be zealously affected. It's wonderful when somebody gets up and they encourages you and challenges you and and preaches the truth to you. If there's anybody that's going to be zealous and they're zealous for the good things, then hey, that that's commendable. That's awesome. That's good. We ought to have that. To be affected for good. To be affected for God. Hey, wonderful. And he says, not only when I'm present with you. He says, not just me. I'm not saying you only have to listen to me. You can listen to other people that can encourage you, but you've got to have some discernment. And know who it is that's encouraging you and who it is that's discouraging you. Who it is that's zealous to promote the cause of Christ. And he gives us a contrast here in a few minutes when we see uh Paul's motives His motive was to have Christ formed in them. That was his goal, that Christ should be formed in them, where others, their motive is personal gain. So this is the remedy for the problem, yes. Get around some good preaching, listen to some good teaching, listen to good music, be zealous for the things of God, those things that are good. We see Paul's commitment to their development in verses 19 and 20. Paul's commitment to their development. He says, My little children. whom I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you. He reminds them here, of the bond that they have, the relationship that they have, which is beyond just brother with these particular people, because he had led them to the Lord They were quite literally his sons or daughters in the faith. He says, I labored for you, I prayed for you, I sought God that you would come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and finally you trusted the Lord and now you have that relationship with God and you know what I travail again I'm laboring again for you. Why? Because I desire that Christ be formed in you. That there's a step that hasn't been taken yet. There's work that needs to be done. Boy, Paul travailed. That is to labor in pain like childbirth. Paul was so burdened for them it was painful for him. You know, when you don't care about somebody, it's not much lost when they leave the faith But when you care about them, it hurts. I remember more more than one person Coming to communicate with me, telling me that they were going to be leaving the church. And they told me that they were shocked that I began to cry. He said, we didn't think it would matter. I said, how could it not matter? You're part of the family of God. God brought you here. And for whatever reason you it's like part of the family's leaving town. Yeah, it hurts. When there's care and concern, it's painful when people drift. He travailed for them, loved and labored to see them come to Christ, and now he would love and labor to see them grow in Christ. He was saying there's still a lot of work to do. You know, moms from from birth to boyhood A lot of investments put in there. Or from childhood to adulthood, there's still a lot of labor. There's still a lot of time. Paul says, I'm I'm investing that time and as a church, that's part of our goal, not just to see him saved I worry about these ministries that talk about how they had four hundred people saved last month and they're running seventy in church. Like Where are they? The Great Commission has three aspects saved, baptized, and teach. We we've got to be bringing them along and yes we want to see them put their faith and trust in Christ, but they're that's just the first step. Paul was committed to their development. Even though he wasn't present, he was writing back to them and saying, Listen, I want to encourage you, I want you to know that this is important. Please don't drift, don't uh fall away from the faith. Paul worked for them that they might be like Christ till Christ is formed in you. That is the Christian life, when we become Christ-like. In 1 John 3, verse number 2, he says, Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. We're gonna be able to see him. One day we will when we get to glory we'll be Given our glorified body and we'll be like Him. But right now it's a process, a process called sanctification, where we're slowly changed into the image of God. Where we're slowly made more and more like Christ. And we could go from the youngest person in here, which is probably Nate tonight, the youngest one, the other Nate. Yeah, the one behind you. Uh uh all the way to the oldest one in here, which is probably Brother Glover. Um No, I don't know, probably Brother Crane would be my guess. Um but you know none of us stop growing in the Lord. We still are in that process whereby we become more like Christ. Areas of our life that we yield to Him and let Him change us. Things we give up, things we start. The changes that we make all for the honor and glory of God. I think the older you get, the easier it is to see uh how unimportant this life is. How unimportant uh all of the goals and aspirations that the young men have I'm kind of just starting to get there. Maybe a few more years I'll be there. But you know, you just start to see You know, after you had your third or fourth car, they keep breaking down. You gotta get new ones. You're like, it's not really that important. It's just It's just a car. I mean you're just getting from point A to point B and praise the Lord for his blessing. We get to drive a nice one, but you know, it's just a car. It's not gonna amount to hill of beans in glory What's important is what we're doing for the Lord. In verse number 20, he reiterates his commitment to them. He says, I desire to be present with you and to change my voice, for I stand in doubt of you. Three phrases that take a little bit of thought, but obviously here he's expressing some gentleness to them. He's saying, listen, I wish I could be present with you. He said, I wish I could be there so that the words that I'm giving to you would not be empty words on a page. But that you could hear the earnestness in my voice. That you could hear the the pleading and the compassion that I have for you. He says, I wish I could be present so you could see uh my countenance so that this conversation could be more personal and more meaningful. I'm sorry that I got to communicate with just some text on a page, but uh I had to at least share with you the truth He says, For I stand in doubt of you. This statement It's a little different from what I initially thought when I I read it and I thought, well, it means he doubts their faith, or he doubts their commitment to Christ, or he doubts their ability. But literally What it's talking about is the the word there is like perplexed It's like a father or mother that have a wayward son, and they reach the point where they just don't know what to do I know some of you parents have been there. You're like, I would do anything for them. I would do anything I could do that would bring them back to Christ. What whatever it was, I just am at a loss. I'm just at a place where I just don't know what to do. And and and you're begging God and you're asking the pastor what can we do? And and and here's what we need, and you're just, I'm perplexed. I'm I'm I'm in doubt. He says I'm just I just I've reached the point where I want to do anything I can to help you but but I don't know what to do. And sometimes as we're working with people we'll reach that and we just want to say, you know, I I'll I'll help you any way I can. And you'll even hear me say it sometimes like, what can I do for you? How can I help you? I wish, you know, you say, well, you're the pastor, you're supposed to know. And I used to feel bad about that. But uh studying for this message really encouraged me because I thought, well, if Paul didn't know what to do, then I guess I'm okay. Because I find myself there lots of times, like I want to help, I just don't know how to help I'm not positive what I can do for you. I know I can pray. I can pray for you. And that is a very powerful thing. There's power in prayer, but do I need to Do I need to challenge you? Do I need to call you every day and and remind you to be in church? Do I do I do I need to send somebody by to pick you up How can I help you to be what God wants you to be, to go the direction that God wants you to go? I'm willing to do whatever it takes to try and exhort you and encourage you because God has something for you. He wants to see accomplished in your life and I want to see it accomplished and I want to help you. I just don't know how. That's what Paul is saying here. He says, man, I'm perplexed. I'm at the end of my knowledge or ability. I'm just in doubt to know what to do. So we see Paul, this passionate apostle. He had love for these brethren, even though they were drifting. He didn't write to them and say, you're no good. You're not worth my time. He said, I want to help you. He was hurting because of his love for them and seeing the direction that they were headed. But he was very committed to further their development, to try and help them be where God wants them to be Beloved, are you laboring to see the lost come to Christ? Are you loving the brothers and sisters that God's brought into the family of God? Are you encouraging them and exhorting and helping them? to fulfill and be what God wants them to be, that Christ may be formed in them. That's how we can have the burden in the heart that the Apostle Paul