Turn your Bibles to the book of Philippians tonight, to the book of Philippians. We've been continuing through this book, uh studying and looking at uh the truths that are there. One of the best ways to be sure that as a pastor you're preaching the whole council of God is to do book studies like this. because you're just you're dealing with every verse. It's what's the next verse and what is that verse teaching and and uh you know obviously some pastors, not me, but some pastors have hobby horses that they really like they like to get on and ride, you know. And this kind of a study keeps that from happening. As far as you're just walking through a book and uh I really enjoy it. I uh it kind of it allows us to have some uh continuity to our study and just continuing the thought and And obviously grasping and learning about the Word of God. So good things in that regard. And tonight we're going to look at what I've titled the guarded Christian, the guarded Christian In verses 1 through 3 of chapter number 3, verses 1 through 3. He says, Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord to write the same thing to you. To me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of concision. For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus. and have no confidence in the flesh. Have you ever needed a warning? Have you ever, as I've pondered or thought about this, you know, have you ever been sitting at a light Or a stop sign. And you looked and you pressed the gas and started to go, but you did not see what the passenger sees And the passenger is like, wait, wait, there's a car coming. I mean that that you needed that warning. It's just you looked and it looked clear and you started to go and then all of a sudden there was a car that you didn't see Just out of nowhere, right there. Or maybe you were uh about to step into traffic, especially dealing with the younger crowds, sometimes they're uh their situational awareness is not very uh not very present, you know. And they're they're looking like this, right? Um But uh they they maybe you're about to step into traffic and you need to hey wait, there's a car there's a bus coming or whatever. Well, I remember one time when I was a young man, uh probably about thirteen years old And we were out, a friend of mine named Paul, out uh walking in the desert. You know, we lived in the desert there in El Pasto, right outside the city. Um Uh right outside. We were five miles from the first stoplight, so we were we were a little ways outside the city. Uh but it was all desert and uh we're out walking in the desert And uh we're we're tramping along looking and and I'm walking and I I take a step and I I still remember it was this foot. It was this foot and I was like this and Paul goes, Stop! And I stopped mid step, and there was a coiled rattlesnake right there in front of me. I slowly backed away. And went and got the twenty-two and we had some rattlesnake skin and a and another uh another rattler, which we collected those in El Paso. There's a lot of rattlesnakes. Um but You know, that that was a warning that I needed had I had I would have got all the time I lived in El Paso, I never got bit by a rattlesnake or a scorpion or a black widow. Those three are very prevalent. They're everywhere in El Paso And uh praise the Lord for that. But I would have got bit that day had I not had a warning. Somebody hadn't hadn't somebody seen and said, wait. Well, Paul gives us here in verse number two three warnings three times. He says, beware, beware Beware. He gives us a warning and he tells us there's some things as Christians you need to guard yourself from. You need to watch out for. You need to be ready. Have you ever been walking down a street late at night and you're just kind of aware of what's going on? Just just alert and and conscious of that person walking this way and okay what are their intentions and how I mean you're just you're you're as they say your spidey sins, right? It's it's uh it's it's tingling. I mean you're kinda aware of what's going on. You're you're guarded You're conscious. You're thinking, hey, you're not just being casual case, sirah, sirah, because the fact of the matter is you know you're out of your element. You're in a situation where you could be in a world of hurt in a hurry. And that's what Paul is telling us. We need to, as Christians, there's some things that we need to be guarded against. We need to be aware of. We need to be conscious of. Be ready. To notice and take care of should they come up in our lives. First of all, I want you to know that as Christians, he says you need to guard your cheer. Guard your cheer. God wants us to rejoice. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord Now, we took some time last week as we looked at the grievous truth that was stated and the idea that it's it's only grievous if you allow it to be grievous. It's only grievous if you don't heed it. Doesn't have to be grievous, but it can be grievous if you don't allow it to come through. And we took some time talking about the fact that we're supposed to rejoice and Rejoice. It's hard to rejoice when your focus is wrong. It's hard to rejoice when your face is weak. It's hard to rejoice when your familiarity gets wearisome. Not only does he want us to rejoice, but he says it's necessary to repeat some things. It might be irksome. But it's necessary. So tonight we're going to repeat last week's message. Just kidding. We're not going to repeat it. We're not going to reteach that. But this he says to guard your cheer. Christians are supposed to be cheerful. It's necessary for him to repeat these statements, you know, over and over again in this book, he tells them to rejoice. Rejoice, rejoice, rejoice. Some form of that word or admonition to rejoice appears, I believe it's 18 times in this in these four chapters. Rejoice. Some type of admonition to have the joy of the Lord in your heart. He repeats it. Not just because he wants to, but because it's necessary, because it's beneficial. Because repetition is the key to learning, amen. You know, some of you here, uh you could sing tonight. the jingle from a commercial forty or fifty years ago. I mean you could without just you you just could say the whole thing Why? Because you heard that commercialized so many times growing up. Uh you know, at a certain time in your life that was all I mean uh what what what is it? Um Say say fifteen percent or more with uh yeah, geiko. I mean there's so many little things like that that in your mind you you know who it goes with. Because it's been repeated over and over and over again. And beloved, the truths of the Word of God, oh, if they were that Prevalent in our mind. If they were that in the forefront of our mind where so quickly we could recall and we have those verses, you know, for God so Loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. We know things like that, but that's because of repetition. So don't don't let the repetition get wearisome. Don't let it get irksome. Then take those truths and And apply them and learn them and get them to where they're they're right there. They're on your lips. We ought to be ready to give an answer at any time of the hope that's within us That's what the repetition does. We ought to say, man, I'm glad he's repeating this because I'm getting then I can get it, you know, I can hold on to it, and I'll be able to carry it with me Paul's motivation for telling us these things is to remind us that we're to rejoice in all things. Whether you're in feast or famine, you're to have a heart of rejoicing. And if you've lived any days at all, you know that in your life you're going to experience both of those. The ebb and flow of life is such there will be times of feast and there will be times of famine. You know that same o that saying that this too came to pass. It came to pass. It's not gonna be here. It's gonna it's gonna Whatever the challenge, whatever the heartache, whatever the burden, at some point it's going to be gone, and you'll be on to the next thing and you'll have other burdens to carry And you'll also do the same thing. You've got great big days, and and boy, you're on top of the world, and everything is wonderful. You know what? Enjoy it. And God wants you to enjoy it. There's nothing wrong with that. Don't walk around as Eeyore and say, well, it's probably going to rain tomorrow. You know, I mean, enjoy the good times too. But realize that's the ebb and flow of life, and you can have joy when you're feasting, and you can have joy when you're in famine. The heart of that really is found in the fact that we as Christians are to be content in whatsoever state that God has us. We need to guard our cheer, and that's guarded through contentment. Not only that, he tells us we need to guard our character. Guard our character. He says, beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision. Notice that Paul does not make any apology here for identifying people that will destroy the church. This is not something that Paul shies away from. I I uh I grew up in old time fundamentalism. Straight shooting, hard preaching. The straighter it is and the harder it is, the better we liked it. It seems like that's pretty much a bygone day It's it's amazing how I mean Paul pointed out people that were teaching false doctrine. It was his job. He was supposed to do that, and that is the job and the responsibility of a pastor. Is to say, hey, this guy is not somebody you should be listening to. This guy teaches this false doctrine. This guy says this, and that does not line up with the word of God. But today we're so soft. I literally have people tell me, Pastor, why don't you just leave other churches alone? Pastor, why do you have to name somebody else? Why do you have to talk about them? Why don't you let them do what they're going to do and you do what you're going to do? Well, I see in the scriptures that the men of God took the word of God and pointed out where there was people that were leading the church astray. You know, the Bible tells us that we're not even supposed to uh bid those, God bless you That are God's speed is the word in the scriptures. We're not to bid them God's speed that are leading people astray or leading people to hell. By and large, those that listen to and follow Catholic doctrine are on their way to hell. That is sad. It's heart-wrenching. It's heartbreaking when you think about there's so many kind, loving, compassionate people that are believing false doctrine I've had people in this church get upset at me because I said something about the Catholic Church. But beloved, they don't show me purgatory in the Bible Show me, show me where you pray to Mary in the Bible. Show me where you light candles to get somebody out of purgatory Show me where the Lord's Supper is supposed to be transubstantiation, where we're turning that into the physical body and blood of Christ. That the false things that are taught from the platform of the Catholic Church are so numerous it's too hard to list. And people are being led astray. And it's the responsibility of the spiritual leader to point that out. And I don't like getting people upset. I don't like people I I I'm But the job, Paul does not apologize. Look, he he was not soft peddling here. He said, beware of the dogs. Now if you've been around me much and we've played some ports to get sports together or something like that, I don't know where I got it, but sometimes I will call people dogs. I'll say you dog you know. I don't know. I uh I Just maybe I shouldn't do that because I want you to know that in the Bible the dog the reference to a dog is not this lovely, compassionate thing that that you have today as a pet. This was literally a term of derision that was used to reference people that didn't measure up. People that did not complete uh what they what they should do or were doing wrong. Dogs ran the streets in those days. Not a lot of uh they didn't have a uh a dump that was way outside the city, the trash heaps, the dogs would run free. And and they were mangy, sometimes they were dangerous. Probably carry different diseases and and and you had to watch out for those meany dogs. And Paul says, you watch out for them dogs. And I'm not talking about the ones in the street, I'm talking about the ones that teach false doctrine. False teachers are to be identified. People that cause division In the church are to be identified. Romans chapter 16, verse number 17 says, Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause division and offenses contrary to the doctrine which I have learned. So both of those truths are right there in that verse. Those that are teaching false doctrine and those that would hurt the church by causing division. You know, it's Paul's job to protect those that look to him for spiritual leadership. Now I'm gonna take this and just run a quick little rabbit trail right here. Um it's dad and mom's job to protect those kids Who look to you for spiritual leadership. As a parent, it's your responsibility. It's your job. Paul said, hey, this guy is no good for you. This friend is not the friend you need to be hanging around. And parents, it's our responsibility to tell our children, listen, I know it doesn't make sense to you, but you may not like it, but this app is not the app you need to be using. This I'm trying to protect you from those things that would hurt you. This device is not the device you should have. This friend is not the friend you should have. Let me take this one step further. The responsibility to educate the children is put on who? The parents. It's the responsibility of the bear the responsibility of the parents to educate the children. We have, by and large, in this country, taken that responsibility and given it to the state. And sadly, even Christian parents Have taken that responsibility and given it to the state. Now, according to this Those people that are going to teach them things contrary to the doctrine that you believe are not people they should be listening to. I believe in Christian education. And I think as a parent, you understand no education takes place in a vacuum I know that this world likes to say, oh, we're going to remove Christ. They tell you up front, right out front, they are going to do everything they can to take God out of education. But you understand by that goal they are replacing it with secularism, humanism. Evolutionism, I mean all across the board, and they are teaching with this agenda. To remove God from your child and to indoctrinate them with humanism. That is the agenda of every class. Now the world would look at you and say, how can you put your kid into a Christian school? The agenda of every class is to show them and teach them about God. Exactly. That's what it's about. So why would a Christian parent think that they could send their kids to a school like that and that they're gonna learn and not come home with the philosophy of this world. I just want to exhort you and encourage you, parents. Christian education is vitally important. No education takes place in a vacuum. I know that listen, my school taxes are forty five hundred dollars a year. And I have never one I've not sent my kid to the public school for one day in their life. Forty-five hundred dollars a year I feel like I'm throwing away. And not only that, so I have to pay forty-five hundred dollars a year for school taxes, but then I have to pay another forty-five hundred dollars a year to buy curriculum to teach my kids. It's worth every penny. Right. It's worth every penny. That's how strongly I believe in Christian education. It's not a matter of cost. Is what is most important. The kids are looking to me. If I send them to a school where they're going to be taught and indoctrinated with the things of this world every day, I am saying this is okay. And I know there's some parents that their kids went through the public school, and even this conversation, I've had people get in this church, people get mad at me because I said Christian education is important. And that I would really not encourage anybody to send their kid to the public school. I can't I can't imagine how bad things are in the public school today. Just what I knew about it twenty-five years ago. This world. And when you read about the stuff that they're putting into curriculums today, What they're trying to do, what they're trying to teach the children? Listen, hey, I would love it if they would get rid of the school taxes and how everybody does school choice. A lot of people would educate their kids then. But to me it's not about money. And they look to us just like Paul was pointing out to them, beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of concision. I don't know why that word's so hard for me to say, concision. He says you've got to watch out for that. Parents, it's our responsibility to protect our kids. He said, Beware of dogs. Although he may have been flipping the common term for Gentiles on his head, and a lot of people believe that, because you know they were called, the Jews looked at Gentiles and called them Gentile dogs. Again, a term of derision. I believe, because of the book of Isaiah, that he's talking specifically about the Jewish leaders that would lead them astray. Isaiah 56, verse 10 says, His watchmen are blind. They are all ignorant. They are all dumb dogs. They cannot bark. Sleeping, lie down, and loving to slumber He goes on and says, Yea, they are greedy dogs, which can never have enough. They are shepherds that cannot understand. They look to their own way, every one of the for his gain. From his quarter. So Isaiah describes these Jewish leaders as those that were greedy dogs, dumb dogs, not knowing the truth, not being able to guide and teach and show the truth to the people. And I believe that's what Paul is referencing here when he says, listen, these dogs that are leading you astray, watch out for them. Judaism, of course, had degenerated by the time Jesus walked on earth, that had become really just a matter of keeping a set number of rules, and that made you a Jew. It was more culture than anything else. It wasn't about worshiping God. It was about fulfilling a responsibility as a Jew. These dogs followed Paul around like little chihuahuas, always barking and nipping at his heels. Making a lot of racket. They would go and they would tell all the Paul's new converts that, okay, you want to believe in Jesus. Jesus was a good man. He's a good teacher. But also You need to become a Jew in order to be saved. And in order to become a Jew, you've got to be circumcised. That's what's necessary. We know that he was dealing specifically with circumcision because of the first part of verse number three there, where he references that. But he's contrasting here because he says this word, which I don't like. Concision. I had to go back and read it. Concision. He's talking about circumcision, but he says if all you're doing in your life Is meeting a requirement, then it avails you nothing. You are no different than those who worshipped Baal and cut themselves. Mutilated their bodies to try and worship Baal. There's no difference. It is not what you think it is. They would essentially tell the new believers to convert to Judaism in order to be saved. There was a lady arguing with her pastor about the matter of faith and works and how you go to heaven and that She had heard this illustration and she said, Pastor, I got I got an illustration that will help you understand that it takes both faith and works to get to heaven. And she says, if you were in a boat. Salvation is like having both oars in the water. One is faith, one is works. And when you row them, you'll get to the shores of heaven. But you need both. If you just had one, you're just going to go in a circle. He looked at her and said, Well, that's a fine illustration. Only problem is nobody's going to heaven in a boat or on a body of water. So not sure how that fits. He said, there's only one good work that will take anybody to heaven, and that's the good work that Jesus Christ did on the cross for us. We don't have any part in it. There's nothing that we could do. And although these false teachers would try and teach them that they needed circumcision as well. He says, beware of evil workers. We, of course, know that evil communication corrupts good manners. We've got to be conscious and be aware of those that would be workers of evil. This term here, evil workers, describes the conduct of these dogs. They sounded good, they sounded spiritual, they sounded well-intentioned. I was listening to a message a week and a half ago or something, and uh the first half of the message was going along pretty good. And then the pastor got the speaker, preacher, whatever, he got into this idea of replacement theology. And began to teach that the church replaced Israel as God's chosen people. And that's a very prevalent Theology that's out there today. I'm like, oh, that guy doesn't know what he's talking about. Stop, just turn that one off. Teaching, he sounded really spiritual. He sounded on track. A lot of what he was saying was right. Then he got into that. He says you got to beware, be alert, know what the Bible teaches about these things so that you don't get sucked in. They sound spiritual, but they're really workers of iniquity. The psalmist said, Draw me not away with the wicked, with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbors, but mischief is in their heart. Mischief is in their heart. We've got to be conscious of that. Be weary of that. Aware of it. We need to ask God for wisdom to be careful that we're not drawn away by those. He says, beware of the concision, that cutting or mutilation, as I explained. Watch for these false doctrines that come into the church. The Jews didn't mind acknowledging Jesus as a great prophet. They just wanted to hold on to the law. In Acts 15, verse number 1, a certain man which came down from Judea taught the brethren and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved. That's what he said. He was teaching that. This was back in the book of Acts. And they had the Council of Jerusalem that came together and determined that Circumcision was not needed. It was obviously not part of what Christ taught, but there were still men teaching it. So beloved, you need to guard your character, resist these things. Then you need to guard your confidence. He says, for we are the circumcision which worship God in spirit. There's three descriptive characteristics of a Christian right here. Worship God in spirit. Rejoice in Christ Jesus. And have no confidence in the flesh. You need to guard your confidence. Where is it that you're putting your confidence, Christian? Where does your confidence rest? The act of circumcision is not what makes you spiritual. In Galatians chapter 6, verses 12 through 15, he says, As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, that is, they desire to make a show. That's what they want to do. They constrain you to be circumcised, only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. He's saying, listen, they're going to go ahead and do it because just believing in Christ, now they're going to be persecuted. But if they get circumcised, then they're not going to be persecuted and they want to avoid that. He says just for a show. For neither themselves, who are circumcised keep the law. He's saying they don't even keep the law But desire to have you circumcised, that you may glory in your flesh. But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ He goes on and talks about how that debt doesn't profit anything. Only Christ is what profit us. Is your confidence in the actions that you perform as a Christian? Or in the relationships you have with Christ. We've got to guard ourselves to have the right heart. You know a right heart will serve God But just because you're serving God doesn't mean you have a right heart? That's exactly what this teaching on circumcision is. He tells us in Romans chapter 2, verse 28 and 29, he says, For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly. Neither is that circumcision, which is the outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew, which is one inwardly. He says, listen, you're not a Jew just because you got circumcised. Just because you didn't, yeah, you're not a Jew. Just because you did something doesn't make you a Jew. Either you is one or you ain't. Okay? One or the other. You can't just all of a sudden, and beloved, either you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior He's forgiven you of your sins and you're on your way to heaven and you're a Christian because of Jesus Christ and what he did for you on the cross, or you're not. And carrying a Bible and putting on a suit and coming into God's house doesn't make you a Christian. It's if you are or you are not, one or the other. And a lot of times we confuse what they're confusing here, that these outward actions Are what make you a Christian. That's not true. Having a relationship with Jesus Christ, where is your confidence? It's funny to me that this is even a warning. Because beloved, anybody that has even the smallest notion of what their own flesh is knows you can't have confidence in the flesh I mean you know, I mean if there's anything you don't want to have confidence in, it's in your own flesh. Because this flesh will lead you astray every time. Every time. Man, this old flesh is wicked It wants what it wants, and we have to constantly put down the flesh and walk in the spirit, just have victory over it. Why in the world would somebody want to have confidence in it? I don't know. But we do We start having confidence in the flesh when we walk into church with our Bible and our suit and we look the part, but our heart is not right. We've got confidence in what we're doing, our actions, but our heart's not right with God We say, oh, I can I can still be a good Christian. We have confidence in the flesh when we say, oh, I don't need to walk with God today. I can be a Christian. Christian today and do what I'm supposed to do. I'm okay. I can handle it. I can go here or participate in that. I can do this and still be a Christian. And you know you have to quench the Holy Spirit to do so. You have confidence in the flesh. You're saying, oh, I can handle it. God says, don't put confidence in the flesh, Christian. We've got to guard against that. And it's something that comes back up. That that flesh all the time it comes back up. You know, just because you put a fish on your car or hang a crucifix from your mirror does not make you a Christian. Just because you have a picture of Christ on your wall or a statue of him in your yard doesn't make you a Christian. I can't tell you how many times I've gone up to a home and they've had a statue or a crucifix or something. And there's people out there partying. drinking, involved in every kind of wickedness you would not know that there was anybody in that home that claimed the name of Christ. And yet if you ask the individual, well, do you know Jesus or do you love God? they would say, Yeah. Where's your confidence tonight? Where's your confidence? We've got to guard against having confidence in the flesh. This is the guarded Christian. Guard your cheer. We need to have cheer regardless. Guard your character. Protect it from those evil workers, those workers of iniquity, those dogs that would teach false doctrine. And guard against this false teaching and against the confidence that is natural to have in our own flesh.