Um if you can take your Bibles to the book of Genesis, chapter six, that's where we'll begin this morning. Genesis chapter six. We'll probably turn to a couple other places, but I'll probably be reading a good portion of the scripture just to um Keep things moving along. We did start last week a new series here in Sunday School called Rightly Dividing the Word. And we looked at the example of Paul as a tent maker and how he w would have been very important in his And making applications that God isn't making in the Word of God, you're not rightly dividing, you're not cutting straight. You put it all together, you don't end up with a proper theology. So we need to know the difference between So we're going to take some time over the next couple months to look at this idea of different categories in the Bible of just Where does each thing fit? Where does each piece fit? What is it talking about in these different areas? And just a simple example I gave last week was with the character of Simon in the New Testament. When we hear Simon in the New Testament, our mind immediately jumps to Simon Peter, uh the apostle, but there are nine different men in the New Testament named Simon. So if you go to and you say, Oh, Simon, that's talking about Simon Peter, you're you're going to get it wrong if that's not the the right the right Simon in that instant. So last week we took a little bit of time at the end of the lesson to give kind of a brief introduction to the idea of the two testaments, and that there's an Old Testament and the New Testament, and that we kind of hinted at the idea that it's a little bit related to the idea of the Old Covenant. and New Covenant in the book of Hebrews. So I told you we were going to come in this week to the idea of the covenants and uh put a lot of time yesterday studying this idea. We uh looked at the idea of the book of Hebrews with the establishment of the New Testament, with the death of the testator. There's a three-chapter, or that's in the middle of a three-chapter discussion in the book of Hebrews regarding the institution of the new covenant as a replacement for the old covenant. So I told you we're going to look at the idea of the different covenants in the Bible this week and learn to divide between each and which ones apply to which groups and what's still in effect and what's been done away with in the Word of God. When you look at the idea of covenant in the Bible, the word is used over uh is used three hundred times. The word is used quite a bit in the Bible, the idea of a covenant. And we'll talk about what that what that means. It's been a very good uh and challenging study for me personally. If you'd have stopped by by by my office late last night there were books I was almost hiding. Uh in all the books that I had. Eight, ten, twelve different books that were big, big thick books that were opened up. A lot of reading to try to really get get a grasp on this 'cause I would not by any means uh claim to be able to fully grasp or understand the subject, but I do have enough of a handle on it to share with you an introduction and overview today, maybe to begin some So we're looking here, the first mention of the word covenant is in Genesis chapter 6. In verse number 18, the Bible says But with thee will I establish my covenant, and thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives. with these. So here we have this the story of Noah, Genesis chapter 6. That's where God sees the sin of man, decides to destroy the earth Finds a man named Noah, Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord, it wasn't anything that Noah did. Uh Noah was a just man, but he is still needing grace for God to use him And God picked Noah, and he came to Noah and said, I'm going to make a covenant with you, and it's going to entail this ark, and I've got a job for you to do. And this is the first mention of this word covenant in the Bible where God is making covenant in agreement with man. And that's the idea, kind of getting us started this morning. So we're going to open with word of prayer and get into the lesson today. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word, what it can teach us. I pray that you'd help me as I convey. Lord, these thoughts, help me to understand uh explain it simply, uh, where we can understand these truths of your word. and be able to better understand our Bible as we read it and how you have put different things together, Lord, and the blessings that we get to participate in as Christians. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So in looking at this idea of covenants, I wanted to start with kind of giving you an uh illustration of someone who is dividing these things in a wrong way. So I called this point wrongly dividing the word. We're supposed to rightly divide the word. There's some people that look at a covenant and they divide it wrongly, and that comes into a study of the Word of God that is then called covenant theology. Covenant theology. Now this is held by many Protestant denominations, and they have it as a holdover from the Roman Catholic Church All Protestant denominations came out of the Catholic Church and they held on to some bits and pieces of false doctrine from the Catholic Church. This is why um one reason why we as Baptists are not Protestants. We did not come out of the Catholic Church because we were never part of the Catholic Church. Covenant theology wrongly divides the idea of covenants and have built themselves a false doctrine, those who believe it. Covenant theology is usually presented in contrast to dispensationalism. which will be our next topic of study in this series, studying what the Bible teaches regarding dispensationalism. So here's what covenant theology says, this false doctrine. Covenant theology says that there were only two covenants. Traditional covenant theology says there are covenant of works before the fall and a covenant of grace after the fall, a covenant of works with Adam, and a covenant of grace with Christ. Westminster Confession stated that the first covenant made with man was a covenant of works, wherein life was promised to Adam, and in him to his posterity upon the condition of perfect and personal obedience. Man by his fall, having made himself incapable of life by that covenant, the Lord was pleased to make a second, commonly called the Covenant of Grace, wherein he freely offers unto sinners life and salvation by Jesus Christ. Another variety of covenant theology is called New Covenant Theology. It says that the two covenants are the old covenant of the law with Israel and the new covenant of grace with the church. So what covenant theology claims is that the Old Testament prophecies pertaining to Israel have already been fulfilled, either spiritually or allegorically or symbolically within the church Covenant theologians believe that Israel has been permanently rejected by God and been replaced by the Church. This covenant theology says that there's only one group of redeemed people. It was Israel in the Old Testament times, and now it's the church who has supposedly replaced Israel. Covenant theology has traditionally been accompanied by the practice of infant baptism, which is seen as an entrance into God's new covenant. Since the old covenant had the right of circumcision for babies, the new covenant must have the right of baptism for babies. So covenant theology is an example of someone wrongly dividing the word. That is not consistent with the teachings of the Word of God when it comes to the covenants. There are many passages in the Bible that can easily refute this false understanding and false doctrine. So that's my taking the covenants and splitting them up wrong and then understanding the Bible wrong. So what are the covenants? Well how do we get into an introduction to those? First of all, what is a covenant? A covenant is a mutual agreement, consent or agreement of two or more persons to do or to forbear some act or some It's an agreement. It's a contract. It's a d decision that you've decided together. In a biblical sense, a covenant, um one party, often God, will obligate themselves to do or not do something to someone or a group of persons, either unconditionally or conditionally. There are three types of covenants we see in the Bible. We have the covenants that God makes with men. What we looked at in our passage we read is an example of that. God came to Noah and said, I God am making a covenant with you, Noah. God makes an agreement with man. There are also covenants in the Bible where a man would make an agreement with 1 Samuel 18 3 is an example of this. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved them as his own soul. Jonathan and David became close friends. They made a covenant. They made an agreement to one another regarding their their descendants. the sons of Jonathan, when David was to become king. They made this agreement, they made this pact together. So a covenant can take place from one man to another, human to human, individuals Um a covenant between individuals that we still make today. It would be an example. That would be the marriage vows. We just had our marriage retreat. You as a couple, when you went down to the front of the church, you made a covenant. You made a vow with one another where you each of you agreed to do something for the other person. And I hope it was an unconditional covenant. It was supposed to be an unconditional covenant. Until death do you part. So that's a covenant in the Bible we see as a man-to-man. There's also examples in the Bible of a covenant that a man would make with God, or a group of people would make with God. In Nehemiah chapter 9, we see this taking place with the Israelites. Because of all this, we make a sure covenant and write it, and our princes and Levites and priests seal unto it. They made a covenant with God, saying, We, God, God, we want you to know that we're going to do these things And our leaders are going to seal it. They made a contract and they put their names on it, they signed it. Here, God is what we are going to do. And that's a uh that could be a good thing to consider, but it must be undertaken with caution because God expects us to keep the covenants we make with him. We have the idea of a vow in the Old Testament. You make a vow unto the Lord, defer not to pay it. If you make a promise to God, you need to do it. A lot of times we'll go down to the front of the service in the altar and we'll make an agreement. We'll say, God, I'll do this. And do we A good example for us to consider is that when God made a covenant with us, he always keeps it. When we make a covenant with God, we need to do the same. So these are the three types of covenant, one from God to man, one from man to man, and one from man to God. What are the elements of a covenant? When you look at the covenants between God and men, they have two themes at their root. The idea is that the God of the Bible will be their God, and that they, the people of the covenant, will be God's people. I will be your God and you will be my people. That's at the essence of the covenants that God has made with man, those elements. There are two types of covenants, or two um natures of the covenants. A conditional covenant is one in which God's action is made to be contingent on the action on the part of those to whom we have a whom the covenant is addressed. A conditional covenant guarantees that God will do his part with absolute certainty when the human requirements are met. It also declares with equal certainty that he will not do according to the expectation of the covenant. should the human responsibility fail. God says, I will do this for you if you do this as a people. I will be your God, you'll be my people, I will keep you in the land if you serve me. But if you go and serve idols, you won't be able to stay in the land. So the covenant is conditional, that you I will do this if you do this. There are also unconditional covenants. An unconditional covenant is simply a declaration on the part of God as to what he's going to do and is made without reference to human action, purpose, or merit. Some covenants that God made in the Bible, hey, you, I'm going to do this. That's it. God's going to do it. God's made an agreement, and this is what He's going to do, whether the person does it or not. So we're going to look at five covenants in the Bible this morning and We're going with ones that God had used the word covenant. They would take some earlier than Noah and say this was a covenant God made with Adam, pre- before the um fall. This was a covenant God made with Adam after the fall, but God never used the word covenant in those earlier chapters. So we're going to start with Noah. This is the Noadic covenant. The Noahic covenant, I guess is the right pronunciation of that. We saw that in Genesis 6, verse 18. But with thee will I establish my covenant. There are two covenants that God made with Noah, or they could be considered as a part one and a part two. So God made this covenant, Genesis chapter 6, that was prior to the flood. Then God meets with him again in chapter nine and makes a covenant after the flood. They kind of are kind of a little bit intertwined, but you couldn't make a differentiation between the two. They are lumped together with Noah this covenant. So the covenant made pre-flood is seen in Genesis chapter six, verse number eighteen This one is we have to ask the question, was it a conditional covenant or an unconditional covenant? We look at it in verse number 18, with thee I will establish my covenant, thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons, thy and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee. Conditional or unconditional. It was conditional that they had to, Noah had to build the ark if the covenant was going to be fulfilled. And Noah had to get into the ark if the covenant was going to be fulfilled. If Noah hadn't built the ark and Noah hadn't gotten into the ark, Noah wouldn't have been saved from the flood. So God made an agreement, I will save you and I will save your family from the flood, but here's what you need to do. You need to build this ark, you need to make it this way, you need to have these dimensions, you need to be prepared to receive all the animals, and when the time comes you need to get into All the covenants, they have a promise from God and an expectation. So what did God promise Noah? He promised him salvation from the flood for him and his family. And what did God expect? He expected faith that would lead to obedience. Because when we have faith, faith is tied directly in the Bible to obedience. If Noah believed God that the rain was coming, he was going to obey God and build the ark. If Noah didn't believe, there he wouldn't have built the ark. So faith is tied to obedience. That's what God expected. God expected Noah to build the ark, and God expected Noah to get in the ark. Here in this passage of Scripture, the ark is a type or a picture of Christ. And it's possible Noah could have spent his whole life building the ark and when God says time to get in, he says, No, I want to keep working on it. Um and then he would have perished in the flood. And there are some people who will spend their whole life working for Christ or working for their salvation and never get into Christ. And then they won't be saved. They're going to stand before God and say, Hey, didn't I do all this for you? God says, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity and And it's a picture of Christ that we're not something we're working for. It's getting into the ark is what brought about Noah's salvation, making sure that you are in Christ. So God expected a faith that would lead to obedience. And what was the sign of this covenant? The sign of this part of the covenant would have been the ark. It was the visual reminder of the covenant that God made with him. Every day when Noah walked out of his tent and he looked and he saw that massive ship there, it was a reminder, God made me and my family a promise He could see it every day. God made me and my family promise that if I do this, he's going to save us from this coming flood. So that was the sign of the pre-flood covenant with Noah. Then we go to the post-flood covenant. This is in Genesis chapter 9, verses 1 through 17. We won't read those verses of scripture, but you can look at that later. But here God's making a covenant after the flood. And in this covenant, God promised to never again destroy the earth with a flood of water. Was this conditional or unconditional? It was unconditional. It didn't matter what what Noah did or what people did, God was not going to destroy the earth again. God made a promise, I won't destroy the earth with a flood of water again, and it didn't matter what man did, God was going to keep his So this was an unconditional covenant. What did God promise? He promised never again to destroy mankind with a flood. And what what did God expect of man? We see in verse in chapter nine, we see that he had commanded them to be fruitful and multiply, replen re replenish the earth. We wanted to build up earth's population again. We'd gone from however many people were on earth down to eight God said, I need you to be fruitful and multiplied. You also read in chapter nine that God has given the expectation that man would eat meat now. Amen, said Johnny. So that mankind would eat meat. God provided uh meat as an option for for eating, and he also expected that they would institute capital punishment to protect the image of God and man. In our study on biblical civics, we saw that this is the origin of human government in chapter 9, part of God's covenant here with man. What was the sign of this covenant? What was the visual reminder of God's promise? The rainbow. The rainbow is the visual sign. Now I want to take a step away from the covenant for a minute to tell you a really neat thing about the rainbow. I saw this years ago and really, really a neat aspect of the rainbow because in the passage, God doesn't call it a rainbow. He says, I will put my bow in the clouds. And we understand that's talking about a rainbow. But back up a little bit. What was the flood? The flood was God's wrath poured out on the sins of man. What is a bow? A bow is an instrument of war, where you would shoot an arrow at an enemy. So what does God's bow signify? That the next time he judged the sin of man, he would not do it with a flood. He put his bow in the clouds, and his bow no longer pointed at man in the earth. Where did it point? His bow was pointing up to heaven. Because the next time God was going to judge all the sins of the earth, he was going to pour his wrath out on his son. And that's a visual reminder for us that God's judgment was pointed at Christ because of our sin. God's bow in the clouds. Next time you see a rainbow, remember that God took the wrath that should have been pointed at you, and he pointed it at Jesus. So that's the Noadic covenant that God made a promise to Noah before the flood, I'll save your family. God made a promise to Noah after the flood, I won't flood the earth again. Second covenant we've come across in the Bible is the Abrahamic covenant. This is in Genesis chapter 15. Genesis chapter 15 Remember, God reached into the world and he picked a man named Noah. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. God said, I'm going to do something with you. And we come to the life of Abraham. God picked a man out of the earth and said, I'm going to do something great with you. So this is the Abrahamic covenant, Genesis 15, verse number 18. In the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land from the river Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates. So God made a covenant with Abram in these verses. This is the covenant that God made with Abraham, that he would be his God, and Abraham and his descendants would be God's people. Now this covenant carried a national promise that Abraham would become a nation, that Israel would become a nation. This carried a familial f uh promise that Abraham would have innumerable offspring, we see in other passages, that you would have children as the sand of the sea and as the stars of heaven It carried a territorial promise that there would be a land that God would give to this group of people. And it also carried a spiritual promise, that in his seed would all the nations of the earth be blessed. And any nation that blessed them would be blessed, and any nation that cursed them would be cursed. This covenant was also reaffirmed to Jacob and then to Isaac. Sorry, Isaac and then to Jacob. So this is a covenant that God made with Abraham. Was it conditional or unconditional? The Abrahamic covenant was unconditional. God picked Abraham. God was going to do something through Abraham, no matter how much he messed it up. And Abraham, we've just read through these chapters in our Bible reading of the church, if you're doing that program with us. Abraham messed thing a lot of things up, but God was still going to use him regardless. This was an unconditional covenant that God made with Abraham This is a solitary covenant as we read in chapter fifteen, how God had Abraham make these sacrifices and split them and was going to walk through the pieces, which would be it's a it's a custom that they would have where the two people who were agreeing would walk between the pieces together, but God had Abraham fall asleep and God went through the pieces on his own because this was a covenant that God was making with Abraham. So what did God promise in this to Abraham in this covenant? He promised him land, he promised him a name, he promised him descendants, he promised him a blessing and a curse. What did God expect from Abraham? He expected faith in the promises and the faith that would result in actions. And what was the sign that was given to this covenant? It was the covenant was given of circumcision. So we have the Noadic Covenant, never flood the earth again. We have the Abrahamic covenant, I'm going to make you a great nation. That moves us on to the Mosaic Covenant. So the first two there were unconditional. Come the Mosaic Covenant that This is a conditional covenant. It's also known as the Sinatic or the Old Covenant. It was made with the children of Israel at Mount Sinai. In Exodus chapter nineteen, verses five and six, we see this covenant being made. Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant Then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people, for all the earth is mine, and ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and of holy nations. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel. Was it conditional or unconditional? I told you already it's conditional. Notice what God said. If you will obey my voice, then if you do this, then this is what I'm going to do. God made a conditional covenant with Israel Let me ask the question, did Israel keep up their end of the bargain? No, not very well at all. They did not. Their disobedience to the Mosaic Covenant, however, did not annul the Abrahamic covenant Galatians three verse seventeen tells us this. Just because the law was broken by the nation of Israel, that didn't break God's promises that He made to Abraham, because Abraham's promises were unconditional. But the promises related to the nation of Israel at Mount Sina Sinai, those were conditional. What did God promise Israel in this covenant? That they would be his people, they would be a peculiar treasure, they would be a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. God promises, if we continue reading in this chapter all the way through Deuteronomy, a lot of times that God's reaffirming this covenant and adding to it, promise to bless their obedience and to curse their disobedience. What did God expect from Israel as part of this covenant? God expected them to be obedient to his law. What were the signs of this covenant? There were two for this covenant. God gave them the sign of the tabernacle, where God's presence would travel with them on their journeys. When they made it into the land, God's presence would dwell in the tabernacle. But he also gave them the Sabbath, the Sabbath as a weekly reminder of the promises that God made to them. In Exodus 31, verses 16 and 17 Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever. that God says, I gave the Sabbath to Israel as a sign of my covenant with them. That every week when it came to Saturday, Israel would take a day of rest to remember that God made them a promise that if they as a nation would obey his law, God would bless them. It was a weekly reminder of God's promise. That was the purpose of the Sabbath as a sign to Israel of the promise that God made to them at Mount Sinai. What was the purpose of this Mosaic covenant? And in Galatians chapter 3, verses 10 through 25, we have a description of why God gave the law. Why did God make this covenant with Israel? It wasn't for their salvation, because the works of the law cannot bring about salvation. The sacrifices couldn't bring about salvation. They could only offer a covering for sin. So why did God give them this covenant? He gave them this covenant to prepare the world for a Savior by revealing their sin through showing God's standard of righteousness. That passage in Galatians is the The one where the law is a schoolmaster that teaches us what sin is, teaches us that we cannot be righteous, and teaches us that we need God if we're going to have righteousness. It's also given to show God's way of salvation and point to Christ through the types of the offerings, the tabernacle, the priesthood, and the feast All of the Mosaic covenant and the law and the things they were supposed to do, they all pointed to Christ and the sacrifice that he was going to make to pay for their sins. This was also given to separate Israel from the other nations in order for them to remain pure, for God to accomplish his will through her. We see that in Leviticus chapter 20, verses 22 through 26. Now this covenant did not replace or overthrow the Abrahamic or the Davidic. We haven't looked at that one yet. Covenants. Those two are separate. They're different covenants. The agreement God made with Israel, where he said you're going to stay in the land if you obey, you're That one's separate from what God promised to Abraham and what we'll see that God promised to David. Those two are unconditional. This one is conditional. And the Mosaic covenant was fulfilled when Christ died on the cross and it is no longer binding today. We looked at that a little bit in the book of Hebrews, and we'll go back to that at the end of our lesson today. I know I'm going right through these. I'm trying to give you a good overview because we're going to take a look the rest of our time and talk about the new covenant as soon as we get through the Davidic covenants. We have three so far. We have the Noahic covenant, and that's the covenant God made to uh never curse the earth and uh flood it again to destroy all the people. We have the covenant God made with Abraham that he would make him a nation. and that they would inherit a land and they would have the covenant with um Moses at Mount Sinai where they would be his people, he would be their God, they would get to stay in the land if This brings us to the next covenant God made. This is the covenant that God made with David. We see God making this covenant in 2 Samuel chapter 7, verses 1 through 17. However, that in that passage the word covenant is not used We see it defined as a covenant in Psalm 89, verses 3 and 4. I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant, thy seed will I establish forever, and build up thy throne to all generations. So God made a covenant with David in 2 Samuel 7, verses 1 through 17. That's the passage where David said, I want to build a temple for God. And he went to Nathan, and Nathan said, Hey Go for your go for it. Then God told Nathan, Hey, actually no, I don't want David doing that. And Nathan had to come back and tell David, Nope, you're not going to build the temple. Um your son's going to build the temple, but here's a promise, here's a covenant that God is making with you, with you, with your family, and with your descendants. Was this conditional or unconditional? It was unconditional. God was going to establish the throne of David forever. Through a future son of David, an eternal kingdom would be established. It didn't matter what David's descendants did, God would bring a son through the tr um line of David in order to inherit the throne of David and sit on the throne forever. That God was going to bring that to pass. So what did God promise David in his covenant? He promised him a kingly line. He promised him a kingdom. And he promised that a throne would be established forever. What did God expect from David to continue to shepherd the people and lead them in obedience to the law? What would be the sign of this covenant? It would be the temple that would be built by Solomon. What did God do in the midst of this covenant? We see in 2 Samuel 7:10 that he reaffirmed the Abrahamic covenant. God added to it not only would Abraham's descendants be a great nation, and in them would all the nations of the world be blessed. He told David significantly, hey, through your line as part of the Abrahamic line, you're going to have a son that is one day going to rule on your throne forever. It promised the throne of David would be established forever in verse number thirteen. It promised a punishment for sin, but it never would annul the promise, meaning it if the Descendants of David sinned that they they would be punished for that, but that wouldn't make the pre promise go away. That the that one day that line would be re-established. It established David's house and a kingdom forever in verse number 16. And we see that this covenant is and it will be fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ in Matthew chapter 1. Verse number one, we see the Davidic covenant is going to come up come to pass when Christ rules and reigns on this earth and his kingdom is established. So that brings us to the new covenant. We have the ones with Noah, unconditional, never flood the earth again. The covenant with Abraham, unconditional. Israel will be a nation, and that God has given them a promise regarding the land. We have the mo Moses covenant with Moses, where God said, Hey, if you obey my law, here's the blessings that you're going to get. If you don't, here's the punishment you're going to get. And then the promise to David that God would establish a kingdom. Then we have the New Covenant. Now, what is the New Covenant? This is really, there's a lot of discussion around this, and I'm trying to give you a very simple Bible description of the New Covenant. Number one, the covenant is prophesied by God, and it is for the house of Israel. Jeremiah 31, 31. Behold the days come, saith the Lord, I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Jacob. God was going to bring about in some future day from the time of Jeremiah a new covenant. That covenant would be made with the house of Israel, with the house of Judah. So it's prophesied by God. It is for the house of Israel. Secondly, it's different from the Mosaic covenant. Verse 32 says, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. Which my covenant they break, although I was a husband unto them, saith the Lord. God said, I made a covenant when I brought him out of Egypt. That's the covenant with Moses, and what did Israel do? They broke that covenant This new covenant was going to be different. It's not that covenant. It is a new covenant. So it was different than the Mosaic covenant. This covenant deals with the change of heart instead of a change of the flesh or the actions. Remember the um sign of the covenant with Abraham was the sign of circumcision. That was a fleshly change. The things that were tied to the covenant with Moses was the change of their behavior, that they would now be a people who would have sacrifices. God says this new covenant was going to be a change that dealt with their heart. Verse number thirty-three says, But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days, saith the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts. They will be I and will be their God, and they shall be my people. This covenant will ultimately be fulfilled when all know the Lord and Israel experiences forgiveness. Jeremiah 31, verse 34. They shall teach no more every man his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord. And they sh for they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity. I will remember their sin no more. That there is an opportunity for sins to be forgiven. The opportunity for sins to be forgiven would come to pass in the new covenant. And the new covenant was brought about by Jesus Christ. We saw that that happened with his death. And we look at the ministry of Jesus, how many times did Jesus point to the fact that he could forgive sins? John the Baptist, behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world. When Jesus healed somebody, it came to him, the man that was lowered through the roof, he said, Thy sins be forgiven thee. He said, This shall you know that the Son of Man hath power on earth, forgive sins, he said to the one second of the policy, Rise, take up thy bed and walk, pointing out that he was the one bringing about forgiveness of the sins. He was the one bringing in, ushering in this new covenant where Israel would get to have the opportunity to experience forgiveness of sins. Now, Israel as a nation has not done that yet. But during the time of the tribulation, right before Jesus sets up his earthly kingdom, the nation of Israel as a whole is going to turn to Christ and experience that salvation, accepting him as the Messiah. So that's when the tribulation We see also that is a covenant which Christ with which Christ replaced the old covenant. The old covenant was the Mosaic covenant. It was not the Abrahamic or Dav Davidic. Those are still in effect. However, the Mosaic covenant was replaced. Hebrews 8 talks all about that 9 and 10. We looked at some of those passages last week. Christ replaced the old covenant with the new covenant. Number six, with this covenant, Jesus was able to offer forgiveness for those who died in faith in the Old Testament and those who experienced salvation after his death. Hebrews 9, verse 15, kind of a kind of a technical verse, but follow along. For this cause he is the mediator of the New Testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament The First Testament, the covenant with Moses. The people, they had their sins covered by the sacrifices, but they were not cleansed. Those who were under the old covenant, they died in faith, looking ahead to Christ. And they went to the heart of the earth in Abraham's bosom after their death, but they could not yet be brought to heaven because their sins were not dealt with. When Christ died on the cross, it says there in the verse That he died for the redemption of the transgressions of those that were under the first testament. Christ died for the sins of those who died under the old covenant, under the covenant with Moses. And in his death he paid for their sins that that were there. And then it goes on to say that he paid for the sins of those who would believe on him. They which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. So that's after his death. Romans chapter 8, as the imitation God gives to all men to be saved, and in that calling to salvation, you can have forgiveness of your sins by looking back at the cross. Christ paid for the sins of those under the old covenant who died looking ahead to the cross in faith. So that it's his death covered both covenants. Old covenant, new covenant. Alright, another description of this covenant. Christians get to share in the spiritual blessings of this covenant through our relationship with Christ, who is a son of Abraham and is the mediator of the new covenant. Galatians 3 verse 14 says, that the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ. So how do we get to participate in the blessings? In the spiritual blessings of the New Covenant, there are some things in the New Covenant that are for the nation of Israel, that God is going to keep his promise to Abraham, that his people are going to have a land. Keep his promise to David that they're going to be under the the the son of David. Jesus is going to reign on the cr uh throne in Jerusalem. That'll take place under the Melinatima. Those promises, the the earthly promises, God's going to keep But God made them spiritual promises as well. I'll be your God, you'll be my people. You will have forgiveness of sins under the new covenant. We get to participate in those spiritual blessings. How That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. We through faith turn to Jesus Christ and we get to partake in these spiritual blessings. the fact that we can have forgiveness of sins. One of the things of the old the new covenant that was promised in the book of Jeremiah was that God would put his law in our hearts. We see that reference in Romans as well. Promise of the Spirit to be be within us, that God's Holy Spirit would come dwell in us. Galatians says that the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ, we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Goes on in the end of that chapter, verse number 29, if ye be Christ's, then ye are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. We get to participate in the promises of the new covenant through Jesus Christ. He is the mediator of that. We get to enjoy those spiritual blessings by being in Christ. So that's kind of a broad biblical um description of the New Testament. Kind of simplify it here a little bit. I copied these notes uh from from somebody else, but this is the idea that the New Covenant is God's promise to give a free blessing to men through Jesus Christ. It was given to the nation of Israel, but Christians share in the spiritual aspect of the covenant through Christ. It promises regeneration and cleansing from sin. It reaffirms Israel's national security and a future kingdom. It promises Israel's possession of the land. It is an eternal promises promise, and it promises God's blessing on the land of Israel So how does the New Testament relate to the church, to people who are saved and part of part of the church? Christ died for the church. The New Covenant is not fulfilled in the church. It belongs to the house of Israel. However, every New Testament leader participates in the spiritual blessings of the New Covenant. And the new covenant will be literally literally fulfilled following the church age in the time of the tribulation leading into the the millennial kingdom, all the promises of the new covenant will be fulfilled. So is this conditional or unconditional? It is an unconditional covenant. Now this may be confusing because the recipient of the covenant is House of Israel. We understand that theirs is the unconditional covenant, but what about the part that applies to us as Christians? Don't you have to be saved in order to have the covenant? Wouldn't that make it conditional on your salvation? No, because the covenant is with the seed of Abraham, and those who are saved are part of the seed of Abraham. So by being saved you become a part of the group that's getting the covenant. The covenant's already there. It's not giving God's not coming to you as a lawspurer saying, Hey you can have my covenant if you get saved. Covenant's in place. We get to participate that in that covenant that's unconditional. So a little bit of a uh a technical thing there, but it is a unconditional covenant. What was promised in this covenant, a new heart and forgiveness of sins, and to the nation of Israel that they would be put back in the land that God promised to them. What was expected of this? That Israel would repent and turn to God for salvation and for the forgiveness of sins, and that mankind would receive this blessing through faith in Jesus Christ. And what was the sign of the covenant? The sign of the covenant was the blood of Christ at his death, that he became the mediator of the new covenant. So a couple final thoughts to leave you with this morning. We see that of the five covenants we looked at, four are still in effect. Four they're still in effect of the covenant to Noah, that God would not flood the earth again to destroy the earth. The covenant to Abraham, that Israel would remain a nation and that they would be God's chosen people and that they would inherit a land. That's still in effect. The promise to David that he would have a descendant who would one day rule on his throne forever. That's going to be fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ when he comes comes again. That's still in effect. And the new covenant. The new covenant, which is that we have an opportunity to share in these spiritual blessings, that you can have forgiveness of sins and a new heart when you come to by faith. to Jesus Christ. That's still in effect as well. The one that's not in effect is the Mosaic Covenant. It was fulfilled by Christ Christ. All the demands of law were fulfilled by Christ and Christ issued a new covenant. No longer is is Israel expected to keep the dictates of the Old Testament because Christ uh fulfilled that in his death. And we talked about that last week. With the old the Old Testament's not not Not of no use to us. It's still profitable. There are things in there for our example that God had that therefore. God didn't do away with it. God fulfilled it and gave the new covenant. The Mosaic Covenant served its purpose of pointing people to Christ. It's no longer in effect, although it's still, as I said, still profitable, still still part of the Word of God. And as Gentiles, we have opportunity to enjoy the spiritual blessings of the new covenant, including the forgiveness of sins, and a new heart with the law of God written in it through the work of the Holy Spirit. I know we went through a lot of material today. Hopefully this gives you a good overview of what the covenants are in the Bible and how we as Christians can interact with those, what God has still promised. And again, there's This is where people get messed up is start taking things from promise to Abraham and saying that's for the church, or taking things promised to Israel and saying that's for America, or taking things You start pulling things, different promises that God made to this group and applying it to yourself, we we get off base in our theology. But this is just an overview. There's a lot more material we could go into. But common overview of what these covenants are and how they interact with one another