Searching really, she was kind of looking for Christ. She was at a prayer meeting, she was longing to to know God and and his person. And it's exciting when you are have opportunity to witness to somebody like that Where they're just ready. They're just they've been looking. They've been longing. They've been ready for some time to hear the truth of the Word of God. They're a tender plant. As we talk about the direction and leading of the Lord to lead us to those, I recall, and you guys know the story of uh Doc Yung and and Min Yun and how uh My brother Dave was at Sam's Club and he was led of the Lord to give a John of Romans to this couple and to this lady. She was walking down to her car with her cart and And the Lord said, Give her John of Romans and he and he said uh you know, no and he got in his car and he started backing up, started to leave actually. And the Holy Spirit really struck him and said, You need to give her a John of Romans. So he stopped, pulled back into the parking place, got out of the car, walked over and handed her a John of Romans, and she said, Oh, we've been looking for a church. And uh that next Sunday uh they came to church and within a few weeks both of them trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior and both their boys trusted Christ as their savior. And uh today are a family that love God and and are a witness for God. You know, we we never know what God's gonna do. With even the smallest witness, with the gospel tracts given out, Shamar, you don't know how far this is gonna go. You have no idea. You think oh it's just a little track, it's just uh just a small witness. I just kind of I just asked her, she knew the Lord and but the Holy Spirit can take that and trick their heart and get them stirred and longing and looking for Christ. This morning uh we had the Fry's with us and Brother Fry told me how he was saved in a vacation Bible school. As a little boy. And here we are just a week away from having vacation Bible school, and you don't know the impact. Now his daughter is on the mission field reaching people for Christ. And that opportunity in vacation Bible school to witness to a child, you don't know how big of an impact that could have. You don't know how far reaching it's going to go and what God's going to do with your willingness. But this tender soul, Lydia, came to Christ. Then we see in our text as we get to this Last point here, we see a tormented soul. This was this literally a damsel in distress. This damsel who was possessed of a demon. And if you recall, as we read the story this morning, this woman, we'll reread it in a second here, but she was possessed of a demon and was creating great trouble for Paul. And then we see at the close of the story a a tough soul, this Philippian jailer. This tough soul that he was a hard man. He had seen it all. And I think Paul and Silas, I think they had been preaching the gospel to him. I don't think he came up with that phrase, what must I do to be saved, out of the clear blue. I think that they were coming into the prison and and some of the other prisoners might have been asking them, hey, what are you in for? And they're like, hey, we're we're we're being locked up in the inner prison because we were preaching the gospel. We were telling people how Jesus died for them and loves them and wants to save them. Do you know? Do you know what you've got to do to be saved? And they were preaching the gospel around the prison as they were being carried in. And I think that as they were there talking to the Philippine jailer, and the jailer was probably, I don't want any of that stuff. I don't need any of that stuff. You guys are quacks. You guys are crazy. Oh boy, another religious fanatic. And I'm sure the jailer had lots to say, but he he went out his way. But ultimately he came to Christ. And this is what a church is. As God converts souls from all different walks of life. Some people who are young and tender and maybe haven't gone out and done much all the way to somebody who's possessed of the devil, but God frees them and saves their soul. And God brings those people together and a church is born. I remember when we went to El Paso, Texas. The only church that my dad started where I was old enough to be a part of it. We moved there when I was nine years old and we were living out in the desert and bearing precious seed. And uh we were, well, the corner where we turned off of the highway was five miles from the first stoplight And then we were about three and a half miles down dirt roads to bearing precious seed. We were literally out in the middle of nowhere in the desert. Carlos Dimmers to this day is probably the greatest soul winner that I've ever been around. Uh the the the man who without fail would stop and y you almost didn't even want to go anywhere with him because you knew he was gonna stop and witness to somebody and you can't be spiritual and complain about him witnessing to somebody And and say, I got places to be, I got something to do, and you would just be stuck. Well he just witnessed and witnessed and witnessed. There's gonna be a lot of souls in heaven because Carlos Dimmers But him and my dad would go soul winning several days a week out there in the desert. And they started seeing some people saved. And uh My dad wanted to start a church in downtown El Paso. That's where he wanted to be, right in downtown. I mean he wanted to be there in the where the people were. Amen. Not out in the desert where you gotta drive. Long ways in between each house and all that. He didn't want to be out there. But we were out in the desert and so they were witnessing and going sowing it and as we he led people to Christ, he said, Now we're gonna start a church down in in the city and we want you to come and be a part of it, you know, when we get the church going and and uh they planned to start this church down in the city and they started seeing more and more people saved ten, fifteen, twenty people, thirty people that come to Christ out there in the desert and finally dad says, you know It's gonna be a little while till we get the church started. I think we ought to have a Bible study and just start at least doing some discipleship with these guys and and then we'll bring them to the church once the church gets started. And they started holding a Bible study with these uh disciples people and bringing them along, discipling them. Dad wanted to be downtown and he found this building that was an old uh uh hotel. real southwestern feel. Uh you know, the uh kind of turquoise tile. Uh the whole foyer was tiled in this turquoise tile. They had a huge water fountain, like a three story fountain, uh that went up in the center of this big vestibule area, this big entryway. It was a beautiful hotel and we were looking at it thinking, man, all these classroom spaces and we could knock these rooms out and make this one big room here and this meeting space and We were I was excited about it. I'm thinking roller skating down these hallways and man this is gonna be awesome. I was thrilled about it, but dad was supposed to buy this thing and and the bank couldn't meet us there that day to sign the paperwork And uh we were leaving on Saturday to go on vacation. We were going to be gone for two weeks, and then when we came back, they said, well no problem. There's not a lot of interest in it. You're getting a great deal. You can do it when you get back. So dad didn't sign the paperwork and uh we went on vacation and we came back we found out that the hotel had burned to the ground And finally dad said, okay, Lord. See the Lord had been telling them not to be downtown. He was supposed to start a church out in the desert. But he kinda had in his mind that he wanted it like I want to be where the people are. I wanna be downtown. I wanna be right where the metropolis is and I wanna be in the action and he was really pushing that way and the Holy Spirit was was was telling him no no no no and he kept pushing that way and he was ready to buy this building and God burned it to the ground. We came back from that and I remember dad saying Pshew, I'm glad the Lord waited so I mean I'm glad he burned it down before I bought it instead of after because that would have been a really hard lesson. Uh he said we are we're we're just gonna start a church out here in the desert, kids. And uh we started a church there, took the front of the garage out and took the door out and sealed it up and put a regular thirty-six inch entry door and started the church in the garage. And one year we outgrew the garage and the house and we had to break ground for a building. Uh built built a building in three years had a high of 352 in church. God blessed out in the middle of the desert, out in the middle of nowhere, but he was where God wanted him. Right, right. He was in that place. But see, God, just these people getting saved here and there, getting saved here and there, people getting saved, and they started coming together, and when they're saved, they're hungry for preaching and for the word. Right. And God puts together a church. But I want you to understand, beloved, as we see in our text here, that when you start doing something where lives are changed, That opposition is gonna come. Opposition's gonna come. And it's God that combats the opposition for you. We see in the text there in verses 16 through 24 how this woman, this damsel possessed with the spirit of divination Met us which brought her masters much gain by Susain. So this woman who is possessed of a devil, that's verse number sixteen, she is uh gifted uh by Satan. to divine, uh, you know, to read poems. By the way, that type of stuff is rooted in Satanism And Christians don't shouldn't have anything to do with with palm reading and tarot cards and and Ouija boards and all of that stuff. It's it's dark magic and Christians shouldn't be involved in it. Oh i uh yeah, there is real power in it. Because Satan's real. Just like there's real power in God. But it's Satan's power. And this woman has been given a gift of divination, of understanding by Satan. And these men were using her for gain. And she was following them around, crying, says, These men are servants of the Most High God, which show unto us the way of salvation. And this she did for many days. But Paul, being grieved, turns and said to the Spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out that same hour. You see, this woman was trying to connect herself to them. She was following them around, maybe trying to gain some of their following Maybe trying to gain some of who was coming to hear Paul and and say kind of like we're together, like these men tell of the most high God, and by the way I can tell you what's gonna happen tomorrow. And and you know, I don't know exactly how it went, but she was connecting herself to them and it said that she did it in many days to the point where Paul's spirit was grieved There was a continual battle here, a spiritual battle with this presence of this demonic woman. And ultimately he says, okay, I've had enough. I command thee in the power of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he calls and commands this demon to leave this woman. And you would think That the community would be excited that Lydia got saved and that other people were trusting Christ and that this woman was now free of this demonic spirit. But you see, this was literally the work of Satan, this demonic woman And anytime God's work is moving forward, it is threatening the work of Satan. And you're going to have some opposition. Satan is not going to just sit back and sit down. Now you if you're not doing anything and if nothing's happening at your church and if you're not winning any souls and You're not storming the gates of hell in any way, then yeah, Satan and all his angels are going to leave you alone. But when you determine in your heart that you're going to start to do right or stand for God or make some decisions for Christ. As a church or personally, you personally, you say, I'm going to do this for Christ. Mark it down, Satan's going to come. There's going to be opposition. You're going to decide that you're going to be faithful to church. You're going to be in church every Sunday. And guess what? Next Sunday your car is going to break down. First Sunday your car hasn't run in three years, you know. I mean it's just that's Satan. Doing all he can to disrupt and discourage you from doing what God wants you to do because now you're threatening his domain. Paul took a stand and said, You're out of here. And they didn't like it, obviously. They had lost their means of income. They had been using her for some type of financial gain. And many times there are false workers, workers of iniquity that propose to use others for financial gain. They attacked Paul. You might have to endure some some measure of violence. We see that Paul here The multitude rose up, verse number 22, and the multitude rose up against them, and the magistrates rent off their clothes and commanded to beat them. And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison. They were beaten. They were locked up. They face great opposition. One of the reasons, beloved, it's so vitally important that you know that you're where God wants you. Because they could go into that prison knowing, hey, God's with us. This is where God directed us. God told us to come here. We're here at God's leading. There's no question in our mind that God directed our steps to this place, and there's a reason. And so, you know what? It's okay We've endured some hardship, but God is still in control. That's a whole lot better than being in a mess and saying, oh, I think I did this because I did the wrong thing. And we've all been there. There's not much peace or much comfort in that, is there? Oh my goodness, what a mess I've made of this. But when you can go forward and say, I'm here and I know that I'm in the center of God's will and I'm where God wants me to be, this Persecution, this turmoil torment torment, this time of trial, I can endure because I'm where God wants me. They were misused, they were abused. You know if I was honest with you? I'd have to tell you that pretty much every painful thing that I've endured in life Has been in the church You know, I've only seen my father weep a few times in my life. You know, those times Very likely because of some church member that he had loved and cared for and ministered to for years, turned on him. Yeah. Attacked him, took advantage of him. I could tell you story after story where my family, starting from the family I grew up in. To the family that now is mine, places where we were hurt deeply Because of serving God, because of being in the ministry. You know we just choose not to dwell on that. Because in spite of that pain, in spite of those times of suffering, in spite of those times where I was misused or Abused or mistreated or whatever. Everything I have and am I am is because of a glorious Savior who loved and gave himself for me. And what small pain I may have had to endure pales in comparison to the joy the Lord has given us in our heart. For the opportunity to serve him with our lives and to try and impact people. Oh, I I I I didn't enjoy the trial, I didn't enjoy the abuse. Boy, I wish everybody just loved me Now they love Mary, but they don't love me. I I I wish that was the case, but you know what? If I have to go through I want to be like Paul. They beat him. They threw him in jail. They stoned him. And Paul says, it's okay. If you haven't killed me yet, I'm going to stand up and preach again. Because it's God that's called me to this. And understanding that many times it's not the individual, it's Satan who is the attacker. And Satan can use other people. That's why when Christ was being tempted by Peter, he looked at Peter and said, Get thee behind me, Satan. Because he realized Peter was being used to present an option from Satan himself. And sometimes you endure a hardship or you go through a trial or you deal with some opposition. No, that is Satan that's doing this to you. And remain faithful to God. What can you do, Christian, when you deal with opposition, when you face opposition? I want you to know that God can and wants to give you the victory through that opposition. They were at the midnight hour. That midnight hour is the is the by connotation, of course, the darkest part of the night. It is The midway point. It is the the point where you look and you got, man, I've got a lot of time of nighttime left. It's the time of trial. When you think about a trial in life and you're saying, oh, I'm in the midnight hour, I'm in the worst time, I'm in the darkest place, they were in the midnight hour, they were in prison, they were coming off of beaten, beaten. Paul and Silas, it says there in verse number 25 that they prayed. They prayed. Could I tell you, beloved, how are you going to deal with the opposition that comes to a church or to you individually? You deal with it by praying. Getting on your knees and talking to your Lord and getting into the presence of God and allowing him to minister to your soul You pray, you pray, you pray until something happens. Pray until God changes your spirit, until God. Strengthens your soul until God gets you to the place where you'll see that they prayed. What does it say? They praised. They praise. What happens, beloved, is when you get with God and God begins to talk to you and begins to you you get your eyes off of that trial, you get your eyes off of that persecution You get your eyes where they don't even see those shackles that are on you, they don't see the prison walls that are holding you. What they see is the Savior that saved your soul, and a God who's held you and sustains you day after day through trial after trial, a God that's fed you when you're hungry and gave you strength when you were weak And heals you when you were sick and feds you. You see that God and you look and you say, Man, I'm an unworthy, wicked sinner, and God has been so good to me. How can I be discouraged? How can I be downhearted? How can I be afraid when I serve a God who loves me like this and does From me like this, and your heart begins to turn from a place of discouragement to a place of praise where you lift your voice and you praise God for how good He is. You just praise him, and that praise turns to song. You sing Paul and Silas there, just singing songs There's a new song in your heart, and God brings those melodies back to your mind. And you were down in the dumps. You were discouraged. You were just facing that trial like it was the end of the road But God came and met with you when you prayed and sought him and you saw there was a way of deliverance. And you begin to praise him, and that praise turns to song, and you begin to sing unto him. What a joy. What a joy. Yes, beloved, God wants to give you the victory. We see that It says there they sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. And suddenly there was a great earthquake. So that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bands were loosed. And the keeper of the prison awakened out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors opened, he Drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing the prisoners had been left, fled. But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we all hear. You know, I've always wondered, why didn't Paul run? I still I'm gonna ask him when I get to heaven, like, why? Why did you s I mean God freed you God frees you and all the other prisoners. I mean, God said, Hey, you're a free man. Why did they stay? Well you see, once again here, beloved, we see the divine appointments of God. And God putting somebody in the place that they need to be. To once again present the gospel to a soul that needs it. So Paul didn't go to prison just so that it could be recorded in Scripture. Paul didn't go to prison just because it was on his to-do list. Paul went to prison because there was a Philippian jailer that needed to be part of the Church of Philippi. So Paul had to go through some of that so that he would be in the right place. So that Philippian jailer would hear the message And see the difference in Paul's life. And look at it and say, man, whatever you got, Paul, I need. What must I do to be saved? You know it might not happen the first time you witness to somebody. I don't know how many days transpired. I don't know what what happened here with w what opportunity Paul might have had. I'm of course elaborating and and I just look at the story and say Paul the way he was, they probably were in the prison preaching. They probably were telling people about Jesus. The jailer had probably heard about them telling other people, listen, you need to be saved. Yeah, here's here's what you need to do. And Paul the pr this keeper of the prison probably heard that. And when Paul was still there, this keeper of the prison looked at him and says, What must I do to be saved? And he too. They preached unto him the gospel. And he was saved. You see, Paul didn't have a pity party. He didn't sit and pout. They praised God in spite of being in the prison. Beloved, God didn't abandon them. And he's not abandoned you. Go to him in prayer. You know, you can't see it. Paul didn't know why he was in jail. You know the old saying, high insights twenty twenty. You don't know why. But when you just obey God. Many times, even in this life, many times, you get the privilege of looking back and saying, wow, I see what God wanted to do. I see why God did this for me. I see why I went through that. You might not know at the time Paul didn't know why he was going through it. But he could look back and say, I see what God was doing. The trick is just to trust him, even when you are in jail The jailer in all of his house was converted to Christ, became part of this great church. You know, Paul might have been looking back at this situation eight years later. When he penned the words, for we know that all things work together for good to them that love God and to them that are called according to God According to his purpose. Paul might have been looking back at this. Of course, we know Paul had a whole list of things like this. Where God took him through some amazing things. but things that God did, that He worked together for good. Beloved, a great church or a great a great Christian is not going to live without opposition It's gonna come. What do you do in opposition? You pray. And you praise. And God will bring you Through. He'll deliver you and he'll show you what it was all for if we trust him