Luke chapter 15. Last uh lesson we we looked at and taught was probably maybe a little bit more of an excure obscure passage. Uh a Parable that maybe not as many people were familiar with. But this morning is probably the most familiar parable in all of the parables. uh one that everybody knows about or has heard about or has talked about or has applied to somebody they know and uh I have titled that the Lost Son, which fits in the context of the passage very well. However, it uh many people would call it the prodigal son. And uh good to have everybody here this morning uh with us for Sunday school. We've got several visitors in Sunday school with us. We appreciate you being here and uh hope you get a blessing out of God's word today. So in Luke chapter fifteen um is where this parable is found. But move down in your text. It doesn't start right at the beginning. There's first a couple other parables that are mentioned. But move down to verse number eleven. And we will read verse number 11 through, I believe it is, verse number 24, uh is the context of this parable. The conclusion of it goes on through the end of the chapter, but we won't, for the sake of today, we won't read all the way to the end. But in verse number 11, he says, And he said, a certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me, and he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the young son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all There arose a mighty famine in the land, and he began to be in want. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him unto his fields to feed swine. Excuse me. And he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. And when he had come to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger I will arise and go to my Father, and I will say unto my father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee. I am nor worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy higher servants And he arose and he came to his father, but when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran and fell on his neck, and kissed him And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight, and am no work no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servant, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it, and let us eat and be merry. For this Is my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be married. The parable of the lost son. We have in our life many times surprises that come to us, and the surprises uh sometimes they're they're nice and and pleasant and we enjoy 'em. Sometimes they are surprises we don't really want or we don't enjoy, uh and occasionally we're hit with a surprise that reveals who we are, that reveals what we are inside. And those things come up into life and they hit you so abruptly that it happens and before you know it What you are and who you are comes out and who God is and your relationship with God is revealed in an abrupt moment. And that was what Jesus did with parables to those he was teaching. They would come to him and you know that parables were always brought about, I would say always, I haven't found one yet, that was not brought. Jesus didn't just bring a parable for arbitrary reason. But there was something that motivated him to teach this parable. Many times it was a question or a problem. And you remember back when we're talking about the interpretation of parables, the first thing he That's going to give you a pretty good understanding of what it is that it's the interpretation of it. If you understand what problem or what question or what challenge uh motivated the teaching of that parable. And so uh these people many times the f whether it's the Pharisees or the Sadducees or the Scribes or whether it was the disciples Or those that were walking with Jesus just wanting to learn from him, they would ask a question. And he would start to teach a parable. And in their mind's eye, they're probably thinking, wow, that's interesting. But like the parable we look looked at last week, when it got all the way to the end, the Pharisees said they they had perceived that they that Jesus was speaking of them. It I it hit them. He's talking about us. What? I can't believe that he said that about us. You know, the whole time Jesus is teaching, I'm sure they're like, man, that's that's interesting, that's great, and then it hit them. Oh, that's us. And that's what Jesus did with parable teaching. He hit people right at home. It hit right to the heart of whatever matter was being considered, and hit right to the heart of the individual who was sitting and listening In chapter 14 of our text, we are in 15, but 14 kind of introduces this and kind of thoughts that are there. Christ is teaching several parables. One of the key ones is the parable of the great banquet That sends forth the call to all to come and enjoy the blessings found in the kingdom. Chapter 14, he's saying, Hey, you know, come. Go get 'em. Get bring everybody to the banquet. We want everybody to be welcome here. And uh, you know, Jesus came to seek and save that which was lost. He came to those that wanted to uh the message of the gospel. And the Pharisees didn't like that much. This should say right here at the end of that sentence, I don't know if you want to jot a little note there, but it should say in chapter 15, in response to the accusations made by the Pharisees. Jesus delivered a 1, 2, 3 combination that plainly teaches what Jesus felt about sinners. The parable of the lost son was a third blow in his response to his accusers So look in chapter 15 and verse number 1. Let's find the problem. Let's find the accusation that prompted the teaching of this parable. In verse number 1 of chapter 15, Jesus has been calling everybody unto himself. He's been spending time with people, and he says, then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners, for to hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them, saying Jesus was spending some time with some sinners. Aren't you glad this morning Jesus spent some time with some sinners? And he still does today, and he's interested in the sinner. But the Pharisees They weren't interested in the sinner. And they would mock or challenge Christ. How could he be a prophet? How could he be holy? How could he be he's spending time with the sinners? And they challenged Christ with this in a kind of a public forum, and so Jesus began to teach a parable This parable of the lost son is probably the most talked about, most preached, most controversial, uh, most looked at of all parables that there are. Many times it's been called the prodigal son. I got a couple of notes for you there, but uh obviously prodigal is not found in the text. That's a name that we have given it. Uh and prodigal means wasteful This young man, it says in our text that he went out and wasted his inheritance. Well he wasted what his father had given him. And so that's where the term comes from. wasteful, that he was wasteful with what God had given him. And surely any of us could be wasteful with what God entrusts us with. And it's not just financial God has entrusted us with time. God has entrusted us with a life that could be lived and used for Him. And you can be wasteful in those things as well, and in that sense be like the prodigal. This has been called the pearl in the crown of all parables. Trench said that. Trench is believed to be one of the foremost uh scholars. uh with the understanding the teaching of parables. Anybody that wants to study parables would use trench as a source. I have a copy of Trench's book published in eighteen sixty-five. Uh that he that's when he published his first copy. There's been many revisions and editions since then, but he died in like eighteen ninety or something like that. Um so those c copies that are available today that have been reproduced or reprinted um obviously came after his death. And I don't know when the copy that I have was printed. It's actually not mine, it's Pastor Derek's, but he loaned it to me, so I get to read it. Um but Trench uh has it's very uh Intellectual, if you want uh want a hard read. It's not an easy read by any means, uh, but there's a lot of knowledge in there. And And uh really uh deep thoughts into these things. And Trench said this was the pearl in the crown of our of all parables. Um it's been called the gospel within, uh within the gospel, uh, and it's been called the Loving Father by Wearsby. Uh He titled it the loving father because certainly you can see in this passage not just a thrust on the principle of a prodigal son who went away, but that there was a loving father that was ready to receive him So with this being the most talked about and looked at parable of all times, uh that means that there is the most applications, there is the most ways of applying this There's the most situations that could be looked at and and it could be drawn and some spiritual strength could be ginn get gained from it. But I ask you, how many interpretations are there of a parable? One. And it only teaches one main truth. So the idea that a lot of us have in our mind with regards to the prodigal son could possibly be wrong because of the teaching that we've heard and all the teaching that we hear most of the time deals with application. Deals with applying this to our lives, what can we learn from this? And we as preachers Sometimes fail to spend time on interpretation and making sure that people that are here under the sound of our voice are understand the teaching of the scriptures first, the interpretation. And then the application. But because this has been preached on so many times by so many people, and many of you here, if you've been in church at all, I know you've heard messages on the Prodigal Son. And uh our idea is of a wayward son that ran and went away from his father and then came back. And there are many other applications that That go along with that. But let's look at the context of the scriptures and see exactly what it is that he's being taught here, that is being taught here. the telling of the parable. First of all, we want to dig into the context. In Luke 15, there are three parables that must be looked at as a whole if one is going to correctly interpret them. You see, The provocation for the teaching of this parable is found in verse 1 and 2, correct? The challenge, they said, hey, he receives sinners, and Jesus began to teach. He teaches consecutively three parables in a row and gives them a one, two, three punch out on w what it is he believes about receiving sinners. That was the provocation. He receives sinners. Jesus said, Yes, I do. There was a certain man, and he began to teach these parables. And all three of these can be looked at and applied a little bit differently, but they are all teaching one main truth. And we're not going to uh look at all three of them for the sake of time, but you have a lost sheep. That's verses 1 through 7. You have the lost sheep in verses 1 through 7. And we know the story, the 9. And uh the the the 99 were there, and one was missing. The shepherd would put the 99 safely in a fold and he would leave and go search for the one that was missing. He loved the sinner enough To go search for that one. The one that was he still had 99. Why would he need the one? Hey, he was concerned about the one. I was concerned enough to go and to try and get him back. And then you have the parable of the lost coin The lost coin. That's verses 8 through 10. Jesus' teaching there about the lost coin, the value of one. It's neat because it starts out with 99. And then it goes to ten. One out of ninety-nine was valuable to God. One out of ten was valuable to God. And then the lost son, one out of one. Or one out of two. He had a brother. One out of two is valuable to God. If if there's a progression of thought in these parables that can be followed, And uh it's neat to see that, but Jesus teaching of the lost coin and searching for it and the effort put forth and how important it was, and then the prodigal son in verses 11 through 32, the entire parable. We only read through verse 24 this morning. All three were given at the same time in response to the accusation made by the religious crowd. All three had the same central theme The father's yearning love for the lost. The father's yearning love for the lost. Regardless of how many there were, the father loves the lost. The lost coin? The lost sheep? The lost son uh the father loves them and wants them back. And uh there is also a progression of proximity or closeness to us, I think, when you see uh the lost sheep is is kind of a an animal and it's one out of ninety-nine and you would think, oh that's not that valuable we could do without, but it was important. But then you see that there's money. I mean with the money we could buy an animal. With the money we could do a lot of things and of course we as people value money and that there's a little bit closer proximity to us as individuals. and what we value. And the quantity of loss is greater. You've got only one out of ten. But then you take one step further and it's the sun. It's our own son, it's our family. How close is that to us? And he's bringing this principle home to those that are under the sound of his voice as he's teaching the love of the Father. Then the publicans and sinners that Jesus had wrapped around him that were there to hear him, the Bible says, the publicans and sinners, the publicans were considered extortioners and traitors. By the scribes and the Pharisees. A publican was an extortioner and a traitor. And in your notes I've given that to you that they they were extortioners because they were uh they would try and uh take more than was due. They were tax collectors and they would say you owed, you know, two hundred dollars worth of taxes when you only owed a hundred dollars worth of taxes because they would take a hundred for themselves and then they would turn a hundred in to the Roman government. And that's why they were called traitors, because most of the time a publican was a Jew, but the he was one who would represent the Roman government and essentially stand against his brethren, say, Well, give me your money. And so they became a very hated and despised group. And then the sinners were those with a bad reputation. Many times you see in the scriptures, uh, you know, they would talk about somebody like a harlot as a sinner, somebody that publicly people knew this was a person that was a sinner. Now we understand biblical principle and we know that we're all sinners. And except by the grace of God, every one of us would be the basist of men. But God has taught us and given us uh the strength to to put down our flesh and what we want and start to do what's right. And it's just the grace of God working in our life. None of us are any better than any other sinner. It's one pile of dirt looking at another pile of dirt. We all came from dust, right? And we're gonna go back to dust. But we sure think a lot of our pile of dust on occasion. And uh so you know, he tells them here uh that well what he spends time with the sinners that were considered extortioners and traitors, and the sinners the people that had a bad reputation. The Pharisees and the scribes, those religious people murmured against Jesus. And the accusation that they stated against him was, this man receiveth sinners. I'll tell you what, if that's the worst thing somebody can say about you, you're doing all right. Why no, we're gonna get him because he receives sinners. Really? Okay, you're right. You caught me. Uh I receive sinners. I I reach out to sinners. I mean that's not a bad accusation, but according to the the Pharisees and the scribes here they were they they thought they had Jesus nailed to a wall. They thought they had him finally Uh, you know, he he spends time with sinners. How could he be holy and just? Um but this third parable is to show the action necessary on the part of the sinner. It's really neat because you see the progression of these parables. The first parable, you see that the first two parables, you see the love of the Father. You see the action of the Father. You see he's talking about the lost sheep, and the lost sheep is out there all alone and by himself, and the Father says, I love the lost. And I'm going to spend some effort and I'm going to go and seek out the lost. I'm going to bring them back to the fold. There's the action in the love of the Father The lost coin. The lady loses the coin and the coin is is misplaced or or lost in the effort and the love and desire that she puts forth to try and find that lost coin. Again, picturing of the father Searching for and finding and bringing back the lost coin. But the third parable is put in there, I think, for us to be able to understand That it is not all the love of the Father. Without the third parable, people would begin to teach that we have no part in this. We don't have to do anything. God is going to come and find you and bring you back. But there's a part of it that belongs to us, isn't there? The prodigal son had to come to himself. The prodigal son had to realize where he was. The love of the Father is still the same. The yearning and the longing is still there. You see the father standing at the road, and as soon as the son is afar off, he comes running. Though that's all still there. But the prodigal had to turn around, had to come to himself and realize. So it teaches our part. Of being restored with the Father. That we have a job in this too. It's not all the Father. His love is there, his yearning is there, but we have a portion of this process. to be drawn back to God. Then we see the characters here, and of course we've mentioned them already. We have the Father. This is a symbol or looked at or applied to the Heavenly Father. Then the Prodigal Son One that was lost to the Father because of sin, and came back to the Father because of repentance. Then you have the elder brother, the self-righteous Pharisee and the scribe. He represents that group of people. The the the ones who said, Man, we're we've been here all the time and we're we're we're holy and righteous and who is this sinner? Why I mean why are we killing fatty calf for him? No rejoicing there, no welcoming there, just prideful, full of himself. And that desire there. So we see the application directly to those that were present. Now, as we look at this in the context Jesus receives sinners and then he teaches about the love of the Father and going and searching for the lost coin. And then He teaches about the love of the father, I am sure the the sheep, and then the coin, and then the prodigal son. With all three of these put together. The application in this can be applied many ways, but the actual teaching is of a lost person. being restored to the Father. And I'm talking about lost, dead in our trespasses and sins. Many times this is applied to I've got three boys. And Andrew, Timothy, and Caleb. And right now, all the boys are saved. By their testimony, they've trusted Jesus Christ. This morning, Timothy's gonna get baptized. He's gonna get he's gonna get dunked. So Yeah, that's right. And uh so we're looking forward to that. But obviously they've grown up in church. They're in church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night. And every Thursday night. And every revival service and most everydays they're here. But so let's say Timothy gets to be about sixteen years old. And decides that he knows more than dad. You know, because that's when kids know everything. And he understands all about life and he doesn't believe that dad knows what he's talking about and he decides he wants to go his own way. So we have a couple of rough years. And Timothy gets to be about eighteen and he says, Forget it, I'm running I'm going away from all this stuff dad taught, that's dad's religion, whatever, and he goes his own way. This many times is applied to that situation where I'm praying for my prodigal son to come back. And that application is good and applicable and usable, but it's not the interpretation of the passage. The interpretation is God the Father who created man. We are all made in his image, and because of sin, we have fallen and we are separated from God. You have all three parables put together and you have to look at it all, prompted by the question that Jesus received as sinners And he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And in this passage, several times you see the phrase, if you read all three parables, that there is rejoicing in heaven over what? One sinner that repenteth. Okay? You see that, you put all three of these together and you see that over and over. He receives sinners. And there's one out of ninety nine that's gone and we're going to get 'em back. And there's joy in heaven over the one sinner that repented So interpretation is that there's the lost person, lost, dead in their trespasses and sins, and they come back to God And we're restored to him through salvation, God the Father. So that is the interpretation. Application, we're going to get to some of that, and I know there's no way we'll get done today with the application. that this parable is so full of application. But I just want to make sure you understand interpretation is dealing with the law. So the truth of this parable, what is the main truth? Being taught. The lost and the dead, and we understand scripture, dead in our trespasses and sins, who repent and turn to God are received with great grace and forgiveness. then given a place at the Father's table. We see that. Jesus gives you a place. You're adopted back into the family of God when you trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Ask him to forgive you of your sins. When you come to yourself and realize I'm done running my own way and doing my own thing, I want to come back to God Then the translation of the parable. We see several things here. This particular outline is not mine, but one I came across as I was studying. And so as far as the the Rs, uh, the rest of it's mine My wife was laughing last night. She's like, I could tell you did this because she always edits these notes, so uh the I get 'em done, but she's gotta check it for typos and you know, spelling and all that. The worst thing is the computer tells you when something's spelled wrong. But it doesn't tell you if it's the wrong word altogether. It might have it spelled right, but it's the wrong word. So that's a problem. Uh so she does it. But first of all in verses eleven through thirteen We see the reckless son, the reckless son. He wanted to be free from his father. He wanted to go his own way. And that's when many times a lot of people get And we can apply that, of course, to those that are saved and they know better, but they want to go their own way. But we as sinners, we want to be free from the Father. Don't you see our world going that direction today? They want to get away from and do away with anything that would reference this book. Anything that would talk about God the Father. anything that would put us or make us accountable to a heavenly father, to a God, to a supreme being who created the earth. They want us to we we want to be independent of that. We are a secular nation. We're not supposed to be. We're supposed to be a nation built and founded on the principles of God's word, a nation of faith. But we are fast becoming a secular nation. where we have enforced secularism. Sadly. But they wanted to be free from the father. This is amazing when you think about this. Basically the son wanted his father dead. He wanted his inheritance. When do you get your inheritance? After the Father said he's saying, listen, I don't care anything about you. I wish you were dead. I just want what's mine. And he asked for his inheritance. So he wanted to be financially set. Isn't that the way some some kids are? They they uh they want to be free from you but not free from your money. You can't tell me what to do, even though you feed me, put clothes on my back, and a roof over my head. I still am my own man. You are not your own man. You can't even get out of bed in the morning Your mama has to wake you up. Works out good. The teens are in here. Pastor Derek's gone, so the teens are in here today. I know that's not always the case, but a lot of times that's the case. As this kid said, I want what's mine. He wanted to be financially set. The law stated that this young man would get a third of the of his father's wealth Uh, because the eldest son would get two thirds. That's in Deuteronomy twenty one, seventeen, if you want to see that. But so the eldest son would get two thirds, so it's believed that one third of the father's wealth was given to this boy and a l he was allowed to run. Away from the Father. He used his money to buy friends. Then you see the the retribution in verses 14 and 16. 14, 15, and 16, he says And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land. That right there could be and when he had spent all. I can't read that without thinking of a sermon title. When you spent all. The day will come when it's all spent. All your energy is spent, all your money spent, all your wealth is spent, all what you've got is spent, and you're at the bottom of your barrel and you've got nothing left. And then you look up. When he had spent all, the Bible says that he came to himself. There wrote the famine in a land, and he became and he began to be in want. And he wanted and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would feign, having filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. So he wasted all he had and ended up working feeding pigs. This for a Jew would be about the lowest job possible. Because he now at this point is un unclean. He is ceremonially unclean because of his contact with swine. with with uh these animals, these unclean animals. Yet this is what he was willing to stoop to because of his sin. So retribution comes. Then you see repentance in verses seventeen through nineteen. Repentance. And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants in my fathers have bread enough and to spare? And I perish with hunger. He wakes up from his stupid. And my wife was adding this. She's like, You really want that in there? I said, I do, because sin will make you stupid. People run headlong into sin, and those that are around them many times as moms and dads that are looking at their kids and say, what are you doing? And the kids like, This is what I want, I'm my own man, I can do this And mom and dad are thinking, You are so foolish What you're going to destroy your life, you're going to ruin what little you have you. You have no idea the turmoil or the headache Oh, but I'm gonna buy this car because this is the car I want. You don't know what you're doing. That car's gonna break down. You're gonna be paying for it for three years after it's in the junkyard. Don't do it. But the kid wants to do it I mean sometimes running headlong, sin makes you stupid. And you know the saying, you know, it's going to take you further than you want to go and cost you more than you want to pay and keep you a lot longer than you want to stay. Sin makes you stupid. And It's when you come to yourself, you realize, oh my goodness, what did I do? How could I have been so Yep. I know it's not a nice word. But that's what sin does to us. It makes us dumb. Even when we're doing it, we know in our heart, in our mind, like this is dumb. Why? And then we still go run headlong into it. He was hungry, humiliated, and homesick. He says, Hey, in my father's house, the servants have plenty to eat. And yet here I am starving. So he came to himself. Then he wished to return home And he was willing to confess all. He said, Listen, I'm not even worthy to be one of my su my father's servants. I'm not i uh I mean he this is repentance. This is not, well, I can come back to the Father because I'm I am one of his sons. I could go back home and bless God, I'm one of his sons, and I know I messed up, but uh, you know, no, he was repentant. And coming back to the Father said, listen, I don't even I don't even deserve to be one of your servants. And of course we see the response of the Father later, but uh that was amazing. Then you see his reception in verses twenty and twenty-two. The father welcomed him, welcomed him back. And he arose and came to his father, but when his but when he was a great way off, his father saw him. And had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. When he was a great way off. How many times have we heard, Draw nigh unto God, and he'll draw nigh unto you? He says, draw nigh unto me, and I'll draw nigh unto you. If you take a step towards God, God comes towards you. As long as we're going this way, God's not going to get a lasso and grab you and pull you back. Oh, he may send some challenges. He may send some tests in your life. He may send some tribulation trying to get you to wake up. But you've got to come to yourself. Say, wow, what am I doing? And turn around. But as soon as we're ready to turn around. Go towards God. He's coming towards us. An amazing picture that God gave us here in this in this parable. The Father withholds nothing from him. It's us in our spiteful nature. We would say, you're right, kid. You are absolutely right. You are not worthy to be my son. Look what you did, you stinking reprobate. Come here. Come on. Yeah, you were gonna work in the house You're going to live with the servants for a couple years and figure out if you if you mean mean it, and then if you do good, then you can move into the house right away. He put a ring on his finger, put a robe on his back, welcomed him back. He forgave all. Aren't you glad this morning that the Heavenly Father, when we come to him, doesn't Say, oh, I'll forgive you for this, but not for these things. You're gonna have to work those off No, God forgives for all. Complete forgiveness. Come to Jesus Christ and ask, and He forgives you for one hundred percent of it. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be washed as white as snow. God forgives it all and washes it all away. If we just humble ourselves and come to Him and repent. That free forgiveness of sin that God gives to us, amazing. Then there's rejoicing 23 and 24. They rejoice together. Now, there's many teachings of the parable. We're going to get into those next week. I wanted to uh read for you one thing. This is uh The prodigal son in the key of F. Okay? I'm going to try and read this Feeling footloose and frisky, the foolish fellow forced the father to fork over his fourth of the family farthlings, and flew far into the foreign field, where he fast frittered away his father's fortune, feasting foolishly on faithless friends. Fleeced by his fellows and folly, he faced famine and found himself a feeding uh flinger in a filthy farm, flushed and fairly famished, he feigned and would have filled his frame with a foraged food from the farmer fodder. My father's flunkies fare far than I and the frazzled fugitive formerly fumbled, frustrated and filled with foreboding, he fled forthwith to his father, failing falling to his father's feet, and Formally fumbled, father, I have flunked and frigorously forfeited my family favor, the fugitive fault finding brother frowned on this fickle forgiveness, but the faithful father figure filled with fidelity, cried, The fugitive is found, what forbids the further festivities? Let the flags unfurl in the fanfares flare, Father flagged a flunky who fetched a fatling from the flock, and fixed a feast. The moral of the story is the father forgives forgiveness formed in the foundation of a feuded fugitive fortunate fortitude.