Thanks. Rejoicing evermore. You know, it's said that our second president, John Adams, nearing the end of his life, was walking through a field with one of his sons. looking out at just the flowers around him. And he stopped and was examining one, and he said these words. He said, I have seen the Queen of France. covered in, I think he gave an amount of millions of dollars worth of jewels. He says, but I've never seen something as beautifully clothed as this very flower. And he stood there and then he just started to repeat the words, rejoice evermore. And his son leaned in and he said, Father, what do you say? Rejoice ever evermore. And his father looked at him and scolded him. He said, from from Paul, you fool, we'll rejoice evermore. Like, hey, you don't remember? The instruction right here from Paul's writings, we're supposed to rejoice our Lord, giving thanks for the things around us. And there he was, nearing the end of his long life. Looking out at the beauty around him, at nature itself, and saying, is there anything more that I could give thanks for? These beautiful things. But let me tell you Sometimes in our life, sometimes in my life, I've not been thankful for anything. A spirit of ingratitude. A spirit of privilege, a spirit of entitlement That all stem from one place. I want to give you a little bit of a principle to start with. In Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5, I just want to show you this little principle that's here in Scripture setting up for the rest of the message very briefly. But uh in Galatians chapter five, we're given here the works of the flesh Followed then by the fruit of the Spirit, if you're familiar with these things. And the works of the flesh are given here. Now the works of the flesh in verse 19, Galatians 5, 19. Says thou the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings and such like. He says the list is so long, I'm just going to put a little tagline on there, okay? There's even more. And then he goes on to say, uh, but the fruit of the Spirit in verse 22 Is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. And we see this contrast that Paul is putting out for the Christian. He says, you're either going to be experiencing some of these things, the works of the flesh, or you're going to be experiencing some of these things, the fruit of the Spirit. And I notice how he even draws the difference. They're the works, the actions of the flesh, because yes, you and I make a decision to sin. When we are now saved and believers, because this was written to believers, we choose when we engage in sin. We are no longer slaves to sin, the Bible says. We are no longer bound in those chains. Forced to sin at every turn, we have the option available to choose righteousness. And here he lays it out and he says, you're either engaging in the works of the flesh, and those things are manifest, you see them. Or you have the fruit of the Spirit. And I notice the difference. They're not the works of the Spirit. They're the fruit of the Spirit. Because fruit is a natural byproduct, a natural production. He says these things will be there if. They're allowed to grow. If they're allowed to grow. You know, someone who's looking there and saying, you know, I don't see myself being a gentle person, Jacob. I'm short with people, I have a hard time controlling my emotion. Well then, my friend, you may be struggling with the sin of wrath. Someone who is engaging in a work of a flesh over here is not going to see that opposite fruit of the Spirit over here. If they're saying I have a problem with my temper, I engage in the rest, I give in to that feeling of anger and I bust the door off the hinges, or I punch a hole in the wall, or I kick something I guarantee you, you're not going to see the fruit of gentleness, of meekness, which is literally power under control. That is what meekness means. Meekness is not weakness. Meekness is power under control. So when we engage in certain types of sin, this is the principle, when we engage in certain types of sin. We're not going to see that fruit, the opposite in our life. And so with that in mind, what is the enemy of Thanksgiving? Very briefly, I want to point to some Old Testament lives here. And I believe the enemy of Thanksgiving is pride. It's pride, entitlement, ingratitude. Where are these things found In the heart of the proud. In the one who expects because they deserve it. Pride shows itself in two ways, Pastor, I believe. Pride elevates our own view of ourselves so that we expect more than we actually deserve. And at the same time, it lowers our view of God and those around us. It does two things. Elevates ourselves, lowers everyone else, including God. Bring them down to our level or even lower while exalting ourselves. And we see that in the lives. You say, well, I I don't struggle with pride. Okay. I I've never thought more highly of myself than I deserve. Okay. I have an excellent book for you. You know. you know, uh the ten humblest people I know and how I train the other nine. Right? It's it's uh yeah, I know how to be humble. I'm the most humble person I know. Seven signs of pride. You know You might be familiar with a man by the name of Jonathan Edwards. He founded, well not founded, but he is often credited with the beginning of one of the great awakenings in American history, preaching Not really preaching. You know, when he preached, he read from just a a pre-written script and was very monotone and just kind of said what he had to say. But what he had to say was powerful. And filled with the Spirit, and he was right about salvation, if not, you know, might have had a few minor disagreements with some other points of how the church should operate and things, but the man understood salvation He understood that faith was through grace alone, and he preached the famous sermon, Sinners, in the hands of an angry God. But Little also known as a little book he wrote. And it was How to Detect Pride in Your Life. In fact, if you Google the words Jonathan Edwards, pride is the first thing that comes up. And he gave these seven things for the Christian to examine their lives with to see if they were having an issue with pride. He said, number one, they become the great fault finder. They have contempt for others. They're very loud about other people's shortcomings, but never have anything to say about themselves. They're the great fault finder. Number two, they have a harsh spirit. They're harsh with people. People slip a little. They snap. They're dead to me. They made a mistake, I'm done with them. Why? Because if it's a lack of patience with others. They're beneath me, because they're not as good as me. Trudy. They don't deserve my time. I'm going to snap at them because they annoy me with their weakness. I've known people who were so spiritual, so spiritual, that they didn't have time for anyone else because no one was on their level. Couldn't attain that. Number three, they would put on pretenses. They would put on pretenses. Everything is weighed by how others will view their actions, not if it's actually righteous or not. How will other people perceive me? Do they view me with the right amount of light? Do you have my good side? I carry my Bible in the proper way, make sure I was nice and trimmed together. Everything is calculated with how others will view me, not how God will see me, not what's going on in my heart. Why am I doing this? Why am I doing this? Why am I doing this? I can't tell you the amount of tables, chairs, banquets I've set up for in my life prior to even arriving here Thousands of chairs moved, of tables moved, of hours spent. Why did I do it though First, because I was expected to. I was a Peterson. That meant we worked. Why else? Because it made me look good. Does it made me look spiritual? I'm over here working away, and what are you guys doing? Sitting over there doing nothing. Look at me. Fretenzes Number four, we've got to speed it up. Taking offense easily. They would take offense easily. We're defensive. Why? Because we can never be perceived as being wrong. Never be perceived as being wrong. So they're defensive. They're jumpy. Anything negative, they got to defend them. They have to defend. I have to correct them because no one can view me in a lesser light This is a wise man. He put this list together. Number five, he said they're going to have a presumption before God. They think they're good enough already. A presumption before God. They think they're good enough already. And listen, we can come boldly unto the throne of grace. We can talk to our Father as He is our Father, and a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. But there can be a line in there that's a a little too far A little too listen, he is our friend, he loves us, he cares for us, but he's also our God and our judge. There's a level of reverence there that should be had. In the Psalms it says we're supposed to rejoice, but we're supposed to do it with trembling. It's a little bit of respect in there. And someone who's filled with pride, whether they're acknowledging it or not, has a little presumption in their standing with God. I'm good. I'm practically already there. I don't know why God just doesn't take me like he did with uh oh man, now I'm gonna blank on his name. Uh Enoch. Uh and Elisa, yeah. Just call me up right now, Lord, I'm ready. Really? Mmm. Okay. Hungry for attention. Number six. This person is going to feel like they're owed your respect and reverence. Everyone needs my help. I don't need anyone else's help. This is why I love our discipleship program. I went to Bible college, got this fancy degree, and still sitting down with Brother Anthony and hearing his testimony and hearing him teach me, and then me sitting there and half teaching him, just talking. I'm learning. I'm learning from someone. And I'm sitting across from this man, and we're having a fellowship and a bond that I can't really get. Unless I'm willing to humble myself and realize I have still something to learn from him. The final one, neglecting others. Neglecting others. We should be honoring all men. No one is beneath you or your time. Well, you don't know what kind of sinner they are. My coworkers, that person I interact with, even other church members I have grudges against. You have no idea. Does not give us the right to neglect other people. Listen, there comes a time where maybe a degree of separation is needed, but we don't presume that on people We don't presume that on people. It's a level of pride. The seven signs of pride that he gives. Example from Jonathan Edwards. I know that was a lot of time there, but I wanted to give those things to you because that was tremendously convicting. for me when I read that. It just was. His book is freely available on there. He goes into detail on each of those points. It's not that long of a read. I would highly recommend anyone goes and look that up. It was excellent. But where does this relate to us now? Well that spoiled fruit, that fruit that you don't see ripening, leads to a spoiled person on the inside, one filled with pride. Who better to look at than in the book of 2 Chronicles, a man who I believe Exemplifies someone who was thankful, became filled with pride, and became the deepest ingrate that ever walked the face of the earth And then I want to show you someone who was the deepest ingrate who walked the face of the earth, humbled himself. And then gave God thanks. Two different men, very close together in the scriptures, both in 2 Chronicles. First we're going to look in 2 Chronicles, and we are going to look at Forgive me, I'm looking at the wrong one here. Yes, second chronicles chapter thirty-four. Second Chronicles chapter thirty-four. Oh, I apologize. It's still the wrong one. See, I'm worried I'm bad at this. Uh um we're actually going to go to twenty-four first. 24 then 34. 34 is next. So 24, and then we'll hop over. King Joash. We've been covering this in Old Testament survey class. I would highly recommend anyone go back and listen to those. I've been enjoying it as much as I can be up here for these. um with pastor going through the Kings of the Old Testament. But when we got to Joash, I have literally preached a sermon on this man. because of the turn that happened in his life. Of course, we know King Joash, seven years old, became the king. Saved From death from his grandmother by a high priest by the name of Jehoiada. Jehoiada took this young man in, raised him as his own son. Prepared him to rule, launched a coup, got him the kingdom, and Joash was thankful. Launched a building campaign to rebuild the temple for his old man. Wanted to honor God, and he did. The Bible even says he was a good king, but then it gives a little caveat on there. All the days of Jehoiada the priest. Why? Well As we see here, verse 17, 24, 17, now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah. And they made obeisance to the king. They came and they bowed and they scraped and they kissed the ring and they said King Joash, look at what you've accomplished. Look at what you've done for God. Aren't you amazing? And he said, Yes, I am. And we see his heart turn. Why? Because immediately things go wrong. Then the king hearkened unto them. Verse 18. And they left the house of the Lord God of their fathers and served God groves and idols, and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this their trespass. Yet he, being God sent prophets to them to bring them again unto the Lord, and they testified against them, but they would not give ear. Verse 20 And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah who The son of Jehoiada. The son of the man who raised him The son who was in the same household with him growing up. A man who, if I was in the same household being raised together, I would look at him and call him brother. And God says, he sent prophets and they didn't listen. So God says, I'm going to send this brother to go get a hold of him because he's lost his mind. And so his brother comes in to scold him through the authority of God. Jehoiada comes in. Points the finger. And the spirit of God came upon Zechariah, I'm sorry, and the son of the son of Jehoiada the priest, which stood above the people and said unto them, Thus saith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of the Lord that ye cannot prosper? Because ye have forsaken the Lord, he hath also forsaken you. And they conspired against him. and stoned him with stones, not just for fun. Look, at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the Lord. Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiada his father had done to him, but slew his son. And look what he said. Look what he said. Look at the pride in this man. And when he died, he said The Lord look upon it and require it. This man stood there killed his brother with a message from God and said, God told me to do it. His kingdom did not last much longer. God did not tolerate a heart of pride because we know God resisteth the proud. But Gives grace to the humble. There's our story. There's our picture. A man with thanksgiving, with thankfulness. that quickly, when pride entered in, had so little thanks he wouldn't even spare his own brother, the son of the man who saved his life. If that's not ingratitude, I don't know what is. If that's not dishonorable, it's disgusting. It reviles me. Now let's look at a miserable wretch that humbles himself. And then give thanks to God. Let's go back. I'm sorry, I gave you the wrong passage earlier. Now I mean it. 2 Chronicles chapter 34. 2 Chronicles chapter 34. I'm telling you to go to chapter 34 because I actually need you to go to 33 right in front of it. I know. I'm sorry. I'm bad at this. Second Chronicles chapter 33, we see the story of a man who we already know the story of because we just learned about him, King Manasseh. King Manasseh. Is this ringing a bell from Old Testament Sunday school? Just like what was this past Sunday, right? Was King Manasseh? And we stopped learning about Manasseh I'm pretty sure the last verse we mentioned about him was him going into captivity, right? In verse 11. Wherefore the Lord brought upon them the captains of the hosts of the king of Assyria, which took Manasseh, why? Because this man was d I mean depraved. Murdering people, corrupting the temple, sacrif moving idols into the temple Insanity. But we stopped the story there, and I'm not blaming Pastor for that, it's just the sake of time. But there's like the greatest of all reversals in history about to occur in Manasseh's life. He gets captured. Verse 12. We literally stopped in verse 11, but look in verse 12 And when he was in affliction, he besought the Lord his God. And the word's right there. And humbled himself. greatly before the God of his fathers. Even tells you, he humbled himself. He humbled himself. He got down on his knees and begged How do I know that? Because this man was in jail, carried off to Babylon. I guarantee he thought his head was on a chopping block. And he begged and he humbled himself and he stopped viewing himself higher. Than he should have. And he realized he was here and that God was here. And he humbled himself. And what did God do for him? A man who had desecrated his temple. A man who had defiled the holy place. What did he do for him? Because he humbled himself. We see that in verse thirteen, and he prayed unto him And he was entreated of him and heard his supplication and brought him again to Jerusalem into him's kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord was God. What does he do? If you go down to verse 15, and he took away the strange gods. and the idols out of the house of the Lord, and all the altars that he had built in the mount of the house of the Lord, and in Jerusalem, and he cast them out of the city. And he repaired the altar of the Lord and sacrificed thereon peace offerings and thank offerings and commanded Judah to serve the Lord God of Israel. He went from a wretch to a humble man who God restored to the kingship And then we see the thankfulness that he had. He cleaned house and then gave thanks to God. Now unfortunately the damage was done. We see that right after this the people turned away from God no matter what. Thankfulness, pride. No thankfulness Pride, humility, thankfulness. I submit to you And the examples in Scripture and in some ways just an examination of the Word of God, that the enemy of thanksgiving is pride. That if you struggle to come up with a reason to be thankful for Lucas For Pastor. Well, it's easy sometimes because he does nice things. For Eli. For Brother Norman. For Galena. If you struggle to be thanked, what are we supposed to give thanks in? Everything. In everything. For everyone. There's an issue of pride somewhere. Either I'm expecting something from them because I think I'm owed it. I have a higher view of myself than I should. At the same time, I'm viewing them as lower than me. It's not right. It's not right. Where's the heart of thankfulness? Tomorrow is thank not tomorrow, sorry, Thursday. Thursday is Thanksgiving, the day that we set aside to be thankful. God expects us to be thankful. To him first and foremost, absolutely. But for each other For the blessings that we have in our life. And if we find a lot of resistance, when I think of a person, a brother, a sister, God Himself. And I'm struggling to come up with things to be thankful for. I'm not seeing, you know, it's not listed as a fruit of the Spirit, but I'm not seeing that it's a command. If I'm not seeing that in my life, well then I think there's a sin of pride over here that is quenching that, that is stopping that from growing like it should And just like Manasseh did, yeah, I haven't looted the temple. But it's very prideful of me to think that I'm any better than Manasseh was, because of how great my sin is before God, too. Yeah, I didn't lose the temple, but I have lied. I have cheated. I have stolen. I have done X, Y, Z, W, A, B, C, D, E, F, G. And for that reason alone, should humble myself before God and others. I wrote this final statement together, and I'll end with this. The unripened fruit of the Spirit can lead to a spoiled person with a rotten perspective and a life totally barren of thanksgiving The enemy of thanksgiving is pride. A person full of themselves and entitled to everything cannot properly thank others or God Himself A humble person cannot help but see how both God and our fellow believers lift them up. A heart of thanksgiving is a heart of humility and love for everyone else other than ourselves. other than ourselves. With that, let's bow our heads and close our eyes. I'll turn the service over to Pastor.